14-09-2020||India||LS members in RS & VIP galleries, Parliament holds unusual sitting||Parliament met on Monday for the monsoon session under unusual circumstances created by the COVID-19 pandemic with Lok Sabha members spread out in different locations, including the Rajya Sabha chamber, in view of  physical distancing norms put in place to check the spread of the virus. Before the House met at 9am, Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed confidence that Parliament would unitedly give a message that the country was standing solidly behind the soldiers guarding India's borders. Alluding to the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, Modi said Indian soldiers were  bravely discharging their duties while standing guard in difficult hilly terrains with snowfall expected in the coming days and weeks. Referring to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said MPs have chosen the path of their duty and added that all precautions would be taken. Modi also enquired about the health of media personnel while noting that they would not get the opportunity to move around freely like before due to the coronavirus guidelines. "You will get every news. It is not a difficult task for you, but please take care of yourself. It is my personal request to all of you," he said. As some Lok Sabha members attended the House proceedings while seated in the Rajya Sabha chamber, Speaker Om Birla said this was perhaps for the first time that such an arrangement had been put in place. Birla also said members did not have to stand while speaking as part of the new procedures put in place to contain the spread of the coronavirus. Members participated in debates while sitting on their numbered seats. For members, who were sitting in galleries meant for visitors and VIPs, special podiums were placed for them to speak as there are no mike facilities there. The Speaker said rules had been eased to allow Lok Sabha members to sit in the Rajya Sabha and similarly Rajya Sabha members could occupy seats in the lower house to ensure distancing during the session of the upper house. In a lighter vein, he also noted that it was a “dream of some RS members” to sit in the Lok Sabha.No protest in the Well The Lok Sabha secretariat said 359 members attended the proceedings of the lower house on Monday. With two vacancies, the current strength of the  Lok Sabha is 541. Unlike in the past, there were no Opposition protests in the Well of the House, which is otherwise a usual occurrence on Day One of the session as soon as the House assembles. A giant TV screen in the Lok Sabha chamber showed very few Lok Sabha members occupying seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber. Benches which usually accommodate six members had a numbered seating plan for only three. Glass-like plastic shields of varied sizes were installed in front of benches as a protection. The shield also covered a portion of the sides. The front seats of the Treasury benches on the right of the Speaker's podium were occupied by Prime Minister Narendra Modi sitting on a seat marked as number 1, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on seat number 2 and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on seat number 3. The front seats of the Opposition benches were occupied by T.R. Baalu of the DMK and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress. Samajwadi Party patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav, 80, was helped inside the House on a wheelchair and was seated next to National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah in the second row of Opposition benches.Lockdown a ‘bold decision’ Health Minister Harsh Vardhan made a statement in the House on the novel coronavirus, saying the Central government undertook the COVID-19 challenge with the highest level of political commitment. The nationwide lockdown, which he described as a “bold decision”, was testimony to the fact that India had collectively stood up to manage COVId-19 and successfully blunted the aggressive progression of the infection, he claimed. “It has been estimated that this decision prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37,000 to 78,000 deaths,” he said.Rs 2.35 lakh crore additional spending During the proceedings, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman sought Parliament's nod for additional spending of Rs 2.35 lakh crore, which includes a cash outgo of Rs 1.66 lakh crore, primarily to meet expenses for combating the COVID-19 pandemic. The government also introduced three bills on the farm sector with Union minister Narendra Singh Tomar asserting that they will help farmers get a remunerative price for their produce as well as private investments and technology. The Centre also introduced The Farmers' Produce Trade And Commerce (Promotion And Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which will replace ordinances promulgated by the government earlier. MPs’ salaries cut Another bill which seeks to reduce for one year the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent "to meet the exigencies arising out of COVID-19 pandemic" was also introduced. It also seeks to replace an Ordinance. On the lack of the usual hustle-bustle during the Parliament session, N K Premachandran, Lok Sabha member from Kollam, said, "These are hard times and the mood was conciliatory. There was, of course, the fibreglass ... the liveliness of Parliament was missing because of the extraordinary situation". In view of the coronavirus scare, only a few MPs interacted with media persons waiting at Vijay Chowk near Parliament complex.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
14-09-2020||India||Parliament must stand behind our brave soldiers, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed confidence that Parliament will send out a unanimous and strong message that the country is unitedly standing behind its brave soldiers guarding India's borders, asserting that doing so is the legislature's "crucial responsibility". In his remarks to media before the commencement of Parliament's monsoon session, Modi noted, in an apparent reference to the ongoing border row with China in Ladakh, that brave Indian soldiers are defending the borders with great courage and high spirits in difficult hilly terrains with snowfall expected in some time. Referring to the issue, he said, "This Parliament, particularly in this session, has one more crucial responsibility... Just like the faith with which they (soldiers) are standing, determined to protect the motherland, Parliament and all its members too will send out a message in a unanimous voice, spirit and resolve that the country stands in support of them." "The entire Parliament stands with the brave soldiers of the country with one voice. I believe that Parliament and all its will give out a very strong message," he added. Modi's call for lawmakers to send out a united message over the issue came amid expectations that Parliament may debate the tense border situation, with some opposition leaders, especially from the Congress, sharply criticising the government's handling of the row with China. Noting that Parliament is expected to take up many important discussions and decide on key issues, the prime minister hoped that MPs will do "value addition" to debates. It is our experience that the more deep and diverse debate happens in Parliament, the more benefits it brings to the subject of discussion and the country, he added. With the Covid-19 pandemic continuing to spread across the country, the prime minister observed that the session is taking place under special circumstances and asserted that MPs have chosen the path of duty. "There is a corona pandemic on one hand while our obligation towards fulfilling our duties on the other; and all the MPs have chosen the path of duty. I congratulate and thank all the MPs for this initiative," he said. He referred to the host of changes, including staggered timings of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha and the decision to run them on weekends too, brought to the running of this session due to the COVID-19 crisis, and said MPs have welcomed them. Everybody has to follow guidelines and precautions about which they have been informed, Modi said, adding, "Ye bhi saaf hai jab tak dawai nahi tab tak koi dhilai nahi" (It is clear that there can be no laxity till a vaccine is found). He expressed hope that a vaccine becomes available soon, and people are helped out of this global crisis. Modi also enquired about the health of media personnel while noting that they will not get the opportunity to move around freely like before due to the coronavirus guidelines. "You will get every news. It is not a difficult task for you, but please take care of yourself. It is my personal request to all of you," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
14-09-2020||India||Same sex marriages not recognised by our laws, society, Centre tells HC ||The Centre on Monday told the Delhi High Court that marriage between same sex couples was "not permissible" as it is not recognised by "our laws, legal system, society and our values". The submission was made before a bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan by Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta during hearing of a PIL seeking a declaration that same sex marriages be recognised under the Hindu Marriage Act (HMA) and Special Marriage Act. Mehta opposed the relief sought in the petition saying "our laws, our legal system, our society and our values do not recognise a marriage, which is a sacrament, between same sex couples". He said the plea to grant recognition to or permit registration of such marriages was "not permissible" for two reasons -- firstly, the petition was asking the court to legislate and secondly, any relief granted "would run contrary to various statutory provisions". "Unless court violates other various laws, this cannot be done," he added. Mehta also said that under the HMA, the various provisions regulating marriages or prohibited relationships talk of husband and wife and therefore, who would be assigned these roles where a same sex couple was concerned. The bench observed that the world over things were changing, but it may or may not be applicable to India. It, however, questioned the need for a PIL in the instant case, saying the people who claim to be affected are well educated and can themselves approach the court. "Why should we entertain the PIL," it asked. The counsel for the petitioner stated that the affected people were not coming forward themselves as they feared reprisals and therefore, a PIL was preferred. It asked the lawyer appearing for the petitioner, Abhijit Iyer Mitra, to give details of the persons who were not permitted to register their same sex marriage. With the direction to place these factual aspects before the court, the bench listed the matter for further hearing on October 21. The petition has contended that despite the Supreme Court decriminalizing consensual homosexual acts, marriages between same sex couples was still not possible.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
14-09-2020||India||Paying fine does not mean I've accepted SC verdict, says Bhushan||Activist-lawyer Prashant Bhushan said on Monday that paying of the token fine of Re 1 imposed on him by the Supreme Court in a contempt case does not mean that he has accepted the verdict and would file a review petition against the judgement. Bhushan, who deposited the fine with the apex court Registry over his two tweets seen as contempt of court, said that he has received contributions from several corners of the country for paying the fine, and a "truth fund" will be created out of such contributions to provide legal aid to those who are prosecuted for dissenting opinions. "Just because I'm paying the fine does not mean I have accepted the verdict. We are filing a review plea today. We have filed a writ petition that there must be an appeal procedure created for conviction under contempt," Bhushan told the media before submitting the fine. "The State is using all means to silence voices of dissent. The 'truth fund' will be used to protect the personal liberty to those persons who face the State's persecution", said Bhushan who was accompanied by a group of people from Rajasthan. The lawyer also spoke on the arrest of former Jawaharlal Nehru University student Umar Khalid for his alleged role in the Delhi riots and said the government is using all sorts of tactics to shut down criticism. The activist-lawyer had earlier said his tweets were not intended in any way to disrespect the Supreme Court or the judiciary, but they were an expression of his anguish at what he felt was the court's deviation from its sterling record. A bench headed by Justice (retired) Arun Mishra asked Bhushan to deposit the fine by September 15, failing which he would have attracted a jail term of three months and debarment from law practice for three years. Bhushan in his statement had refused to offer an apology to the Supreme Court for the tweets, saying what he had expressed represented his bona fide belief which he continued to hold.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Monsoon session begins amid pandemic caution ||Separated by plastic shields installed in front of their benches, members of Lok Sabha attended the first day of the Monsoon session being held amid the Covid-19 pandemic. While nearly 200 members were present in the Lok Sabha chamber, a little over 30 were seated in the visitors' gallery located above the main chamber. A giant TV screen in the Lok Sabha chamber showed very few Lok Sabha members were occupying seats in the Rajya Sabha chamber, the other venue where LS MPs have been accommodated keeping in mind physical distancing norms. Benches which usually accommodate six members had a numbered sitting plan for only three. Glass-like plastic shields of varied sizes were installed in front of benches to protect members from coronavirus. The shield also covered part of the members' sides. The front seats of the Treasury benches on the right of the Speaker's podium were occupied by Prime Minister Narendra Modi sitting on a seat marked as number one, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on seat number 2 and Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on seat number 3. The front seats of the Opposition benches were occupied by T R Baalu of the DMK and Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury of the Congress. National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah was also present and was seated in the second row of opposition benches. As soon as the prime minister entered the House, he was greeted with claps and "Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogan. Modi greeted members, including those from the Opposition, with folded hands. All members were wearing masks. Some were also seen wearing face shields, including Trinamool Congress leader Kalyan Banerjee. The House met for neatly 20 minutes in the morning and was adjourned for an hour after paying tributes to former president Pranab Mukherjee, a sitting MP and 13 former members who died in the recent past.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid arrested; academics, activists see ‘witch-hunt’  ||Academics, activists and lawyers have condemned the arrest of Jawaharlal Nehru University alumnus Umar Khalid under a draconian law for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots, describing it as a witch-hunt against one of the bravest young voices who spoke for constitutional values. Khalid was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) by the special cell of the Delhi police after 11 hours of interrogation late on Sunday night. Delhi Police on Monday sought a 10-day custody of Khalid, saying he needed to be confronted with huge amount of data. Khalid was questioned by the Delhi Police Crime Branch for a couple of hours on September 2 in connection with the riots. He was earlier booked under the stringent UAPA in another case related to the riots. He was also quizzed by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police earlier regarding an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police. As citizens deeply committed to constitutional values, we condemn the arrest of Umar Khalid who has been subjected to a malicious investigation targeting peaceful anti-CAA protestors,” the statement by the group of academics, lawyers and rights activists said, The Wire reported. With deep anguish we have no doubt in saying that this investigation is not about the violence in February 2020 in the national capital, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA,” the statement said. It described Khalid as “one of the hundreds of voices that spoke up in favour of the Constitution across the country during these anti-CAA protests, always foregrounding the need for peaceful, non-violent and democratic means”. The statement also noted that Khalid had emerged as a strong and powerful voice of young Indians in “favour of the Constitution and of democracy.” Among those who signed the statement are Ravi Kiran Jain and V. Suresh of the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties, lawyers Mihir Desai and N.D. Pancholi, academics Satish Deshpande, Mary John, Apoorvanand, Nandini Sundar and Shuddhabrata Sengupta, and rights activists Aakar Patel, Harsh Mander, Farah Naqvi and Biraj Patnaik. Inter-community clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. In their attempt to prevent violence, 108 police personnel received injuries and two died. The Delhi Police on Sunday said it was investigating the role of all individuals who allegedly took part in the riots and were part of a larger conspiracy in organising violence in the northeast Delhi and inciting communal passion and hatred amongst communities, an official statement, reported by PTI, stated. Delhi Police said they had registered 751 FIRs in connection with the riots that took place in the last week of February this year. As far as the investigation is concerned Delhi Police had carried it out meticulously in the most professional manner, officials said. After collecting and collating all evidence, the investigation has been finalised in most of the important cases and the charge sheets have been submitted in the court for trial, the police also said, adding the riots also caused large-scale damage to both private and public properties. So far, police have arrested 1,575 people in 751 cases. Over 250 chargesheets have been filed in the riots related cases in which 1,153 accused have been charge-sheeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Umar arrested after 11-hour questioning||Rights activist Umar Khalid was arrested after 11 hours of questioning by Delhi police’s special cell, which investigates alleged acts of terrorism. He is accused of inciting communal riots in February in Delhi that killed 53 people here. Khalid, a former student of Jawaharlal Nehru University, is currently facing a 2016 case against him for organising a “cultural evening” in which slogans for Kashmiri independence were allegedly raised. The trial is yet to begin in that case. He is currently charged under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act and has been named in an FIR accusing him of inciting riots in Delhi through his speeches. Khalid had complained to police commissioner S.N. Srivastava earlier this month that his acquaintances were being coerced by the police to falsely implicate him or face arrest. Khalid’s friends said that he returned to Delhi from Rajasthan after a notice from the police and reported to the special cell’s office in Lodhi Colony on Sunday morning.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Disclaimers, identical errors in riot ‘disclosure’ papers||The “disclosure” statements of two arrested students carry the disclaimers “refuse to sign”. The operative parts are almost identical, including the spelling errors. Yet, Delhi police have mentioned the names of academics Jayati Ghosh and Apoorvanand in a supplementary chargesheet dealing with the February Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed. The contents of the chargesheet were leaked to a section of media on Sunday night but a “misinterpretation” by some of the privileged group has landed Delhi police in hot water ahead of Parliament session. Delhi police are now scrambling to hammer home the message that mere mention of names does not amount to charging those named or treating them as accused. But the very action of including the names on the basis of what looks like a shoddy “cut-and-paste job” has posed several questions before the police. Two of the three arrested students had “refused to sign” their alleged “disclosure” statements. The handwritten sentence, “I refuse to sign”, is visible in one statement and “refuse to sign” in the other. The names of CPM leader Sitaram Yechury and Swaraj India leader Yogendra Yadav were mentioned in the supplementary chargesheet on the basis of the alleged statement by the third student, which has been signed. The operative parts of the purported disclosure statements by JNU students Devangana Kalita and Natasha Narwal, translated by Delhi police, are near-identical but for the students’ names and they mention “Jaidi Ghosh” and “Professor Apurva Nand”. That the drafters meant economist and JNU professor Jayati Ghosh was clear when Delhi police issued a clarification saying “it is clarified that Shri Sitaram Yechury, Shri Yogendra Yadav and Smt Jayati Ghosh have not been arraigned as accused in the supplementary chargesheet….”Arraignment stands for formally accusing someone of a crime. That the police meant Apoorvanand, who teaches in Delhi University, was apparent because he had been questioned earlier in connection with the riots case. Supreme Court lawyer Kamini Jaiswal said: “The identical statements of the suspects recorded in police custody with (identical) spelling mistakes and grammatical error clearly shows it's a cut-and-paste job. Police officers dictated and their subordinates typed it and put the same thing in the mouth of the accused persons.” She added: “It is a shocking state of affairs now. We do not have hope from anywhere. It is high time the courts should rise to the occasion and rescue the people.” The lawyer said the so-called disclosure statements cited by the police were meant to harass and intimidate peaceful citizens. “What is the value of such statements when the suspects have refused to sign it? It clearly means they do not agree to it. Such statements are not even worth the paper they are written on,” Jaiswal said. Disclosures made in police custody, she said, are not permissible in court during trial. “Don’t police know the meaning of such statements? Yes, they know it very well but they are doing it to harass, intimidate, humiliate and terrorise peace-loving citizens…. They are doing it at the behest of their political masters.” Trial court lawyer M.S. Khan said Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act says “no confession made to a police officer shall be proved as against a person accused of any offence”. “Under the Evidence Act, the statements cited by Delhi police to name political leaders/ civil society members are tainted and not admissible in court. It will be admissible if police find corroborative evidence,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Regret not having recognised that the campaign was propped up by the RSS: Prashant Bhushan||Lawyer Prashant Bhushan, one of the leaders of the India Against Corruption movement that vilified and paralysed the Manmohan Singh government and helped bring the BJP to power in 2014, has said he regretted not having recognised at the time that the campaign was propped up by the RSS. “Arvind (Kejriwal) was aware of it and I have very little doubt of that,” Bhushan said in an interview to India Today TV that was aired on Saturday night, referring to the current chief minister of Delhi who catapulted into politics on the back of that campaign. The Congress has said in the past that the RSS was behind the movement that painted the then government as corrupt, stalling decision-making as ministers and bureaucrats feared that even bona fide orders might be used against them. Since the Congress was in power then and had an interest in defusing the anti-graft campaign, the allegation was deliberately glossed over by large sections of the media and failed to gather traction. The BJP built its 2014 election campaign on the issue of corruption and policy paralysis, which had become entwined. The corruption charges over the 2G allocation, the biggest of the alleged scandals, were thrown out in court but by then the government had been voted out. In Saturday’s interview, Bhushan was asked if he had any regrets about being part of the movement that had led to the BJP government — which he has described as “fascist”— coming to power. He replied: “In hindsight there are two things which I do regret. One is not having seen that the movement was to a very large extent supported and propped up by the BJP-RSS for their own political purpose to bring down the Congress government and get themselves in power.” Asked if Anna Hazare, the face of the movement, was aware of this, Bhushan said: “He was also probably not aware of it. Arvind was aware of it and I have very little doubt of that.” Hazare has in the past denied that the campaign was RSS-backed. “The second regret that I have is not having understood Arvind’s character early enough. I understood too late, by which time we had created another Frankenstein monster, so to say,” Bhushan said. Bhushan was a co-founder of the Aam Aadmi Party that Kejriwal heads but the two had a falling out in 2015 over ideological issues, and the lawyer was expelled from the party. “I was very, very — exceedingly — fond of Arvind but I was never very critically looking at him in order to see whether he was unscrupulous in his means or not and so on,” he said. “It became clear immediately after the Lok Sabha elections, one after another things unfolded before my eyes and it became clear that he was not only unscrupulous and dictatorial but he had total contempt for policies of the party because we had formed 34 expert committees to form the policies of the party. After they had given their reports and we had to adopt them et cetera, he said throw them in the wastepaper basket; we will take a stand when it suits us,” Bhushan said. Kejriwal has not responded to the allegations. AAP and Delhi government spokespersons did not respond to queries from this newspaper.On the condition of anonymity, an AAP leader said: “Arvind will not respond as we don’t want to indulge Bhushan.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Educated? So what? Roll up sleeves||A group of six educated men from a north Kerala village have been working for daily wages for the past one month, preferring manual labour in a pandemic-hit economy to sitting idle at home. Their nod to the dignity of labour and their generosity — they have occasionally returned a part of the wages if they thought the work was too light or the employer cash-strapped — have earned them respect in their neighbourhood, team leader Ajith Raj said. Most of them are in their late-teens or early twenties and from well-off families. Raj, a 38-year-old who leads the group, is an NRI who got stranded after arriving on a short visit home to Kodakkad village in Kasaragod district. “I’m part of the Oasis Cricket Club in Dubai and had travelled to Sri Lanka to play a match, after which I visited my family,” the MBA graduate who worked at a recruitment agency for engineers in Dubai said. “But days later, the lockdown was announced.” The never-ending wait to return to Dubai made him restless. “I suggested to my nephew and these young boys that we do manual work just for the fun of it. They immediately agreed,” Raj told The Telegraph on Sunday. “None of our families depended on our daily wages, yet each of them backed us. Since I began manual work, my wife has been waking up early to cook food for me.” Raj was joined by his nephew P.G. Ashwin, 19, a final-year student of a diploma course in civil engineering, Rajulal Paleri, 20, who has a diploma in electronics, P.V. Jishnu, 21, a diploma holder in computer engineering and K.V. Harikrishnan, 19, a hotel management graduate. Shortly afterwards, E. Sreejith, 24, who has a diploma in “diesel mechanism”, joined the group. None of the diploma holders had any job, having cleared their exams just before the lockdown. All six are from the same village and they work together at the same site and for the same employer. “Our first job was to carry laterite stones to the second floor of a house under construction. It was a bit difficult in the beginning but we got used to it,” Raj said. Red laterite stones are widely used in construction in northern Kerala. The group has also tilled land for farmers, and provided seasonal manure to coconut trees by digging trenches around them and filling them with cow dung and leaves. “People accuse the returned migrant workers of taking up all the manual jobs, but there are enough jobs here if you want to work. Very few were willing to work even when the migrants were away at their workplaces,” Raj said. “However, we don’t go around asking for work since we don’t want to come in the way of regular workers who earn their livelihood from manual labour. We receive calls only when the employer fails to find regular workers.” The group has earned Rs 45,000 so far from 15 assignments, which works out to between Rs 500 and Rs 600 per head per day of work, considering that not all six are available to work every day. Raj said his family’s daily expenses came to about Rs 1,000, so the money was a lot of help. The local wage rate is Rs 600 for men for five hours of manual work and Rs 400 for women, who are not hired for heavy labour. The state government’s minimum wage rate for eight hours of work is Rs 850 plus food for those who till the land, and Rs 1,000 with food for stone masons. While being paid less than the government rate, the group has often returned a part of their wages from sympathy or moral scruples. “At one place, we returned Rs 1,000 since the family had financial issues. At two other places we returned Rs 500 since we felt the work was light,” Raj said. In the first instance, a person had paid them Rs 4,000 for tilling his small plot of land and fertilising his coconut trees. In the two other instances, they had been paid Rs 2,000 and Rs 3,000 for tilling land and cleaning a newly built house, respectively. The group shows its consideration for its employers in other ways too. Some employers in Kerala provide tea, snacks and lunch to the workers. “But we carry food from home since we don’t want to burden those who employ us,” Raj said. Many in the neighbourhood see the group as an example and an inspiration. “We feel the respect from the families of our friends whenever we visit them. It shows we are doing the right thing,” Raj said. Some of their teammates from a local football club — of which all six are members — have decided to follow in their footsteps. “Many more educated youths want to join us now. We have even begun receiving work assignments from elsewhere,” Raj said. “For instance, an NRI from Sharjah has called us and offered the job of renovating his villa in Ernakulam.” Sreejith left a few days ago for Ernakulam, 300km away, to check the site out. The rest of the team will catch up with him next week. Raj said the group had found their earnings useful during the recent Onam festival. “The boys could buy new clothes for their parents with their own earnings,” he said. Ashwin, the student, has to sometimes skip work when he has online classes. “Otherwise I work on all days and even have the time and energy to play football in the evening,” the teen said. “Now I earn my own pocket money and even have something to spare. I will continue to do this work even after completing my course until I get a better offer.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Flutter over vaccine pace||The Centre is considering “emergency authorisation” of coronavirus disease vaccination, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan said on Sunday, sparking surprise and speculation whether India is mulling mass inoculation of people without all required scientific assessment. “He (Vardhan) said that the government is considering emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccination, especially in the case of senior citizens and people working in high-risk settings,” the Union health ministry said in a statement released through the Press Information Bureau on Sunday. “This shall be done after a consensus has been reached,” the release quoted the minister as saying during an interaction with his social media followers. “To allay fears regarding the safety aspect of the vaccines, he said he will be happy to take the first dosage of vaccine if some people have a trust deficit,” the release added. The minister also told his social media followers that while no date had been fixed for the vaccine launch, it might be ready by the first quarter of 2021. At night, in response to a question after several scientists raised their eyebrows, Vardhan told The Telegraph: “I’ve only said that if there is a need, it (emergency authorisation) can be considered — without compromising on safety and efficacy. If phase 3 trials are going on and thousands of people have already received a vaccine and we know it is safe, we can consider emergency authorisation if there is a consensus.” The minister said he was speaking in general terms and did not point to any specific vaccine. The initial statement of Vardhan, also an ENT surgeon, while interacting with the social media users caught sections of scientists by surprise. They said emergency authorisation can refer to the process under which the country’s drug regulatory authority can, under exceptional circumstances, approve a drug or a vaccine for public use without the full cycle of clinical trials. Medical experts also point out that emergency authorisation of a Covid-19 vaccine would be extremely unusual and would contradict assurances by India’s health research agency earlier this year that the country would not bypass any necessary processes. Virologists and vaccine researchers said one interpretation of Vardhan’s statement could be that India might consider releasing a vaccine for public use, albeit restricted, without the large-scale phase 3 efficacy trials that should ideally follow early-stage safety and efficacy trials. “This would mean limited use approval in most vulnerable groups such as healthcare workers or security personnel,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and head of the Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. “China and Russia have already done this.” Russian regulators had last month approved a Covid-19 vaccine candidate after early-stage, or phase 1 and phase 2, safety and efficacy trials ahead of phase 3 trials on 40,000 people now underway in Russia. In vaccine development, phase 1 trials assess safety while phase 2 trials examine whether the vaccine candidate generates an immune response. India is currently testing two homegrown vaccine candidates that are both in the early-stage phase 1 and phase 2 studies and the Oxford vaccine candidate that is set to head into phase 3 trials. But the Centre is also examining proposals for clinical trials of the Russian vaccine. “Large scale phase 3 studies are critical — they are the true test of the protective efficacy of a vaccine,” said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. “It is only through phase 3 studies that we will actually know whether a vaccine can protect people from the viral infection.” Vaccine researchers point out that rare adverse effects of a vaccine might be missed during phase 1 or phase 2 trials because of limited number of vaccine recipients. A rare safety event, if any, is more likely to be detected when the vaccine candidate is given to tens of thousands of people. Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and executive director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana), said emergency authorisation of a vaccine candidate that has already been tested for safety in thousands of people in other countries would be justified in India. “If there is no safety issue in the US or Europe, it is unlikely there will be one in India,” Vrati said. However, Kalantri said he would consider emergency authorisation for a vaccine as “extremely unusual” because vaccines are given to healthy persons. “Emergency authorisation for a drug may be justified because it is given to ill persons, but vaccines are given to healthy people — this has to be done only after full assessment of safety and efficacy.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||‘Quackery’ elements in post-Covid protocol ||The Union health ministry on Sunday released a “post-coronavirus disease management protocol” that doctors say contains standard precautions for patients recovering from the illness and certain unproven remedies that some say are tantamount to quackery. The ministry said the post-Covid-19 management protocol was intended for “holistic follow-up care and well-being of all post-Covid-19 recovering patients”, some of whom may continue to experience fatigue, body ache, cough, sore throat and breathing difficulty after the acute illness. The recovery period is expected to be longer for patients who suffered from severe Covid-19 and those who have underlying health disorders. The ministry has asserted that the protocol is “not meant to be used as preventive or curative therapy”. The protocol recommends that recovered patients continue to use masks and adopt hand and respiratory hygiene and physical distancing. Patients have asked to report to a medical centre for a follow-up visit within seven days of discharge from hospital. It also urges recovering patients to drink adequate amount of warm water and take “immunity-promoting” traditional medicines from ayurveda, yoga, unani, siddha and homeopathy systems of medicines, prescribed by qualified AYUSH practitioners. Patients have been asked to consider mild or moderate exercise, including “the daily practice of Yogasana, Pranayama and meditation as much as health permits” and a daily morning or evening walk at a comfortable pace. The protocol recommends balanced nutritious diet, adequate sleep and rest, and the use of saline gargles, steam inhalation, and herbs and spices for gargling and steam inhalation for persistent dry cough or sore throat. Medical experts said that while warm concoctions with spices, ginger, turmeric and even tea were widely used home remedies for respiratory illnesses and provide relief from symptoms, there was no evidence yet that such remedies benefit patients with post-Covid-19 complications. There could be substances in traditional medicine systems that influence immunity levels but to ask recovering patients to take “immunity-boosting” AYUSH medications are “tantamount to quackery”, said Shri Prakash Kalantri, professor of medicine at the Mahatma Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences, Wardha. “Which medications? Where is the evidence they help address post-Covid complications?” Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, said: “We need robust research in India to understand patterns of residual illness in Covid-19 survivors.” John also pointed out that some foreign studies have suggested that post-Covid-19 symptoms in some patients could be due to an autoimmune response to the virus. “Since we do not know who has a tendency for this hyperimmune or autoimmune responses, we need to ask — should we really prescribe immunity boosters?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Minister who brought  MGNREGA passes away||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who as Union minister in the Manmohan Singh government had conceptualised and implemented the 100-day rural job scheme MGNREGA, passed away on Sunday. He was 74. A Lalu Prasad loyalist for decades, the former mathematics professor had been associated with the Rashtriya Janata Dal since its formation in 1997 but sent a handwritten resignation letter from his deathbed three days ago. Raghuvansh was undergoing treatment at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi for post-Covid complications, including breathing trouble and lung infection. He had tested positive for Covid-19 in June but had recovered. Raghuvansh is survived by his wife, two sons and a daughter. He was one of the rare leaders in Bihar who kept family away from politics. Those who knew Raghuvansh fondly recalled him for his disarming laughter, rustic wit, complete disregard for formal clothes and formalities, the socialist and secular ideals that he stood by throughout his life, empathy for the deprived, understanding of the grassroots, courage to take up causes he believed in and his opposition to anything that he felt was wrong. Raghuvansh had written to Lalu Prasad from his hospital bed, resigning from the party. The second most popular leader in the RJD after Lalu had been feeling sidelined for some time. However, Lalu Prasad wrote back to him, telling him he was not going anywhere and that they would talk once he recovered. The RJD chief, jailed in the fodder scam and himself in hospital undergoing treatment for various ailments, was among the first to condole Raghuvansh’s death. “Dear Raghuvansh Babu! What did you do? Just days before I had said you were not going anywhere, but you went so far away. Am speechless. Am sad. Will miss you a lot,” Lalu tweeted in Hindi. Raghuvansh had joined politics at the call of socialist leader Jayaprakash Narayan in the mid 1970s, was a minister in Karpoori Thakur’s government in Bihar, and represented the Vaishali Lok Sabha seat five times in a row from 1996 to 2014.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-669
14-09-2020||India||Ministry call to hospitals for timely treatment ||India’s health ministry has exhorted the private healthcare sector to “ensure seamless admissions” of patients with coronavirus amid rising demand for hospital beds and concerns that some patients are not referred to hospitals early enough. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in a virtual conclave with senior executives and doctors from private hospitals, iterated the need for medics across the country to comply with national clinical treatment protocols, share their best practices to provide timely treatment to patients. Bhushan, the health ministry said on Saturday, also emphasised the need to ensure that patients are not denied beds and the need to follow evidence-based treatment and reduce “heterogeneity” — another word for diversity — in clinical practices in the management of Covid-19 patients. The ministry’s conclave with private hospitals comes amid a near-steady increase in the need for hospital beds for Covid-19 patients with the rise in the number of “active” patients under medical supervision — from about 831,000 a week ago to 958,316 on Saturday. The average daily increase in patients under medical supervision has been around 20,000 over the past three days. While the vast majority of these new diagnosed patients with no symptoms or mild symptoms would be placed under home isolation and observation, doctors say, the increase would translate into higher hospital bed demand. If five per cent new patients need hospital care, for 20,000 patients, India would need 1,000 hospital beds. The Centre has urged states to ensure that patients at home are properly monitored for any signs of deteriorating disease so that they can be moved to hospitals early but, some doctors say, anecdotal accounts suggest that many patients are avoiding early hospital admissions. “We’re concerned about this,” said Alok Ray, chairperson of the Medica hospital group and head of the health services panel of the Federation of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry who joined the conclave. “Many patients under home isolation seek consultations from nursing homes or general practitioners and even ask for oxygen at home.” Ray said such practices are contributing to delays in treatment. The treatment protocols developed by experts at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, and other institutions recommend patients under home isolation to be immediately shifted to hospitals if their oxygen levels fall below a threshold level or if they develop breathlessness. In a separate meeting on Saturday, P.K. Mishra, the principal secretary to the Prime Minister, chaired a meeting on India’s Covid-19 response that discussed the need for “district action plans” and a “behaviour change” campaign to ensure that people do not lower guard under the “unlock” conditions. During the meeting, Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog, the government’s top think tank, made a detailed presentation on projections of cases based on different models, the health ministry said in a media release. Principal secretary Mishra directed officials to work out detailed action plans for the coming months. The meeting also discussed the need for augmenting human resources, ensuring uninterrupted oxygen and other medical supplies, and getting the right mix of testing for effective case management, contact tracing and isolation. The meeting recommended the need for a concerted behaviour change campaign that needs to be taken up to prevent people from lowering their guard from personal precautions against the infection under the unlock phase. India on Saturday recorded 97,570 new Covid-19 cases, a fresh highest-ever single day rise, increasing the total number of infections to over 4.65 million of whom 3.62 million have recovered, 958,316 patients are under medical supervision and 77,472 have died, including 1,201 deaths over the previous 24 hours.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||NEET turnout  85-90%: Minister||Around 85 to 90 per cent candidates appeared for undergraduate medical entrance exam NEET on Sunday, the education minister announced and held this up as an example of “Aatmanirbhar Bharat”. The turnout had been 92.85 per cent in 2019 and 95.7 per cent in 2018. “NTA (National Testing Agency) informed me that around 85-90% students appeared in #NEET exam today. I sincerely thank all Chief Ministers and @DG_NTA for proper arrangements made to facilitate student participation. #NEET participation reflects the tenacity and grit of young #AtmaNirbharBharat,” education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal tweeted. Students, teachers, politicians and activists had urged the government not to go ahead with the NEET and engineering entrance test JEE Main amid the pandemic and held protests across the country. The government, however, pushed ahead with its plan and the Supreme Court rejected pleas to defer the exams. The move triggered a campaign to “dislike” social media content of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, with a video where he extolled the cause of Aatmanirbhar Bharat bearing the maximum brunt. On Sunday, the NTA conducted the NEET for admission to MBBS and BDS courses at 3,862 centres across the country. Around 15.97 lakh students had registered for the test. There are nearly 80,000 medical seats. The NTA last week conducted the Joint Entrance Examination Main, which witnessed a 74 per cent turnout, much less than the attendance of well over 90 per cent in the previous two editions. According to figures tweeted by Pokhriyal, about 8.58 lakh candidates had applied for the exam but only 6.35 lakh — 74 per cent — turned up. However, unlike in engineering, the NEET is the only entrance exam for undergraduate medical courses and is held once a year. The JEE Main is held twice a year, and there are several other state-level engineering entrance exams as well.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Modi praises Nitish role in ‘new Bihar’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday credited Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar with a “big role” in achieving a “new India and new Bihar”, appearing to endorse him as the face of the NDA in the poll-bound eastern state. Modi’s pat for Nitish comes as a relief for the Janata Dal United at a time another NDA ally, the Lok Janshakti Party of Ram Vilas Paswan, has been castigating the chief minister and threatening to field candidates against JDU nominees. Nitish’s relations with Modi had historically been fraught, with the JDU leader once “banning” the then Gujarat chief minister from campaigning for the NDA in Bihar and later quitting the alliance when Modi was made its prime ministerial candidate for the 2014 elections. As he inaugurated three petroleum projects in Bihar on Sunday, Modi painted a grim picture of the state’s level of development before Nitish assumed power in late 2005. He, however, did not name Lalu Prasad or the Rashtriya Janata Dal. “There was a time when road connectivity, rail connectivity, Internet were not even discussed (in Bihar). Being a land-locked state, Bihar faced many challenges,” the Prime Minister said from Delhi through videoconferencing. “Nitish Kumar certainly has played a big role in the (movement) towards a new India and new Bihar.” Modi’s thumbs-up to Nitish comes at a time the JDU has been worried not just about the LJP’s attacks but also about a BJP lobby that has been alleging simmering anti-incumbency against the chief minister and suggesting the polls be fought in Modi’s name. The real test will come when the allies work out the seat shares. Many in the JDU fear that as quid pro quo for the endorsement of Nitish as the NDA’s face in Bihar, the BJP might demand a larger seat share. Relations between the JDU and the LJP have soured over Paswan’s criticism of Nitish’s handling of the pandemic and the migrant crisis, and Nitish’s act of joining hands with former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit rival of Paswan. This is the second time in recent days that Modi has launched development projects in Bihar and sought to connect with its voters. On Sunday, he began his speech with a few lines in Angika, a dialect spoken in the Bhagalpur region. Last week, he had spoken Bhojpuri, another Bihari dialect, while launching a raft of animal husbandry and fishery schemes. Modi said many education institutions had been established in Bihar under the leadership of Nitish, stressing that Bihari youth were earlier forced to migrate to other states for higher studies. He praised the people of Bihar, particularly the youth, saying the intellect and hard work of the state’s migrants had contributed immensely to the development of many states across the country. “It will not be an exaggeration to call the state a powerhouse of talent,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||CPM sees  police pattern in Delhi riots arrests||The CPM on Sunday expressed shock at the brazen manner in which Delhi police, “acting under home minister Amit Shah”, have tried to implicate prominent political leaders including party general secretary Sitaram Yechury, academics, cultural personalities and activists in the February riots in the capital. CPM leaders asserted that they would not be cowed down by such tactics, pointing out that they belong to a party that had participated not only in the freedom struggle and other revolutionary movements but also battled the Emergency. The names of Yechury, economist Jayati Ghosh, Swaraj Abhiyan leader Yogendra Yadav and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand figure in a supplementary chargesheet filed by Delhi police in riots cases, allegedly for “provoking and mobilising” anti-CAA protesters. Kerala finance minister Thomas Isaac summed up the mood in a tweet: “Whom are the BJP leadership trying to intimidate by foisting cases against Com Sitaram and some of the best minds among intellectuals? Want to remind BJP that we belong to the tradition of struggle for freedom and people’s rights. No threat shall waver us from this chosen path.” The CPM politburo urged all like-minded people to jointly protest the attempts to criminalise protests by manufacturing a narrative with a view to silencing all dissent in the country. Calling this an assault on democracy, the politburo said in a statement: “The politburo… is shocked by the brazenness with which the Delhi police, acting under home minister Amit Shah, has tried to implicate prominent political leadership, academics, cultural personalities and activists in connection with the horrific communal violence in Northeast Delhi in February. No condemnation is strong enough for this act of crude partisanship and vengeance.” It added: “In scripting its own narrative of the organised communal violence, it is amply clear that the BJP-RSS has gone about to portray the Delhi riots as a ‘deep-rooted conspiracy’ by anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protesters.” This, according to the CPM, is in line with the growing pattern of the most blatant abuse of the police and other central agencies such as the CBI, NIA and the ED to frame prominent opponents and demonise them. “The pattern includes slapping of provisions of the draconian NSA, UAPA and Sedition Act to harass and incarcerate those who vigorously oppose such blatant misuse of powers by the government contrary to that as ordained by the Constitution,” the statement said. “The arbitrary conduct of the NIA in the Bhima-Koregaon case and expanding its ambit is telling commentary of this course. Similarly, the dropping of the provisions of the NSA and granting of bail to Dr Kafeel Khan by Allahabad High Court have graphically underlined this. Overall, this outlines a severe onslaught on democracy and the Constitution,” it added. The CPM in Bengal has called for statewide protests. State CPM secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra tweeted in Bengali: “The declaration of the communist party as illegal after the freedom struggle, the arrest of leaders one after another in cases of conspiracy and the murder of thousands of comrades have not been able to finish us. The more the attacks, the more the resistance….” Yechury tweeted the politburo statement. On Saturday evening, reacting to the reports of Delhi police naming him along with several others in the supplementary chargesheet, Yechury had tweeted: “Delhi Police is under the Centre and Home Ministry. Its illegitimate, illegal actions are a direct outcome of the politics of BJP’s top leadership. They are scared of legitimate peaceful protests by mainstream political parties & are misusing state power to target the Opposition.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Congress: PM must explain ‘no-intrusion’ line||The Congress on Sunday made it clear that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would have to explain why he made the “no-intrusion” remark that weakened India’s position vis-a-vis China, setting the stage for a stormy Parliament session from Monday as the government may not concede more than a statement on the border situation. While the Opposition is primarily going to target the government on three vital concerns — China, the economy and the mismanagement of the coronavirus pandemic — a host of other issues such as the farm sector reforms ordinances, banking regulations, the planned privatisation of airports and sale of PSUs, unemployment, the PM CARES Fund, the plan to go ahead with the Central Vista beautification and construction project in the capital despite extreme austerity measures, and the conspiracy to frame critics of the government and anti-CAA protesters in Delhi riots cases have also been lined up for the 18-day session. The government may not want to give enough time to the Opposition to raise so many issues during a session that has been curtailed to four-hour sittings daily due to Covid protocol, and the plan to pass 11 ordinances. The sensitive China issue, however, has the potential to unsettle the entire schedule. A conflict is inevitable as the Prime Minister is unlikely to explain what exactly he meant when he claimed at an all-party meeting on June 19 that none had forcibly entered Indian territory or taken over posts. Congress spokesperson and the party chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, said on Sunday: “It is the Prime Minister’s statement that weakened India’s position. That was not only contrary to the facts on the ground, but China has also been using it to contest our claims. The Prime Minister does not like to answer questions but these are extraordinary circumstances. We hope he is present in the Lok Sabha and the Rajya Sabha to answer questions.” Asked about the government’s usual reluctance to discuss China citing national security concerns, as had happened during the 2017 Doklam standoff as well, Ramesh said: “In November 1962, when India and China were at war, Parliament had met. Parliament had met from November 11, 1962. During the second phase of the Chinese invasion of India, too, Parliament was in session. The Prime Minister (Jawaharlal Nehru) sat in the Lok Sabha, listening to criticism of his own policies from senior parliamentarians including Atal Bihari Vajpayee. It is ridiculous to say that there should not be any discussion on China, we need a discussion on China.” Ramesh added: “We are responsible political parties; we know what to say and what not to say. The greatest damage to our cause has been done by the Prime Minister’s own statement. He owes an explanation, why did he make that statement, which has single-handedly weakened India’s case and status quo ante on the LAC has not been restored. This is not a debating point, this is a very serious national issue. Parliament is a place for debate, not for running away.” Iterating that the farm sector ordinances would be opposed with all force, Ramesh said the Congress was in touch with other parties and that most non-BJP states felt the new regime would destroy the farmers and facilitate a corporate takeover. The Congress spokesperson said the Opposition didn’t have the numbers in the Lok Sabha but a stiff resistance would be put up in the Rajya Sabha, adding that veteran leaders Ghulam Nabi Azad, Anand Sharma and Ahmed Patel were in touch with like-minded parties to evolve a common strategy. Ramesh declared strong opposition to the Banking Regulation Ordinance as well. Listing objections, he said: “Cooperative banks are part of the structure of cooperatives and ought to be regulated by the state governments, not by the central government. If the ordinance becomes law, all key financial intermediaries will come under the control of the central government, there will be more centralisation. “The Congress stands for decentralisation and for empowering states. An ordinance gives power to the Centre to change the membership structure of a cooperative. A farmer-promoted district cooperative bank could be transferred to the hands of non-farmers, similarly a fisherman-promoted cooperative could be transferred to the hands of fish traders and non-fishermen.” Ramesh alleged that powers were being taken away to change the financial structure of cooperative banks, “enabling the vesting of control in the hands of strangers and predators”. “So, tomorrow, a man who takes over airports can also take over cooperative banks. The RBI is being vested with more regulatory responsibilities. The RBI’s regulating banks have not protected banks from collapsing. There is no justification to make the RBI the regulator of the district cooperative banks and the urban cooperative banks.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid arrested in connection with Delhi riots||Former Jawaharlal Nehru University student leader Umar Khalid was arrested late on Sunday night for his alleged role in the northeast Delhi riots, sources said on Sunday. He was questioned by the Delhi Police Crime Branch for a couple of hours on September 2 in connection with the riots. Khalid was earlier booked under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) in another case related to the riots. He was also quizzed by the Special Cell of the Delhi Police earlier regarding an alleged conspiracy behind the riots. His mobile phone was also seized by the police. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||‘Nothing worked out’. Migrant’s return trip||The Prime Minister has said the millions of migrants who have had to return home during the lockdown had “turned adversity into opportunity”. Bhramara Gauda may beg to differ. When the Surat-bound train chugged out of Berhampur station in Odisha on Sunday, there were tears in Bhramara’s eyes. He was not sure when he would see his family again. Bhramara, 42, had returned to Odisha from Surat in Gujarat, where he worked in a spinning mill, three months ago when the coronavirus-induced lockdown robbed him of his livelihood. But his life became more miserable after reaching his village in Odisha’s Ganjam district. There was no work and he had to spend sleepless nights on an empty stomach. All his savings exhausted, he had to borrow from moneylenders, who were breathing down his neck. The father of two who has a family of six to look after decided to go back. “For me, it is important to do something to ensure that I get two meals a day,” Bhramara said before embarking on the train journey to Surat on the Puri-Okha Express on Sunday. Although the train starts from Puri, most passengers were from Ganjam district and had boarded the train at Berhampur. Bhramara said he had to shell out Rs 4,000 for the bus journey home in May. More hardship was in store. “Nothing worked out for me here. I decided to go back. It’s important to ensure that my two children — a nine-year-old son and a four-year-old daughter — my wife and elderly parents get two meals a day. I could not have stayed back,” Bhramara said. He said his expertise lay in the textile industry and he used to earn Rs 1,000 a day in Surat at the mill. Back home in Odisha, Bhramara had been largely getting employment under the rural job scheme MGNREGA, which mostly entails digging ponds and laying roads, and also agricultural work, earning not more than a meagre Rs 300 a day. Odisha does not have a thriving textile industry like Gujarat, Bhramara said. He said he was desperate to go back as he had exhausted the Rs 25,000 he had brought home from Surat. “I had to take a loan of Rs 60,000 at a very high rate of interest. Moneylenders were pestering me. So I decided to go back,” Bhramara said. He no longer fears the coronavirus. “I have realised that I will have to live with this corona and work.” Saying goodbye was heart-breaking. “ My two kids were crying. They didn’t want me to go back. I don’t know when I will be able to see them again. My wife was silent,” Bhramara said. Similar is the story of 32-year-old Lochan Biswal from Ganjam. “Had I got work here, I would not have returned to Gujarat. Who wants to leave his native place?” said Lochan, another spinning mill worker in the same train to Gujarat. “Although I had managed to get some work back home, the earnings were meagre. Also, the work did not match my skills,” Lochan said, adding that he was not sure when he would be able to return home again. He said it was difficult to maintain physical distancing in the packed train. “As several buses have met with accidents, I decided to go by train. This, too, is risky but then I am taking a risk by going back to Surat anyway,” Lochan said. Surat, Ahmedabad and other cities of Gujarat employ lakhs of Odia labourers. Nearly 10 lakh people from Odisha, a majority of them from Ganjam, work in the textile mills of Surat alone. On Sunday, the train left for Surat with more than 1,000 migrant labourers. On Saturday evening, another train had left for Ahmedabad. Such was the rush that the passengers had to reach the station five hours before the scheduled departure of the trains. The special trains are being run on the request of Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who hails from Odisha. He had urged railway minister Piyush Goyal to make arrangements for the return of migrant labourers to their workplaces in Gujarat, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Trains will leave for Gujarat again on September 15, 17, 18, 19 and 22. All seats have been booked. Workers who had returned to Odisha on boats and other modes of transport from places such as Chennai are beginning to make the long journey back. None of them appeared to have created a “record”, as the Prime Minister had said on Saturday while speaking of migrants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
14-09-2020||India||Sikkim reels from rain fury||The ongoing monsoon has caused extensive damage to the road and power facilities in Sikkim, causing losses running into hundreds of crores of rupees and inconveniencing people across the state. The almost continuous rains since the start of the monsoon in early June have triggered landslides at multiple places, sweeping away road formations, damaging pavements, protective structures and electricity towers and lines which, in some cases, would take months to repair. “Most of the roads are strewn with huge boulders, formation have been washed out and the roads have been ripped apart horizontally causing deep gorges in between the road networks in many parts of the state,” said G. T. Dhungel, the advisor to the Sikkim roads and bridges department. Dhungel said temporary measures to open the closed stretches of roads were immediately taken up wherever possible to ensure connectivity, but it would take months for major repairs. “The road sector is the only form of transportation in the state and as such, it is of utmost importance to keep it navigable throughout the year,” he added. The damage caused to the power sector is equally severe with towers and poles being washed away by landslides at different places, forcing many areas to go without electricity for days together. Places like Singtam, Topakhani, Tintek, and Rakdong in East Sikkim, Temi Namphing in South Sikkim and Hee Bermiok in West Sikkim to name just a few have had to go without power for days together. “The excessive rainfall has caused extensive damages. We get daily reports from all corners about damage to power stations and lines and consequent outages. Our field staff is working night and day to restore power, but despite that, services continue to be disrupted,” admitted P.T. Bhutia, the secretary of the state power department. A resident of Singtam, a trading town 28km from Gangtok, said never before had there been power cut for seven-and-a-half days at a stretch. Both the road and power departments were not immediately able to provide an estimate of losses since a comprehensive assessment was yet to be carried out, but officials admitted it would run into hundreds of crores. “It is safe to say the losses to road and power infrastructure will easily be in hundreds of crores. The quantum of damage will be assessed and reports presented to government,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-670
