15-09-2020||India||China doesn’t recognise current boundary, Rajnath tells Parliament  ||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh told Parliament on Tuesday that the border issue with China was still unresolved as China "does not recognise the current boundary", explaining that this difference in perception had led to the face-off at the Line of Actual Control. India, he said, has been following the customary line that was agreed upon in the 1960s. "But China does not agree to this now and says that both sides have different perspectives of this line," he said in a statement in the Lok Sabha. The minister said that China has "unilaterally violated the bilateral agreements signed in 1993 and 1996," adding that the Indian soldiers stopped these transgressions showing "patience and resolve when required and courage and valour when required". Singh went on to iterate that India was committed to a peaceful resolution of the current border stand-off with China in Ladakh but that any attempt to unilaterally alter the status quo by the neighbouring country was unacceptable. The Indian Army, he said, has inflicted heavy costs, including casualties on the Chinese side during the clash with the PLA at the Galwan valley on June 15. “I met my Chinese counterpart in Moscow recently, and put forward our concerns, but made it absolutely clear that India is very serious about issues of sovereignty,"  Singh told Parliament in what is the first session after more than five months. "I also made it clear that we want to resolve this issue in a peaceful manner and we want the Chinese side to work together with us. At the same time, we also made it clear that we will do our best to protect India's sovereignty and territorial integrity," he added. The defence minister said that since April, India has seen a build-up of troops and armaments by the Chinese side in the border areas adjacent to eastern Ladakh. He said in early May, the Chinese side had taken action to hinder the normal, traditional patrolling pattern of Indian troops in the Galwan Valley area, which resulted in a face-off. Singh said even as this situation was being addressed by ground commanders as per the provisions of the bilateral agreements and protocol, in mid-May, the Chinese side made several attempts to transgress the LAC in other parts of the Western Sector. "This included Kongka La, Gogra and North Bank of Pangong Lake. These attempts were detected early and consequently responded to appropriately by our armed forces. "We made it clear to the Chinese side both through diplomatic and military channels that China was, by such actions, attempting to unilaterally alter the status quo. It was categorically conveyed that this was unacceptable," he said. The government, which has been under Congress pressure to explain what the party called the "real situation" in Ladakh, said there would be no discussion on the matter given the "sensitivity" of the situation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
15-09-2020||India||PM lays foundation stone of projects worth Rs 541 cr in poll-bound Bihar||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated and laid the foundation stone of seven urban infrastructure projects worth Rs 541 crore in poll-bound Bihar. In his address via video conference, Modi lauded the efforts of the state government, headed by Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, over a host of issues, including girl education, representation of deprived sections of the society in local bodies and development. Without naming anyone, the prime minister also slammed earlier state governments, saying Bihar used to have tall and visionary leaders, but an era came when focus shifted from governance. "Selfish interests" took over governance and "vote-bank politics" suppressed the system, Modi said, in an apparent reference to the 15-year-long rule of Lalu Yadav's RJD and Congress governments that preceded it. The Centre is working overtime in coordination with the state government to boost infrastructure and development works, the prime minister said. Noting that over 20 Bihar towns are situated near Ganga, Modi said more than 50 projects of over Rs 6,000 crore had been approved in the state to keep the holy river clean. Assembly polls in Bihar are likely to be held in October-November.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
15-09-2020||India||Congress alleges corruption and demands probe into the privatisation of airports||The Congress on Tuesday demanded a probe into the privatisation of six airports in the country alleging violation of rules and corruption, a charge denied by the BJP which said there is complete transparency under the Modi dispensation. Initiating the debate on 'The Aircraft (Amendment) Bill, 2020', Congress member K C Venugopal alleged that the government was promoting crony capitalism by privatising airports in the name of developing them. "There is a move to monopolise the Indian airports. In future, all Indian airports will be owned by only one company. How can you allow this...There is a clear violation of norms and regulations in giving airports to a single private entity. This is a clear scam of public money," he alleged. "I am asking for an inquiry into all this. This is a clear case of corruption," he said. Venugopal alleged that the government was bypassing norms and guidelines to favour a private entity and has ignored the advice given by its own ministries. The recommendations of the Department of Economic Affairs and Niti Ayog on technical, financial and legal aspects of bidding process were ignored by the government, he said. "There is an international attempt on the government to help crony capitalists. The government is paving red carpet for monopolisation of airports in the country," he alleged, adding till now Adani group has won bids to operate and develop six airports of Ahmedabad, Lucknow, Bengaluru, Jaipur, Guwahati and Thiruvananthapuram. He said even when the Bill was pending in Parliament, the government sought bids to privatise six airports on December 18, 2018 and many players have alleged that the timeline for the bids was extremely short and there were a number of anomalies in the clauses for the bids proposal. The Congress member also said that the concerns of state governments of Rajasthan and Kerala were not taken care of by the government. Both Rajasthan and Kerala have objected to the proposal for privatising Jaipur and Thirivananthapuram airports, for which land was given by the states. The Kerala assembly has also passed a resolution against the privatisation of the Thiruvananthapuram airport, he said. Countering the charge, BJP member GVL Narasimha Rao claimed there was complete transparency in developing airports and alleged that crony capitalism was promoted during the previous Congress-led UPA regime and cited 2G and coal auctions when courts had to intervene. He said the civil aviation sector has undergone transformation under the Modi government and passenger traffic has more than doubled in the last five years and risen by 118 percent, against 54 per cent rise in the previous five years "The real crony capitalism was during the previous regime. There is a transparent regime and a credible and transparent method is being adopted to develop airports in the country," Rao said. The objective of the prime minister is to make air travel safer and accessible for all sections of society and not just for the elite, he said. The BJP member lauded the government's Vande Bharat mission under which 12.4 lakh Indians were evacuated from across the world during the COVID-19 lockdown and Air India ran 2500 of the total 4,000 flights in the "biggest evacuation exercise". Rao said the government has evolved an ambitious plans for the expansion of the aviation sector and was investing Rs 13,000 crore to develop 12 airports in the country and enhance airport network and infrastructure. He said India was ranked third largest in the world in the domestic civil aviation sector and 4th/5th largest in terms of international air traffic. Venugopal earlier highlighted safety concerns in the aviation sector and said there were 47 near miss incidents in 2018. He also highlighted the shortage of flight safety officials and this, he alleged, might have been a cause for rising "near miss" cases. He also demanded a statement from the minister on the Calicut airport incident involving an Air India Express flight. "There is no clarity on what led to the incident. Government has to clarify how permission was given to wider aircraft earlier on the table-top airport in Calicut, where such flights are now not allowed," he said. He also sought to know the real status of grant of compensation to victims of the Calicut airport crash. Dinesh Trivedi (Trinamool Congress) lauded the Vande Bharat mission and asked the government to restructure Air India but not sell it. "If Air India was not there, the private players would not have been there. Air India is a very good airline. You can change its structure, but please don't sell it. Drop plans to sell it," he said, demanding a complete revamp of the Aircraft Act saying it has become outdated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India|| India's Covid tally breaches 49-lakh mark||India's Covid-19 caseload sprinted past 49 lakh with 83,809 people testing positive in a day, while 38,59,399 people have recuperated so far taking the national recovery rate to 78.28 per cent on Tuesday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 49,30,236, while the death toll climbed to 80,776 with 1,054 people succumbing to the disease in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection was recorded at 1.64 per cent. There are 9,90,061 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 20.08 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23 and it went past 40 lakh on September 5. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 5,83,12,273 samples have been tested up to September 14 with 10,72,845 samples being tested on Monday. India is at the number one position in terms of the number of recovered coronavirus cases followed by Brazil and the US, according to the Johns Hopkins University, which has been compiling Covid-19 data from all over the world. India is the second worst hit nation in terms of Covid-19 cases after the US, while it is at the third spot in terms of fatalities globally after the US and Brazil, according to the JHU data. Of the 1,054 new deaths, 363 are from Maharashtra, 119 from Karnataka, 68 from Punjab, 62 from Uttar Pradesh, 60 from Andhra Pradesh, 58 from West Bengal, 53 from Tamil Nadu, 29 from Madhya Pradesh, 26 from Delhi, 25 from Haryana, 18 from Chhattisgarh, 17 each from Gujarat and Jammu and Kashmir, 15 each from Kerala and Uttarakhand and 14 each from Rajasthan and Goa. Thirteen fatalities have been reported from Assam, 11 from Odisha, 10 from Telangana, nine each from Bihar and Puducherry, seven from Tripura, six from Jharkhand, five each from Chandigarh and Himachal Pradesh, two from Sikkim while Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya and Ladakh have registered one fatality each. A total of 80,776 deaths have been reported so far in the country includes 29,894 from Maharashtra followed by 8,434 from Tamil Nadu, 7,384 from Karnataka, 4,972 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,770 from Delhi, 4,491 from Uttar Pradesh, 4,003 from West Bengal, 3,227 from Gujarat and 2,424 from Punjab and 1,791 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Odisha minister tests Covid positive||Odisha school and mass education minister Samir Ranjan Dash has become the latest minister of Naveen Patnaik government to test positive for coronavirus. With him the number of Covid-19 positive ministers in the state has gone up to seven. Others ministers to have tested positive for the virus include food supplies and consumer welfare minister Ranendra Pratap Swain, women and child development and Mission Shakti minister Tukuni Sahu, tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahi, handlooms, textiles & handicrafts minister Padmini Dian, higher education and agriculture & farmers’ empowerment minister Arun Kumar Sahoo and rural development and labour minister Susanta Singh. State BJP president Samir Mohanty, who has been diagnosed with the coronavirus, was on Monday admitted to the AIIMS for treatment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Raghuvansh Prasad Singh letters fake, says RJD||The Rashtriya Janata Dal on Monday described as fake the letters purported to have been written by former Union minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh three days before his death, asking how he could have written them when he was critically ill. The party accused chief minister Nitish Kumar and his Janata Dal United of hatching a conspiracy for the sake of votes. Raghuvansh’s family cited his resignation and refused to allow his body to be taken to the office of the RJD, the party he had been associated with since its inception in 1997, in Patna and went straight home after arrival from Delhi. Raghuvansh had been the RJD’s second most popular leader, after Lalu Prasad, but had of late been feeling sidelined. “All the letters attributed to Raghuvansh babu are fake. They are a conspiracy hatched by Nitish and his party for garnering votes belonging to the Rajput caste. They got this done by his son by assuring him that he will be made a member of the legislative council,” RJD chief spokesperson Bhai Virendra said. A few Congress leaders made similar allegations and raised doubts about the letters. Congress Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh, who had previously been in the RJD, said: “I had met Raghuvanshji at AIIMS Delhi recently. He was criticising Nitish and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s governments and praising Laluji. It can’t be that he goes to the ICU and writes such letters. It seems he was forced to write them.” Raghuvansh passed away at AIIMS, Delhi, on Sunday from post-Covid complications. He had contracted the novel coronavirus in June and had recovered from it. He had resigned from the post of RJD vice-president at that time but remained in the party. He fell ill in early August and was shifted to AIIMS for treatment. On September 10, he purportedly wrote a resignation letter from his hospital bed and sent it to the RJD chief. Replying to the letter, Lalu had said Raghuvansh was not going anywhere and that they would talk once he got well. A day later, Raghuvansh purportedly followed up with three letters to Nitish and one to the state water resources minister raising certain demands. The former Union minister’s handwritten note listing feudalism, nepotism, casteism, selling of seats and improper distribution of party positions as the reasons he left the RJD was released on social media on September 12 before he was put on life support. All the letters and notes were handwritten and bear the date September 10. Raghuvansh is survived by his wife, two sons who are engineers — one in Delhi and another in Hong Kong — and a daughter who is a journalist with a television channel. He had kept his family members away from politics and was seen as a leader who did not use his position for the benefit of his kin. Meanwhile, the ruling alliance has attacked the Opposition for casting doubts on Raghuvansh’s letters. Information and public relations minister and JDU leader Neeraj Kumar said: “The RJD leaders are making shameful comments to save their face. It is a known fact that he was neglected and sidelined in his own party. If he did not write the letters then why did Lalu respond to his resignation? At least give him the due respect after his death.” BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand said the RJD had proved that it had “no respect for sincere and honest leaders when they are alive and cast aspersion on them after their death. Raghuvansh babu’s curse is going to destroy the party”. Sources said the RJD was upset by Raghuvansh’s note in which he criticised the problems in the party because his words carried a lot of weight. With Assembly elections round the corner, this could increase friction in the party at a time eight of its legislators have joined the JDU. The socialist leader’s words can also lead to an erosion of the influential Rajput votes, a close-knit caste from which he hailed. The Rajputs comprise around 6 per cent of the electorate. The RJD also did not like the way Prime Minister Narendra Modi talked about fulfilling the last wishes of the former Union minister and Nitish’s assurance to do the needful. The comments by the two top leaders, combined with the support of their parties to get the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput investigated, were seen as yet another attempt to consolidate caste votes in their favour.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||IAS officers appear for PPE kits probe in Odisha||Two senior IAS officers of the state appeared before the Odisha Lokayukta on Monday in connection with alleged irregularities in the procurement of personal protective equipment (PPE) kits for healthcare workers. Hemant Sharma, principal secretary, industries, and Yamini Sarangi, managingdirector of Odisha State Medical Corporation Limited (OSMCL), submitted their written replies to the Lokayukta on the purchase of PPE kits. As the matter is under adjudication, both the officers refused to divulge the details of what they said in their written statements. Sources revealed that they had refuted the charge of any irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits. Earlier, Sharma was heading the state level purchase committee. However, following an outcry over the irregularities in the purchase of different products, the state government relieved him from the post in the first week of June. The issue of alleged irregularities in the purchase of PPE kits came to light when 20 trucks loaded with PPE, masks and sanitisers were not allowed by the government to unload at the warehouse of the medical corporation on May 24. The trucks remained standing for a week before being allowed to unload the materials. Later the government decided to accept the PPE kits only and returned other products like masks and protective gears for healthcare workers. The issue had triggered a controversy and the Opposition had targeted the government on the alleged corruption in purchase of the materials. The Congress put the government in the dock by asking a number of questions. As the issue snowballed, the Naveen Patnaik government relieved Sharma from his responsibilities as the purchase committee head. A delegation of Congress leaders led by Sudarshan Das on June 17 had met Lokayukta and submitted an eight-point charter of demands. Das told The Telegraph, “It’s good to see that both the IAS officers deposed before the Lokayuka today. Earlier though they had been summoned in August, they did not appear. Transparency is terribly missing in the entire process of purchase of PPE kits. We are yet to get information through an RTI application on the entire procedure of procurement.” A 12-party delegation led by the Congress had also met governor Ganeshil Lal on the issue and demanded that action should be taken against the guilty officials. The BJP had also targeted the ruling BJD on the issue and alleged that the Odisha government was encouraging massive corruption in the purchase of kits. The total number of corona positive cases in the state has reached 1,55,005 with detection of 4,198 new fresh cases in the state on Monday. According to the government press release, Khurda district reported the highest number of 758 cases followed by Cuttack (367), Puri (310), Bolangir (197). So far the virus has claimed 637 lives in the state with 11 more deaths being reported in the last 24 hours. Sisir Kumar Sethi, a police officer attached to the Bhubaneswar police commissionerate, died of coronavirus. Deputy Commissioner of Police, Bhubaneswar, tweeted: “He was an outstanding officer and sacrificed his line in the line of duty. Our prayers are with the bereaved family members which include three minor daughters.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Parliament: Govt meets questions on migrants with evasive answers||Q: Did thousands of migrant labourers die during the lockdown?A: No such data is available. Q: Was any compensation given to the families of migrant workers who had died while returning home during the lockdown?A: Question does not arise because no data of people dying on the way is kept. A cloud of obfuscation, if not nonchalance, hung over Parliament as it reopened on Monday with the government meeting members’ questions with evasive written answers. Such stonewalling is possible in written answers as there is no grilling afterwards. Question Hour, where oral explanations are sought, has been suspended for the session. As expected, the government on Monday got a motion adopted in the Lok Sabha to do away with Question Hour and Private Members’ business during the current monsoon session, citing extraordinary circumstances because of Covid-19. The motion was adopted by a voice vote, rejecting the Opposition demand for a division or vote. A sample of the questions asked and the written “answers” provided: Question: “Whether the government has failed in assessment of problems faced by the migrant labourers during the lockdown imposed by the government during Covid-19 pandemic.”
Answer: “India, as a nation, has responded through the central government, state governments, local bodies, self-help groups, resident welfare associations, medical health professionals, sanitation workers as well as a large number of genuine and bona fide non-government organisations in the nation’s fight against the unprecedented human crisis due to the outbreak of Covid-19 and countrywide lockdown.” The question was asked by BJP member Sangeeta Singhdeo and five other MPs from various parties, and the written answer came from labour minister Santosh Gangwar. Whether thousands of migrants had died (paraphrased at the beginning of this report) was the second part of the question while several Opposition members had asked about the compensation. The answers made it clear that no such data were collected when the largest movement of people since the Partition unfolded in several states in the country after the lockdown was announced at short notice in March. Gangwar conceded that the government had kept no records of the job losses among the migrant workers. The government, however, furnished data for the first time saying that over 1.04 crore (10,466,152) migrant workers had returned home during the lockdown period. A question from Assam-based Congress member Pradyut Bordoloi, a former BJP politician, asking whether the economic stimulus of Rs 20 lakh crore was actually pumped into the economy and seeking the details if it had been, was met with waffle. Minister of state for finance Anurag Thakur replied: “The government has announced a special economic and comprehensive package of Rs 20 lakh crore — equivalent to 10 per cent of India's GDP — to combat the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. The package includes, among others, relief measures under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Rojgar Abhiyaan, relief measures for MSMEs and NBFCs, increased allocation under MGNREGS, interest subvention for Mudra loans and revamp of Viability Gap Funding scheme for social infrastructure. The implementation of the package is reviewed and monitored regularly.” The government asserted that it was not running away from questions. Indeed, it answered dozens of questions, although it left the members no wiser on the subjects of their query. Bordoloi also asked: “Whether there has been any tangible improvement in the investment cycle of India due to the sharp reduction of corporate tax rate as announced in September 2019?” Thakur’s answer: “The government, in its endeavour to make India a globally competitive and favoured destination for investment, reduced the corporate tax rate for new companies in the manufacturing sector to 15 per cent and to 22 per cent for existing companies in September, 2019. This has enabled the corporate tax rates in India to be amongst the lowest in the world. Given that investment decisions have a long-term perspective, the impact of this landmark reform would be felt in coming years.” The government clearly doesn’t want to accept that the proposal, criticised widely by the Congress and former finance ministers, has drawn a blank. Asaduddin Owaisi’s question — whether the labour force in the unorganised sector has been hit the worst by the lockdown — received this answer: “In order to mitigate the financial crisis of the migrant workers and protect them against the economic disruptions due to the outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic and countrywide lockdown the central government has taken numerous measures to provide them financial assistance, food packages ration and other benefits.” When Trinamul’s Saugata Roy sought the state-wise and sector-wise number of job opportunities lost to Covid-19 in the country, the labour minister’s answer was: “The global spread of the coronavirus followed by lockdowns has affected global economies including India. Government is taking several steps to ensure that the country is well prepared to face the challenges and threats posed by Covid-19. Aatmanirbhar Bharat, which focuses on economy, infrastructure, system, vibrant demography and demand to create jobs for the youth has also been launched.” Members from various parties asked a large number of questions about the migrant workers and their struggles during the lockdown but failed to extract much information from the government. About the measures taken to help the poor and those who lost their jobs, the stock reply was: the government had announced a Rs 1.7-lakh-crore relief package under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana. One of the answers said: “Insurance cover of Rs 50 lakh per health worker fighting Covid-19. Around 80 crore people are being provided additional 5kg wheat or rice and 1kg of preferred pulses, free of cost every month till November, 2020 to all the beneficiaries under provisions of National Food Security Act. 20.65 crore women Jan Dhan account holder has (sic) been given cash assistance of Rs 500 per month per person for three months. Eight crore poor families registered under the scheme of Ujjwala will get one gas cylinder, per family per month free of cost for the next three months.” Additional reporting by Imran Ahmed Siddiqui||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Modi asks MPs to express solidarity with jawans, keeps mum on China, LAC||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said on Parliament premises that he believed that MPs would “with one voice” express solidarity with the soldiers guarding the borders. Modi mentioned neither China nor the LAC. A little later in the Lok Sabha, Speaker Om Birla refused to allow Congress House leader Adhir Chowdhury to broach the border standoff with China. “No, no,” the Speaker said before Chowdhury’s mic was switched off. In the evening, it became apparent that the “No, no” applies only to the Indian Parliament. Sitting in the Indian capital, Chinese ambassador Sun Weidong used India’s own accounts as evidence of Indian troops “illegally trespassing” the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and iterated that “it is also important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed”. Sun’s comments came in an embassy release that listed his answers to questions (who asked them is not clear). Had a discussion in Parliament been allowed, the Opposition would have latched on to the Prime Minister’s no-incursion remark of June 19 to corner the Centre. Prime Minister Modi set the official tone while delivering his customary speech on Parliament premises before the Lok Sabha session opened at 9am. “Aaj jab hamare sena ke vir jawan seemapar datey hue hain,. durgam pahadiyon me datey hue hain (Today, when our brave soldiers are standing firm on the borders and in inhospitable hilly terrain)...,” Modi said. He did not name even the “hilly terrain” — Ladakh, where Chinese troops have entrenched themselves within India-claimed territory at multiple places and are locked eyeball to eyeball with Indian soldiers. “The faith with which they are standing to protect the motherland, this House too, each of its members, with one voice, one emotion, one feeling, one resolve, will send out the message that the country stands behind its soldiers,” the Prime Minister said. Adhir tried to raise the border issue during Zero Hour, saying: “Sir, through you I want to draw the attention of the government, the defence minister of the country that for some months the people of India are in deep stress because on our border....” That was as far as he got before the Speaker cut him off with the firm “No, no”. Birla said the issue would first be discussed in the business advisory committee, which includes members of different parties and the government and decides the business of the House. Adhir again pleaded his point, underlining that a newspaper had on Monday reported about purported surveillance of Indian leaders by a Chinese company. But the Speaker again restricted him. Defence minister Rajnath Singh was in the House at the time but Modi wasn’t. Because of the strict Covid-19 guidelines, Adhir couldn’t even stand up and protest. During this unusual session, the members have to speak seated and are barred from rushing into the well to protest. Government sources said that if the Opposition continued to press the Centre on the border standoff, Rajnath might make a statement in the House but there would be no discussion. Asked about Modi’s comment, Congress member Shashi Tharoor said: “Of course we are united and standing in support of our soldiers, but the government is accountable to Parliament, to tell us what’s happening. The nation needs to know and Parliament has to be taken into confidence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Government relief gap shows up in PF advances||Over three-fourths of workers who took advances from their Employees Provident Fund accounts during the Covid-19 crisis were low-paid employees, according to data the government placed in Parliament on Monday. The disclosure appears to corroborate the charge that the available employment opportunities and the government’s relief package have been inadequate for the low-earning workers who have had to dip into their savings. Some 1.04 crore workers applied for advances after the EPF Organisation made an announcement facilitating the process on March 27, two days after the lockdown was enforced, the data provided by labour minister Santosh Gangwar in the Lok Sabha showed. Nearly 82 lakh applicants — over 78 per cent of the total — earned salaries less than Rs 15,000 a month, the data revealed. The EPFO had allowed its members to withdraw three months’ basic salary and dearness allowance, or 75 per cent of the amount in their accounts, whichever was less. The subscribers were allowed to apply and get paid online. “The government’s support (for the workers during the lockdown) was basic in nature. It was inadequate to help the low-paid workers navigate this period,” labour economist Ravi Srivastava said. “Those who had EPF savings took advances. Otherwise these savings are supposed to be withdrawn at the time of retirement.” During the Covid-19 crisis, the Centre provided Rs 500 a month for three months to Jan Dhan account holders, and three months’ old-age pension at one go to the eligible elderly along with an equal amount as ex gratia. Farmers continued to receive an average dole of Rs 500 a month. Srivastava said a family’s average monthly spending is Rs 12,000, according to the Periodic Labour Force Survey, 2018. If the top 20 per cent high-spending class is excluded, the average expenditure still hovers around Rs 10,000 a month. “When the monthly expense is Rs 10,000, a support of Rs 500 or Rs 1,000 is very little. The workers who are not EPFO members have borrowed from relatives or exhausted their savings and assets. Many surveys have found this,” Srivastava said. He said the government needed to provide Rs 7,000 a month per family to about 60 to 70 per cent of the population for six months. Such a relief package could have improved the demand for consumption and helped the economy revive faster. In answer to another question, Gangwar said that subscribers had withdrawn Rs 39,403 crore from their EPFO accounts between March 25 and August 31.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Free speech is curbed: Justice Lokur||Free speech, including by youngsters and students, is being met with an “iron hand” by the State and thousands are being jailed for voicing their opinion against the government, a former judge of the Supreme Court said on Monday. They are being slapped with the charge of sedition that was used against freedom fighters, Justice Madan B. Lokur said. “Many citizens are expressing their views which they think are within the limits of free speech while the State thinks the citizens are transgressing the limits. So what can citizens do? They cannot take to streets or resort to violence. They can only continue to speak,” Justice Lokur said at a webinar on Freedom of Speech and Judiciary. “The State then resorts to measures like charging such citizens with the offence of sedition. Sedition is being used as an iron hand to curb free speech, which is an overreaction to people expressing views. Sedition is a serious offence. It was used against great persons like Bal Gangadhar Tilak and other freedom fighters,” he said. A speech that talks about the unity and integrity of the country is seen as “breaking the country” and the person is put under preventive detention, the former judge said. “There are youngsters, students talking about doing something good to the country, but you say ‘I’m arresting you for unlawful activities and sedition’. There are other people who talk about violence and breaking things and you don’t do anything to them,” Justice Lokur said. Without mentioning names, the former judge referred to the arrest of Dr Kafeel Khan in Uttar Pradesh for alleged sedition and to cases being filed against journalists in Punjab. “Many people are put in jail on the ground that what citizens say is fake news. Another way in which free speech is curbed is by misreading the statements of citizens,” Justice Lokur said. In an allusion to Dr Khan, he said that in a recent case in Uttar Pradesh a speech calling for the unity and integrity of the country was used to keep the speaker in preventive detention on the ground that the speech was against the country’s integrity. However, Allahabad High Court had rightly intervened to direct his release on bail, the judge said. Justice Lokur wondered who would compensate an individual for illegal incarceration. Bringing up the contempt case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan, the former judge said there was no intention to “break the judiciary as citizens are speaking within constitutional limits but the State mostly assumes that they are transgressing the limits”. “Suddenly you have a lot of cases being filed charging people for sedition…. Today we are finding the common man and woman who say something being charged for sedition,” Justice Lokur said, adding that according to his understanding, about 780 sedition cases had so far been filed against citizens across the country this year. “In Punjab there was news that there are no ventilators. A reporter said the Covid situation is not under control, he believes that the chief minister may be changed. That speculation was labelled fake news and they were arrested for sedition,” the former Supreme Court judge said. According to the official website, 3.4 crore cases are pending in the district courts alone, compared with 2 crore-odd cases a year ago. “The judiciary is faced (with) a crisis of a large number of cases; 20-25 per cent vacancies in district courts; 40 per cent vacancies in high courts. The judiciary needs to take action or the justice system will crash. Judicial system needs to be more transparent. They have to tell us what are they doing. Physical hearings were supposed to start and a lot of money was spent on preparing,” Justice Lokur said. Bhushan, who had earlier in the day deposited the Re 1 fine imposed on him for contempt, announced that a “truth fund” was being created to defend people harassed for speaking out. The lawyer slammed the arrest of student leader Umar Khalid, who has been charged for speaking out against the Citizenship Amendment Act. The webinar was jointly organised by the Campaign for Judicial Accountability and Reforms (CJAR) and the NGO Swaraj Abhiyan.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||Wave of dismay at Umar Khalid’s arrest||The arrest of rights activist Umar Khalid has triggered a wave of condemnation while eminent citizens and retired IPS officers have issued statements censuring the way Delhi police are probing the February riots. Khalid, arrested after more than 10 hours of questioning, is accused of inciting the riots through his speeches that called for protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act during US President Donald Trump’s February visit to India. He has been booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act — a stringent anti-terror law under which bail is rare. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat on Monday granted the police 10 days’ custody of Khalid on the ground that they need to “confront” him with 11 lakh pages of “technical data”. A source said Khalid was unlikely to apply for bail until he was in judicial custody, after the investigators had finished questioning him. The hashtag #StandWithUmarKhalid was trending on Twitter with almost 3 lakh tweets. Among the tweeters was Congress MP Shashi Tharoor, who wrote: “PM says he welcomes criticism, but forgets to mention the cost of criticism to be paid by those who speak out. In today’s India, payback is only reserved to our own citizens, never against countries who actually question and challenge our sovereignty.” Historian Audrey Truschke tweeted a link to a BBC report on the arrest and said: “Everyone — not only those of us who follow the Indian news — should read about this appalling arrest. It can (and, depending on November) will happen in the United States too.” The CPM politburo condemned the arrest, which came soon after the name of its general secretary Sitaram Yechury was mentioned in a supplementary chargesheet on the riots along with Swaraj India president Yogendra Yadav, academics Jayati Ghosh and Apoorvanand Jha, and filmmaker Rahul Roy. Roy and his wife Saba Dewan were on Monday questioned by the police’s counter-terror unit in the same building where Khalid is being held. The couple had organised several protests under the “Not In My Name” banner against the lynchings of Muslims and other crimes against humanity over the past five years. A former JNU student, Khalid already faces a sedition case for organising a “cultural evening” in 2016 during which slogans for Kashmiri independence were allegedly raised. The trial is yet to begin. Aam Aadmi Party MP Sanjay Singh said: “The Delhi riots were orchestrated by the BJP and its leaders and they should be arrested. There’s enough proof of this. The big question is, how will the BJP’s police do justice?” The riot probe has been called a “witch-hunt” in a statement by several activists, artists and academics including CPM politburo member Brinda Karat, CPIML Liberation politburo member Kavita Krishnan, Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani, former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed, author Arundhati Roy, musician T.M. Krishna, historian Ramachandra Guha, senior advocate Prashant Bhushan and public policy expert Biraj Patnaik. “With deep anguish we have no doubt in saying that this investigation is not about the violence in February 2020 in the national capital, but on the completely peaceful and democratic protests across the country against the unconstitutional CAA,” they said. “The right to life is not just to be allowed to eat, live and breathe; it is to live without fear, with dignity and with freedom of expression, including dissent. The nature of investigation has been mainly to silence democratic voices and instil fear, and this is precisely the objective of this witch-hunt.” Khalid had complained to police commissioner S.N. Srivastava earlier this month that the police were asking his acquaintances to falsely implicate him or face arrest. Nine senior retired IPS officers — Shafi Alam, K. Saleem Ali, Mohinderpal Aulakh, A.S. Dulat, Aloke B. Lal, Amitabh Mathur, Avinash Mohanney, P.G.J. Nampoothiri and A.K. Samanta — have written to Srivastava endorsing what retired “supercop” Julio Ribeiro had told the commissioner last week. Referring to the riot probe, former DGP Ribeiro had asked Srivastava to examine whether officers under his command “have been true to their oath”. The Delhi police have said they are checking the veracity of Ribeiro’s email. Without mentioning the names of the accused in the riots cases, the nine retired cops said: “Mr Julio Ribeiro is a living legend of an IPS officer (as one publication put it).... We would like to endorse the letter he has written to you regarding the flawed investigation into the Delhi riots…. “In addition, we would like to say that it indeed is a sad day in the history of Indian police that investigations and challans submitted in the court by Delhi police in connection with riots of this year are widely believed to be partisan and politically motivated. It pains all those police officers, serving as well as retired, who believe in upholding the rule of law and our Constitution.” They added: “Such investigation will only make people lose faith in democracy, justice, fairness and the Constitution.... We would, therefore, earnestly request you for reinvestigation of all riot cases fairly and without any bias.” Celebrated Malayalam filmmaker Adoor Gopalakrishnan, poets K. Satchidanandan and Manglesh Dabral, artist Vivan Sundaram, dramatist Maya Rao and several others have spoken out against the arrest of Kabir Kala Manch activists in the Elgaar Parishad case. “The state is attempting to silence the radical Bahujan cultural expressions like that of the KKM. This is an attempt to stop those trying to envision a just future for India,” they said in a statement. “We condemn the attempt to stifle the voices of cultural dissent, and stand in solidarity with the arrested KKM activists, and all others who have been incarcerated in the Bhima Koregaon case.” Last week, the National Investigation Agency arrested Marathi folk artistes Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor and Jyoti Jagtap for “propagating Naxal activities and Maoist ideology” along with other people in connection with an alleged Maoist plot to infiltrate an Ambedkarite event in 2017 and incite violence. All three were stage performers for the KKM, a cultural group listed by the home ministry in 2011 as a Maoist front.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
15-09-2020||India||China points trespass finger at India||China on Monday used India’s claims of preempting Chinese military activity on the south bank of the Pangong Tso as evidence of Indian troops “illegally trespassing’’ the Line of Actual Control (LAC) and reiterated that “it is also important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed’’. This was stated by the Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong, in response to questions. He was referring to Indian troops pre-empting an attempt by the Chinese troops to change the status quo on the southern bank of the 135km glacial melt lake on the intervening night of August 29 and 30. Asked about the ground situation, the ambassador said: “Recently, the relevant Indian ministries had claimed in statements that Indian troops ‘pre-empted’ Chinese military activity on the south bank of Pangong Tso Lake, which obviously revealed… illegally trespassing the LAC and status quo change in the border areas.” “Some Indian media had quoted government sources to disclose that the Indian army fired shots on two different occasions. For the first time since 1975, the calm in the border areas was broken by gunfire,’’ he said, again publicly blaming India for the escalation after the two foreign ministers, S. Jaishankar and Wang Yi respectively, had avoiding doing so in their initial statements after the meeting in Moscow last Thursday. Further, the Chinese ambassador said: “State councillor and foreign minister Wang Yi reiterated in the meeting with EAM that the imperative is to immediately stop provocations such as firing and other dangerous actions that violate the commitments made by the two sides. It is also important to move back all personnel and equipment that have trespassed. “The frontier troops must quickly disengage so that the situation may deescalate. The Chinese side supports enhanced dialogue between the frontier troops on both sides to solve specific issues, and will stay in touch with the Indian side through diplomatic and military channels.’’ The Chinese ambassador also claimed that the two ministers arrived at a consensus that India and China are partners, not rivals. This has been a recurrent Chinese formulation for pressing ahead with the relationship and not letting it be held up by the boundary issue. India has resisted this time and again but Sun made it sound as if Jaishankar had come on board too at the meeting though the Indian statement makes it clear that “maintenance of peace and tranquillity on the border areas was essential for the forward development of ties’’. In its earlier statement on the talks, the Chinese foreign ministry had also claimed that India’s policy towards China has not changed, and that the Indian side does not consider the development of India-China relations to be dependent on the settlement of the boundary question. Though the two Indian statements on the talks do not indicate that India had taken such a position, the external affairs ministry did not respond to a question on whether New Delhi had taken up the issue of China misrepresenting Jaishankar with the mission here or the foreign ministry in Beijing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Parliament monsoon session: 25 MPs test Covid positive ||Twenty-five MPs are said to have tested Covid-19 positive during the mandatory testing before the monsoon session, which began on Monday with the observance of strict social-distancing norms. Seventeen of the infected members are from the Lok Sabha and eight from the Rajya Sabha. There was, however, no official word on the ground that revealing names would be a breach of privacy. Several MPs such as the BJP’s Meenakshi Lekhi, Parvesh Saheb Singh and Sukanta Majumdar and the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party’s Hanuman Beniwal took to Twitter to announce they had tested positive and caution those who had come in contact with them. “After the routine Parliament test for Covid & genome test it’s confirmed that I have tested positive for the virus. I am currently in good health & spirits. I request everyone who has been recently in contact with me to get tested. Together We will fight & defeat Corona,” Lekhi tweeted on Monday afternoon. Nagaur MP Beniwal said he had come positive in the test conducted on Friday at Parliament House, and negative in another test at the Sawai Man Singh Hospital in Jaipur on Sunday. “Which report is to be considered correct?” he asked in Hindi, tweeting both reports. Both were RT-PCR tests. Majumdar tweeted: “I have tested #Covid19 positive today. I am doing well & taking doctors advice. Requesting all those who have come in close contact with me in the last few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms.” Parliament sources said that some 56 people had tested positive after undergoing Covid testing at the facilities set up on the premises in preparation for the session. They included staff members and journalists. Elaborate arrangements have been made for the session. The two Houses met for four hours each on Monday, with the members spread across the two chambers to maintain social distancing. In the Lok Sabha, where the benches are more closely placed than the Rajya Sabha, shields have been placed along all the rows. All the members wore masks, and sometimes the presiding officers had difficulty recognising them, especially since they were not sitting in their regular places. To restrict the points of contact, a mobile app has been developed for the members to mark their attendance. Only packed meals were served. People were discouraged from milling around, and entry into the Parliament complex was even more restricted than usual. Visitors are not being allowed this session to watch the proceedings from the viewing galleries in either chamber. Even the customary greeting of the presiding officer by the new members after they have taken their oath has been dispensed with. The Rajya Sabha had several new members, but they just came up to the reporters’ table to take the oath and returned straightaway without going up to the Chairman to greet him.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Chinese ‘optical fibre cables in Ladakh’ signal long haul||Indian officials said Chinese troops were laying a network of optical fibre cables in Ladakh, suggesting they were digging in for the long haul despite high-level talks aimed at resolving a standoff there. Such cables, which would provide forward troops with secure lines of communication to bases in the rear, have recently been spotted to the south of Pangong Tso, a senior government official said. China’s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to questions on the matter from Reuters, while defence officials could not immediately be reached for comment. Thousands of Indian and Chinese troops backed by tanks and aircraft are locked in an uneasy stalemate along a 70km-long front to the south of the lake. A third Indian official said on Monday that there had been no significant withdrawals or reinforcements on either side since the foreign ministers of the two countries met last week. “It is as tense as earlier,” he said. Above Leh, Ladakh’s main city, Indian fighter planes flew throughout the morning, their engines booming and echoing across the valley surrounded by brown, barren mountains. “Our biggest worry is that they have laid optical fibre cables for high-speed communications,” the first official said, referring to the lake’s southern bank, where Indian and Chinese troops are only a few hundred metres apart at some points. “They have been laying optical fibre cables on the southern bank at breakneck speed,” he said. Indian intelligence agencies noted similar cables to the north of the Pangong Tso  around a month ago, the second government official said. The first Indian government official said the authorities were alerted to such activity after satellite imagery showed unusual lines in the sand of the high-altitude deserts to the south of Pangong Tso. These lines were judged by Indian experts, and corroborated by foreign intelligence agencies, to be communication cables laid in trenches, he said, including near the Spanggur gap, among hilltops where soldiers fired in the air recently for the first time in decades. The Chinese have complained about India building roads and air strips in and around their disputed border, and Beijing says this triggered tensions along the border. A former Indian military intelligence official, who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter, said optical fibre cables offered communications security as well as the ability to send data such as pictures and documents.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Netflix fights ‘Bad Boy’ gag||An Indian court’s decision to stall the release of a Netflix Inc series on four Indian tycoons facing fraud allegations “freezes free speech” and hurts the company financially, the US streaming giant has argued in a court filing seen by Reuters. Bad Boy Billionaires is a documentary series about liquor tycoon Vijay Mallya, Sahara group’s Subrata Roy, Indian IT executive Ramalinga Raju and jeweller Nirav Modi. Netflix put the show on hold this month on the order of a Bihar court where Sahara alleged violation of Roy’s privacy rights. Roy is currently on bail in a case where he was ordered by the court to repay billions of dollars to investors in a scheme, which was found to be illegal. Roy denied wrongdoing in the case and has already repaid investors, his counsel said. Arguing for free speech in an appeal in the high court, Netflix said the docuseries was an assimilation of information available in public domain. The filing has not previously been reported. The pre-publication injunction granted by the court “freezes free speech”, Netflix said in the filing earlier this month, which was reviewed by Reuters. It argued it has a right to free speech “on a matter of public interest”. Some Netflix shows in India have faced court challenges and police complaints for obscenity or for hurting sentiments. The ongoing legal spat is among the most high-profile ones Netflix has faced in India, one of its key growth markets. The court in Bihar that gave the injunction earlier had said the series “would certainly damage the reputation” of Roy. Sahara and Netflix declined to comment. Roy could not be reached for comment. The US streaming giant has argued it had invested large sums and done worldwide publicity on the series. The injunction, Netflix argued, resulted in irreparable monetary loss, as well as affected its goodwill and reputation. Netflix describes Bad Boy Billionaires as an “investigative docuseries (which) explores the greed, fraud and corruption that built up — and ultimately brought down — In-dia’s most infamous tycoons”. Netflix is locked in a legal spat not just with Sahara, but also another businessman Raju whose story was to appear in the series. Raju, accused of a $1-billion accounting fraud more than a decade ago, had secured a separate state court order against the show’s release, but Netflix has challenged it in a higher court, said A. Venkatesh, a lawyer representing Raju.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Centre orders audit after oxygen demand spike||The Centre on Monday ordered oxygen audits and expedited licenses for medical oxygen manufacturers after a near three-fold increase in the demand for oxygen-supported beds for coronavirus disease patients over the past 45 days. The Union health ministry has asked all states and Union territories to plan hospital-by-hospital oxygen inventory management and timely replenishments to prevent any stockouts and conduct oxygen audits to ensure that only patients who need oxygen receive it. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, in an online meeting with the industry and pharmaceuticals secretaries and health officials from states and Union Territories, also iterated the need to ensure adequate oxygen supply to hospitals through unrestricted transport. The states have been asked to introduce real-time monitoring of cryogenic tankers that transport oxygen, re-purpose argon and nitrogen tankers to supply oxygen, and coordinate with steel plants as additional sources for the procurement of oxygen. Steel plants can provide 550 metric tonnes of oxygen per day in addition to oxygen manufacturing companies that provide 6,400MT per day, the ministry said. The ministry has also urged the states to expedite the grant of licenses for the production of medical oxygen to companies that are already producing industrial oxygen. The multiple steps to bolster oxygen supply to hospitals across the country comes against the backdrop of a steady increase in the demand for oxygen-supported beds for Covid-19 patients. The proportions and numbers of Covid-19 patients needing oxygen have increased over the past four months — 34,004 patients (3.7 per cent of 919,018 active patients under medical supervision) were on oxygen support on September 11, compared with 12,186 patients (2.32 per cent of 528,242 active cases) on July 31 and 712 patients (1.88 per cent of 37,916 active cases) on May 9. Medical experts expect the demand for oxygen-supported beds to continue rising as long as India’s epidemic continues to grow. India on Monday recorded 92,071 new cases, raising the total number of infections to over 4.84 million, of whom 3.78 million patients have recovered and 79,722 have died. The number of active patients on Monday was 986,598, an overnight rise of 13,423. If 3.7 per cent of active patients need oxygen support, that increase would translate into an overnight demand for 497 extra oxygen-supported beds. Public health specialists are concerned that the number of patients and the demand for oxygen will increase across the country, even in rural areas, as the epidemic spreads. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Monday told Parliament that the country’s coronavirus epidemic has moved beyond travel-related cases and local clusters into widespread infections across urban and rural areas. “We have now moved from managing travel-related cases to containing clusters and large outbreaks due to local transmission to wide spread of infection to urban, peri-urban and rural areas,” Vardhan said in a “suo motu statement” on the government’s response to the pandemic. Vardhan said the pandemic would require “concerted efforts” by the government and “people’s participation” to curb large-scale illness and mortality from Covid-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Stillbirths jump during Covid-19 pandemic||Mantasha Bano was 28-weeks pregnant when her cries of sudden, unbearable pain prompted neighbours to call an ambulance in Uttar Pradesh. It never came, and Bano’s baby was stillborn. Medical workers in the northern state have reported a marked increase in stillbirths as the coronavirus pandemic strains hard-pressed rural health services, including maternity care, in one of the countries worst-hit by Covid-19. Bano, 22, said she believed her baby could have survived if the ambulance had arrived quickly. “It was a girl. She was very beautiful. I feel sad, very sad... I had so many dreams and now everything is shattered,” she said. Coronavirus infections are rising faster in India than anywhere else in the world as the country repeatedly reports the highest global daily caseloads, including a record jump in new cases on Friday. The World Health Organisation fears the situation could get worse as the virus spreads into the vast countryside, where 60 per cent of India’s 1.35 billion people live. As the virus stretches manpower and equipment to the limit, state-run health facilities are reserving beds, tests such as ultrasound scans and treatment for critical cases involving Covid-19 or serious accidents, local health workers said. Workers from the government’s Accredited Social Health Activists (Asha) — usually the first point of contact in rural India — have also been deployed to fight the pandemic. The situation has forced many women like Bano, who rely on their husbands’ daily wages, to pay for private healthcare. Renu Singh, an Asha coordinator who has been overseeing 26 villages in Uttar Pradesh, including Atesua where Bano lives, for nearly 15 years, said it was the first time maternal care had been so badly disrupted. Between March and August, when India was under a months-long national lockdown, she said there had been 22 stillbirths in her area —about four times more than last year. “We have never seen such a large number of stillbirths in the villages before,” she said, adding that health facilities that once catered to pregnant women had been converted into Covid-19 centres. She said nutrition units — known as Anganwadi centres — which provide health checkups, medicines, food rations and child and maternal healthcare advice were also shut for months, resuming only irregular operations in July. “All these factors are responsible for the rising cases of stillbirths,” she said. Jay Pratap Singh, Uttar Pradesh’s health minister, said state health facilities were “fully working” again after the strict lockdown initially affected all medical services. He told Reuters his department was trying to plug healthcare gaps with various measures, including the recruitment of more radiologists for prenatal ultrasounds. “The problem (of stillbirths) may be in some areas but not across Uttar Pradesh... Things have smoothened up now,” he said, adding that he did not have up-to-date state-wide birth data. However, some local medics disagree. Dr Anil Kumar Dixit, superintendent at a state-run community health centre in Itaunja town near the state capital Lucknow, said his facility had no qualified personnel to operate its ultrasound scanner. “There are many factors which result in stillbirths and most of them can be prevented easily by getting regular checkups, following doctors’ advice and taking health supplements regularly,” he added. The WHO recommends at least eight prenatal checkups, one ultrasound before 24 weeks of pregnancy and a daily intake of iron and folic acid supplements to prevent maternal anemia, neural tube defects (NTDs) and preterm birth. Sarita Gautam, 22, missed several of those steps during her pregnancy, including regular iron supplements for her anemia. She said she only had two weeks’ supply and struggled to get hold of more as her health clinic was closed to “normal patients”, which also forced her to get an ultrasound privately in June when she was five months pregnant. “The doctors at the (state-run clinic) told me to come and get the ultrasound done in the ninth month of my pregnancy, but I had lost my baby before that,” she said. Kusum Singh, an Asha worker who assisted Sarita, said the local state-run facility was only admitting women who were in the last week of pregnancy and reserving ultrasounds for them, leaving others with no choice but to seek private care. “Many of the families are so poor they cannot afford testing,” Singh said. The Union health ministry did not respond to repeated requests for comment and nationwide stillbirth data.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Shot dead after bribe finger at superintendent of police||A stone-crushing plant owner has been shot dead after purportedly uploading a video accusing an IPS officer of extortion and death threats, prompting his family to demand the cop’s arrest and an inquiry by a central agency. Mahoba district superintendent of police Mani Lal Patidar and inspector Devendra Shukla have been suspended and charged with the murder of Indra Kant Tripathi, 50, but not yet arrested. A video circulated on WhatsApp on September 7 showed a man resembling Indra Kant accusing Patidar of demanding money from him every month and threatening to kill him in a police “encounter” if he didn’t pay up. “Mani Lal Patidar is involved in extortion from me. He and police inspector Devendra Shukla will be directly involved if anything happens to me,” the man in the video says. On September 8, Indra Kant was found unconscious in his car on a highway, with two bullets in his spinal cord. He died at a Kanpur hospital on Sunday. Patidar, a 2014-batch IPS officer, and Shukla were suspended on September 10 and 11, respectively. They have been charged with murder, extortion and criminal conspiracy along with the unidentified shooters and Suresh Soni and Brahm Dutt Tiwari — suppliers of explosives to Indra Kant’s quarry who allegedly passed on the death threats to the businessman. “Patidar wanted my brother to give him Rs 6 lakh every month,” Indra Kant’s brother Ravi Kant told reporters in Mahoba on Monday. “My brother not only released several videos but wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and chief minister Yogi Adityanath several times. He would have been saved had the government reacted in time.” He added: “Patidar has been suspended but he is an IPS officer and can easily influence the investigation. He should be arrested immediately and the probe should be handed over to a central agency.” Indra Kant had paid Rs 5 lakh to Patidar in June and again in July but couldn’t do so in August, and the officer began threatening him, Ravi Kant said. Indra Kant’s son Krishna said: “The SP can get his men to kill our entire family. Although we have got security from the state government, it won’t be of any use if an IPS officer is behind the conspiracy.” Prem Prakash, an additional director-general of police who is probing the case, said: “The inquiry is proceeding in the right direction. The guilty won’t be spared. The family’s security is our responsibility.” Samajwadi Party president and former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav said Patidar and Shukla should be arrested. “Registering a case is mere eyewash,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Power jitters over Yogi Adityanath government’s Special Security Force||The Yogi Adityanath government has notified the formation of a “Special Security Force” whose full powers remained unclear, prompting speculation among the BJP’s rivals that it might be used against them. While the government only said the SSF would protect courts, installations and small airports and have “special powers to arrest and search”, police sources suggested it would be able to make arrests and searches without a warrant. Currently, the police can make arrests without warrants only for cognisable offences — serious charges like murder, rape, assault or theft — but not for non-cognisable offences like public nuisance or mischief. “For searches, the police need court permission in non-cognisable cases. In case of cognisable offences, the police can enter a house under certain circumstance — for example, when someone is hiding there after killing someone,” Saurabh Tiwari, an advocate, said. He said a state government was empowered to get a law enacted to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure. The Adityanath government did not make Sunday’s notification public. But the chief minister had on June 26 said he wanted to constitute a “Special Security Force” to bring the crime rate down, appearing to imply the force would have special powers. The state cabinet promulgated an ordinance on July 30 for the special force’s formation, and the Assembly recently turned it into law. Awanish Awasthi, additional chief secretary with the state home department who announced the formation of the force, said without elaboration: “While the officers of the new force will have special powers to arrest anybody or conduct a search operation, a guideline to this effect would be chalked out soon.” He went on to call the force “a dream project of the chief minister”. “Besides providing security to district courts, the new force will also be deployed at the upcoming (small) airports in Uttar Pradesh (in Kushinagar, Jewar and elsewhere). Private financial institutions too can hire the force’s services against a payment,” Awasthi said. A police department source said: “An SSF officer can arrest anyone or conduct a search on any premises without a warrant. No court proceedings will be possible against SSF members without the state government’s permission.” He added: “The only apparent check would be that the SSF would need indubitable evidence that the arrest or raid was necessary as the suspect could otherwise have escaped or tampered with evidence.” He continued: “We already have a Special Task Force that deals with sensitive cases. We fear that the SSF is only going to create confusion and chaos.” Dwijendra Tripathi, a senior state Congress leader, said: “It’s clearly a preparation for the 2022 Assembly elections. Adityanath wants to intimidate all his vocal political rivals before the elections.” A home department source said: “The SSF will certainly have more power than the ordinary police but the details have not been finalised. We have sent certain proposals, which are under the state law department’s review. Everything will be clear within a week.” Awasthi said Rs 1,747 crore would be spent initially in forming the new force, to be headed by an additional director-general of police. “There will be 9,919 employees in the five battalions of the SSF. Initially we will take the help of the Provincial Armed Constabulary in constituting the SSF,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Promise of justice to Shopian families||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha on Monday broke his silence in the alleged fake gunfight in Shopian, promising justice to the families, amid allegations of a cover-up. Three men were killed in an alleged gunfight by the troops of 62 Rashtriya Rifles on July 18 in Shopian. The army then claimed they were unidentified militants. On August 10, three families in Jammu’s Rajouri claimed the trio were their missing children who had travelled to Kashmir to work as labourers but were killed in a staged encounter and passed off as militants. The army and civil administration have launched separate investigations in the killings but the families and residents claim the authorities were delaying investigations to cover up the alleged crime. “So far as aggrieved families are concerned, army and administration are investigating the issue separately,” Sinha told reporters in Srinagar in response to a query. “I want to make it clear, there will be justice for them.” Sinha’s promise came three days after the families wrote to him regretting that the government was not making DNA reports of the families and three young men killed in Shopian public. The families claim three cousins — Ibrar Ahmad, Imtiyaz Ahmad and Ibrar Ahmad — were gunned down in the alleged encounter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Outgoing Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh Narayan Singh re-elected||Outgoing Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh was re-elected to the post on Monday by voice vote after the Opposition decided not to press for a division in what was anyway a certain victory for the NDA candidate from the Janata Dal United. The numbers, according to Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien, were stacked against the Opposition. “We need to choose our battles; then only can we win the war.’’ The Opposition candidate, RJD’s Manoj Jha, said he was informed by the Congress in the afternoon that they would not ask for a division. He received plaudits for agreeing to contest despite the odds essentially to make the point that democracy is about alternatives, and found his letter to all MPs being quoted by more than one member. Congratulating Harivansh, BJD’s Prasanna Acharya referred to Jha’s letter  and quoted: “Constructive political opposition is not just about numbers but it is a critical and moral force in the nation.” In his intervention to congratulate Harivansh, Jha said this was never an issue of two individuals. “This was an election between two different versions of parliamentary democracy,’’ he said, one which sees it only as a numbers game, and the other which prioritises critique, discussion and consensus building.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-667
15-09-2020||India||Farm bill protest in Lok Sabha||The Opposition on Monday registered its protest against the introduction of bills related to farm and banking sectors and even demanded a statement from the government on Chinese intrusion but the restrictions imposed under the Covid-19 protocol prevented them from creating a ruckus in the Lok Sabha. Many Opposition members expressed helplessness as no MP is allowed even to stand up, leave apart running into the well of the House to forcefully make their point. Congress leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury told The Telegraph: “We decided not to go to the well and strictly follow the protocol. But how long can we tolerate the government’s highhandedness? They can’t run Parliament only for government business; people’s concerns can’t be brushed aside.” “We can’t be a mute spectator if the government passes one bill after another without discussion. We wanted an assurance on China but the government ignored (our pleas). We are deeply disturbed by the proposed changes in the farm sector; the government has conspired to help the corporate and hoarders while the farmers will be the loser. They want to usurp states’ powers. We hope the government doesn’t force us to create disturbances by unilaterally pushing their agenda,” Chowdhury added. The Congress and other parties like the Trinamul opposed the introduction of bills intended to reform the agriculture sector but the government rejected their misgivings, saying the perception that the minimum support price (MSP) system will be abolished and this will lead to corporate takeover was completely erroneous. Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the bills were totally a win-win situation for the farmers as it will expand the marketing opportunities. Chowdhury, however, contested this claim, saying, “The lofty talk is not backed by evidence. They are not making any commitment that the two gains of green revolution — MSP and procurement system — will not be disturbed. They tried to sell even demonetisation as reform. That proved to be a disaster. And how can the Centre usurp states’ powers? They are practising coercive federalism while singing cooperative federalism. This new system will also hurt the consumers as removal of stock limit will allow the hoarders to manipulate prices.” Introducing the three bills to replace the ordinances promulgated in June — The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill — Tomar said, “Misconceptions are being created for political reasons. I appeal to the farmers not to be swayed by false perceptions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-668
