16-09-2020||India||Congress questions govt claim of lockdown gains||Senior Congress leader Anand Sharma on Wednesday questioned the government's claims that the lockdown prevented up to 29 lakh Covid-19 cases. Initiating a discussion on the Covid-19 pandemic in Rajya Sabha, he said people of the country should know if the lockdown really helped in containing the spread of the disease. "The minister said in a statement yesterday that it has been estimated that this decision prevented approximately 14-29 lakh cases and 37-78 thousand deaths...how have you derived this figure? What is the scientific basis, the House must be informed," Sharma said. The day the lockdown was imposed the country had 600 cases which have now increase to 50 lakh cases, he added. Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said in Lok Sabha that the lockdown had prevented 14-29 lakh cases of coronavirus. While saluting the doctors and paramedic staff for their efforts during the pandemic, Sharma also asked the government to strengthen public healthcare system in the country. He said 70 per cent of the intensive care beds in the country were in private hospitals with the rest in government hospitals. "In view of this pandemic, I want to request the government that after talking to state governments there is a need to make public health infrastructure stronger because government hospitals treated poor people. Where they have 30 per cent beds, they treated 70 per cent of the cases," Sharma said. So the time has come to learn lessons from this situation and strengthen the system, he added. "Make an action plan starting now and tell us that it would be implemented in so many years," he noted. Referring to an article in a leading medical journal which questioned the credentials of hydroxychloroquine, Sharma said, "They had to take it back ..because it was fabricated..a case should be filed here as well because the pharma lobbies, as it is an affordable drug, want to discredit it.." Sharma also sought answers from the health minister regarding the ongoing development work on various drugs for the treatment of Covid-19. BJP member Vinay P Sahastrabuddhe said the government took decision on the lockdown based on discussion with state governments. He said the prime minister, home minister, home secretary, cabinet secretary held discussion with state chief ministers and chief secretaries around 15 times and no one opposed lockdown. "Central government took decision based on the basis of state governments. No decision was forced," Sahastrabuddhe said. He said often prime minister and home minister are targeted on social media by the opposition and other people. "I believe politics of responsibility is more important than politics of ridicule," he said. He said those who light candles near India Gate for any reason close to their heart do not like lighting a lamp to express gratitude towards health workers and security personnel. Sahastrabuddhe said that Madhya Pradesh government made arrangements for food and travel of migrant labourers and also developed an app to help get jobs for labourers. He, however, criticised the Maharashtra government for the management of the pandemic due to lack of coordination among officers of different department and political leaders in the government. Sahastrabuddhe said a 2000-bed Covid centre was set up in Thane and the beds were taken on rent as rentals involve various kind of "wrong dealings". He also said that no arrangement has been made by the state government to fill up vacancies in the health department. Samajwadi Party MP Jaya Bachchan said even her family members suffered due to the pandemic. "The way people were being treated in hospitals, the way Mumbai roads are getting sanitised every hour, it is incomparable. There should be no politics on this subject," Bachchan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||SC orders fresh probe into the 2017 death case of a National Law University student||The Supreme Court on Wednesday set aside a closure report filed by Rajasthan Police and ordered a fresh investigation into the mysterious death of a third-year student of the National Law University, Jodhpur, in August 2017. A bench of justices R F Nariman, Navin Sinha and Indira Banerjee said, "We have set aside the closure report. We have directed a de-novo investigation with certain more directions". On September 8, the top court had said there is a need for a re-investigation in the case. "We may direct re-investigation. This is not the way," the top court had observed after perusing the report filed by the Rajasthan Police in the matter. During the hearing of the case, advocate Sunil Fernandes, appearing for the victim's mother who has sought transfer of the case from Rajasthan Police to the CBI, had argued that there has been no progress in the probe. In July, the top court had said that the investigation in the matter should be completed within two months and a final report be filed before it. Petitioner Neetu Kumar Nagaich, mother of victim Vikrant Nagaich (21), has also sought a direction to the CBI to take all steps to "solve the mystery of the unnatural death". While claiming that an FIR was lodged in the case after a delay of around 10 months in June 2018, the petitioner has alleged that the manner in which the probe was conducted "leads to an inescapable reasonable apprehension" that it is a result of a "probable collusion to shield some high, mighty and influential person(s)". "Despite the lapse of almost three years, no charge-sheet has been filed. The investigation is at a stand-still, with no effort made to apprehend the offenders," said the plea while pointing out several alleged lapses in the investigation conducted by the police. It said that on August 13, 2017, the victim went to a restaurant, around 300 metres from the university campus, with his friends in the evening but he did not return, and his body was found the next morning near a railway track. The plea has alleged that the police neither approached Google or Facebook nor retrieved the victim's mobile phone data which could have helped in tracing his movement to ascertain the events on the night of August 13, 2017. It has claimed that the police have also not retrieved the victim's chat conversations of the night of the incident from WhatsApp. The plea has said the chat conversation data would have been important in ascertaining who the victim was talking to or planning to meet at that hour, and it would also have been instrumental in unearthing the events which led to the death. "The chronology of events raised a reasonable suspicion that the death of petitioner's son was not merely an accident or a suicide, but was something more grave and profound, which demanded immediate consideration and investigation," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||DGCI nod to Serum Institute to resume Covid vaccine trials||Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) Dr V G Somani has gave permission to Serum Institute of India to resume clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate in the country while revoking its earlier order of suspending any new recruitment for phase two and three trial. The DCGI has, however, put certain conditions like taking extra care during screening, providing additional information in informed consent and close monitoring for adverse events during follow-up of the study which have to be "scrupulously" followed by Serum Institute of India (SII). SII has also been asked to submit to the DCGI's office details of medication used in accordance with the protocol for management of adverse events. The DCGI had on September 11 directed Serum Institute of India to suspend any new recruitment in the phase two and three clinical trial of the Oxford Covid-19 vaccine candidate till further orders in the backdrop of pharma giant AstraZeneca pausing the clinical trials in other countries because of "an unexplained illness" in a participant in the study. On Saturday, British-Swedish biopharmaceutical giant AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford said clinical trials for their coronavirus vaccine have resumed in the UK after the Medicines Health Regulatory Authority's (MHRA) confirmed that the trials were safe. SII, which has partnered with AstraZeneca for manufacturing the vaccine candidate for Covid-19, on Tuesday submitted the recommendations of the Data and Safety Monitoring Board (DSMB), UK and DSMB, India, and requested for permission to restart enrolment in the clinical trial. According to Tuesday's order issued by DCGI, the DSMB, UK, recommended that the investigators recommence all immunization in their clinical trials subject to certain conditions. DSMB, India, also has recommended to continue the study and enrol the remaining participants in the clinical trial as per protocol subject to certain conditions. According to the order, SII has submitted revised participant information sheet, revised informed consent form and additional safety monitoring plan for the evolved participants. The Pune-based firm has also submitted a summary of safety follow up of seven days post first vaccination, stating that no serious adverse events were experienced by any of the subjects till the date of the reporting, and the reported adverse events were stated to be mild, resolved on their own and did not have any sequela. "In view of the above, I Dr V G Somani, Drugs Controller General of India, Central Licensing Authority, after careful examination of your reply and the recommendations of the DSMB in India and in UK revoke herewith the order dated September 11 issued under Rule 30 of the New Drugs and Clinical Trials Rules, 2019. "You may recommence the clinical trial as recommended by DSMB, India, as per already approved protocol and the provisions laid down under the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rules, 2019, subject to the conditions mentioned," the order said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||1cr Self Help Group members for Covid awareness||The Mamata Banerjee government has decided to engage nearly 1 crore members of Self Help Groups to create awareness of how to battle the spread of Covid-19 in the rural areas of Bengal. The decision has been taken in the wake of rising Covid cases at villages. Initially, the spread of the virus was limited to two cities — Calcutta and Howrah — while cases were under control in rural districts. But the scene changed in the past few weeks. For example, on June 1, 48 per cent of the total 271 cases were reported from the rural districts and the remaining were from Calcutta and Howrah. On September 14, 78.2 percent of total 3,211 cases were recorded in the rural districts. The figure was 77.8 percent on September 13. As most villages have SHGs and the members are active in their areas, health department officials think they can play an effective role in creating awareness of dos and dont’s to fight Covid-19. “Nearly 10 lakh SHGs are registered with the panchayat department with more than 1 crore members. We plan to engage them in generating awareness and assisting the health department in the battle against the spread of the novel coronavirus,” said a senior state government official. According to the plan, members of the SHGs will be used to make people understand the importance of wearing masks and to assist the ASA (accredited social health activists) by providing them with information on health condition of villagers. Sources in the health department said the awareness campaign in the rural areas was the need of the hour as it had been found that many of the villagers didn’t know what to do if they felt unwell. There is a lack of clarity in large parts of Bengal about the symptoms of the disease. Some are also not following norms when they are sent to home isolation. “The SHG members could play a vital role here as they know each of the villagers personally,” said an official. It has been reported that the disease has started spreading since the Unlock period started as many are not wearing masks when they are out in markets or congested places. “Wearing of masks properly can help check the spread of the virus. The SHG members would be used to make people aware of this,” said an official. Till now, the ASA workers have been carrying out surveys in households on the health condition of people. This has helped in keeping the spread of the virus in check, said a source. The effort could be strengthened if SHG members could be engaged to assist the ASA workers, said the sources. According to a bureaucrat, Bengal has a total of 53,000 ASA workers who work in 53,000-odd gram panchayats. “On an average, each ASA worker covers a gram panchayat, which is a large area with a minimum of 10 villages. If SHG members are deployed to assist the ASA workers, the monitoring system would be strengthened,” said the bureaucrat. Members of the SHG have been given a basic training on their roles. A video clip has been prepared by the panchayat and the health departments and it has been sent to all the SHGs. The SHGs have trained their members on what they need to help the state arrest the spread of the disease. Though the SHG members would not be given any remuneration for this purpose, the response from the member to join the effort is encouraging, said sources. “Many of the members said they wanted to do the work voluntarily to keep their villages safe... The response we received from the SHG members clearly suggest we will be able to engage 70 per cent of the SHG members on this work shortly,” said an official.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-664
16-09-2020||India||Rajnath’s ‘inner areas’ leaves PM Modi defenceless||Defence minister Rajnath Singh told the Lok Sabha on Tuesday that China has mobilised a large number of troops and ammunition along the Line of Actual Control and in “inner areas” and acknowledged that India is facing a challenge in Ladakh, his admission drawing attention to the Prime Minister’s all-is-well line in June and his inexplicable silence since. “Abhi ki stithi ke anusar, Chinese side ne LAC aur andruni chhetron me badi sankhya me sainik tukdiyan aur gola-barud mobilise kiya hua hai,” Rajnath told Parliament. He said there were “several friction points” in eastern Ladakh and named some — Gogra, Kongka La and the north and south bank of Pangong Lake. “I will not hesitate to share with this august House that we are facing a challenge in Ladakh,” he added. The defence minister’s statement is in sharp contrast to the Prime Minister’s statement at the all-party meeting on June 19, four days after 20 Indian soldiers were killed by the Chinese at the Galwan Valley in eastern Ladakh. “Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, neither is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else,” Narendra Modi had said. The Prime Minister has been diffident about acknowledging the border tension, the worst in 45 years, or even naming China. Speaking in Parliament on Monday, Modi had again failed to name China or even Ladakh and merely called upon the members to express solidarity with the soldiers guarding the borders. Rajnath repeated that appeal on Tuesday: “I urge the House to pass a resolution in support of our armed forces who have been defending our motherland at great heights and in inclement weather.” He did not clarify whether “inner areas” (andruni chhetron) meant inside the LAC on the Indian side. Speaker Om Birla did not allow any questions. The minister’s refusal to take questions prompted the Congress to stage a walkout in protest. Rajnath’s statement stood out for what he left unsaid: ⚫ He did not mention restoration of status quo ante along the LAC. While he spoke of complete disengagement and restoration of peace, there was no word on restoration of the pre-April status quo that India has been demanding since May. ⚫ Rajnath did not disclose how much India-claimed territory had been occupied by the Chinese in Ladakh. According to an estimate by the security establishment, China’s PLA is occupying nearly 1,000sqkm. ⚫ He did not clarify the Prime Minister’s “no-intrusion” claim. ⚫ Rajnath did not explain what exactly had happened on June 15 night, when 20 Indian soldiers were killed. ⚫ He did not say why India did not demand restoration of status quo ante during the talks between the foreign ministers in Moscow last week. The absence of the phrase has raised concerns that India might be trying to wriggle out of the dispute with a give and take. ⚫ The statement skipped any mention of the firing on September 7, the first time in 45 years, near a strategic mountain pass in eastern Ladakh. Rajnath accused China of trying to “unilaterally change the status quo” at the LAC in violation of past agreements and said Indian forces were fully prepared for “any eventuality” and determined to safeguard the country’s territorial integrity. Counter-mobilisation of forces has been made to protect India’s security interests, he said. Skipping any reference to reports of serious incursions by the Chinese army in the last few years, he instead talked indirectly about Aksai Chin and Pakistan-occupied Kashmir being taken over by China. “As the House is aware, China continues to be in illegal occupation of approximately 38,000sqkm in the Union Territory of Ladakh,” he said, adding that in 1963 Pakistan had illegally ceded 5,180sqkm of Indian territory in PoK to China. He also talked about China claiming large parts of Arunachal Pradesh. Briefing the House on his meeting with his Chinese counterpart in Moscow on September 4, Rajnath said: “I conveyed in clear terms our concerns related to the actions of the Chinese side…. I also made it clear that even as we wanted to peacefully resolve the issue... there should be no doubt about our determination to protect India’s sovereignty and territorial integrity.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Migrant deaths government won’t see||A research group has compiled what the government of India did not: the deaths of nearly a thousand migrant labourers while returning home during the lockdown and job losses for an estimated two-thirds of the migrants. The question does not arise because no data of people dying on the way are kept, the Centre had replied in Parliament on Monday, asked whether any compensation was given to the families of migrant workers who had died. But the Stranded Workers Action Network (SWAN) on Tuesday said 972 deaths had been counted among migrant workers till July 4 during the course of the various lockdowns. “These are reported deaths. The onus lies with the government to verify these deaths and give compensation. The government may differ on the nature of deaths but it is unfair to brush aside the deaths saying there are no data. They are poor people whose families must be paid compensation immediately,” said Anindita Adhikari, a SWAN volunteer. SWAN is an organisation of researchers who have conducted a telephone survey of workers and the problems they are facing and also tracked similar reviews by multiple institutions. SWAN has made the calculations based on data curated by Thejesh GN, a public database of reported deaths of migrant workers due to starvation, exhaustion, accident, lack of medical care, suicide and effects of alcohol withdrawal during the lockdown. According to the data provided by SWAN, 216 migrants died of starvation and financial distress, 209 due to road or train accidents, 133 committed suicide, 96 persons died aboard Shramik Special trains and 77 died due to lack of medical care. As many as 49 deaths were reported at quarantine centres, 49 deaths were attributed to alcohol withdrawal and another 48 to exhaustion. As many as 30 deaths were attributed to police brutality and lockdown-associated crimes while the remaining 65 deaths are unclassified. There could be many more cases that went undocumented, Adhikari said. About compensation, the SWAN report referred to a tweet by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on May 16 about an ex-gratia amount of Rs 2 lakh to be paid from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund to the next of kin of each of the migrants who died in an accident at Auraiya in Uttar Pradesh. The government has not made any public statement on whether the compensation has been paid, according to SWAN. The railways have not announced compensation for those who died, mainly from exhaustion, during the long and arduous journeys back home in trains. On job loss, the SWAN document refers to different sample surveys, including the organisation’s own telephone survey, all of which have data collected in April, May and June. According to Action Aid India’s report titled “Workers in the time of Covid-19”, which surveyed 11,537 people from 21 states, over three-fourths had lost their livelihood since the lockdown began on March 25 and close to half had received no wages during the lockdown. Five out of six respondents said they got inadequate food during the lockdown. According to the Centre for Sustainable Employment, Azim Premji University, which surveyed 5,000 workers from 12 states, two-thirds had lost their jobs. Nearly 90 per cent of the urban self-employed among those surveyed lost jobs and 91 per cent of Below Poverty Line households were left with no work. Similarly, 67 per cent of the respondents did not receive the Rs 500 a month for three months that the government had promised under the Jan-Dhan Yojana. An overwhelming majority of farmers could either not sell their produce or had to sell at lower prices and about 80 per cent households had reduced food intake, according to the survey. According to the SWAN survey of 36,343 people from 25 states, only 4 per cent got paid during the lockdown. About 64 per cent had less than Rs 100 when the organisation got in touch with them. About 82 per cent had not received rations during the lockdown, 72 per cent had less than two days of rations left and 64 per cent had not received cooked food.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||FB India, Delhi panel on collision course||Facebook’s India head Ajit Mohan refused to appear before the Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony to testify on Tuesday on the social media giant’s alleged culpability in communal riots in the capital in February. The company wrote to the committee saying that only the Centre, not a state or Union Territory government, could regulate communications in India. Committee chairman Raghav Chadha said if Mohan did not respond to another summons, he would face proceedings for breach of privilege, under which the Speaker can issue a warrant to police to bring him before the Assembly. On Monday, Buzzfeed News had reported a leaked memo of a former Facebook employee that accused the company of ignoring or acting slow on fake accounts that undermined elections across the world, and that the company had not disclosed the existence of such a network to influence the Assembly polls in Delhi earlier this year. Mohan had appeared before a parliamentary panel earlier this month amid reports of Facebook’s inaction on hate speech by BJP MLAs. After the hearing, Facebook said it removed several accounts in the name of Telangana BJP MLA T. Raja Singh. On Tuesday, in a letter to Chadha, Vikram Langeh, Facebook director, trust and safety, said that “regulation of intermediaries like Facebook falls within exclusive authority of the Union of India” which has exclusive powers on the subject of communications, and in Delhi, the powers of law and order too. Langeh wrote:  “Given that the issues raised by the notice involve subject matter within the exclusive domain of the Union of India, and that the matters are under active consideration by Parliament,  we respectfully object to the notice and request you recall it.” Chadha said in a statement: “...it was clarified to Facebook once again that refusal to appear before the committee for reasons which are evidently untenable in law and facts, gives the committee the impression that they are attempting to conceal crucial facts in relation to Facebook’s role in the February 2020 violence/riots in the NCT of Delhi and thus as a note of caution that the committee advices as well as commands the to ensure your appearance in person on the next decided date of meeting which shall be intimated to them by issuing a subsequent notice of appearance, failing to which will be admitted as an intelligible breach of privilege and shall ensue the lawful and legal adverse actions against yourself.” He added: “As per the judgment of the Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court of India in State (NCT of Delhi) v. Union of India (2018) 8 SCC 501, the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi has legislative powers in respect of these subjects, and the Government of  NCT of Delhi has the exclusive executive power in respect of the same. Further, the Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business in the Legislative Assembly of the NCT of Delhi (“Assembly Conduct Rules”) that have been framed under Section 33 of the GNCTD Act provides this committee the powers to summon and ensure the presence of witnesses…. “It is manifest from a perusal of this notice that the proceedings before the Parliament are in no way connected to the role of Facebook in the riots/violence in the NCT of Delhi in February, 2020.” Facebook India and Mohan did not respond to queries from this newspaper. Buzzfeed News had published excerpts of a memo recently fired data scientist Sophie Zhang of the “Facebook Site Integrity fake engagement team” — who refused a $64,000 severance package that put restrictions of what she could reveal about her work there. The report says: “Facebook ignored or was slow to act on evidence that fake accounts on its platform have been undermining elections and political affairs around the world….” Zhang’s memo focused on how the company was slow to act on campaigns through fake accounts by ruling parties in Honduras and Azerbaijan to mislead people and harass the opposition. The report said:  “In India, she worked to remove ‘a politically-sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence’ the local elections taking place in Delhi in February. Facebook never publicly disclosed this network or that it had taken it down.” Chadha said that the Buzzfeed News report: “...finds resonance with the initial findings of our committee with respect to misinformation spread by Facebook. The same has found place in the scathing account of an ex- employee of the Facebook who affirms that Facebook as a platform works in collusion with the ruling dispensation across the globe to disrupt free and fair elections and has been actively used as a means to sway public opinion, thus confirming it is not as neutral and non-partisan as it poses to be. The committee had received similar inputs while examining an independent witness Sh. Awesh Tiwari as he had affirmed with the help of some cogent set of evidences that Facebook through its actions/ omissions, have potentially affected the free and fair election in the capital.” Raipur-based journalist Tiwari and Ankhi Das, Facebook’s head of public policy in South and Central Asia, have filed FIRs against each other for online threats. Chadha added: “The memo also states that during the Delhi election in February 2020, the same former employee had worked to remove ‘a politically-sophisticated network of more than a thousand actors working to influence" the local elections taking place in Delhi in February’. However, no such information was made public by the platform so that if required, actions could’ve been taken as per the Indian laws in place.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||China loan horse without a mouth||June 15: Chinese troops kill 20 Indian soldiers in the Galwan Valley. June 19: India signs a loan agreement with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank (AIIB) for $750 million (Rs 5,521 crore) to support measures undertaken under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY). China is the largest shareholder in the Beijing-based multilateral development bank. July 29: India bans 59 Chinese apps, a precursor to subsequent action that covered more apps and which prompted an Indian television anchor to marvel at “the sheer suddenness of the move, the unexpected nature of the move, the unpredictability of the move”. The Narendra Modi government has formally confirmed that India took two loans totalling $1,350 million (Rs 9,202 crore) from the China-controlled bank in the thick of the border standoff. There is nothing wrong in taking loans from the AIIB, especially because India is the second largest shareholder in the bank after China. Neither can the objective be faulted: the assistance was accessed for accelerating India’s Covid social protection response programme. But the action of delinking the government’s financial transactions from bilateral tensions goes against the Centre’s policy of cracking down on Chinese business relationships in India. Besides, the Indian external affairs ministry has been asserting that it cannot be business as usual in the face of Chinese attempts to unilaterally change the facts on the ground along the border. The loans also make the Modi government’s spin of “strong economic counter-measures against China” appear a bit rich, not to mention the pain they pile on the Aatmanirbhar Bharat campaign. On June 19, four days after the Galwan massacre in which China also suffered unspecified casualties, India signed the $750-million loan agreement with the AIIB to tide over the coronavirus crisis. It was also the day Prime Minister Modi had made the “no-intrusion” claim. The loan was taken as budgetary support to the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana, a scheme launched by the Modi government in 2016 under which coronavirus-linked relief packages are being offered. On May 8, at a time when the first reports of Chinese incursions at multiple points in eastern Ladakh had begun coming in and were largely ignored by the Indian government, another loan of $500 million had been taken from the AIIB to fight the pandemic back home. The loan details were confirmed in a written answer in Parliament on Monday by junior finance minister Anurag Thakur. In his written reply to questions asked by BJP MPs Sunil Kumar Singh and P.P. Chaudhary in the Lok Sabha, Thakur said: “The government of India has signed two loan agreements with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank under Covid-19 Crisis Recovery Facility. First loan of USD 500 million was signed on May 8, 2020, to partly support ‘India Covid-19 Emergency Response and Health Systems Preparedness Project’ to respond to the threat posed by pandemic and strengthen the national health system for preparedness.” The benefits, he said, had flowed to states and Union Territories. “As on date, against the first loan of USD 500 million, USD 251.25 million has been disbursed from AIIB,” Thakur said in the written response. “The second loan of USD 750 million was signed on June 19, 2020, as budgetary support to government of India for accelerating India’s Covid-19 Social Protection Response Programme in order to support measures undertaken under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY), the benefits of which have also flown to states/UTs,” Thakur wrote. “All beneficiaries covered under PMGKY are benefitted from this loan. As on date, the signed loan amount (USD 750 million) has been fully disbursed under the programme,” he added. The two BJP parliamentarians had asked about the agreement signed with the AIIB for financial aid to fight Covid-19 and the details of the funds received. They had also sought details of the purposes for which the funds had been allocated and whether the money had been given to the states. The AIIB is a multilateral development bank to improve social and economic outcomes in Asia and beyond. It started operations in January 2016 and now has 103 approved members from around the world. India is among the founding members of the AIIB. China is the largest shareholder with 26.61 per cent voting shares, followed by India with 7.6 per cent. The development bank was first proposed in 2013 by Chinese President Xi Jinping with the objective of offering financing for infrastructure projects in underdeveloped countries across Asia and reduce the dependence on the World Bank and the IMF.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Vilification TV last straw on Supreme Court’s back ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed until further orders a programme by a TV channel called Sudarshan News that suggested a large number of jihadi elements had infiltrated the central government services. The bench said it would also appoint a committee of five distinguished citizens to recommend standards for the electronic media. The BJP-led Centre, perceived to be the biggest beneficiary of the diversionary witch-hunt and stigmatisation that several TV channels pass off as journalism, batted in the court for “journalistic freedom”. On the particular programme, Justice D.Y. Chandrachud, heading a three-judge bench, observed while passing the injunction: “We are concerned…. When you say students who are part of Jamia Millia are part of a group to infiltrate the civil services, we can’t tolerate. As the Supreme Court of the nation, we cannot allow you to say that Muslims are infiltrating the civil services. You cannot say that the journalist has absolute freedom doing this.” Later, the bench, which includes Justices Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph, said in a written order: “It appears to the court that the object of the programme is to vilify the Muslim community and make it responsible for an insidious attempt to infiltrate the civil services…. Any attempt to vilify a community must be viewed with disfavour….” The top court will take up on Thursday (September 17) the fate of the stayed programme. Some episodes of the programme have already been telecast. The bench is dealing with a batch of petitions filed by Muslim individuals and retired Hindu civil servants, seeking a restraint on the channel from telecasting the show. On Tuesday, the hearing that went on for two hours witnessed sharp exchanges between the bench and solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, and senior advocate Shyam Divan who is representing the channel. The following are excerpts from the exchange between the bench and the Bar: Senior advocate Anoop Chaudhari, appearing for some petitioners: “If you read the transcript, you will see that they say Muslims are infiltrating the civil services. They say Muslim OBCs are eating the share of other OBCs. They have used… very unfortunate words. There are only 292 Muslim officers in the services.” Justice Joseph: “We need to look at the ownership of the visual media. The entire shareholding pattern of the company must be on site for public. “The revenue model of that company should also be put up to check if the government is putting more ads in one and less in another. “Media can’t fall foul of standards prescribed by themselves. Next, in debates, one needs to see the role of the anchor. How one listens when others speak…. But check in the TV debates the percentage of time taken by the anchor to speak. They mute the speaker and ask questions. “The freedom of media is on behalf of the citizens.” Justice Chandrachud: “The power of the electronic media is huge. The electronic media can become the focal point by targeting particular communities or groups. The anchors’ grievance is that a particular group is gaining entry into civil services. How insidious is this! “Such insidious charges also put a question mark on the UPSC exams. Aspersions have been cast on the UPSC. Such allegations without any factual basis, how can this be allowed? Can such programmes be allowed in a free society? “Reputations can be damaged, image can be tarnished. How to control this? State cannot do this. Shouldn’t there be enforceable standards that the media profess itself to so that Article 19(1)(a) is upheld? (The article guarantees the right to speech and freedom of expression.)” Solicitor-general Mehta (appearing for the Centre): “Freedom of the journalist is supreme. There are two aspects of the statements by Justice Joseph. It would be disastrous for any democracy to control press. “There is also a parallel media other than electronic media where a laptop and a journalist can lead to lakhs of people viewing their content.” Justice Chandrachud: “We are not on social media today. We cannot choose not to regulate one thing because we cannot regulate all.” Mehta: “I am talking about electronic media and print media. Justice Joseph’s concerns have to be addressed by giving respect to journalistic freedom. There are a large number of web portals whose ownership is different from what they show.” Justice Joseph: “When we talk about journalistic freedom, it is not absolute. He shares same freedom as other citizens. There is no separate freedom for journalists like in the US. We need journalists who are fair in their debates. “When journalists operate, they need to work around the right to fair comment. See criminal investigation, the media often focuses only on one part of the investigation. “This kind of shows is making people shut their TVs. If the media fails to realise this, they will be out of business. In the end, quality matters, whether it is a show, a company in which we intend to invest or a person we wish to trust.” Justice Chandrachud: “Let the best within the nation suggest measures which we can help debate on our platform and then arrive at standards…. Now an anchor is targeting one particular community. To say we are a democracy, we need to have certain standards in place.” Justice Chandrachud (to Divan, the advocate for the TV channel): “Your client is doing a disservice to the nation and is not accepting India is a melting point of diverse cultures. Your client needs to exercise his freedom with caution.” Divan: “I have been instructed that it is an investigative story. Rest we need to file an affidavit.” Nisha Bhambani: “We are for the News Broadcasters Association.” Justice Chandrachud: “We need to ask you if you exist apart from the letterhead. What do you do when a parallel criminal investigation goes on in media and reputation is tarnished?” Mehta: “We cannot compartmentalise electronic and print media.” Justice Chandrachud: “People might not read newspapers today but watch television. Again, reach of local papers in local languages is more than mainstream English newspapers. Watching TV has an entertainment value whereas newspaper has none. That’s why we want to have standards.” Mehta: “For example, I run a YouTube channel. How can my funding be ascertained?” Justice Joseph: “Rule 6 of the programme code notes that cable TV programmes cannot show anything that targets a particular religion or a community.” Mehta: “Your Lordships must have seen those programmes where ‘Hindu terror’ was highlighted. The question is to what extent can courts control the publication of content.” Justice Chandrachud: “The mediums have changed. Now Internet is a vexed area as one can operate it from anywhere.” Mehta: “We are looking at electronic media as these companies are the ones which are based in India. We cannot say we won’t regulate electronic media just because we cannot control the Internet. “During the lockdown there was a web portal which carried a show as to how the lockdown will lead to food scarcity and food riot, thus leading to migration. I don’t consider it less serious than a threat to communal disharmony.” Justice Joseph: “The problem with electronic media is all about TRPs, thus leading to more and more sensationalism. So many things masquerade as a form of right.” Mehta: “It needs to be seen if a potential accused can be given a platform to air the defence.” Advocate Shadan Farasat (appearing for some petitioners): “This show has completely vilified the image of Muslims in the civil services. They have been called a terror. Hate speech is something where right to respond is not possible. How does one respond to a statement that Muslims should not be in the civil services?” (Divan seeks two weeks’ time to place on record all the material relating to the telecast.) Justice Joseph: “Will you defer the airing till then?” Divan: “Not at all. I am not making any such concession.” Sharukh Alam (another advocate for the petitioners): “A young child has sent a video saying he is taking a pledge against anti-nationals and become like @SureshChavhanke (who runs Sudarshan News and anchors the particular programme)…. These videos are being used as promotional content…. These videos have about 8,000 likes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Bollywood appeals to media to hunt news, not women ||Filmmakers Mira Nair, Farhan Akhtar and Anurag Kashyap and actress Sonam Kapoor are among over 2,500 people who have signed an open letter condemning the media’s “witch-hunt” of Rhea Chakraborty in the coverage of Sushant Singh Rajput’s death. Film personalities including Frieda Pinto, Zoya Akhtar, Alankrita Shrivastava, Gauri Shinde, Reema Kagti, Ruchi Narain, Rasika Dugal, Nitya Mehra, Amruta Subhash, Mini Mathur, Dia Mirza and Kubbra Sait are also signatories to the letter that asks the media to “hunt news, not women”. Rhea, who has been arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau in connection with drugs-related allegations in Sushant’s death case, has been at the centre of a vicious and breathless vilification campaign. The open letter, addressed to “the dear news media of India”, is published on a blog called Feminist Voices. “Dear news media of India. We are worried about you. Are you feeling ok? Because, as we watch your witch-hunt of Rhea Chakraborty, we cannot understand why you have abandoned every professional ethic of journalism, every tenet of human decency and dignity and chosen instead to physically assault a young woman with your camera crews, endlessly violate her privacy and work overtime on false accusations and moralistic innuendo for a drama of ‘Rhea ko phasao’,” the letter says. The signatories have called out the media for being “obsessed” with creating the narrative of a young woman as a “morally dubious character” because she speaks up for herself instead of “acting like a damsel in distress”. Drawing parallels with the coverage of cases of actors Salman Khan and Sanjay Dutt, the letter has urged the media to show the same kindness and respect to Rhea. “We know you can be different — because we have seen you be kind and respectful to the Salman Khans and Sanjay Dutts of this world, urging us to think of their families, fans and careers,” the letter says. “We write to ask you, the news media, to stop this unfair witch-hunt of Rhea Chakraborty…. We write to ask you to do the right and responsible thing. Your jobs. Hunt news, not women,” the letter added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Jaya Bachchan speaks up for Bollywood ||Bollywood appeared a divided house in Parliament this week — a divide that does not strictly follow party lines. Jaya Bachchan of the Samajwadi Party on Tuesday submitted a notice in the Rajya Sabha on the alleged conspiracy to defame the film industry, a day after actor-turned-BJP parliamentarian Ravi Kishan claimed in the Lok Sabha that Bollywood had been affected by the drug menace. In an impassioned appeal, Jaya said the entertainment industry provides direct employment every day to 5 lakh people and indirect employment to 5 million people. The veteran actress said that the Hindi film industry was being “used to be flogged by the social media and the government’s non-support” to “divert the attention of the people” at a time the “financial situation is in a depressing state and the employment situation is at the worst level”. Jaya reminded the House that Bollywood, in particular, is a contributor to India’s soft power in diplomacy. The actress said: “People who have made their name in this film industry have called it a gutter. I completely disagree and I am really embarrassed and ashamed that yesterday one of our members in the Lok Sabha, who is from the industry, spoke against, I am not taking a name, the film industry. It’s a shame. I hope the government tells these people, who have made their earning, name and fame in this industry, to stop saying such things.” Jaya also referred to a Hindi proverb on ungratefulness — “jis thali mein khate hain, usi mein chhed karte hain”. The reference was clearly to Kishan, who spoke about the Hindi film industry’s links with drugs in the Lower House on Monday and demanded strict punishment for the guilty, and Kangana Ranaut, the actress and Right wing favourite who had called Bollywood a gutter last month. While Kishan and Kangana took issue with Jaya’s comments, junior environment minister and singer Babul Supriyo took a more nuanced and middle path, contending that everyone should not be painted with one brush. “The crisis looming over Bollywood with drugs is reminiscent of what happened to cricket during the betting scandal years ago. Then the game of cricket won bcuz everyone wasn’t evil — NOW Bollywood & Art shall prevail & with Glory bcuz of the same reason — Everyone isn’t Evil AMEN,” Supriyo tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Congress to PM Modi: Don’t hide ||The Congress on Tuesday blasted the government for crushing the Opposition’s voice on such a critical issue as China and asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to apologise in Parliament for making a false statement that no one had entered India’s territory. As the Opposition wasn’t allowed to speak at all on this issue after defence minister Rajnath Singh made a statement, the party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “Don’t hide behind soldiers’ valour. Every Indian is proud of our soldiers. But questions on leadership failure can’t be steamrolled.” “Why did you lie to the nation, Mr Prime Minister? Why are you scared, where are you hiding? Come to Parliament and apologise for making that no-intrusion statement,” he said. Rahul Gandhi, who is now in the US for his mother’s treatment, tweeted: “It is clear from the defence minister’s statement that Modi ji misled the country on the Chinese intrusion. Our country always stood with Indian Army and will continue doing so. But Modi ji, when will you stand up against China? When will you take back our territory from Chinese occupation? Don’t be afraid of taking China’s name.” The Congress has been demanding answers from the Prime Minister over the past few months and hoped to corner Modi in Parliament. But it was clear Modi does not want a debate on this issue when he appealed to everybody to send out a clear message that the country is standing behind the soldiers. He hasn’t shown any inclination of explaining his statement made on June 19, leave apart tendering any apology. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Chowdhury said outside Parliament:  “Heavens will fall on the BJP if we are allowed to ask questions. They protected themselves by crushing our voice in Parliament and hence we are speaking to you under the open sky. They are scared of questions. “The Prime Minister did not even come to the Lok Sabha. The defence minister hailed the Prime Minister. But what about the statement — na koi ghusa hai, na ghus aaya hai? These are not our words. Agar dil saaf hai toh debate se kyon darenge (If the heart is clear, why should somebody be scared of debate?)” Lamenting that the Opposition wasn’t even allowed to express solidarity with the government on Indian Army because of fear of uncomfortable questions, Chowdhury said: “Nobody else will be allowed to even hail the army? Nobody will be allowed to speak? This government has no respect for democratic traditions. In 1962, Atal Bihari Vajpayee asked for convening Parliament session when China attacked. Nehru allowed a debate and listened to his criticism. But this government neither allows questions, nor offers answers.” Reiterating full support to Indian Army, Chowdhury said: “The national interest is supreme for us. We have always stood behind our army. Their valour is our pride; they protect us and our nation.”Deputy leader in the Lok Sabha Gaurav Gogoi said: “The Prime Minister gave a statement that strengthen the Chinese position and the government won’t even clarify that. They won’t allow us to speak, crush our voices.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Ayurveda question: Why Gujarat, not Kerala?||The Congress leader in the Rajya Sabha, L. Hanumanthaiah, on Tuesday questioned why the government had decided to accord “institution of national importance” status to Gujarat institutions while ignoring states like Kerala and Karnataka that have a rich ayurvedic tradition. “The government is only interested in Gujarat and I feel... because the Prime Minister is from Gujarat. So they wanted to have an ayurveda national importance institute there, though there are no practitioners in Gujarat like (in) Kerala, Karnataka and West Bengal,” Hanumanthaiah, who hails from Karnataka, said when the government introduced in the Rajya Sabha the Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020. The bill, which had been approved in the last session, seeks to grant “institution of national importance” status to an institution that will be formed by merging three ayurveda institutes in Gujarat’s Jamnagar. The tag bestows greater autonomy to institutions in making academic decisions and expanding. IITs, IIMs and AIIMS enjoy the status. “Kerala is number one in ayurveda. Kottakkal Ayurveda is very famous. People from across the world come to Kerala for treatment. There is a research institute in Thiruvananthapuram which is 131 years old, whereas the Jamgnagar institute was started in 1952. My question is why a Kerala institute has not been given INI status,” Hanumanthaiah said. “What is the reason, we must know. My colleagues from Gujarat also agree with this,” he added. The Government Ayurveda College in Kerala capital Thiruvananthapuram was established in 1889. The institute to be granted “institution of national importance” status will be a conglomeration of the Institute for Post Graduate Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Shree Gulabkunverba Ayurved Mahavidyalaya and the Indian Institute of Ayurvedic Pharmaceutical Sciences. The merged institution will be named Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda, Jamnagar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Valley calls out ‘lies’ in House||Kashmir politicians on Tuesday reacted with outrage to the Narendra Modi government’s claim in Parliament that no person was under house arrest in the Valley, accusing the Centre of “excelling in all” forms of lies. Union minister of state for home G. Kishan Reddy said in a written response in the Lok Sabha that 223 people were currently under detention in Jammu and Kashmir but no one was under house arrest. Reddy was responding to Trinamul Congress MP Saugata Ray’s question seeking details of arrests and house arrests of political leaders in Jammu and Kashmir since the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status on August 5 last year and the number of militant attacks since then. “As on September 11, 2020, 223 persons are under detention. No person is under house arrest in the UT of Jammu and Kashmir,” Reddy’s written reply said. On terror attacks since August 5 last year, the minister said “nil”. Former People’s Democratic Party minister Naeem Akhtar, who is allegedly under house arrest, tweeted: “There are many categories of lies. Lies, white lies, data, judicial lies (spoken on oath), parliamentary lies: This government excels in all.” PDP leader Waheed ur Rahman said the government was “blatantly” lying in Parliament. “It has now been 7 months of house arrest and 6 months of detention for many of us, since 5 August, 2019,” Rahman tweeted. Iltija Mufti, whose mother and PDP chief Mehbooba Mufti is in detention, said it was shameful that “cabinet ministers are using Parliament as a forum to disseminate lies”. Earlier, the government had told the Supreme Court that former Union minister Saifuddin Soz was not under house arrest, after his wife had approached the top court against his allegedly illegal detention.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-665
16-09-2020||India||Drop Central Vista, restore fund: MPs ||The entire Opposition on Tuesday urged the government to restore the grant of MPLADS funds as its suspension had obstructed welfare measures in constituencies across the country. The MPs supported the decision to cut their salaries as part of austerity measures amid the pandemic-triggered economic crisis but batted for the Member of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme, under which each MP is allotted Rs 5 crore a year to carry out development work. Participating in a discussion on the Salary, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the Lok Sabha, members of the Congress, Trinamul Congress, BJD, NCP, TRS, the TDP and other Opposition parties passionately sought the restoration of MPLADS while some of them even urged the BJP members to muster the courage to speak up for its return. The government in April suspended the MPLADS for two years owing to the coronavirus-induced crisis. The Opposition MPs suggested on Tuesday that the government cut down on wasteful expenditure, including the grand plans for the Central Vista beautification and construction project in the national capital, instead of targeting the basic welfare activities that help people at the grassroots. The MPs usually sanction money from MPLADS for small activities such as building bridges, rural roads, community centres, school buildings and health clinics. Supporting the decision to cut MPs’ salary, NCP member Supriya Sule said: “The estimated cost of the proposed development of the Central Vista is Rs 20,000 crore and you (Union government) are saving around Rs 10,000 crore from MPLADS for a building which we have not asked for. Do you want a Central Vista and an office, or a ventilator and a good hospital in your constituency? It is not rocket science. I urge this government to come clean on this.” Trinamul leader Saugata Roy said salaries of parliamentarians can be taken away but a fund meant for the people should be given back. He also stressed that the government should reduce bigger expenses. BJD member Pinaki Misra said the government should seriously reconsider its decision on MPLADS. Congress leader Adhir Chowdhury said: “Everybody has called for the restoration of the funds, so why not we pass a unanimous resolution in this regard?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
16-09-2020||India||Cong on RSS ‘prop’ for AAP: We told you so ||The Congress has lapped up lawyer Prashant Bhushan’s accusation of Arvind Kejriwal’s links with the RSS, hoping that the suspicion about his ideological commitments will restrict Aam Aadmi Party’s acceptability among secular voters. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted on Tuesday: “What was known to us has been confirmed by a founding AAP member. The IAC (India Against Corruption) movement and AAP were propped up by the RSS/BJP to subvert democracy and bring down the UPA Government.” Though the Congress has often talked of AAP’s hidden axis with the RSS-BJP, Bhushan’s unambiguous charge lends credibility to its position because he was not only a founder member of both the India Against Corruption and the AAP but played a key role in sustaining the movement in the initial period. Bhushan was in the core team along with current Delhi chief minister Kejriwal and former IPS officer Kiran Bedi who built the Lokpal campaign with the help of social activist Anna Hazare. Bhushan recently said in an interview that he regretted not having seen that the movement was supported and propped up by the RSS-BJP “for their own political purposes to bring down the Congress government and bring themselves to power”. Bhushan, who unlike other members of the IAC, did not have any admiration for Sangh parivar’s philosophy, asserted that he had absolutely no doubt that Kejriwal knew of the RSS role and even described him as “unscrupulous, dictatorial and a Frankenstein monster”. Many RSS-BJP leaders have been talking about their involvement in the Anna movement. RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat also claimed that Sangh workers were active in “anti-corruption” movements before 2014. Kejriwal, who attracted a large number of anti-BJP votes, including secular intelligentsia, did lose some credibility by refusing to take stance on ideological issues and remaining aloof amid the raging violence in Delhi earlier this year. His decision to give permission to prosecute youth activist Kanhaiya Kumar also raised eyebrows in the secular camp. Though the Congress vacillations on the AAP have been bewildering — it first propped up the Kejriwal government in Delhi, then fought viciously against him and again contemplated alignment before 2019 parliamentary election — there is greater clarity in the minds of senior leaders now after the recent events. Congress leaders say Kejriwal’s attitude during the anti-CAA protests, his support to the scrapping of Article 370 and the subsequent crackdown on Kashmir and finally the negative role during Delhi riots stamped out whatever doubts they had about the hidden nexus. While Shashi Tharoor described him as “the un-ideological Kejriwal,” Randeep Surjewala tweeted: “The truth has come out. Prashant Bhushan showed the courage of revealing the truth. The Anna Hazare agitation was a RSS-BJP conspiracy to pull down the UPA Government to facilitate Narendra Modi’s accession to power.” Spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “All the misconceptions have ended now. The UPA government was defamed by RSS-BJP using money power. This is how democracy was subverted.” Veterans like Digvijaya Singh, who never had any doubt about the AAP being an RSS tool, tweeted: “What I used to say has yet again been proven correct. When I said this, people made fun of me. The innocent Anna Hazare was used as a pawn by the RSS and Kejriwal and then dumped. Will see how effective an agency Lokpal becomes in fighting corruption.” While Hazare has gone into hiding, nobody even talks of Lokpal whose role in fighting high-level corruption is fictional till now. Though Kejriwal himself has chosen not to react, his lieutenant Sanjay Singh responded to Rahul’s tweet saying: “For how long will you hide your failures making false excuses? Stop crying now and accept the truth that the country has lost hope from both the BJP and the Congress. Today only the AAP is concerned about the country and solves problems of school, hospital, electricity and water. Only the AAP will be the nation’s choice in future.” The Congress desperation to bring Kejriwal’s secular commitment into disrepute can be understood by his political expansion plan. While the AAP has started work in Uttar Pradesh, triggering fears of vote split in the Congress, it has become active in states such as Bihar and Madhya Pradesh as well after encroaching upon the Congress space in states like Punjab and Goa. The faith of leaders like Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee in Kejriwal has also been a nagging concern for the Congress which hopes to tackle this problem by highlighting the RSS factor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
16-09-2020||India||MP bid to popularise Sambalpuri masks ||BJP’s Lok Sabha member from Baragarh in western Odisha Suresh Pujari has distributed masks made of Sambalpuri handloom among the members of Parliament to popularise the region’s textile products. The move struck an immediate chord among members with MP Supriya Sule tweeting, “Thank you Suresh Pujariji for the Sambalpuri design mask.” Pujari told The Telegraph, “On Monday, I distributed the Sambalpuri masks in the Parliament. It’s my effort to popularise Sambalpuri products across the globe. By distributing the Sambalpuri textile woven masks, I have been to some extent successful in bringing Sambalpuri textile products into limelight. All the MPs, particularly women MPs, praised it. Kanimozhi Karunanidhi approached me for a mask. All of them also spoke about the elegance of Sambalpuri saris, which have their own distinct designs.” Pujari said: “500 masks were given to me by Sanjay Meher of Baragarh to popularise the product. I have decided to distribute at least 5,000 masks in Delhi...” Meher is the director of Boyanika, Baragrh, which represents the primary weavers cooperative societies and works for the preservation of heritage design and providing a national and international platform to the weavers of Odisha. Meher told The Telegraph, “The masks which were distributed are of two layers. Each costs Rs 45. But we are distributing the masks to people from different sections of society free of cost. So far, we have distributed 15,000 masks. On our request, union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan wears masks made of Sambalpuri textiles. We have also presented these masks to the governor of Odisha professor Ganeshi Lal.” Meher, who has employed more than 200 workers to make Sambalpuri saris and other products, said: “When the lockdown was announced, we suddenly became jobless. But when we started preparing the masks, nearly two lakh people of western Odisha dependent on the Sambalpui textile designing and weaving for their livelihood, got a means of livelihood.” On being asked how the price of a Sambalpuri sari is decided he said: “All the Sambalpuri saris are hand woven.  It is a traditional hand woven sari wherein the warp and the weft are tie-dyed before weaving. The price is mostly decided by how many days a worker spend on a sari, the thread and colour used in it. The price of a sari may vary from Rs 1,000 to Rs 2 lakh.” The Sambalpuri saris are so popular that personalities such as former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi, former President Pratibha Singh Patil, AICC president Sonia Gandhi, finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, actresses Madhuri Dixit and Vidya Balan have worn them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
16-09-2020||India||Odisha to introduce E-muster roll||The Odisha government has decided to launch the e-muster roll for monitoring minimum wages and timely deposit of ESI and EPF dues on October 2. Henceforth, wages will be directly transferred to the bank accounts of the labourers in all the works that are being executed by line departments. Under this initiative, muster rolls will be maintained in electronic format (e-muster roll) to prevent manipulation and ensure transparency. A decision to this effect was  taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Naveen Patnaik. In the first phase, the  initiative will be implemented in projects worth more than Rs 10 crore in the departments of works, water  resource,  panchayati raj, drinking water, rural development and housing  and urban  development. According to the order, all departments  will have the system in place by January 1 for universal implementation of the muster roll. The cabinet, which met on Tuesday, approved a proposal of the finance department to amend the Odisha Goods and Service Tax (OGST) Bill, 2017.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-666
