17-09-2020||India||Akali Dal minister quits Modi govt over farm sector bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal's Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned from Prime Minister Narendra Modi's government, hours ahead of the voting in Lok Sabha on two contentious farm sector bills the party has been opposing. While making the announcement in Parliament on Thursday, her husband and party chief Sukhbir Badal said the Akalis would continue to support the government and BJP but would oppose the "anti-farmer politics" of the BJP government, NDTV.com reported. The bills, which the BJP claims will usher in big-ticket reforms in the agriculture sector, have angered farmers of Punjab and Haryana, who have been holding protests for weeks. The Akalis, who initially supported the bills, have now woken up to the potential damage it might cause them in the state and appealed to the Centre to press pause on the issue till the concerns of the farmers were addressed. But with the BJP remaining adamant, the party decided to withdraw their support to the bills and vote against them in Parliament. Earlier, while moving for consideration The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, in the Lok Sabha, Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said the legislations were aimed at making farming profitable. Tomar said the minimum support price (MSP) mechanism for farmers would  continue and that the mechanism would not be impacted by two proposed legislations.
Further, he assured the House that the proposed legislations would not encroach upon the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Acts of the states. "These two bills will ensure that farmers get better prices for their produce. They will not be subject to the regulations of mandis and they will be free to sell their produce to anyone. They will also not have to pay any taxes.
"These bills will increase competition and promote private investment which will help in development of farm infrastructure and generate employment," Tomar said.
The minister noted that because of these two reform bills farmers will be able to connect directly with big business and exporters, and will be able to make farming profitable.
Initiating the debate on the bills, Congress member Ravneet Singh demanded that the bills be withdrawn. He also said that Punjab collects about Rs 3,630 crore from mandis, which are used for welfare activities for farmers and creation of rural infrastructure like roads.
He also wondered why the Centre was interfering when agriculture was in the concurrent list. “There are state assemblies... you want to snatch away the powers of states," Singh said, adding that the meaning of having "absolute" or "golden" majority does not mean that the centre would take all the power.
He asked how small farmers would be able to resolve disputes with big corporates and claimed that the laws will "finish farmers".
Singh said that farmers of north India should join hands on the issue as he urged the government to withdraw the bills.
RSP leader N.K. Premachandran demanded that the bills be sent to the standing committee and that there was no justification for promulgation of an ordinance. "What is the urgency in promulgating the ordinance?," he questioned.
He also alleged that the ordinances were passed to bulldoze the farmers' interests while taking advantage of the COVID-19 pandemic. “All the ordinances are aimed at facilitating the interests of corporates,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
17-09-2020||India||Amit Shah discharged from AIIMS after check-up||Union home minister Amit Shah, who recently recovered from COVID-19 and was admitted to AIIMS for a medical check-up, was discharged on Thursday evening, officials said. He was admitted to the premier hospital on September 12.
The home minister has been discharged from AIIMS, an official said.
Earlier in the day, Shah had addressed an event in his constituency Gandhinagar in Gujarat through video conference from the hospital.
On August 2, Shah, 55, had said on Twitter that he had tested positive for COVID-19. He had undergone treatment at Medanta Hospital and was discharged after he recovered from the disease.
Shah was admitted to the AIIMS here on August 18 for post-COVID care and was discharged on August 30 following recovery, hospital authorities had said.
After his admission at AIIMS on September 12, the AIIMS said in a statement: "As per advice given at discharge, he has now been admitted for complete medical check-up before Parliament session for 1-2 days".
The monsoon session of Parliament is ongoing. During the Gandhinagar event, Shah noted how Prime Minister Narendra Modi improved the lives of 60 crore poor people in the country after assuming office and also enhanced India's stature on the world stage.
Shah, while greeting the prime minister on his 70th birthday, said under his leadership the country saw the launch of a string of welfare programmes for various sections of the society, especially the poor.
What the Congress could not do for the poor in its 70 -year rule, Modi did it in just five years, Shah said and wished the PM a long life so that he can continue to "serve the nation".
The Gujarat government on Thursday launched several schemes and development projects to celebrate Modi's 70th birthday.
Shah attended the ground-breaking ceremony of a 24X7 water supply project for Gandhinagar city through video- conference from AIIMS, Delhi, said state BJP media coordinator Prashant Vala.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
17-09-2020||India||Opposition leaders meet President, question role of police in Delhi riots||Opposition leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind on Thursday and raised questions about the role of the police during the February riots, besides expressing their lack of confidence in the probe of the incident. In a joint memorandum, the leaders raised their concerns over the probe into the riots being conducted by the Delhi Police. The Delhi Police has set up Special Investigation Teams (SIT) and its Special Cell is also probing the aspect of conspiracy behind the Delhi riots in which 53 people lost their lives. "There are, however, serious questions about the role played by the Delhi Police during the violence and also the manner in which the police is harassing and attempting to falsely implicate activists and young people who took part in the anti CAA/NRC/NPR movements as the perpetrators of violence. "Such a manufactured conspiracy theory has now begun to falsely implicate political leaders," it said. The memorandum also criticised the police for the reference made to CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury citing disclosure statements by the accused. "This is a disturbing trend that raises serious questions over the manner of such investigations," the leaders said. They also alleged that there are several publicly documented accounts and videos of police being "complicit in the violence, directing mobs pelting stones or looking the other way when mobs were indulging in violence". "During the violence, a disturbing video emerged showing uniformed policemen assaulting young men lying injured on the road and forcing them to sing the national anthem while repeatedly beating them with lathis. "One of the men, Faizan, succumbed to his injuries a few days later," the memorandum said highlighting other such instances, including one in which they alleged the "DCP stood quietly next to a BJP leader who was instigating violence against the protestors, warning that if they did not vacate the road, he would do it himself". "Despite several complaints being filed alleging involvement of senior police officials in the violence, including a DCP, additional commissioner and SHO, it appears no urgency has been accorded to identifying the policemen involved in the violence and ensuring that they are brought to book," it said. It also pointed out that while the police was "silent" on the alleged hate speech of BJP leaders, and turned a blind eye towards the role of its own personnel during the violence, the probe appeared to be pursuing a line of inquiry "criminalising the protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA)" and portraying them as a conspiracy which resulted in the riots in Delhi. "The entire investigation appears to be aimed at arriving at a pre-meditated theory about a conspiracy propounded by the Home Minister in Lok Sabha in March 2020, before any investigation had even begun into the riots," it said. The memorandum also said that the ongoing investigation by the Delhi police did not inspire confidence as there were serious questions about the "impartiality" of the probe. "A credible and unbiased probe is crucial to restore public trust in the law and order machinery of the state. The investigation cannot be allowed to become a fishing and roving expedition aimed at causing a chilling effect on dissent and protest in the country. "We, therefore, urge you to call upon Government of India to institute an inquiry into this investigation under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, headed by sitting/retired judge(s)," the memorandum said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Rajdeep Sardesai: hooked on daily news, cricket and Kishore Kumar||Celebrity anchor Rajdeep Sardesai knew from the word go that he had a mega-scoop on his hands when he landed a marathon interview with Rhea Chakraborty and that it would bring out the trolls in strength. But he was astonished by the welter of hate mail that landed on his online doorstep after the broadcast. That astonishment now has turned to dismay and fury in the face of an unending tide of abuse. “I have been targeted. People are saying, ‘You must have taken money.’ This is a hyper-polarised, hyper-angry society that’s out to hound people,” Sardesai says heatedly. Sardesai’s so livid about what’s going on around him that he feels a divide growing between himself and the profession that he loves. “I feel distanced from the medium I have been a part of. The newsroom has always been a home away from home for me. Now they’re giving space to this lynch mob mentality. This is not why we became journalists.” But he reserves his greatest anger for social media which he calls a “digital Frankenstein that rips everything apart”. He adds: “Rhea is a story playing out in an era of the social media Frankenstein. TV has allowed itself to become a part of it.” For Sardesai, the Chakraborty saga began with a tweet he made suggesting trial by media of Chakraborty was unfair.  That led to a series of calls and finally, a mad scramble to Delhi airport after a caller said the interview would have to be done the very same evening. Sardesai caught the 7.49pm SpiceJet flight to Mumbai to Delhi and finally kicked off the interview after midnight. Chakraborty looked at the fat docket Sardesai had taken along and remarked, “You seem to have a lot of questions.” But she insisted she was ready to answer anything he threw at her. Says Sardesai: “I was impressed by someone saying, ‘Feel free to ask whatever you want’.” And that’s exactly what he did. Over the next two hours, Sardesai threw all manner of allegations that have been aired since Sushant Singh Rajput died. He asked about Rajput’s old girlfriend Ankita Lokhande and about whether Chakraborty was part of a drugs cartel and whether she took drugs herself. It speaks volumes that Sardesai who has been a familiar face on Indian television screens for more than two decades is almost an odd man out in an era of multiple channels and hyper-competitive ratings wars. He’s still striving – often against the odds – for neutral journalism and telling a story without slanting one way or another. Says Sardesai: “How do I deal with the noise around me? You just do what you have been doing. News is not a Big Boss show. You try to create a space.” Old-fashioned journalism or not, Sardesai who’s 55 certainly crams a lot into his working day. He hosts daily TV shows – though he stresses that he gets Sundays off because he’s a consulting editor at India Today TV and not a hands-on administrator. In between, he writes a weekly newspaper column and during the last six years, has turned out three books – two political volumes on the 2014 and 2019 elections and the third a book on cricket, the great love of his life. He even puts aside half-an-hour each day to ensure that his 8.9 million Twitter followers are kept informed and entertained. Till not so long ago, he did two half-hour Twitter sessions daily but has now taken the social networking site off his mobile. “You can’t run away from social media,” he says, adding, “my resolution now is to only spend half-an-hour on it.” What’s his secret of success? “I am active and energetic. There’s lots of time. You just have to manage it.” Time management means sitting down, usually on Wednesdays, and writing his newspaper column between 7am and 9am. His latest book, ‘2019 How Modi Won India,’ was written from June and September last year and he managed to set aside two-three hours daily for it. Sardesai, who’s married to another prominent journalist Sagarika Ghose with whom he has a son and a daughter, confesses that after all these years what keeps him going is a huge love for news. It was a trait that manifested itself early when, as a precocious pre-teen he headed to the American Center to watch the Jimmy Carter-Gerald Ford presidential elections in 1976. “At the age of 11 I had a love for current affairs,” he says. Mind you, it could have been totally different. As a youngster, Sardesai was also totally obsessed by cricket and dreamt of following in his father, Dilip Sardesai’s illustrious footsteps. This wasn’t an idle dream because he captained the Bombay schools team, played first class cricket at Oxford and made it to the India Under-19 trial camp. So,, it wasn’t far-fetched to think of a Test career. Why he changed his mind must probably be attributed to a host of reasons, but Sardesai reckons that a pivotal moment came when he was at Oxford and playing for the Oxford-Cambridge team against Pakistan. It wasn’t a successful day at the crease and he got out for a mere two runs after facing Pakistani spinner Abdul Qadir. As he was walking off the field, one Pakistani fielder muttered at him. “You’re an Indian and you can’t play spin.” That, he says, was the last straw on the cricket field for him. He says, with considerable modesty: “My father had talent. I didn’t have talent.” Sardesai has found himself at several such crossroads during his life. At Oxford, he trained to be a lawyer. But after returning to India, he decided he didn’t want to don a black gown and dedicate his life to the hurly-burly of the Indian courts. Instead, he interned at Mumbai’s punchy Afternoon Despatch & Courier. “I loved the newspaper. Print gives me a high. The smell of the newspaper was a high.” That helped him move to the Times of India where he rose meteorically and became news editor by 26. It was a great time to be at the heart of events both in Maximum City and outside. One important assignment was covering the Rath Yatra in Gujarat where he happened to meet a young pracharak Narendra Modi. Most crucially, he led the reporting team during the Mumbai riots and he considers that one of the most fulfilling achievements of his career. Suddenly, the south Mumbai youngster who had led a relatively insulated life got to know every inch of the city. Also, the newspaper had such clout in the city at that time that everything they did was noticed. “Whatever you reported made an impact,” he says. He and his team did a book on the riots but he says it didn’t make an impact without famous names to back it. “It was a seriously good book but nobody read it,” he says sadly. The next fork in the road came when he was working at The Telegraph and received an offer to jump into the brave new world of news television. He was sad to leave print but doesn’t think for a moment that he made a mistake. “I would have loved to have been the editor of a daily newspaper. But I can’t regret television after all it has given me.” The climb to fame became unstoppable from the moment he appeared on our TV screens. In 2002, he was the man on the frontlines of the Gujarat riots, often going on air as the stones and brickbats were still flying in the background. For Indian viewers, it was a nerve-shattering experience because it was the first time that riots had unfolded before their eyes and in their homes. There’ve been ups and downs over the last two decades. Sardesai reckons that NDTV was a time of “cutting-edge journalism”, but that the years when he was the chief of CNN-IBN TV18 were “the most professionally rewarding”. He says: “Everyone had written us off. We built a team and one year we got every Ramnath Goenka award.” In a farewell letter to the CNN-IBN team in 2014, he put it even more colourfully, saying: “I still remember when we decided to set up an English news channel: we had one chair and a table, and no one gave us a hope in hell. I recall an advertising executive watching our pitch and asking why we were even attempting a new news channel.” He threw in a PS at the conclusion of the letter, indicating he wasn’t always the easiest boss to work with: “Am sorry if I would occasionally call at 3am in the morning. Blame it on being a news junkie.” Sardesai then spent a few months writing his book on the 2014 elections and then moved to India Today TV as a consulting editor. But by then he could see the world of television news changing radically. Social media was turning the atmosphere more poisonous and the plethora of news channels meant impossibly brutal ratings wars. Says Sardesai: “This never used to happen. The viewer was not this angry ranting person. I am only the journalist. Don’t make me the story.” To some extent, he also blames senior politicians for fuelling the fire, asking: “If political leaders start following abusive handles, what is left?” He also defends himself against accusations that he’s too soft on the people he interviews. Last week, he did an interview with activist lawyer Prashant Bhushan and his father Shanti Bhushan, who was a former law minister. Again, this resulted in an avalanche of angry trolling. Says Sardesai: “Why should Prashant Bhushan not have a voice?” He replies to the charges that he isn’t tough enough on his subjects, saying: “People ask why aren’t you asking tough questions? I am having a conversation.” Interviewing Rhea Chakraborty also gave him an additional bonus of getting to see his mother in Mumbai after a six-month gap. Sardesai says he’s grateful to India Today for standing by him when he’s been attacked. He concedes, though, that at times the strain of it all almost gets too much to handle. But he has always had readymade fallbacks, watching old cricket videos on YouTube, listening to his all-time favourite, Kishore Kumar and following what he calls, “a disciplined life”. “Sometimes, you retreat into Kishore Kumar. I am deeply troubled. To retain sanity I don’t watch news. I do more reading and writing,” he says, adding: “2020 was to have been a year of relaxation. I thought I would learn cooking and do more reading and writing.” Instead, everyone’s world has gone topsy-turvy and it’s been a very different year from what Sardesai or anyone else could have conceived. He clocks in for work by joining the noon editorial conference from home. From then, it’s a helter-skelter news day that goes on till late night with an afternoon nap and walk thrown in. Sardesai reckons that TV news has missed the opportunity to tackle in-depth stories that would throw light on crucial subjects. “This is the time to be dissecting the economy,” he says. “It is important to realise that news should be in the public interest. That concept has got severely diluted.” What’s next if the world of news loses its allure? Sardesai says he’s always wanted to own a mango and cashew farm in Goa. But he laughs that off for now, saying: “I won’t think too far ahead.” Sardesai thinks back to his days in print when asked what keeps him going. At the Times of India, the person in the next cabin was the legendary cartoonist R. K. Laxman. Sardesai remembers asking Laxman how he kept going, turning out one cartoon after another. Laxman’s philosophical reply was: “Every day is a new day.” Sardesai’s world view is almost certainly very different, so what keeps him going? After all these years the answer – despite the trolls – is still is very clear: “It’s daily news that gives me an adrenaline rush,” he says. He’s still driven by that “madness and a passion for journalism” he wrote about in his goodbye IBN letter six years ago.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||PM Modi turns 70, wishes pour in||Prime Minister Narendra Modi turned 70 on Thursday, and wishes poured in for the BJP leader from top dignitaries, including President and Vice President, Union ministers and leaders from across the political divide. The BJP is organising a number of events, mainly aimed at public service, across the country to celebrate Modi's birthday as 'Sewa Divas'. Wishing the prime minister, President Ram Nath Kovind said, "Prime Minister Narendra Modi Ji congratulations on your birthday and best wishes. You have presented an ideal in showing commitment to India's life values and democratic traditions." "My compliments and prayers that the almighty keeps you healthy and joyous always, and the country keeps getting your valuable services," he said. Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu said Modi has made tireless efforts to take the country to new heights and asserted that his work will pave the way for India to become self-reliant. Wishing the prime minister, top BJP leaders said India's stature rose on the world stage under his leadership and his life dedicated to the welfare of the nation is an inspiration for them. In a series of tweets, BJP president JP Nadda wished Modi, saying that under his leadership India moved swiftly on the path of progress and raised its stature at the world stage. Modi's life is dedicated to nation building and he is an inspiration for all party workers, Nadda said. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wished Modi a happy birthday. Home Minister Amit Shah said Modi is loved by everyone. The prime minister, he said, connected deprived sections of the society with mainstream of development. Shah said Modi has dedicated his entire life for the welfare of the country and is laying the foundation of strong and self-reliant India. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said India has benefited tremendously from his astute leadership, firm conviction and decisive action. "He has been working assiduously towards empowering the poor and marginalised. Praying for his good health and long life," Singh said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee also greeted Modi on his 70th birthday. Banerjee, a strong critic of the prime minister, wished him a healthy and successful year. "My greetings to the Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi Ji on his 70th Birthday. I wish him a healthy and successful year ahead," she tweeted. The ruling BJP celebrates Modi's birthday as 'Sewa Diwas' and organises public welfare activities across the country for a week.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Asymptomatic Covid reinfections emerge in India||Two healthcare workers in India have become reinfected by the new coronavirus although remaining symptom-free during both episodes, scientists have reported while describing what could be the world’s first asymptomatic reinfections. The scientists say their findings do not change current thinking that reinfections occur only rarely but suggest that asymptomatic reinfections among people at high risk of exposure could go unnoticed just as would asymptomatic first-time infections. The researchers at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, working with doctors at the Government Institute of Medical Sciences, Noida, detected the reinfections in the two healthcare workers routinely monitored for infection as their work involved high exposure levels. One of the two healthcare workers was reinfected by a coronavirus that had a mutation previously suggested by other scientists as helping the virus evade neutralising antibodies, the researchers said. A 25-year-old male healthcare worker tested positive for the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 on May 5, turned negative on May 13, but was found positive again on August 21. A 28-year-old female healthcare worker was positive on May 17, negative by May 27, positive again on September 5. What appears to be a reinfection, scientists say, may occur from either of three possible causes — a persistent infection by the same virus with some period of no symptoms, a reactivation of the same virus after a period of no symptoms or a reinfection by a new strain of the virus. “Our studies point to true reinfections — the virus specimens in both healthcare workers in both episodes of infection were genetically slightly different from each other,” said Sridhar Sivasubbu, a senior IGIB scientist who led the study. Only three cases of genetically corroborated reinfections have hitherto emerged — in Hong Kong, Belgium and the US. In each of those cases, the patients had symptoms during one or both the infection episodes. Reinfections are a potential cause of concern because they suggest at least some people can turn susceptible to the coronavirus after a first-time infection. But scientists say the handful of true reinfections observed so far among the 21 million-plus people who have recovered worldwide from the coronavirus suggests that the phenomenon is rare. “Our findings, however, point to the possibility of asymptomatic reinfections,” said Vinod Scaria, another scientist at IGIB and a team member. “They highlight the need for constant surveillance of healthcare workers who are at high risk of infection and reinfections.” Scientists say the mechanisms of reinfections remain a mystery. In most viruses, the immune response triggered by a first-time infection protects people from future infections. But some viruses such as other coronaviruses that are relatively harmless respiratory infections can cause reinfections. “The number of reinfections is too small at present for any clarity on implications,” said Sivasubbu. A reinfection may occur either because of mutations in a virus or because of a person’s genetic makeup. “At present, we don’t know what’s contributing to these reinfections,” Scaria said. The implication of the mutation detected in one of the healthcare workers remains unclear, he said. Doctors at the Medanta hospital in Gurgaon (Haryana) had last week reported what appeared to be reinfections in two children with cancer who had turned negative and shown antibodies to the virus. However, because they did not conduct genetic studies on the viruses, it is unclear whether they are persistence, reactivation, or true reinfections.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||AAP and BJP showdown in Rajya Sabha over Covid management||The Aam Aadmi Party and the BJP clashed over the issue of Covid-19 management in Rajya Sabha on Thursday, with AAP MP Sanjay Singh terming the prime minister's call to clap and beat utensils in honour of coronavirus warriors "foolish". BJP's Sudhanshu Trivedi hit back, saying the PM's move was symbolic and sought to unite the country socially just like Mahatma Gandhi chose the symbol of 'charkha' for national cohesion during the freedom struggle. Prime Minister Narendra Modi had asked people to clap, beat steel plates and ring bells to express gratitude towards those risking their lives and working tirelessly during the coronavirus outbreak in March . Sanjay Singh, while participating in the debate on Covid-19, further used the occasion to accuse the government of looking for opportunity in times of disaster and alleged corruption in the procurement of equipment to fight the disease including thermometers and oxymetres. "I want to ask this government, tell me any one research in the world that shows Covid can be prevented by clamping utensils and by clapping. "The entire opposition will not go home, but will clap with the prime minister and light 'diyas' in Parliament premises. "You bring such absurd and foolish schemes and expect the entire country to be fooled by you," Singh said. Countering him, Trivedi said,"Burning diyas and beating utensils and clapping were symbolic in the fight against coronavirus. "Would the British have run away by the use of the 'charkha' (spinning wheel)? The 'charkha' was a symbolism Mahatma Gandhi chose in his bid to unite the country against the British. The same way, PM Modi made the 'diyas' and beating utensils symbolic in bringing together all Indians in the fight against Covid," Trivedi said. The BJP member, without naming Rahul Gandhi, also took a swipe at the former Congress president for his vision of giving an early warning about Covid-19 and said he was himself not in the country when the Congress was seeking a ban on international flights. He also countered the opposition charge that the lockdown was not imposed early as the BJP wanted to topple the Madhya Pradesh government of the Congress, saying at that time there were only 29 coronavirus cases in the country and not a single case was reported in Madhya Pradesh at that time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Regulations should be placed on digital media first, Centre tells SC||The Centre has said that if the Supreme Court decides on the issue of media regulation then such an exercise should be undertaken with the digital media first as it has faster reach and information has the potential to go viral due to applications like WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook. The government told the apex court that sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements exist for the electronic and the print media. Considering the serious impact and the potential, it is desirable that if this court decides to undertake the exercise, it should first be undertaken with regard to digital media as there already exists sufficient framework and judicial pronouncements with regard to electronic media and print media, said the counter affidavit, filed by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. It is submitted that while in a mainstream media (whether electronic or print), the publication /telecast is a one-time act, the digital media has faster reach from wider range of viewership/ readership and has the potential to become viral because of several electronic applications like Whatsapp, Twitter, Facebook, it said. The affidavit was filed in a pending matter in which the top court is hearing a petition which has raised grievance over Sudarshan TV's Bindas Bol' programme whose promo had claimed that channel would show the 'big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service'. A bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud had on September 15 restrained the channel from telecasting its episodes of programme for two days, saying the intent of aired episodes prima facie appears to vilify the community. The bench had suggested that a committee of apolitical experts of distinguished citizens or former judges may be appointed to help in self-regulating the electronic media specially. The apex court is scheduled to hear the matter today. In its affidavit, the Centre has said that subject matter of the present petition namely balancing between the journalist freedom and responsible journalism is a field already occupied either by the statutory provisions made by the Parliament or by the judgments of this court . It is respectfully submitted that in view of the issue having already received attention of the Parliament, as well as, of this court, the present petition be confined to only one channel namely Sudarshan TV and this court may not undertake the exercise of laying down any further guidelines with or without appointment of an amicus or a committee of persons as amicus, the affidavit said. It said that situation in each case shall have to be decided on a case-to-case basis and a broader exercise which is too general in nature is neither warranted nor permissible . The affidavit said, Even if this court considers it appropriate to undertake the said exercise, there is no justification to confine this exercise only to mainstream electronic media. The media includes mainstream electronic media, mainstream print media as well as a parallel media namely digital print media and digital web-based news portal and You Tube channels as well as over the top' platforms (OTTs). Referring to earlier verdicts delivered by the apex court, the affidavit said it lays down the correct legal proposition requiring no general exercise to be undertaken merely based upon one episode or few episodes of a channel. Separately, Sudarshan TV has also filed an affidavit in the apex court and claimed that it has no ill-will against any community or any individual and the programme concerns a matter of grave national interest. The channel claimed that it has used word like UPSC Jehad' in its programme as an institute for Muslim UPSC aspirants has received foreign funds, also from those which are linked to organisations that allegedly funds extremist groups.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||India’s ‘sophisticated rhetoricians’ on China||Anthony Gonsalves has met his match. Na wahan koi hamari seema me ghus aaya hai aur na hi koi ghusa hua hai, na hi hamari koi post kisi dusre ke kabje me hai (Neither has anyone intruded into our frontier there, nor is any intruder there, nor is any of our posts occupied by someone else): Prime Minister Narendra Modi, June 19, all-party meeting. Abhi ki stithi ke anusar, Chinese side ne LAC aur andruni chhetron me badi sankhya me sainik tukdiyan aur gola-barud mobilise kiya hua hai (According to the situation now, the Chinese side has along the LAC and in inner areas mobilised troops and ammunition in large numbers): Defence minister Rajnath Singh, September 15, the Lok Sabha. No infiltration has been reported along India-China border during last six months: Junior home minister Nityanand Rai, September 16, the Rajya Sabha. Go figure! Or ask Anthony, who said more or less the same thing in Amar Akbar Anthony in 1977: “You see the whole country of the system is juxtapositioned by the haemoglobin in the atmosphere, because you are a sophisticated rhetorician intoxicated by the exuberance of your own verbosity.” The rapid-fire monologue prefaces a song that proclaims Anthony’s house number to be “420”. Several veterans expressed shock at what they felt was another instance of the government’s flip-flop on the China crisis. But they had not factored in the ingenuity of the Indian bureaucracy. By evening, “sources” were lecturing journalists on the nuances of semantics. The junior minister was asked about “infiltration” and he replied about “infiltration”, not “transgression” or “intrusion”. “The word ‘infiltration’ is used for terrorists crossing from the Line of Control. It is not the same as transgression or incursion, the common parlance for the military action on the Line of Actual Control,” a home ministry official said in the evening. To be fair to the government, the junior home minister was asked by BJP member Anil Agrawal “whether it is a fact that the cases of infiltration from Pakistan and China has (sic) increased during the last six months”. “Infiltration” has an element of intrigue and surreptitiousness. By all accounts, the Chinese troops did not “infiltrate”. They appear to have “intruded” or “transgressed” with impunity in plain sight while the Indian government pretended for weeks that all was quiet on the frontier. The problem with the junior home minister’s statement (his ministry headed by Amit Shah oversees the Indo-Tibetan Border Force that guards the border with China) is that many saw in it confirmation that Modi has accepted China’s position. Military veteran Pravin Sawhney said: “This confirms that India has accepted China’s 1959 claim line, which is also its (China’s) LAC. This reality was acknowledged by Prime Minister Modi’s June 19 statement -- it is now inbuilt in the new term ‘Border Areas’.” ‘Border Areas’ was the phrase used in the “joint” statement after the meeting of the Indian and Chinese foreign ministers in Moscow last week. Some saw in the “no-infiltration” statement on Wednesday a hint of an escape hatch for the Prime Minister. Modi can now claim he meant “infiltration”, not “intrusion”. But a glaring hole in this potential armour for Modi is that no one was speaking about infiltration when 20 soldiers were killed in the Galwan Valley on June 15. The external affairs ministry had used terms like “attempts to transgress”. An Indian defence ministry document had acknowledged that China had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh in early May. But the document was quietly removed from the ministry’s website a day after it was uploaded.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||China’s word awaited on fresh talks||China is keeping New Delhi waiting for a fresh round of military talks. “The Chinese are yet to confirm the dates for the corps commander-level meeting, which is supposed to take place by the end of this week. We are still waiting for their confirmation. It seems they are playing a wait-and-watch game,” a defence ministry official said. When the foreign ministers had met last week, it was agreed that the troops should “continue their dialogue, quickly disengage, maintain proper distance and ease tensions”. “We are ready with our agenda for the talks but there has been studied silence from them. It could be that they are awaiting clearance from their political bosses,” the ministry official said. “We are expecting them to respond sooner than later.” Military veterans had cautioned the army against any complacency, underlining that the Chinese use negotiations to gain time and strengthen positions on the ground. So far, the five rounds of military talks have failed to achieve any breakthrough.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Tagore’s Puri house wall demolished||The Puri administration has demolished the boundary wall of the house of Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore located on Chakratirtha Road near the beach in the temple town bringing back into focus the dilapidated state of the century-old property. The demolition of the wall has triggered demonstrations and an FIR against the authorities. The Patherpuri house, which Tagore built, is more than 100-years-old. A heritage structure, the property comes under the supervision of Samanta Chandra Sekhar (SCS) College, Puri. The building was used as a hostel for college students in 1945. However, it is almost in ruins and the hostel is not functional. Hector Mishra, chief of social organisation Voice of Common Man, said, “The boundary was razed to widen an existing road apparently at the behest of some hoteliers on Tuesday. The road will connect with the beach. We protested on Wednesday. We have lodged an FIR against the executive engineer. After taking over the land, they planned to construct another wall. But we protested and asked them to return the land.” Activist-cum-journalist Jagannath Bastia said, “The place was home to the poet who used to love Puri where he had composed some of his famous literary works, including Gitanjali. A portion of the building was earlier used as a hostel for the students of SCS College, Puri. The hostel has been closed for several years. The property is in a dilapidated state. There has been no effort at its restoration. After Cyclone Fani hit the town in May 2019, the building was almost in ruins. Drug addicts frequent the place. But the administration is yet to take steps for its restoration.” The building has been declared unsafe by the public works department. “Four existing roads already connect the area with the beach. Hence there was no need to take the land from Patherpuri house for the expansion of another road. This is being done at the behest of some hoteliers. We, the advocates of Puri, will soon join hands with the ABVP to launch a movement against the administration’s decision,” former SCS College student and ex-secretary, Puri Bar Association, Sarada Prasad Samal told The Telegraph. SCS College principal Sujata Mishra said: “The district administration has demolished the wall. What can I do? It’s better you ask the district authorities why they demolished the boundary. I have already informed the higher education department about the development. Besides, I have urged the department for renovation of the building. We have enough land to start our junior college there. Many things can be done.” The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (Intach), Odisha chapter, had also written to the Puri district administration to restore the heritage building for the benefit of future generations. “Earlier, the district administration had planned to raze the entire building. But they stopped following protests by us. It’s unfortunate that the district administration has demolished the wall of Patherpuri,” said Anil Dhir, media coordinator, Intach. “We had submitted a proposal to repair it for conservation. Since the building is synonymous with Tagore, we have requested the works department through a letter to construct a building which can be made into a museum to preserve the documents and artefacts in Patherpuri. But no progress has been made yet.” Puri sub-collector Bhaba Taran Sahu said: “We have not acquired any part of the Patherpuri hostel. We have just demolished a part of the wall, particularly the corners. It was a broken structure that has been demolished to expand a 10ft by 10ft road. Earlier, the RTO (regional transport officer) had emphasised the need to expand the road to reduce the number of accidents. It’s being done for the good of public. Besides, the land belongs to the government. Whenever the administration takes any such step, a section of people oppose it.” On steps being been taken to restore the heritage building, he said: “Many proposals have been submitted in this regard. We are examining the proposals.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||Riddle: exodus in UP, case in HP||Can a journalist’s comments questioning the country’s pandemic preparedness start an exodus by migrant workers, the Supreme Court wondered on Wednesday while hearing veteran journalist Vinod Dua’s plea to quash sedition charges against him. The bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Vineet Saran highlighted that the case had been registered in Himachal Pradesh while the exodus it allegedly triggered mostly involved other states, from where migrants had returned home to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The court’s queries were put to solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Himachal government, and senior advocate Mahesh Jethmalani, representing a purported BJP leader who had lodged the original complaint against Dua in April. Dua is accused of stating in a programme, uploaded on YouTube on March 30, that “Narendra Modi has used deaths and terror attacks to garner votes” and of creating panic by “spreading false information that the government does not have enough testing facilities” for Covid-19. Justice Lalit said: “This (registration of the case) was 10 days after the episode was aired. (The complainant says that) as a result of this episode, people started migrating. “But was this migration, per se, mentioned in the FIR, and did this particular episode trigger any other FIRs (elsewhere)? We understand that the migration issue is more or less (a matter of) UP and Bihar and the FIR was filed in Himachal....” Mehta defended the registration of the case, saying: “Video can be viewed from anywhere... even if no migration to and fro happened from Himachal.” Justice Lalit wondered how migration by some people could lead to a criminal case against another person. “I may not migrate but I was panic-stricken. To hear that government has no resources would lead to panic. That is enough to attract an offence,” Mehta contended. To a query from the bench, Mehta said that more than 10 lakh people had viewed the video. Jethmalani questioned Dua’s credentials, saying: “This particular petitioner claiming to be a media person is undeserving of any preliminary inquiry. There have been other podcasts where he has used the pandemic to incite people.” He claimed the earlier generation of editors maintained due restraints before publishing anything, but Dua “incites people to become violent”. Jethmalani said the company that owns the website on which Dua “airs his views... has unsecured loans of Rs 5 crore of which we have no clue about the source. Who are these benevolent people who have put so much faith in him?” He added: “It is not a case of fair comment that the government is negligent. It is an attack on the government and is an exploitation of a disaster… (whose magnitude) he has exaggerated on the basis of pure surmises and personal bias.” The arguments will continue on Friday. While challenging the sedition charges, Dua’s petition also accuses state governments of registering FIRs against journalists to harass and intimidate them. It seeks apex court guidelines on the registration of such FIRs. The top court had earlier restrained the police from arresting Dua but refused to stay the probe and said Dua would have to join the investigation “through videoconferencing or online mode”. Dua faces charges of sedition, criminal defamation and public mischief, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-662
17-09-2020||India||100m Russia Covid doses for India||A Russian agency and an Indian pharma company announced on Wednesday their plans to conduct an efficacy trial of the Russian candidate vaccine against the coronavirus disease in India and distribute 100 million doses for mass vaccination campaigns. The Russia Direct Investment Fund, the country’s sovereign wealth fund, and the Hyderabad-based Dr Reddy’s Laboratories have partnered for clinical trials and distribution of the vaccine after approval from the Indian drug regulatory authority, the two entities said. “Upon regulatory approval in India, RDIF shall supply 100 million doses of the vaccine…. Deliveries could potentially begin in late 2020 subject to completion of successful trials and registration of the vaccine by regulatory authorities in India,” the RDIF and the DRL said in a statement. Russia had approved the candidate vaccine, named Sputnik V, after phase 1 and phase 2 safety and immunogenicity studies. A critical round of phase 3 efficacy studies to test the vaccine’s capacity to protect people from the infection is under way in Russia with 40,000 healthy volunteers. “The phase 1 and phase 2 results have shown promise. We will be conducting phase 3 trials in India to meet the requirements of Indian regulators,” DRL managing director G.V. Prasad said in the statement. Vaccine researchers say a clinical trial in India, if approved by the regulatory authority, would likely involve a few thousand healthy volunteers. The proposal to distribute 100 million doses is intended to support a mass vaccination campaign, the researchers said. “They are meant for population-wide general use — a mass vaccination campaign,” a spokesperson for the RDIF told The Telegraph, adding that an application for the clinical trials in India would be filed soon. The application will need to be filed with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), India’s regulatory authority for drugs and vaccines. Under standard procedures, any mass vaccination can only start after the results of phase 3 trials have been assessed as successful. However, the CDSCO can under certain exceptional circumstances approve “emergency authorisation” use for either a drug or a vaccine ahead of standard trial requirements. India’s health minister Harsh Vardhan had on Sunday hinted that the Centre might consider emergency authorisation of Covid-19 vaccination “especially in the case of senior citizens and people working in high-risk settings”. Senior health officials had said earlier this week that the CDSCO had not yet received any proposal for emergency authorisation of a Covid-19 vaccine. “We believe our human adenovirus dual vector platform will provide a safe and scientifically validated option to India in the battle against Covid-19,” Kirill Dmitriev, RDIF’s CEO, said. Russia is also looking to use India as a source of mass production of the vaccine for which the RDIF is in talks with several vaccine makers, a spokesperson said. The Russian agency said over 55,000 volunteers had applied to take part in post-registration trials. The first results of these trials are expected to be published in October or November. “The data in their scientific paper look impressive,” said Sudanshu Vrati, a senior virologist and director of the Regional Centre for Biotechnology, Faridabad (Haryana). “But the actual proof of protection from the infection will only come from phase 3 trials.” The phase 1 trials primarily assess the safety of the vaccine while phase 2 trials are intended to find out whether a candidate vaccine will generate an immune response in the recipients. In the phase 3 trial, the candidate will be assessed for its capacity to protect the recipients from future infection. India is also independently assessing two home-grown vaccines, currently in phase 2 trials, and an Oxford-made vaccine in phase 3 trials.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Julio Ribeiro’s Gandhian jibe at ‘this regime’||Celebrated police veteran Julio Ribeiro has in a second letter to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava written that “Gandhians have lost favour with this regime!” The former DGP on Wednesday responded to Srivastava’s reply to his first letter, which had asked the commissioner to examine whether officers under his command “have been true to their oath”, hinting at bias in the Delhi riot probe. “There are doubts in my original open letter which you have not addressed. I realise that it is difficult, indeed impossible, to justify the licence given to the three BJP stalwarts I named (Kapil Mishra, Union minister Anurag Thakur and MP Parvesh Verma) licence to rant, rave and threaten those who are peacefully protesting perceived wrongs. If the speakers were Muslims or Leftists the police would have surely taken them in for sedition!” Ribeiro, 91, wrote on Wednesday. The “Gandhian” reference came in relation to social activist Harsh Mander and Delhi University professor Apoorvanand Jha, whom Ribeiro had in his first letter to Srivastava last week described as “true patriots”. Both are being probed by the police for alleged links between the citizenship protests they supported and the February riots that killed 53. Ribeiro wrote: “I note in your e-mail to me that you have doubted the patriotism of the three who I named as ‘true patriots’. The three include Harsh Mander, Prof. Apoorvanand and me…. Harsh and Apoorvanand are Gandhians. I should have remembered that Gandhians have lost favour with this regime!” Ribeiro and the Constitutional Conduct Group of retired civil servants have issued several statements on what they have termed a “partisan” riots probe that blames the violence on peaceful protesters against the new citizenship regime. After Ribeiro’s first letter to Srivastava, the police had initially said they were checking the veracity of the email. News agency PTI has quoted Srivastava’s reply to Ribeiro, in which the commissioner said that more FIRs had been registered on complaints from the minorities than those from the majority community. “It is best that the criminal justice system, with its inherent checks and balances may be allowed to work, lest lending one’s name inadvertently imparts a false aura of credibility and authenticity to these concocted and motivated stories,” PTI quoted Srivastava as saying. “Chargesheets in many cases have been filed while investigation is continuing in many others. The above details have been given to dispel any impression that one may harbour.” In his response, Ribeiro thanked Srivastava for his reply and a phone call, and said he would have done the same in Srivastava’s position. “After talking to you on the phone and perusing your letter I have decided to put myself in your shoes!.. I would quickly file the chargesheets in all the 753 cases, including specially the conspiracy case registered by your Special Cell, and get the evidence authenticated in a court of law,” Ribeiro wrote. “More pertinently I would not prolong the UAPA case by arresting persons just a day or two before the time limit expires for filing the chargesheet.” Ribeiro’s reply came on a day the first chargesheet was filed in the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act case, three days after rights activist Umar Khalid’s arrest. Among the accused in the FIR are Khalid, suspended Aam Aadmi Party councillor Tahir Hussain and several student protesters against the new citizenship matrix.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Limboos up ante on Sikkim House quota||The patience of the Limboo community with the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha clearly appears to be wearing thin nearly a year-and-a-half after being influential in voting chief minister P. S. Tamang (Golay)’s party to power in the state. Days after a nascent organisation of the Limboos and Tamangs upped the ante on the reservation of seats for the two communities in the Assembly, the Sukhim Yakthung Sapsok Songchumbho (SYSS), which espouses the Limboo cause, too, lend its voice, placing a host of demands before the government in addition to the Assembly quota. In a memorandum submitted to the chairman of Sikkim Scheduled Tribes Welfare Board, Prem Kumar Limboo, in Gangtok on Wednesday, the SYSS also demanded reservation of seats for the Limboos and Tamangs in the urban and rural local bodies. “We are hopeful that the due Constitutional rights of the Limboos and Tamangs will be fulfilled by the SKM government soon, given the promise to this effect made by the party in its election manifesto,” Gulshan Limboo, the SYSS secretary, told The Telegraph. Asked if the organisation had set any timeframe for the government, Limboo replied in the negative. “We will talk to other like-minded organisations and decide on the next course of action (in the event there is no positive response from the government),” Limboo added. The Limboos and Tamangs were given Scheduled Tribe status in 2003, but are yet to be granted reservation of seats in the Assembly as mandated by Article 332 of the Constitution. An organisation of the two communities had approached the Supreme Court on the issue in January 2019, and the matter remains pending. The SKM had vowed to deliver Assembly quota to the Limboos and Tamangs within 100 days of coming to power, but is yet to spell out its formula, unlike the opposition Sikkim Democratic Front. The SDF, when it was power, had suggested to the Centre to increase the strength of the Sikkim Assembly from the present 32 to 40, and reserve five seats for the Limboos and Tamangs. At present, 12 seats are reserved for the Bhutias and Lepchas, two for the Scheduled Castes and one for the sangha, which is a body of monks. Analysts said the Limboos seemed to be losing patience with the SKM government. “Look, the SKM had promised to reserve Assembly seats to the two communities within days of coming to power. Forget delivering on its promise, the party has not even spelled out how it plans to go about the job. This raising of the ante by the Limboo lobby clearly suggests its impatience,” said an analyst. Limboos are the predominant community in West Sikkim. Out of the eight Assembly seats in the West district, the Limboo vote plays a decisive role in six. In the 2019 Assembly elections, the SKM had won six seats from the area, which was largely responsible for the party to pip the SDF by 17 to 15 seats and come to power. Similarly, the Pawan Chamling-led SDF had swept the entire eight seats in 2014 to retain power for the record fifth consecutive term. The other demands of the SYSS are 15 per cent reservation in jobs for the Limboos and Tamangs according to the proportion of population, early completion of incomplete Limboo projects, inclusion of Limboo Language in state eligibility test and declaration of Yumaism as religion of the Limboo tribe, among others.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Art scholar Kapila Vatsyayan passes away||Scholar, author and connoisseur of the arts Kapila Vatsyayan died at her Delhi home on Wednesday. She was 92. “She passed away at 9am today at her home in Gulmohar Enclave,” Kanwal Ali, secretary of the India International Centre where she was a lifetime trustee, told PTI. Vatsyayan, who was awarded the Padma Vibhushan in 2011, was the founding director of the Indira Gandhi National Centre for the Arts. A former nominated member of the Rajya Sabha, she was also chairperson of the Asia Project at the IIC. The renowned scholar of art history, architecture and Indian classical dance was born in New Delhi in 1928 and did her Master's in English literature from Delhi University and in education from the University of Michigan in the US. Vatsyayan, the younger sister of poet and critic Keshav Malik, is survived by her younger brother Subhash Malik. She married legendary Hindi litterateur Sachchidananda Vatsyayan ‘Agyeya' in 1956, and continued with her married name even after their separation in 1969. The final rites were held at the Lodhi Cremation Ground on Wednesday afternoon. She authored nearly 20 books on different forms of art and their histories in her long career. Her notable works include The Square and the Circle of Indian Arts (1997), Bharata: The Natya Sastra (2006), Dance in Indian Painting (2004), Classical Indian Dance in Literature and the Arts (2007), and Transmissions and Transformations: Learning Through the Arts in Asia (2011). Tributes poured for the culture czarina, who occupied a unique space all her own. From politicians and academics to writers and artists, many people remembered her as an institution builder who had contributed immeasurably to the world of art. IIC president N.N. Vohra said in a statement that Vatsyayan had made an “invaluable contribution” to the growth of the institution. Renowned Hindi writer Ashok Vajpeyi said Vatsyayan's death was a “personal loss”. Congress leader Karan Singh said the nation has lost a woman of great learning and erudition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||‘Police conspiracy’ cry at solidarity meeting||Senior advocate Prashant Bhushan on Wednesday alleged that the police investigation into the Delhi riots was a “criminal conspiracy” to protect the perpetrators and frame the innocent. Attending a media conference in solidarity with those facing terror charges in connection with the February Delhi riots in which 53 people were killed, Bhushan told reporters at the Press Club of India: “It’s a criminal conspiracy by Delhi police to frame innocent people who were protesting peacefully against an unconstitutional law, and those activists who were supporting these peaceful, exemplary protests. It’s a conspiracy to let off those against whom unimpeachable evidence is available to show their involvement in these riots.” The media conference was held hours before the police announced that they had filed the first chargesheet on an FIR in which rights activist Umar Khalid, who was arrested on Sunday night, and several student and youth activists as well as former municipal councillors of the Aam Aadmi Party and the Congress, Taahir Hussain and Ishrat Jahan, have been booked under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act. The 11-volume, 17,000-page chargesheet was submitted in court in a steel trunk. Khalid’s parents were present at the media conference but did not speak. His mother Sabiha Khanum wore a facemask with her son’s picture on it with the message “We are all Umar Khalid” written in Hindi. Several of those present held placards, each bearing the picture of an accused booked under the UAPA with the name suffixed to the writing “We are all”. They also issued a statement demanding the release of the accused and the arrest of BJP leaders who had made incendiary speeches before the riots. A video message recorded by Khalid just before his arrest was screened in which he said: “The Delhi police are not arresting the rioters who incited and caused the large-scale communal violence in the capital in February. Instead, it is going after those who criticise the government and its policies, especially the Citizenship Amendment Act. The ones who participated in the anti-Citizenship Amendment Act protests are being wrongly framed without proof.” CPI national council member Kanhaiya Kumar, who had been arrested along with Khalid and fellow JNU student Anirban Bhattacharya for sedition in 2016 for which they are yet to face trial, was listed as a speaker at Wednesday’s media conference but he did not turn up, ostensibly because he was stuck in another meeting. Kanhaiya wrote on Facebook: “The question is why have the BJP leaders who openly instigated the riots not been called for questioning and arrested? Questions being raised on the investigation into the Delhi riots are inevitable as the aim is not to ensure justice but to take political revenge.” Friends of Khalid said the police’s special cell had allowed books to be given to him in custody. He is currently said to be reading Vikram Seth’s A Suitable Boy. Artist Shuddhabrata Sengupta has gifted Khalid a copy of Christopher de Bellaigue’s The Islamic Enlightenment: The Struggle Between Faith and Reason, 1798 to Modern Times, which will be handed over to the police through Khalid’s lawyer Trideep Pais. Former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed said at the media conference: “The objective of the government is to target Muslims along with other marginalised and deprived sections. The idea is to finish off our composite culture. We’re running at great speed towards a theocratic state. It is up to us to decide what kind of a country we want.” Several speakers drew comparisons between the Centre’s legal offensive against the anti-CAA activists and the misery of people due to the lockdown. CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan referred to the police citing voluminous documents while seeking Khalid’s custody and said: “This government has 11 lakh pages against Umar but not one page on the deaths of migrants. This shows their priority.… Delhi police must introspect whether they want to be remembered as a private army of the powers that be.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Migrant register off, Centre to create a database ||The Centre on Wednesday told Parliament that it intended to create a database for unorganised-sector workers including migrants, days after facing criticism for its lack of data on the deaths of migrant workers during the lockdown. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar’s assertions comes at a time the government’s proposed labour reform laws have dropped a longstanding but largely ignored legal requirement for the registration of migrant workers. “Ministry of labour & employment has envisaged development of a National Database for Unorganised Workers seeded with Aadhaar for all unorganised workers,” Gangwar said in a written reply to a question from DMK member Tiruchi Siva in the Rajya Sabha. “The project will enrol all unorganised workers including migrant workers.” Siva had asked whether the ministry would formulate a national database for migrant workers. Media reports have suggested that scores of migrant workers died of exhaustion or accidents while walking or hitch-hiking hundreds of miles home from their workplaces after the lockdown left them unemployed. But on Monday, Gangwar told the Lok Sabha that the question of compensation did not arise because the government did not maintain data on people “dying on the way”. Independent researchers have said that 972 migrant workers died while returning home between March 25, when the lockdown was announced, and July 4. The government had no data about the migrants despite the Inter State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Services) Act, 1979, mandating the registration of migrant workers in their home and destination states. Now this provision, unenforced for four decades, is set to go altogether. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Condition Code Bill, which will subsume the 1979 law once it is enacted, does not contain the registration clause for migrant workers. When the migrants were stuck in the various states — without jobs, money and sometimes food — neither the Centre nor their home or workplace states had any data about them. The labour contractors who had placed them in various factories were missing from the scene. Under the 1979 law, employers and contractors are to maintain records of the migrant workers employed, wages paid and the nature of work assigned to them. Government officials are to periodically inspect the records and the facilities provided to the workers. But the implementation of the 1979 law has been abysmal. In response to an RTI application from Anjali Bhardwaj, the labour ministry last week said that only 84,875 inter-state migrant workers had been registered, by just 372 establishments, between 2010-11 and 2019-20. The figure of 84,875 is just 0.8 per cent of the 1.04 crore migrant workers who the government says returned to their home states after the lockdown. The government cited this figure in Parliament this week on the basis of information collected from the states. The labour ministry’s reply to the RTI query showed that in several regions including Delhi, Dehradun, Jabalpur and Patna, not a single migrant worker had been registered in the year 2019-20. Another recent RTI application, filed with the railway ministry, had sought data on the number of migrant workers who had died while returning home on the Shramik Special trains. The Railway Board’s safety directorate replied that railway policing being a state subject, the registration of cases of unnatural death and their investigation were the states’ responsibility. The board said it maintained data of casualties from train accidents, and asserted that no deaths had occurred on the Shramik trains from train accidents during the pandemic. Altogether, three labour reform bills introduced by the labour ministry — the safety code bill, Industrial Relations Code Bill and Social Security Code Bill — are pending with Parliament. A Wage Code Bill has already been passed. These four laws will subsume the existing 44 labour laws in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||A hundred lies to conceal one lie spoken by the PM: Congress||The Congress on Wednesday pounced on the government’s claim that “no infiltration has been reported along the Indo-China border in the last six months”, saying this was another attempt to defend Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “lie” that nobody had entered Indian territory. “A hundred lies to conceal one lie spoken by the Prime Minister. This government is with China or with Indian Army?” party communications chief Randeep Surjewala tweeted. The Congress also posted this message: “As defence minister exposes PM Modi’s lies, the home ministry runs to his rescue. Shame! BJP, get your act together. Prioritise India over Modi ji.” Junior home minister Nityanand Rai had made the no-infiltration claim in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday, a day after defence minister Rajnath Singh had spoken of heavy Chinese mobilisation in “inner areas”, throwing into relief Modi’s June 19 claim that no one had intruded into India. Surjewala reminded the government that 20 Indian soldiers had died in the June 15 clash with the Chinese in the Galwan Valley and added: “Undermining their sacrifice is treason.” The Congress also asked the government to clarify whether it was claiming that the clash had taken place in Chinese territory — implying the Indian troops had transgressed the LAC. Although the government maintained that Rai’s statement had come in the context of infiltration by terrorists, the Congress believes the Centre’s intention was to deny Chinese intrusion and save the Prime Minister from embarrassment. Rahul Gandhi posted a sarcastic tweet: “Understand the chronology: PM said — no one crossed the border. Then, took a huge loan from a China-based bank. Then, defence minister said — China occupied our land. Now, minister of state for home says — there’s no infiltration. Is Modi government with Indian Army or with China? Modi ji, why so scared?” Rahul’s reference was to India taking loans from the China-controlled Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank while citing the border standoff to crack down on Chinese business relationships in India. Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera later told a news conference: “This (no-infiltration claim) is a shameless insult to the martyrdom of our brave soldiers in the Galwan Valley. Is the government trying to say that the Galwan clash happened in Chinese territory? By saying so, is the government (accusing) the Indian Army of trespassing into enemy territory? “Isn’t this just another clean chit to China but also a handle given to China by our government? China can now claim that the Government of India and the Prime Minister and the minister of state for home are saying they are not the aggressor. The response of the government dilutes the resolve of India and its mighty army to protect every inch of our valuable territory.” Khera added: “Why is this government so keen to give clean chits to China? After the Prime Minister, now the defence minister talks about differing perceptions of the LAC (in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday). There are no differing perceptions; the LAC is clearly defined. These statements will only embolden China.” Khera asked the defence minister to answer these questions: “Are we able to patrol the same areas as we were able to do so before April 2020? What is the pressure under which the Prime Minister gave a clean chit to China? Under whose pressure did the defence ministry remove the document that acknowledged Chinese transgression in eastern Ladakh? Is the entire government now trying to justify that one big lie of the Prime Minister?”The defence ministry had without explanation on August 6 removed from its website a one-day-old document that had acknowledged China had “transgressed” into eastern Ladakh – the first government document to admit to the intrusion. Khera accused the government of hypocrisy in taking loans worth Rs 9,202 crore from the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank while, he said, the Prime Minister was claiming credit for banning Chinese apps.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Akalis object, govt holds back farm reforms bills||BJP president J.P. Nadda blew hot and cold over the farm reforms bills the government has lined up for ratification in Parliament, tearing into the Congress for opposing them but exercising caution while tackling ally Shiromani Akali Dal, which too has objected to the plan. Nadda hailed as “farsighted” and “revolutionary” the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, which are to be passed in the current monsoon session of Parliament. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill cleared the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill was scheduled to be taken up by the Lower House on Wednesday but was held back, with sources claiming the government was trying to get the Akali Dal on board. The Punjab-based Akali Dal, which had supported the proposed changes when ordinances had been passed in June, shifted track after farmers erupted in protest in the agriculture-rich state and also in neighbouring Haryana. The protests are being led by Congress veteran and Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh. The Akalis are now claiming that the central government didn’t consult them before the three ordinances were approved by the Union cabinet in June and have asked its two members in the Lok Sabha and three in the Rajya Sabha to vote against the bills. Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has urged the government to talk to the farmers and address their concerns before rushing through the bills in Parliament. “The Akali Dal can go to any extent to protect the interests of the farmers,” Badal said on Tuesday. Asked about the ally’s objection, Nadda said: “We are talking to them and their concerns will be addressed.” The BJP chief, however, did not have such kind words for the Congress, which has been from the beginning opposing the proposed changes. The Congress has threatened a mass protest and vowed to defeat the “conspiracy to hand over the farm sector to crony capitalists”. Nadda accused the party of opposing the bills only for politics and in the process trying to harm the interests of farmers. He also accused the Congress of maintaining double standard, claiming that the party had been in favour of the reforms in the past but had turned against them only to play politics.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Naidu bristles at mask-off reminder ||Rajya Sabha chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu ticked off Trinamul Congress member Santanu Sen on Wednesday for reminding the House how his party colleagues had been asked to remove their masks by the Chair in March during the budget session. Clearly upset by repeated reminders by Trinamul members outside the House of the March 18 incident when he had asked them to remove their masks, Naidu stopped Sen to say: “Thank you for this information which has been relayed time and again. That day when the Chair had given that ruling, the ICMR (Indian Council of Medical Research) had not given any such advice, for your information.” “With confirmation, I am saying this information. At that time, the Chair was guided by the guidelines issued by the ICMR. On that day, when this comment was made, there was no such thing,’’ he said. Further, Naidu recalled how he had allowed members to continue wearing masks after Congress leader P. Chidambaram intervened on their behalf. “But some people are not able to forget it and continuously calling TV persons, telling them also and relaying it again. Why? There is, actually, no factual information. Now you are happy I am wearing a mask. I am also happy you are wearing it but removing in between. Please wear it. Please wear and then go ahead.’’ Sen had earlier begun his intervention on The Institute of Teaching and Research in Ayurveda Bill, 2020, by recalling what transpired on the morning of March 18 in the House. “It is good to see everyone wearing mask in the august House as we recall in the early days of Covid-19 pandemic, when our members of the All India Trinamool Congress were wearing masks, we were asked to remove it by the Chair.’’ Trinamul MPs had back then come wearing masks partly as part of a strategy to drive home the need to adjourn Parliament mid-session because of the growing number of coronavirus cases across the country. The chairperson twice asked Trinamul MPs to remove their masks, and when they did not comply, other MPs intervened on their behalf after which Naidu yielded. By March 18, it was a week since the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 a pandemic but the Narendra Modi government took another month to reconcile different opinions within the establishment on widespread use of masks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
17-09-2020||India||Delhi riots: Police files charge sheet under UAPA against 15 for larger conspiracy||Delhi police on Wednesday filed a charge sheet before a city court under the UAPA and various sections of the IPC against 15 persons for larger conspiracy in northeast Delhi riots in February even as a group of activists and academics demanded immediate release of those booked under the stringent law. According to sources, those named in the charge sheet are Taahir Hussain, Mohd Parvez Ahmed, Mohd Illyas, Saifi Khalid, Ishrat Jahan, Miran Haider, Safoora Zargar, Asif Iqbal Tanha, Shahdab Ahmed, Natasha Narwal, Devangana Kalita, Tasleem Ahmed, Saleem Malik, Mohd Saleem Khan and Athar Khan. The special cell of the police told additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat that it had relied upon CD-R and WhatsApp chats. In the charge sheet running into 10,000 pages, the police has listed 747 witnesses; of them, 51 have recorded their statements under Section 164 of CrPC (before the magistrate). The final report has been filed under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Arms Act. The police said it has given the chronology of conspiracy and relevant events in its charge sheet which is likely to be taken up for consideration in the coming days. The evidence includes WhatsApp chats of February 24, the time of the riots. At that point, key conspirators were guiding their foot soldiers about violence in the area. The key conspirators were directly in touch with their foot soldiers, police said. WhatsApp groups were used by conspirators for “violence” in the Seelampur-Jafarabad area. There were 25 protest sites in 25 cities. Twenty-five WhatsApp groups were especially created for each city. The impression was given that they were anti-CAA protest groups but through these sites conspirators were being guided, it said. The special cell said that Tahir Hussain, Khalid Saifi and Umar Khalid had allegedly planned massive violence in the capital during US President Donald Trump’s visit to Delhi. In the charge sheet, which discusses the conspiracy behind the Delhi riots, the police has claimed that on January 8, Tahir had met Umar Khalid and Khalid Saifi at the Shaheen Bagh sit-in. Meetings subsequently also took place in the PFI office in Jamia. Umar said that through his contacts (in the PFI), logistical support, etc. will be provided, the police said. It said the probe is still underway and the force will file a supplementary charge sheet in the matter. A group of activists and academics on Wednesday demanded immediate release of those booked under the UAPA in connection with the northeast Delhi riots. They sought the setting up of a judicial inquiry commission to punish the “real culprits”. In a joint statement, they alleged that the democratic voices of dissent were being “gradually implicated”. The statement came after the arrest of former JNU student leader Umar Khalid by the Delhi police on September 13. Khalid has been charged under the UAPA. The joint statement was issued by Syeda Hameed, writer and former member of erstwhile Planning Commission of India, senior lawyer Prashant Bhushan, former JNU students' union president Kanhaiya Kumar, CPIML politburo member Kavita Krishnan, journalist Pamela Philipose and former DUTA president Nandita Narain. “All democratic voices of dissent are being gradually implicated. This includes students, academicians, artists, politicians and activists. We demand an immediate end to this outrageous investigation that is being conducted with prejudice and mala fide intent,” the statement stated. “We demand that activists booked under the UAPA be immediately released and a judicial inquiry commission be constituted to punish the real culprits and ensure justice for the Delhi violence,” it stated. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between supporters of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and those against the legislation spiralled out of control, leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. At a news conference earlier in the day, Bhushan said they recently requested President Ram Nath Kovind to constitute a commission of inquiry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-663
