18-09-2020||India||Can media target whole community, SC asks Sudarshan TV||The Supreme Court on Friday questioned Sudarshan TV over its 'Bindas Bol' programme, whose promo had claimed that the channel would show the 'big expose on conspiracy to infiltrate Muslims in government service', and asked whether media can be allowed to target whole set of communities . The apex court, while hearing a plea which has raised grievance over the programme, said the channel is entitled to break story but it cannot brand the entire community and alienate them by doing such kind of stories. "This is the real issue. Whenever you show them joining civil services, you show ISIS. You want to say that Muslims joining civil services is a part of a deep-rooted conspiracy. Can the media be allowed to target whole set of communities?" a bench headed by Justice D Y Chandrachud asked. Painting all candidates as carrying out an agenda shows a kind of hatred. This is the element of concern, said the bench, also comprising Justices Indu Malhotra and K M Joseph. "Here free speech becomes hatred. You can't brand every member of the community. You alienate the good members too by divisive agenda, it said. The bench told senior advocate Shyam Divan, who was representing Sudarshan TV, that the court has no problem with the story on investigative journalism on funding from terror linked organizations but it cannot say that Muslims are carrying out some agenda by going for UPSC services. "Let a message go to the media that a particular community cannot be targeted. We have to look after a nation of the future which is cohesive and diverse, the media should know that the country cannot survive with such an agenda. "We are a court and after seeing what happened during the emergency, it is our duty to see that human dignity is preserved", said the bench. Divan referred to the affidavit filed in the apex court by Suresh Chavhanke, Editor-in-Chief of the channel. In the affidavit, the channel has defended its programme saying it has used the term 'UPSC Jehad' based on information that 'Zakat Foundation' received funds from various terror-linked organisations . Zakat Foundation provides training and study materials largely to Muslim students who aspire to join civil services. During the hearing conducted through video-conferencing, Divan said the channel has no problem with any individual from any community joining the civil services on merit. "The channel wants to complete the broadcast. We are not running away anywhere. If the four episodes are seen as whole then a cuss word here and there should not ignite the jurisdiction of this court to impose a pre-telecast ban", he said. The bench observed that some of the offensive contents should be taken off. Divan told the bench that the channel would file an affidavit with regard to the alleged offensive content of the programme as pointed out by the court. "We know how an injunction order will be looked like. I am afraid that there will be injunctions galore and we don't want that to be the law of land. We want to give your client a good faith option." the bench observed, Earlier in the day's proceeding, the bench asked Zakat Foundation, an NGO which provides training to largely Muslims students aspiring for civil services, whether it wanted to intervene in the case following allegations of foreign funding from some terror linked organizations to its Indian set up. The bench told senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for Zakat Foundation, that the affidavit of Sudarshan TV has allegations of foreign funding against his client. Hegde said his client is a charitable organization and has been supporting non-Muslims as well and this kind of social service is not known even in government circles. The channel has also filed an application in the apex court seeking live telecast of the hearing in the matter. On September 15, the top court had restrained the channel from telecasting the episodes of "Bindas Bol" programme till further orders, saying that "the intent" of the episodes "prima facie" appeared to "vilify" the Muslim community.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
18-09-2020||India||Farm bills a 'protection shield' for farmers, says PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday stoutly defended farm sector reform bills, asserting that they will act as a "protection shield" for farmers and accused those opposing the measures of standing with middlemen and "deceiving" and "lying" to peasants. With opposition parties dubbing three bills, passed by Lok Sabha and now to be tabled in Rajya Sabha, as "anti-farmers" and the BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal quitting his government to protest them, Modi refuted their criticism while speaking via video-conference after the launch of a railway bridge on river Koshi in Bihar. He said these laws will unshackle farmers by allowing them to sell their produce anywhere by negotiating a better price. He asserted that the government purchase of farm produce will remain, adding that the mechanism of minimum support price will continue in the same way it always has. At a virtual event to launch several rail projects in Bihar, Modi said his government is committed to providing farmers appropriate price through the MSP, and asserted that no government has done as much for the farming community as the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance in its six years in power since 2014. Farmers of the country are aware and can see who are standing with middlemen, who "pocketed"profits meant for them, and opposing new opportunities being provided for them through these measures, he said. The prime minister said the Congress had also promised in its manifesto what his government has now done through these bills, as he attacked the opposition party for fanning protests against these proposed legislations. Without naming it, he launched a blistering attack on the Congress, saying those who remained in power for decades are trying to "mislead" farmers and "lying" to them on the agriculture bills. Lok Sabha had passed two bills on Thursday and another bill earlier with the government asserting that they will open new avenues for farmers by unshackling them from existing mechanism and allowing them to enter into agreements with private parties to sell their produce.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Delhi HC directs schools to provide gadgets, internet pack to poor students||The Delhi High Court Friday directed private as well as government schools to provide gadgets and an internet package to poor students for online classes, saying the absence of such facilities prevent children from pursuing elementary education. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said private unaided schools "shall be entitled to claim reimbursement of reasonable cost for procurement of the equipment and internet package from the State under the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009, even though the State is not providing the same to its students". The bench directed constitution of a three-member committee, comprising education secretary from the Centre or his nominee, Delhi government's education secretary or his nominee and a representative of the private schools, to expedite and streamline the process of identifying and supplying the gadgets to poor and disadvantaged students. The court said the committee shall also frame standard operating procedures (SOPs) for identifying the standard of the equipment and internet package to be supplied to the poor and disadvantaged students. This would ensure uniformity in the gadgets and internet package being used by all the poor and disadvantaged students, the bench said. The judgment came on a PIL by NGO Justice for All, represented by advocate Khagesh Jha, seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor kids so that they can access classes online during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Almost one lakh cases in a day, Covid tally touches 52 lakh||India's Covid-19 tally raced past 52 lakh with 96,424 people testing positive in a day, while the number of people who have recuperated from the disease rose to 41,12,551 on Friday, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The country's recovery rate stands at 78.86 per cent. The total coronavirus cases mounted to 52,14,677, while the death toll climbed to 84,372 with the virus claiming 1,174 lives in a span of 24 hours, the data updated at 8 am showed. The Covid-19 case fatality rate due to the coronavirus infection has further dropped to 1.62 per cent. There are 10,17,754 active cases of Covid-19 in the country which comprises 19.52 per cent of the total caseload, the data stated. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and it went past 50 lakh on September 16. According to the ICMR, a cumulative total of 6,15,72,343 samples have been tested up to September 17 with 10,06,615 samples being tested on Thursday. Of the 1,174 new deaths, 468 are from Maharashtra, 93 from Karnataka, 81 from Uttar Pradesh, 72 from Andhra Pradesh, 60 from West Bengal, 59 from Tamil Nadu, 54 from Punjab,38 from Delhi, 33 from Madhya Pradesh, 24 from Haryana, 19 from Jammu and Kashmir, 17 each from Assam and Chhattisgarh, 14 each from Gujarat and Rajasthan and 13 each from Odisha, Puducherry and Uttarakhand. Eleven fatalities have been reported from Jharkhand and Telangana, nine from Kerala, eight from Goa, seven each from Bihar and Himachal Pradesh, six from Tripura, five from Chandigarh, three each from Manipur and Sikkim while Meghalaya has registered one new fatality. A total of 84,372 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 31,351 from Maharashtra followed by 8,618 from Tamil Nadu, 7,629 from Karnataka, 5,177 from Andhra Pradesh, 4,877 from Delhi, 4,771 from Uttar Pradesh, 4,183 from West Bengal, 3,270 from Gujarat, 2,646 from Punjab and 1,877 from Madhya Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||IMA denounces failure on Covid warrior data||The Indian Medical Association, the country’s largest body of doctors, has accused the Narendra Modi government of “hypocrisy” for describing healthcare workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus epidemic as “warriors” but not caring to count Covid-19 deaths among them. The IMA said 382 doctors had died from Covid-19 and decried the Union health ministry’s assertions in Parliament that health was a state subject and the Centre did not maintain data on Covid-19 infections or deaths among healthcare workers. Senior doctors not associated with the IMA too have expressed surprise that the Centre is not tracking deaths among healthcare workers, saying that is tantamount to a nation at war not counting casualties among its soldiers. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan had in a statement in Parliament earlier this week acknowledged healthcare workers’ contributions during the pandemic. However, the health ministry, replying to parliamentary questions, had said it does not collect data on infections or deaths among healthcare workers but maintains a record of insurance claims received from their families after deaths among them. The IMA has said in a sharply worded statement that any attempt to pretend that information about infections and deaths among healthcare workers does not merit the attention of the nation is “abominable”. “If the government doesn’t maintain the statistics of the number of doctors and healthcare workers infected by Covid-19 and statistics of how many sacrificed their lives… it loses the moral authority to administer the Epidemic Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act,” the IMA said. The Centre had earlier this year invoked the two acts, empowering itself to enforce epidemic-related advisories. The IMA said the Centre’s attitude “exposes the hypocrisy” of calling healthcare workers “corona warriors” and yet denying them the status of martyrdom. Earlier, the Centre had declared that it maintained no data on the deaths of migrants, another segment of the population that has suffered heavily because of the pandemic and the lockdown. “There is a reluctance to admit that healthcare workers have sacrificed their lives,” R.V. Asokan, IMA general secretary, told The Telegraph. “The Centre is enforcing coronavirus advisories in all states, but they do not consider it necessary to count casualties among healthcare workers.” Doctors have underlined that healthcare workers represent precious resources, especially during pandemics. Several countries such as Italy and the US have since the beginning of the pandemic maintained records of Covid-19 infections and deaths among their healthcare workers. In the US, for instance, the Centres for Disease Control and Prevention have recorded 156,306 infections and 690 deaths among healthcare professionals. “Tracking such numbers is important because any unusual increase can alert authorities about the need for interventions,” a senior physician at a central government hospital in India, who requested not to be named, told this newspaper. “Infection and death counts among healthcare workers also serve as measures of the effectiveness of the personal protective equipment.” The health ministry and the Indian Council of Medical Research, along with the states, maintain records of all those who were tested, all those found positive and all those who died. “It should not be difficult for the Centre to get this data (about healthcare workers) on a regular basis from states,” a senior doctor at a government hospital said. The IMA had until Thursday documented 382 Covid-19 deaths and 2,238 infections among doctors across the country. Asokan said the association collected information daily from its state branches, which rely on around 1,700 local town branches to gather data on deaths and infections among doctors. The 382 doctors who have died include 42 each from Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, 39 from Gujarat, 36 from Maharashtra, 28 from Bengal and 23 from Bihar. General practitioners and family doctors have disproportionately high infections, Asokan said. “General practitioners and neighbourhood doctors are at particularly high risk of exposure because they remain the first port of call for most patients, including those with respiratory symptoms. Patients do not go directly to Covid hospitals,” he said. Asokan said the data the IMA had collected suggested that doctors, who are at a greater risk of exposure than the general population, also have higher mortality levels. The IMA’s own database, albeit incomplete, has counts of 2,238 infections and 382 deaths — implying a fatality rate of 17 per cent, which is more than 10 times the national Covid-19 case fatality rate of 1.6 per cent. Senior IMA officials concede that a comparison based on incomplete data is inappropriate. “We want to be proved wrong. We hope that the government counts the deaths among doctors and other healthcare workers and proves us wrong,” Asokan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Job data hard to gulp? Shut eyes||The Centre has said it does not accept survey data provided by “non-government agencies”, the assertion coming at a time independent agencies have reported enormous job losses in the country while the government has sat tight on its own survey findings. For instance, the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) has estimated the loss of 21 million salaried jobs between April and August, weeks after suggesting that 18.9 million salaried jobs were lost between April and July. Labour minister Santosh Gangwar told the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday that government policies use only official data. “For framing government policies only official data are used, and data captured by non-government agencies are not referred (to),” he said in a written reply to a question from Samajwadi Party member Ravi Prakash Verma. Verma had asked whether the government was aware of the CMIE’s finding about the loss of 18.9 million salaried jobs. Others too have pointed to an unemployment crisis. The International Labour Organisation and the Asian Development Bank released a report last month saying 41 lakh youths in India had lost their jobs in the first three months of the lockdown. A survey by the Azim Premji University has found that two-thirds of the country’s informal-sector workers lost their jobs during the lockdown. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas told The Telegraph that the government was “free to take a view” on whether to take the organisation’s findings into account. Labour economist and former JNU teacher Santosh Mehrotra, currently a visiting professor to the University of Bath in the UK, agreed that it was the government’s prerogative not to use NGO data for policy-making. But, he said, the government should release its own data punctually. “If the government does not accept NGO data, it should release its own data regularly. But several survey reports by the National Statistical Office (NSO) and the Labour Bureau have not been released despite having been ready long ago,” Mehrotra said. The Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS), conducted by the NSO, is supposed to release its findings every quarter but has not done so since July 2019. “The CMIE survey uses a larger sample than the PLFS. It covers both the organised and unorganised-sector workers, and both the rural and urban areas,” Mehrotra said. “It is reliable data. If the government does not accept it, it should explain why not.” The NSO is yet to release the Time Use Survey, for which data collection had concluded last December. This survey ascertains what people do from 4am through the rest of the day, thus reflects what proportion of the workforce has jobs. The ministry of statistics and programme implementation has decided to not release the 75th Consumer Expenditure Survey, citing a wide divergence from the data sent in by district administrations across the country. The Business Standard newspaper has reported that the survey, conducted between July 2017 and June 2018, found a fall in consumer spending for the first time in more than four decades. The Labour Bureau, which operates under the labour and employment ministry, has failed to release the last four reports of the now-scrapped Quarterly Employment Survey (QES), and the latest report of the Employment and Unemployment Survey, conducted for 2016-17.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Job protests spoil Modi birthday party||From Twitter trends to street protests, the subject of joblessness received more traction on Thursday than celebrations of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday. On Twitter, #17Baje17Minute, #NationalUnemploymentDay and #RashtriyaBerozgariDiwas were the most trending hashtags in India, cumulatively accounting for almost 40 lakh tweets by 7.30pm. (#17Baje17Minute was a call for protests at 5.17pm on Thursday.) #HappyBirthdayPMModi and allied tags such as #RespectYourPM had by then registered just over 5 lakh tweets. Thursday’s development came amid a 23 per cent unemployment rate — higher than pre-lockdown levels — and a contraction in India’s GDP, for the first time in four decades, by 23.9 per cent. Groups of students and civil service aspirants were the first to give a call to rebrand Modi’s birthday at a time when the BJP was observing “Sewa Saptah” or service week to celebrate it. Workers and frontal organisations of the Congress were heavily involved in the protests, while Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra tweeted unemployment data and visuals of the demonstrations. In Delhi, BJP members planted trees, donated blood, distributed sports equipment and fruits in slums and cut a large cake made of laddus. The Congress and Left protests, however, were spread across many cities, with the police forcibly dispersing youths chanting slogans against unemployment in Lucknow and Allahabad. Marches with fire torches were held in the evening in several cities. In Delhi, the Youth Congress hung banners on several flyovers mocking the Prime Minister over the unemployment crisis. Rahul tweeted a news report about purported labour ministry data that said only 1.77 lakh jobs were available in 20 key sectors while 1.03 crore people were looking for jobs. “Massive unemployment has forced the youth to call today #NationalUnemploymentDay. Employment is dignity. For how long will the Govt deny it?” Rahul said. The government has failed to release employment data provided by various surveys while independent agencies have painted a dismal picture of job losses. Two external members of the National Statistical Commission quit last year after the government withheld a job survey report. CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya tweeted pictures of protest rallies from across Bihar. “Salute Young India for storming Modi’s birthday party with their torchlight processions against unemployment and the non-performing and treacherous Modi government,” he said. On March 6, 1930, the Communist International had marked an International Unemployment Day during the Great Depression in the United States and Europe, which eventually led to the suppression of communists in the US.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||India-China standoff: Rajnath admission on LAC patrol||The Centre told Parliament that China is stopping Indian troops from patrolling some of the areas they used to along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), identifying this as the main reason for the ongoing face-off. This was said in the Rajya Sabha on Thursday by defence minister Rajnath Singh in response to a clarification sought by Congress MP A.K. Antony on his statement on “the developments on our borders in Ladakh” that was tabled in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday. “Antony sahab... ne yeh kaha ki China patrolling karne se Bharat ko rokta hai. Mein yah spasht kar dena chahta hoon ki ladai bhi toh isiliye ho rahi hai, fasaad toh isliye hota hai (Mr Antony... said China stops India from patrolling. I want to make it clear that the fight is happening because of this, this is the cause of the dispute),” Rajnath said. He did not divulge any further details, asserting that the patrolling pattern that Antony — himself a former defence minister — had referred to was traditional and well-defined. “No force on earth can stop Indian troops from patrolling these areas. It is for this that our soldiers made the supreme sacrifice. There will be no change in the patrolling pattern,” Rajnath said. Antony had said the army and the ITBP must be allowed to patrol till the points that “we used to patrol”, stressing that Indian troops were not being allowed up to Finger Point 8, which they used to patrol. While Rajnath was drawn into commenting on the patrolling, he sidestepped questions from Antony and party colleague Anand Sharma whether the restoration of status quo ante would remain a non-negotiable and final objective for India. Antony was persistent. “The defence minister promised the House that the government will do everything to protect the sovereignty of the country. What does it mean? You have to clarify if ‘sovereignty’ means status quo ante as in mid-April. That is the meaning of protecting sovereignty — status quo ante as of April.” Referring to his statement in the context of the questions posed by the two Congress members, Rajnath said: “I have clarified it completely in my statement.” His statement, however, did not mention “status quo ante” even once. What it did was repeatedly assert that neither side should unilaterally alter the status quo. Patrolling points are designated spots on the LAC that are patrolled according to a pre-determined schedule by the security forces. They are a way of asserting India’s claims along the LAC, which is yet to be delineated. In the Fingers area of the Pangong Lake, flashpoints emerge when the patrols of the two armies end up at the same point around the same time — a possible fallout of the claim lines going beyond the areas physically held. Commenting on the day’s proceedings, Jairam Ramesh, the Congress chief whip in the Rajya Sabha, tweeted: “Raksha Mantri’s statement this afternoon in the Rajya Sabha drew the support of all political parties. But sadly we are none the wiser on the PM’s claim of 19th June. Was that deliberate or was it a slip-up? Was it a ploy or a mis-step? Whatever it was, it continues to haunt India.” Given the questions and doubts that persist about the situation along the LAC and the Chinese intent — about which even external affairs minister S. Jaishankar has admitted “we are at a loss to know why” — Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu suggested to Rajnath that he privately brief leaders of the Opposition parties on the situation. Later, briefing reporters, external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said: “The Chinese side should sincerely work with the Indian side for complete disengagement at the earliest from all friction areas including Pangong Lake as well as de-escalation in border areas in accordance with the bilateral agreements and protocols on maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas. We hope the Chinese side will strictly respect and observe the LAC and not make further attempts to unilaterally change status quo.” Earlier in the day, the Chinese foreign ministry had articulated a similar expectation from India, asserting that China had strictly adhered to all border agreements. “What is pressing now is that the Indian side should immediately correct its mistake, disengage on the ground as soon as possible and take concrete actions to ease the tension and lower the temperature along the border,” Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||‘Obsessed’ parent in school toy gun drama||A senior police officer’s wife has been arrested for allegedly pointing what turned out to be a toy pistol at the principal of her daughter’s school in Ghaziabad to force her to continue their “friendship” and slitting her own wrist with a blade. Meenakshi Devi, the wife of a deputy superintendent-rank officer posted in Lucknow, has been dubbed “obsessed” by the police and charged with threatening to kill the principal and trying to commit suicide. Police sources said the woman had told them that she considered Sister Savidha, the principal of St Teresa’s Convent School in Sarvoday Nagar, her “sister”. Sister Savidha said she used to entertain Meenakshi as her daughter studied in the school. “She used to visit the school frequently and meet me. Gradually we became friends. But I realised after a few meetings that she didn’t have good habits. So, I started avoiding her. One day, she sent me the picture of a revolver on WhatsApp. After a few days, she wrote my name on her arm with a blade and sent the picture to me. On Wednesday, she barged into the school premises and also entered my house. She continued the drama for about four hours before we finally decided to call the police,” Sister Savidha has told the police. Devendra Singh Bist, the SHO of Vijay Nagar, said: “We got a call from the school at 9pm about the incident and brought the woman to the police station. She has been sent to jail after being booked for trying to commit suicide and threatening to kill the principal.” “The woman is obsessed. She told us that she treats the principal as her sister but the principal doesn’t treat her the same way.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Hindu Yuva Vahini leader killed||A leader of the Hindu Yuva Vahini, a private militia formed by Yogi Adityanath a decade and a half ago, was stabbed to death early on Thursday morning in an apparent fallout of personal enmity. Sanjay Singh, 45, a medical doctor who ran a small hospital in Bareilly town, was sleeping on a cot in front of the building when three men attacked him around 3am, his staff have told police. He died on the spot. Singh, the Vahini’s district vice-president in Bareilly, western Uttar Pradesh, is among a dozen Hindutva activists and leaders to have been murdered in Uttar Pradesh since Adityanath became chief minister in March 2017. Most of the murders have been attributed to personal enmity or faction feud. Adityanath had founded the Vahini when he was Gorakhpur MP, ostensibly as a way of involving the youth into social service. The militia, however, mostly helped organise Adityanath’s policical meetings and helped him win elections. Its members have been accused of intimidating voters and assaulting people, particularly Muslims, but have seldom been booked and hardly ever punished. Since becoming chief minister, Adityanath has ostensibly been trying to dissociate himself from the militia. Police quoted a hospital employee as saying Singh had been receiving threat calls for the past two years. “We have identified the killers from CCTV footage and are trying to arrest them,” Bareilly senior superintendent of police Rohit Singh Sajwana said. He said the murder motive was unclear. However, a Bareilly-based businessman has been taken into custody on a complaint from Singh’s family who live in a village, Anandpur, in the district. Vahini district president Anuj Pratap Singh suggested “personal enmity” as the motive while trying to shield Adityanath against charges of poor law and order. “Sanjay Singh was active in social work. The law-and-order situation is better these days in Uttar Pradesh but we can’t stop crime because of personal enmity among people,” he said. Among the Hindutva leaders killed in Adityanath’s watch are Sanjay Khokhar, RSS member and former BJP president for Baghpat, who was shot on August 11. Ranjeet Bachchan, Vishwa Hindu Mahasabha president, was shot by motorcycle-borne assailants in Hazratganj area of Lucknow on February 2. Kamlesh Tiwari, leader of the Hindu Mahasabha and national president of the Hindu Samaj Party, was shot in his office in Lucknow on October 18 last year. His death spawned many conspiracy theories, including one with a communal and terrorist angle.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Happy birthday, Narendrabhai||Happy b’day, Narendrabhai, on your 70th (or is it 71st?) anniversary. I ask because ordinary mortals like humble me are given only one year of birth, thou art born twice for you are the Lord’s special bhakt. He has sent you twice over to this benighted nation to make Bharat Congress-mukt. You have opened the way to making of India a Hindu Rashtra. We celebrate your birthday/s because we were unable to celebrate the swayamvara at which you broke the bow of godless sickularism. And then, true to the vow you had made to yourself, you rejected the mundane pleasures of a “grihasti” to prepare your soul for the greater tasks to which you had been called. Has there been a nobler exile than yours since the Maryada Purushottam exiled himself to the pitiless jungle for 14 years? He, of course, went with his new bride. You, Courageous One, went all on your own. Future generations will reverence you with cries of, “Jai, Shri Modi”. We could not attend your convocations either, neither at Delhi University nor at Gujarat University, not because convocations were not held but because only those who had attended classes, taken tutorials and passed exams were included in academic processions (wearing funny hats on their heads). Ordinary once-born human beings do so to adorn themselves with a piece of paper that certifies to their being “educated”. What need had you of such meaningless certificates when you had procured your credentials meditating in the deep caves of the High Himalaya? Others with such qualifications become Godmen. You had a larger destiny as a Leader of Men. So, you placed your saintliness at the feet of Balasaheb Deoras and Guruji Golwalkar and Dr. Hedgewar and the noble Veer Savarkar himself. They raised you and placed your feet on their heads — for they had been sent only to talk; you had been sent to act. And, so, your administration transported the bodies of 60 Hindu martyrs from Godhra to Ahmedabad, thus setting ablaze a thousand descendants of those who had violated Bharat Mata for a thousand years. And the gods in the heavens sent Raghava (to whose holy name these wretched anti-Hindi Madrasis needlessly attach an ‘n’) to rescue you from the shaitans who were trying to taint you. The Lord rewards those whom He loves — that is ancient Truth (on par with our ancients’ discovery of plastic surgery, aerodynamics, gravity, and their revelation to you alone, Great One, of radar not being able to penetrate cloud cover). It is you, Narendrabhai, who have brought all this to our knowledge, which had been hidden from our eyes by these wretched Nehruvians (chhihchhi, even to mention that name soils our tongue despite your having spent thousands of crore getting the Chinese to build the Statue of Unity under your “Make in India” programme to wipe the very thought of the Evil “Pandit” from our collective memory). You invited the US President, Do-naaldbhai Trumpbhai, to come to our praachin dharti although the WHO had notified a global health emergency three weeks before Trump kicked off his 2020 election campaign in Ahmedabad. The two of you are nothing if not the Embodiment of Courage. So, you lined up a lakh of people, standing cheek by jowl, to welcome Trumpji, and another 125,000 to greet him in the world’s largest cricket stadium, packed like sardines into the stands, even if that meant Ahmedabad would become for months thereafter the worst Corona-hit city of its size in India. We have now gone forward arm in arm with Do-naaldbhai, to become, respectively, the world’s Number One and the world’s Number Two in Covid infections. There is no limit to bhaichara. We have shown America that whatever the risks to our people and whatever the sacrifices of life we have to make, we Bharatis would say “Howdy” to anyone who said “Howdy, Modi”! We have also thus shown the Chinese that Trumpji and Modiji are like two mattar in a pod. So, the Chinawallahs dare not take an inch of our territory. They crept like thieves into Ladakh under cover of darkness even though we had paid them every naya paisa for their contribution to the only statue in the world that dwarfs the Statue of Liberty. That was under your clarion call, “Make in India”. We showed them that meant “Contract in India”. Yet, it did not deter them from sneaking into our territory without informing our Narendrabhai. Which is why he told the nation on nation-wide TV that the Chinese had not entered our territory at all and were nowhere to be seen on our pavitra bhoomi. How could they dare come in without the permission of our Leader? Provided we bang all our pots and pans and light all our diyas when the Leader orders us to, we can always drive away both the Chinese and the Covid which they exported globally from the very city, Wuhan, where Xiji and Modiji walked hand in hand. Our economy is on a downward slide because we are being tested by Heaven to see whether we are fit to be His bhakts. We should tighten our belts, hold in our breath and meditate when we want to eat to show that under Modiji’s Raj, we can all walk home hundreds, even thousands of kilometres, to show our enemies our true grit. Our true enemies are not only those on our borders. They are among us. You can tell by the clothes they wear, Pakistanis all, hiding, as Amitbhai said before he went to hospital, like “termites” in the nation's woodwork. That is why Kapil Mishraji threatened the police that if they did not act on his instructions, they would be dealt with after Trump left as they deserved to be. And Anurag Thakurji, noble son of a noble father, coined his evocative Gandhian slogan, “Golimarosaalon ko”. It made the Mahatma proud! Instead of celebrating our dear Leader’s birthday, these anti-national deshdrohis are crying like babies over Mishraji and Thankurji not being taken into custody. Why should such patriots, such ardent nationalists be interrogated? That is why, instead of them, hundreds (thousands?) of ghuspathias are being rounded up. After all the missed opportunities of the past, thank you, Narendrabhai, for giving us such a generous choice of birthdays to celebrate. Bharat Mata ki Jai! Vande Maataram! Jai Siya Ram! A former Congress MP, Mani Shankar Aiyar says he is called Manibhai Shankarbhai by his friends and acquaintances in Gujarat||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
18-09-2020||India||Birthday etiquette view in Congress||The Congress on Thursday joined a social media campaign to observe Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s birthday as “National Unemployment Day”, overruling reservations from within about getting involved in something that could set a distasteful precedent and deciding to sacrifice sobriety at the alter of an unprecedented crisis. While the Youth Congress has been running a “Rozgar Do” (Give us Employment) campaign for the past few months, the parent party decided to also support the “National Unemployment Day” movement that social media activists ran on the birthday of Modi, who turned 70 on Thursday. The Congress had been divided over joining the campaign, with many senior leaders feeling that this would trigger an unseemly trend of spoiling birthdays of leaders and other important occasions while the younger crop averring that it would be prudent to align with what appeared to them to be youths’ sentiments and also pointing to the need to counter the BJP’s brand of politics. “There was no need to link this with the Prime Minister’s birthday even as we highlight the problem of unemployment with full force. Making a point doesn’t mean we cry down other’s pleasures. Linking the protests with the Prime Minister’s birthday is getting personal. Trust the BJP to hit back hard; we can’t match them in low-level tactics. If this was happening on social media, we could have quietly enjoyed it,” said a senior Congress leader who described the decision as “juvenile”. But this was indisputably the minority opinion, held mostly by conservative leaders who care for etiquette in public life. Younger leaders think differently and they passionately supported the idea of joining the “National Unemployment Day” campaign, arguing that the BJP had demolished every established norm of sobriety in politics and pointing out that the general public expected a “befitting reply”. Siblings Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra lent their support to the Twitter campaign that trended globally through the day. By evening there had been over 4 million tweets using the hashtag “NationalUnemploymentDay” and two other similar hashtags. Days earlier, there had been a youth-fuelled campaign to “dislike” social media content featuring the Prime Minister, with people decrying the lack of jobs and the government’s decision to go ahead with the engineering and medical entrance exams amid the pandemic. Several Congress leaders, including Rahul, had supported the campaign. The “National Unemployment Day” movement flummoxed the BJP’s famed social media army as well, leaving party supporters to begin campaigns with hashtags such as “HappyBirthdayNarendraModi”. While the Youth Congress had decided to observe Modi’s birthday as “Unemployment Day” much earlier, former party chief Rahul lent his support on Wednesday morning by tweeting: “Massive unemployment has forced the youth to call ‘National Unemployment Day’. Employment is dignity. For how long will the government deny it?” However, Rahul avoided explicitly linking it to Modi’s birthday. He also took care to wish the Prime Minister, who replied by thanking him. Priyanka, the Uttar Pradesh Congress chief, also avoided directly linking Modi to the campaign, saying that youths wanted jobs and timely examinations, results and appointment. Senior leaders such as Ahmed Patel, Anand Sharma, Ashok Gehlot, Amarinder Singh and Bhupesh Baghel tweeted wishing Modi on his birthday. But many other leaders posted video messages justifying why this particular date had been chosen to mark “National Unemployment Day”. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “We want to gift Modiji (a pair of) spectacles on his birthday so that he can see the jobless. There is no hope for the youth because the economy is in ruin. Be it big business, MSMEs, self-employed or daily-wage earners… everybody is in trouble. Worse, this government doesn’t understand the crisis. Modiji, before you cut your birthday cake, think of the parents who went hungry to educate their children, think of those educated youths who don’t have jobs.”Another spokesperson, Gourav Vallabh, said: “Why ‘Unemployment Day’ on PM’s birthday? Because the youths, farmers, businesses and the middle class had in 2014 supported Modiji, who had promised to create two crore jobs every year. Modiji gave them unemployment in return. Two crore salaried people have lost their jobs in the last five months. Students fill up forms but exam dates are not announced. Students clear exams but results are not declared. Those selected don’t get appointment letters. Crores of youths are waiting for jobs.” Congress spokesperson Ragini Nayak said: “Modiji turns 70 today. He has completely mismanaged the economy. Around 90,000 youths have committed suicide in the last one year — because of joblessness, because of loss of livelihood, because of closure of industries. They don’t know how to run the economy and now want to shift all the blame on corona. The truth is that the unemployment rate had peaked much before corona struck. The government was hiding data on employment.” Another spokesperson, Pawan Khera, said: “Modiji, this is happening because you betrayed the trust reposed in you by the nation. The youth know you are very touchy about your image on social media and hence this trend on unemployment to open your eyes.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Plea to President Kovind for Delhi riot probe||Leaders of five political parties on Thursday sought President Ram Nath Kovind’s intervention in getting the government to order an inquiry into Delhi police’s investigation of the February riots, including their “fishing expedition” against protesters against the new citizenship matrix. In a joint letter, leaders of the Congress, CPM, CPI, Rashtriya Janata Dal and the DMK urged the President to call on the Centre to institute a probe under the Commission of Inquiry Act, 1952, headed by a sitting or retired judge. Like many others before them, the signatories have alleged bias in the Delhi police’s probe, which has ignored provocative speeches by BJP politicians while accusing the riot victims of incitement and violence and booking activists and students who had protested against the Citizenship Amendment Act. “The investigation cannot be allowed to become a fishing and roving expedition aimed at causing a chilling effect on dissent and protest in the country,” the letter, submitted to the President in person, said. “There are, however, serious questions about the role played by the Delhi police itself during the violence and also the manner in which the police is harassing and attempting to falsely implicate activists and young people who took part in the anti-CAA/NRC/NPR movements as the perpetrators of violence,” Thursday’s letter said. It cited accounts and videos that suggested the police were complicit in the violence, directing the stone-throwing mobs or looking the other way when rioters were on the rampage. The letter highlighted the police’s recent effort to “falsely implicate” political leaders including CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury –a signatory to the joint letter – in a supplementary chargesheet.It also flagged the “notable silence in the chargesheets on the role of leaders associated with the BJP who gave inflammatory speeches”, and said this raised concern about the probe’s impartiality. “In fact even when people have courageously filed complaints against BJP leaders – Kapil Mishra, Anurag Thakur, Parvesh Verma, Satya Pal Singh, Jagdish Pradhan, Nand Kishore Gujjar and Mohan Singh Bisht – accusing them of participating in or orchestrating the violence, there has been no action by the Delhi police,” the letter said. It contrasted this with the way the police had tried to criminalise the protests against the new citizenship regime and portray the countrywide agitation against it as a conspiracy._“The FIR (59/2020) regarding this ‘conspiracy’ being investigated by the (police’s) Special Cell, in which the draconian Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) has been invoked, is being used to carry out a fishing and roving inquiry against activists and young persons who were involved with the protests,” the letter said. Besides Yechury, the signatories were Ahmed Patel (Congress), D. Raja (CPI), Manoj Jha (RJD) and Kanimozhi (DMK).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||BJP ally Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal quits ministry over ‘anti-farmer’ bills||BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal’s lone Union minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal resigned on Thursday to protest the Centre’s farm sector reforms, calling the Narendra Modi government “anti-farmer” on a day the ruling party marked the Prime Minister’s birthday by projecting him as a messiah for peasants and the poor. That Harsimrat, the food processing minister, would resign was announced in the Lok Sabha by her husband, Akali chief Sukhbir Singh Badal, when two of the bills were being debated in the Lok Sabha. Harsimrat, who was in the House, tweeted after former Punjab deputy chief minister Sukhbir’s announcement: “I have resigned from Union Cabinet in protest against anti-farmer ordinances and legislation. Proud to stand with farmers as their daughter and sister.” She told reporters outside Parliament later: “Thousands of farmers are on the streets. I do not want to be part of the government that got the bills passed without addressing the apprehensions of farmers.” During the debate, Sukhbir, whose party is primarily based in the agriculture-rich Punjab, said the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill would “destroy” the 50 years of hard work put in by successive governments in the state and farmers to build the agriculture sector. He recalled Punjab’s massive contribution in making India self-sufficient in food grain production as he vehemently opposed the bills. Sukhbir, however, made it clear that the Akali Dal would extend outside support to the Modi government. The Akali Dal has two members, Sukhbir and Harsimrat, in the Lok Sabha and three in the Rajya Sabha. The two bills were eventually passed in the Lok Sabha by voice vote, with the Congress and some other Opposition parties staging a walkout. Harsimrat, however, sat quietly when the bills were passed. Sukhbir told reporters outside Parliament that the Akalis would “do anything” for farmers. A third, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, had been passed in the Lok Sabha on Tuesday but the other two had been held back because of the Akali Dal’s opposition. BJP president J.P. Nadda had tried to pacify the Akalis by saying that the government would look into their concerns. Sukhbir refuted suggestions that his party had initially supported the three ordinances, which the government has replaced with bills that it wants passed in Parliament, and asserted that Harsimrat had expressed her concerns at the cabinet meeting where they were discussed and also written to agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar highlighting “flaws”. Harsimrat’s resignation would make no material difference to the Modi government but it’s political impact could be substantial. The Akali Dal is the BJP’s oldest ally now that the Shiv Sena has severed ties with the ruling party at the Centre. The BJP is yet to react to the resignation. The psychological blow of the snub can’t be wished away by the BJP either as it came on Modi’s 70th birthday. Although the government and the party had proclaimed that there would be no celebrations in view of the pandemic, massive efforts were made to project Modi as a messiah of the poor and the farmers. Modi tweeted after the bills were passed: “The passage of the historic agri-reforms bills in the Lok Sabha marks an important moment for the country’s farmers and agri-sector. These bills in the true sense will liberate farmers from middlemen and all kinds of impediments.” The proposed laws have triggered intense protests by farmers in Punjab, Haryana and parts of Uttar Pradesh. The farmers, and the Congress, have said the changes would deprive peasants of minimum support price and help corporates take over the agriculture sector. In Punjab, chief minister and Congress veteran Amarinder Singh is playing a key role in the protests. Amarinder tweeted on Thursday night: “Harsimrat Kaur’s decision to quit Union Cabinet is another in the long chain of theatrics being enacted by @Akali_Dal which has still not quit ruling coalition. It’s motivated not by any concern for farmers but to save their own dwindling political fortunes. Too little too late.” Although the Centre has been claiming that MSP would in no way be affected, the farmers’ outfits are not convinced. They have called a strike on September 25 and threatened not to allow the MPs who would support the legislation enter their constituencies. The Congress and some other parties have been firmly opposing the bills and the government could find it difficult to pass them in the Rajya Sabha, where the Opposition is better placed than in the Lok Sabha in terms of numbers. The Opposition on Thursday termed the three bills a “toxic triangle” and claimed that by deregulating the agri-markets and allowing contract farming, the government was allowing big corporates to exploit the farmers. “It will lead to proleteriatisation of the peasants,” RSP member N.K. Premchandran, who moved a number of amendments, said. Agriculture minister Tomar pleaded the House to support the bills, claiming they would prove to be a “life-changer” for farmers. He said the bills would open more avenues for farmers to sell their produce in addition to the government-regulated agriculture produce marketing corporations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Supreme Court order on September 21 on law exam||The Supreme Court on Thursday said it would pronounce its order on September 21 on a plea that has challenged the decision of National Law School of India University (NLSIU), Bangalore, to conduct its separate entrance examination NLAT-2020. The plea was filed by former NLSIU vice-chancellor professor R. Venkata Rao and a parent of an aspirant. The apex court on September 11 had given its go-ahead to NLSIU to hold its separate exam, which was to be held on September 12, but restrained it from announcing the results and admitting any student.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||I am being cursed and a false binary is being created: Kanhaiya ||CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar has explained his uncharacteristic silence on social media for almost two months: he finds it vulgar to tweet about how he has helped people. “I don’t want to tweet pictures of relief work to promote myself and embarrass those who have received help. My tweets in the past too were only about the movements and causes I was working for and not personal publicity,” Kanhaiya told The Telegraph on Thursday. On Wednesday, he had been absent from a news conference held in support of Umar Khalid, who was recently arrested in a Delhi riot case and with whom Kanhaiya had been jailed in 2016 when both were JNU students. It led to murmurs of “ditched by Kanhaiya” at the Press Club of India. But the CPI leader told this newspaper: “The Left has been clear that the police probe is a sham. It has protested (to press) for the prosecution of BJP leaders (who made incendiary speeches ahead of the February riots) from Day 1. “Yet why am I being personally held accountable for not attending a press conference? Are such questions asked of members of other Opposition parties?” He added: “I’m being cursed whether or not (I do something), and a false binary is being created by some over (the act of) speaking about one political prisoner more than the other. We have been fighting for the release of all political prisoners, be it Sudha Bharadwaj or Anand Teltumbde or Umar.” Kanhaiya said he couldn’t attend the news conference, held to protest the arrests of anti-CAA activists on terror charges in connection with the Delhi riots, because he had been held up at an MP’s home over a meeting related to the upcoming Bihar elections. Now a member of the CPI’s national executive, Kanhaiya has been a rage on social media for his satirical comments targeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi, his government’s failures and the alleged crimes of the BJP-RSS. But his social media accounts had been silent since the end of July. On Wednesday, he broke the silence with a long Facebook post on the media trial of political prisoners like Umar amid the havoc the pandemic has unleashed in the country. His comment boxes are now filled with jibes about his waking up after a “long slumber”, and questions about why he has chosen to speak out now and where he was when his “karmabhoomi” (workplace) Bihar was ravaged by floods. Kanhaiya told this newspaper that he had come to Delhi on March 15 to consult lawyers for the first hearing of his sedition trial, which was expected to begin in April. He has stayed mostly in Ajoy Bhawan, the CPI headquarters. Since then Covid-19 has claimed his uncle, a former teacher he was close to, and the CPI’s Bihar state secretary Satyanarayan Singh, a father figure to Kanhaiya. Four members of Kanhaiya’s family have been infected. The parents of three close friends have died from Covid-19, including one whose passing was communicated to him while he was speaking to this newspaper. “I couldn’t go to their cremation because of the lockdown. This entire time I have been on the phone trying to connect people in need to our comrades and others who could help… I’m not in the frame of mind to tweet satire,” Kanhaiya said. “I can’t even go home as we have a one-room house, where I would be putting my aged mother at risk. In Bihar, more than 50 people travel with me because we are always at risk of being attacked. I can’t do that now as I can’t put the families of these people at the risk of exposure to Covid.” He continued: “We don’t have a huge organisation, neither am I from a rich family. Yet we have tried to help whoever we can, with people sitting in Delhi, Patna and Begusarai coordinating with people across India. “We have arranged for 13,000 workers to be fed by the All India Trade Union Congress (of the CPI) in Coimbatore. We have fed artistes who were hungry for three days, given ration kits and clothes to flood-hit families in Bihar. There are good journalists out of work who can’t pay rent. We’ve tried to help them too. “Not just the CPI comrades but many others helped us, including an MP and an MLA from the Aam Aadmi Party in Delhi. After the lockdown was relaxed, I have travelled to five states in the north for both relief and political work.” Kanhaiya said he was now focused on poll-bound Bihar although he would not contest. “I will be moving to Patna where I shall do whatever election work the party gives me. We need a narrative that speaks of livelihood issues and breaks this discourse of Hindus versus Muslims,” he said. “The BJP must be defeated in the state that has the highest number of migrant workers. People who question my commitment because I don’t want to contest should be concerned more with how we need to build unity among the Opposition parties.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Order to file case against Arun Shourie over hotel sale||A special court here has asked the CBI to file cases against former Union minister Arun Shourie and the then disinvestment secretary Pradip Baijal over the sale of an ITDC hotel, allegedly at a loss of Rs 244 crore. The CBI court also directed the filing of cases against three others associated with the sale two decades back of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur, during the term of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government at the Centre. Shourie was the minister in charge of divestment when the property, owned by the public sector ITDC, was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd, a private company. The court recalled Shourie’s background as a journalist who has spoken against corruption in debates and interviews. “This proved his double standards on the issue of corruption,” special judge Puran Kumar Sharma said. In Wednesday’s order, Sharma rejected the closure report submitted in the case by the CBI in August 2019, and asked it to reinvestigate it. He  ordered immediate attachment of the hotel by the Udaipur district magistrate and it will remain under the state government’s custody until the matter is disposed of. The court ordered the registration of cases against financial adviser Ashish Guha, MD of Lazard India Ltd, valuer Kantilal Karamsey and Jyotsana Suri, director of Bharat Hotels Ltd.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Mother beaten to death by minor sons in Bhubaneswar||A 40-year-old woman was allegedly beaten to death by her two minor sons with a crowbar in an apartment here on Wednesday night. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Bhubaneswar) Umashankar Das told reporters, “The lady identified as Binodini Mishra was murdered in an apartment under Air Field Police station area. She was killed around 11.30pm on Wednesday. “Police reached the spot and started investigation. Her two minor sons were involved in the incident. We have detained them. Family dispute is one of the major reasons for the crime. We have seized the weapons used in the murder.” Police sources said Binodini was living with her sons, aged 13 and 14, in an apartment after being separated by her husband. While the elder son was studying in Class X, the younger one in Class IX. “Binodini came to the area a few months ago. She used to beat the two children after getting drunk. “On Wednesday when she started beating them, the two sons suddenly lost their temper and attacked the mother with a crowbar.  The mother died on the spot,” said a senior police official. Sources said after committing the crime, the boys locked the door and fled. Later they informed the security guard someone entered their house and attacked their mother. The security guard of the apartment discovered the body of the woman lying in a pool of blood in her flat. He informed the police. The police detained the boys who were hiding in a nearby apartment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
18-09-2020||India||Bihar seat-sharing deal by September 25: BJP||The BJP on Thursday refused to react to the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) suggestions to lead the alliance and contest more seats than Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), leading to more speculation about the future of the National Democratic Alliance in the state. The BJP, however, said that the seat-sharing talks would be completed by September 25. “I will not say anything on the issue. It is between those two (Chirag Paswan and J.P. Nadda). I cannot say anything about it,” Bihar BJP president Sanjay Jaiswal told The Telegraph over phone. Jaiswal on Thursday donated plasma at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), Patna. “The seat-sharing talks between the allies will be completed by September 24 or 25,” he said, indicating that a clearer picture will emerge by then. LJP president and Lok Sabha member Chirag Paswan had met BJP chief J.P. Nadda late on Tuesday night and requested that the BJP should lead the NDA in the upcoming Assembly elections instead of the JDU. Chirag had also asked Nadda that the BJP should contest more seats than the JDU in the current situation, as it will benefit the alliance. However, the refusal of the BJP leaders to comment on Chirag’s suggestions or asking him not to make comment that may drive a wedge in the alliance in the run-up to the polls lends credence to the belief in political circles that the LJP’s belligerence is being provoked and patronised by the BJP in order to keep the Bihar chief minister in check. “The statements of Chirag leave no doubt about this. We have an NDA government in the state, but he is singling out Nitish and our party for criticism, while praising the BJP or asserting that he will abide by whatever it decides. Anybody can see what is happening,” a senior JDU leader said on the condition of anonymity. The JDU leader asserted that Chirag’s “antics are not just aimed at getting a bigger piece of the seat-sharing pie. It is aimed at discrediting and dislodging Nitish as the chief minister”. It is not that the JDU has kept quiet on this front. It has deployed Hindustani Awam Morcha Secular (HAMS) leader and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, a Dalit leader, to counter Chirag and his LJP, who claim to champion the Dalit cause. Meanwhile, Chirag has asked his party leaders to prepare a list of candidates for 143 seats out of the total 243 in the state and be ready to go solo in the polls. The seat-sharing deal that is expected to be announced later this month will chart out the future course of the NDA in Bihar.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-661
