19-09-2020||India||Monsoon session may be cut short due to Covid worries||The ongoing monsoon session of Parliament is likely to be curtailed and may end by the middle of next week over fears of a spread of the coronavirus among parliamentarians, official sources said on Saturday.  At a meeting of the business advisory committee of the Lok Sabha, which has floor leaders of all parties besides government representatives and is chaired by the Speaker, most political parties favoured curtailment of the session, which started on September 14 and was scheduled to conclude on October 1.  A final decision will be taken by the cabinet committee on parliamentary affairs.  The Lok Sabha has so far passed three Bills to replace agriculture sector related ordinances. Also, both the Houses have cleared a bill to replace an ordinance for cutting by 30 per cent the salaries of MPs to ramp up funds in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic.  After some MPs, including Union ministers Nitin Gadkari and Prahlad Patel, tested positive for COVID-19 during the session, some Opposition parties had conveyed to the government that conducting the full 18-day session could be a risky affair, sources said.  The government then started thinking in that direction, the sources said.  Several MPs had also tested positive for COVID-19 around the time the session began and they were advised not to attend proceedings.  In order to prevent the spread of the coronavirus within the Parliament complex, reporters and parliamentary staff entering the premises now have to undergo the rapid antigen test mandatorily on a daily basis, according to a new protocol put in place.  Besides, members of both Houses are undergoing RT-PCR tests on regular intervals on a voluntary basis, said a senior Parliament official.  A member of Parliament can undergo the RT-PCR test as many times he or she likes.  Journalists covering the monsoon session from press galleries of Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha also have the option to undergo the RT-PCR test, which is valid for 72 hours.  Since the result of the much reliable RT-PCR test takes time, the antigen test has been made mandatory on a daily basis.  Government officials accompanying their respective ministers during bill discussions also have to show a negative report of RT-PCR test taken within the last 72 hours of their visit to the complex.  The session began on September 14 and is slated to end on October 1. Both Houses are meeting in shifts of four hours each without the customary Saturday-Sunday weekend break.  The Budget Session was truncated in March after the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Don’t impose your will on states, Opposition tells govt in RS ||The Opposition attacked the government in the Rajya Sabha on Saturday, accusing it of crossing constitutional boundaries, interfering in the affairs of states, failing to control private hospitals during the coronavirus crisis, and being unable to protect migrant labourers and the poor. Participating in a debate on The Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Bill, 2020, Opposition leaders also charged the government with entering into the league of three democracies in the world that promote what they called “ordinance raj”. Derek O'Brien (Trinamool Congress) accused the Centre of interfering in the functioning of states through the Bill. The Bill provides for jail terms up to five years and hefty fines for attack on healthcare workers fighting the coronavirus outbreak or during any situation akin to the current pandemic. "Remember states of Bengal, Punjab, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Rajasthan rejected you. Chief ministers there have been elected to run the states. You cannot cross constitutional bars. There are sinister provisions in the Bill. The States must be authorised to take decisions," the TMC MP said, according to PTI. "The Centre cannot impose its will on states. It is unconstitutional," O’Brien said. The BJP, instead of preaching others to abstain from politics, should not indulge in politics, he said, adding the ruling party wants to take all the credit for schemes despite states contributing to them. Terming the Centre's Ayushman Bharat' Yojana an imitation scheme, he claimed Bengal was way ahead in health schemes and it implemented insurance cover for even allied workers and included mental wellness of healthcare workers in it. "The Centre is paying 60 per cent for the scheme and the state 40 per cent. But when it comes to credit, the Centre wants to take all credit," he charged. He also attacked the government for perpetuating an “ordinance raj”. "There are only three parliamentary democracies in the world in which this ordinance raj is still possible - India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. The emergency ordinance route is dangerous. Root of all ordinances is a 1935 Act. The Viceroy era is gone but the attitude of arrogance still remains with the BJP government,” O’Brien said. Participating in the debate, K. Keshava Rao (TRS) asserted the Centre should consult states before taking decisions on their affairs. On private health facilities, he said a hospital in Hyderabad overcharged a patient who had died. "We need protection from such hospitals. Dead bodies were piling up when I went to a hospital. We need a mechanism for that," he said. He also said migrant labourers faced much ordeal because when they were leaving for their home states, the Centre suspended train services and asked state governments to stop interstate buses. Ram Gopal Yadav of the Samajwadi Party stressed the need for a special provisions in the proposed Act to penalise people and private hospitals thriving on the Covid-19 crisis and using it to further their business. He said there must be a provision to take action against those who sold PPE kits, masks, thermal scanners, ventilators, oximeters and sanitisers at inflated prices. He also demanded to know what action the government was taking against those who claimed cures for coronavirus and fooled people selling drugs. "Moreover, if the sole bread winner of a family has died due to Covid-19, he should be compensated and protected by the government," he said. M. Shanmugam (DMK) asked the Centre: "What action are you going to take against contractors who brought migrant labourers to cities and left them to die?" He said labourers cannot be treated as a commodity and such people (the erring contractors) should be dealt with strictly. He also accused the government of announcing a lockdown without preparations. Among the others who spoke included A. Vijaykumar (AIADMK), Subhas Chandra Bose Pilli (YSRCP) and Saroj Pandey (BJP).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Opposition seeks relief to common man in line with insolvency law||Opposition parties Saturday demanded in the Rajya Sabha that the government waive interest on loans to farmers and individuals for the coronavirus pandemic period on the lines of a pause in insolvency proceedings against defaulting corporates. Participating in a debate, K K Ragesh of CPI (M) said Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman and other members have told the House that the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill has been brought to save businesses and corporates. "Why the same logic is not applied in the case of farmers? Farmers are also bankrupt. Why is the government not taking any responsibility and any initiative in waiving the farmers' loans?" he asked. Ragesh said the government could have at least considered to "waive the interest on farmers loans during the moratorium period. DMK member P Wilson said, "There is discrimination between common man and corporate. Why is this discrimination? Is the government here for crony corporates?" He demanded the government waive off recovery as well as repayment of all bank loans and credit card bills. Wilson asked for a complete waiver of agriculture term loans. Initiating the debate, Congress member Vivek Tankha said the government should protect only those businesses which are affected by Covid-19 pandemic and not all defaulters. He said the Section 10-A in the Bill states that no application for initiation of the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) shall be filed for any default, whether Covid-19 related or not, arising on or after March 25 for a period of six months or such period not exceeding one year form such date as may be notified. The Congress leader asked the government whether it was sure that the coronavirus pandemic would end in one year. "When you are suspending Section 7,9,10, I think it's a makeshift solution to a long standing problem. There is no certainty that the economy will revive in one year." He pointed out that Gross NPA of banks went up from Rs 2.63 lakh crore in March 2014 to Rs 10.3 lakh crore in March 2018. "NPA and defaulting problems are pre-pandemic and Section 10-A would only postpone the problem and not solve it," Tankha said, adding the creditors would be in a worst position with likely erosion in the value of assets. "The entire object of IBC Code is compromised by this amendment. The Code aims to prevent wilful default by companies. However, the blanket bar on Sec 7,9,10 will enable many companies which are already under defaulting categories to use the notification as a shield to protect themselves in future proceedings. "Do we want to protect Covid-19 category of industries or all industries irrespective of their performance in the past. Section 10-A does not make distinction between Covid-19 defaults and other defaults," he said. About giving relief under the IBC, Arun Singh (BJP) said, "It was very much needed. It was very difficult to find out which transaction is Covid related....If my friends can tell that these are Covid-related transactions and these are not related to that then I will be very happy. But it is simply impossible." TMC member Dinesh Trivedi said, "The intention of the bill is good. But you are in a hurry to do things without larger consultations. That is why the Bill is hastily drafted and an ill-worded piece of legislation, which would defeat its own purpose." He said, "We have a record level of food stocks. Oil prices are historically low...The need of the hour is to put, maybe Rs 10,000 or Rs 15,000 or Rs 20,000, into the bank accounts of needy people." Trivedi said this would help in creating demand, generating more jobs and more tax revenues for the government. SP leader Ravi Verma was of the view that this Bill will support big corporations and also asked the government about the wilful defaulters who have fled the country. Verma alleged insolvency professionals are charging very hefty fees and generally eat up a large chunk of haircut. Amar Patnaik (BJD) asked the government to improve the quality of debt resolution as well as competence of insolvency professionals. AIADMK leader A Vijaykumar suggested that cooperative societies should not be brought under the insolvency code.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Cong MP urges govt to help poor students attend online classes||Congress' Rajya Sabha MP Ahmed Patel on Saturday demanded that a task force be constituted to frame guidelines for holding online classes for school children and urged the government to help students from weaker sections of the society who do not have access to computers or smartphones. Raising the demand in Rajya Sabha during the Zero Hour, Patel said the Centre must increase spending to provide digital support to poor students. "We demand from the government to constitute a task force to study how online classes are putting severe mental stress on students as well as their families. The central government should come out with national guidelines after consulting states as to what should be the rules under which online classes be held. "Rather than changing education syllabus, the central government must increase spending to provide digital support for poor students," he said in his Zero Hour submission. The Congress MP said schools have been closed for the last six months, and many public and private schools are conducting online classes. At times, this is being done to justify the collection of fees, he said. "This is creating an immense mental and financial burden on economically backward families. In poor homes, either they don't have a laptop or computer and if they do have a smartphone, it is usually shared by many family members. Digital India should not become an instrument for 'digital divide' between the rich and poor," he said. Patel said in some states like Gujarat, Delhi, Kerala and Bengal, some students have taken their lives due to the "stress and stigma" of online classes. He cited the findings of a survey whereby 24 per cent of houses have Internet access and nine per cent of students have access to the Internet. He said according to a Gujarat education department survey, only three per cent students had a laptop or PC and fur per cent students had access to smartphones with unlimited data plans. Similarly, a Delhi government survey revealed that 80 per cent houses do not have any laptop or computers, while a Telangana Teachers' Federation survey says 70 per cent students attending online classes didn't follow anything taught, Patel said. He alleged that access to the Internet in states like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha is worse than Goa, Delhi and Himachal Pradesh. Patel said that in 2014, the Narendra Modi government promised to provide broadband connectivity 2.5 lakh village panchayats by 2017, but so far only 23,000 have been connected.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
19-09-2020||India||Opp leaders back insolvency law, but warn against misuse||A majority of Rajya Sabha Opposition members Saturday supported a Bill granting interim relief to businesses from insolvency proceedings, even as some expressed fears over its possible misuse, and urged the government to also help the poor during the crisis. The Upper House passed by a voice vote the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020', whereby fresh insolvency proceedings will not be initiated for at least six months, starting from March 25, against companies in view of the coronavirus pandemic. Most Opposition members supported the bill, expressing hope that it would help achieve an early revival of the economy. Praful Patel (NCP) said there is nothing in the Bill to object to, but called for relief in the form of interest subvention for tourism, transport and airline sectors as they were reeling under financial stress. "We need to go in for major amendments in the Bill, he said. There is going to be a serious problem even in the post-moratorium period. We may have to think 'out of the box' to help businesses, the way things are. Patel also called for more NCLT (National Company Law Tribunal) benches and said resolution professionals are not yet fully equipped to handle the businesses and there is corruption too. "Going by the business environment, there is a need for a lot of hand-holding. You need to do something more as the country will progress if its economy does well. I urge you to look at some important aspects to support businesses wherever there are problems," he said. Manoj Kumar Jha (RJD) urged Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to look at the wisdom across the aisle and accept suggestions given by the Opposition. Shiv Sena's Anil Desai said unscrupulous or dishonest corporates should not take advantage of the pandemic situation and siphon off funds that have been made available to them by banks during the pandemic. K K Ragesh (CPI-M) said that banking has become a bonanza for friendly companies and expressed apprehensions this Bill "will push the banking sector into a deep crisis". He said huge concessions have been granted to corporates and more than Rs 3 lakh crore have already been written off through book adjustments which were earlier lying as Non-Performing Assets (NPA) with banks. "Why are huge haircuts being provided to big corporates? Banks are only able to realise less than 50 per cent of advances in many cases," he alleged. Ram Chandra Prasad Singh of the JD(U) supported the Bill, saying it is progressive and will help revive the economy. "I am confident that it will help businesses and help India achieve the target of a USD 5-trillion economy," he said. Narain Dass Gupta (AAP) alleged discrimination among big and small borrowers in providing relief during the pandemic, saying while major ones are being given moratorium on interests for one year, the smaller ones are not. Veer Singh (BSP) asked whether a personal guarantor should be held accountable in case of a default on a loan. Binoy Viswam (CPI) said the Finance Minister should not blame God for the pandemic situation as it is the "greed of the man" which is making them eat into the economy. "This Bill is not touching the real problems. The IBA has come out with a list of wilful defaulters and the government should help get that people's money back, he said. This is people's money. Please help get that amount back," he said, calling for giving money to the poor in these difficult times that will also help revive the economy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||NIA arrests 9 al-Qaeda men from Bengal, Kerala||Foiling an attempt by internationally banned terror group al-Qaeda to set up a base in India, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) swooped on its cadres in Bengal and Kerala and arrested nine of them, an official spokesperson said on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off provided by central intelligence agencies, the NIA, with the help of the state police forces, carried out raids in the intervening night of September 18 and 19 at Ernakulam in Kerala and Murshidabad in Bengal and arrested the nine men -- Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas, Mosaraf Hossen from Ernakulam and Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman from Murshidabad. Hasan is the leader of the gang and those arrested from Kerala are also originally residents of Bengal, the NIA spokesperson said. A closely-monitored operation of the NIA and other central agencies began on September 11 when the premier investigating agency registered a case to probe the al-Qaeda module. According to the official, crackers were being attempted to be converted into an Improvised Explosive Device (IED) and the NIA recovered switches and batteries from Abu Sufiyan's house during the raids. The group was also planning to go to Kashmir for weapons delivery as it intended to launch terror attacks on vital installations in the country with an aim to kill innocent people, the official said. A preliminary probe revealed that the arrested men were radicalised by Pakistan-based al-Qaeda terrorists on social media platforms and were motivated to launch attacks at multiple locations, including in the National Capital Region (NCR). The module was actively involved in fund-raising and some of its members were planning to travel to New Delhi to procure arms and ammunition, the official said, adding that the arrests have prevented possible terrorist attacks in various parts of the country. Incriminating materials, including digital devices, documents, jihadi literature, sharp weapons, country-made firearms, a locally-fabricated body armour, articles and literature for making home-made explosive devices, have been seized from the possession of the arrested terrorists, the official said. They will be produced before the courts concerned in Kerala and Bengal for custody and further investigation, he added. According to the officials investigating the case, the arrested men are highly radicalised and were getting instructions from foreign handlers, including Pakistan-based al-Qaeda operatives, in cyberspace. The module was planning to target vital installations in India as well as targeted killings. It was in the advanced stage of procuring arms (including automatic rifles and pistols), ammunition and explosives to carry out attacks. Some of its members were trying to develop expertise in IED-making too. Besides, the module was trying to establish a well organised al-Qaeda network in different parts of the country, including the northeast and Jammu and Kashmir, on the instructions of the Pakistan-based handlers, the official said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Don’t brand a community: SC||The Supreme Court said on Friday that it fully recognised concerns of national security but could not allow a particular community to be targeted and branded anti-national as this would alienate even the good members of the community from the national mainstream. “Let a message go to the media that a particular community cannot be targeted. We have to look after a nation of the future which is cohesive and diverse. We recognise national security but we need to respect individuals, too,” a bench headed by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud said. The judges are hearing petitions against the telecast of a TV programme that alleges a large number of jihadis have infiltrated central government services. The court said the stay it had imposed on the Sudarshan News programme could be vacated only if the channel gave a credible assurance that its further episodes would not result in passions being inflamed against a particular community. “We are very conscious that pre-publication restraint is a matter of extreme recourse. We don’t issue such injunctions readily…. We know it can take us down a slippery slope,” the bench, which includes Justices Indu Malhotra and K.M. Joseph, told senior advocate Shyam Divan, who is appearing for the channel. The bench made the observation after Divan said the channel had done extensive investigations to unearth the “illegal funding” of a foundation by organisations with overseas terror links to achieve the objective of facilitating the infiltration of the country’s civil services. “You are entitled to do so (investigate), if you feel it impinges on national security,” the court said. “But look at Annexure A1, when reference is made to Mr Owaisi (Asaduddin Owaisi of the MIM), the segment starts with flames in the background. Words such as ‘namakharam’ are used. Again while Mohd Imran is quoted, flames are shown.” The bench added: “A chart on the increase in Muslim (representation) from 2011 in UPSC services is shown. A graphic of a skullcap, beard and green skin is shown and again with flames in the chart…. You say, ‘See how they are getting foreign funds, enticing our wives and daughters and doing love jihad’.” The bench said it was concerned that a whole community was being implicated. “This is the real issue. Whenever you show them joining the civil services, you show the ISIS. You want to say that Muslims joining the civil services is a part of a deep-rooted conspiracy. Can the media be allowed to target a whole set of community?” Justice Chandrachud asked. Justice Indu Malhotra added: “I saw one of the episodes and it was hurtful to watch. You need to take down flames and the green shirt, etc.” The bench said it was not in favour of censoring news or laying down what needs to be pulled down, but the media must maintain a certain restraint. “Whenever you are showing a Muslim, you show them in a green T-shirt and skullcap,” Justice Chandrachud said. Divan agreed that the media must not do such stereotyping and that the channel would now know that such acts should be frowned upon. “If you want to investigate Zakat India (the foundation), then go ahead. But, then, painting all candidates as carrying out an agenda shows a kind of hatred,” Justice Chandrachud said. “This is the element of concern where the right to free speech becomes hatred. You can’t brand every member of the community. You alienate the good members too by the divisive agenda.” The court asked Divan: “If we allow the broadcast, what are the assurances that you are willing to give us?” Justice Malhotra said: “The flames, etc, need to be taken off. We cannot depict the pictures of persons wearing skullcaps and green T-shirts....” Justice Chandrachud said: “You have to tell us voluntarily what you will do to assuage our concerns. We don’t want to come in the way of journalism. We know as a court what happened during the Emergency. So, we will ensure free speech and ideas.” Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, told the court that the existing rules were sufficient to regulate the conduct of such channels. He said all district collectors were empowered to take appropriate action, and that punishment had been prescribed in the law for those violating the norms. The court said the National Broadcasting Association (NBA) was a “toothless tiger” despite having a former Supreme Court judge on its board, as it can impose only a fine of Rs 1 lakh on erring members. It also underlined that Sudarshan News was not an NBA member. “An injunction order from us is like a nuclear missile and we know it. You, solicitor-general, tell us how will you bring in self-regulation? You have to give them teeth,” Justice Chandrachud said. Justice Joseph asked Divan: “You have said that pre-censorship cannot be there till all episodes are over. What are the consequences if you violate the programme code? Can you be convicted under Section 16 of the Cable Networks Act? “You are not a cable operator. You are a broadcaster…. This act applies only to cable operators. You are brought in by the policy guideline of uplinking.” Justice Joseph said that projecting a particular community with skullcaps and green T-shirts “generates hate”. He highlighted that in one episode, Udit Raj, an MP, was badly treated by the anchor. “See how he was treated. You did not agree with him. One of the members of the audience was interviewed and he says Muslims should not get OBC benefits. What kind of attitude are you inculcating by doing this programme?” Justice Joseph said. “All communities want a part of the slice of the power-centre cake. You have put up a cocktail of various factors but at bottom you are maligning an entire community.” During the three-hour arguments, Divan defended the channel and its editor, saying every effort had been made to reach out to the organisations named in the episodes but they had refused to give their side of the story. The hearing resumes on Monday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Techies and teachers take white-collar hit||India witnessed the erosion of nearly a third of its white-collar jobs between May and August, with professionals like software engineers, teachers, accountants and analysts taking the biggest hit, a survey by a data agency has shown. The Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy has found that 5.9 million (32.6 per cent) of the 18.1 million white-collar jobs in the country were lost in these four months. According to the agency, which surveys 1.74 lakh households across urban and rural India every month, this loss has offset the gains the country had made since 2016 in job opportunities for white-collar workers. The CMIE had earlier estimated a combined loss of 21 million salaried jobs from the organised and unorganised sectors between April and August. But the Centre has declared it does not allow survey data provided by “non-government agencies” to influence its policies. The CMIE has been tracking changes in the white-collar job scene since January 2016, when it estimated there were 12.5 million such professionals in the country. The number peaked at 18.8 million during May-August 2019, falling to 18.7 million in the next four months and further to 18.1 million during January-April this year, possibly because of the pandemic-induced lockdown. The sharpest fall came in May-August, with the survey pegging the figure at 12.2 million. CMIE managing director Mahesh Vyas told The Telegraph that white-collar clerical jobs were less affected than professional jobs. “We have sliced white-collar workers into two classes — white-collar professional workers and white-collar clerical employees. During May-August 2020, the former group took the biggest hit among all salaried employees. The latter group has not witnessed job losses in this period,” Vyas said. Professional workers are those who secured their jobs on the basis of their professional qualifications. White-collar clerical employees range from secretaries and office clerks to BPO and KPO workers and data-entry operators. Vyas suggested that most of them were possibly working from home. Vyas said that women had taken a bigger hit than men, making up 11 per cent of all employees in 2019-20 and accounting for 34 per cent of job losses in the first five months of 2020-21. “We don’t see investments picking up anytime soon, so the prospects of job increases are bleak at the moment,” Vyas said. Labour economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said the magnitude of the job losses had resulted from India imposing the strictest lockdown in the world for two months, abruptly stopping most economic activities. This left the self-employed and the unorganised-sector workers like casual labourers largely jobless, thereby lowering their demand for consumption. “When the demand for consumption declined, the formal sector started feeling the shock in terms of revenue loss. The formal sector began laying off staff or cutting salaries,” Mehrotra said. He warned that the worst was not over yet: the economy had reopened but activities remained constrained, amid a rise in Covid-19 infections. With close to 1 lakh fresh cases a day, India has been contributing almost a third of the world’s new infections while accounting for a sixth of its population. “It will take a minimum of two years for the economy to bounce back to pre-Covid levels. During this period, it will be difficult to protect the entire 12.2 million white-collar jobs,” Mehrotra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Army’s admission on killings  in Kashmir||The army admitted on Friday that “prima facie evidence” indicated that powers vested under an infamous indemnity law were “exceeded” when three young cousins were gunned down in Kashmir in June. Disciplinary proceedings will be initiated, the army added. The jargon-riddled admission is expected to bring the attention back on the Armed Forces Special Powers Act (AFSPA), which grants near-absolute immunity to security personnel in “disturbed area” as they cannot be prosecuted in civilian courts without central sanction, which is rarely granted. In a statement on Friday, the army continued to describe the three youths as “unidentified terrorists” although it added that their “involvement with terrorism” was under police investigation. Their families had said they were innocent civilians from Jammu’s Rajouri who had gone to Shopian in Kashmir in search of work. The father of one of the youths had said there were seven retired and serving soldiers in his family, including a Kargil war veteran. “Killing innocent youth and show(ing) them as terrorists is most heinous crime and those involved should be charged for murder,” S.P. Vaid, former director-general of police in Jammu and Kashmir, tweeted on Friday. The killing of the three cousins had triggered an uproar in Jammu and Kashmir and their families had been mounting pressure on the security forces to return the bodies so that they could be given a proper burial. The defence spokesperson in Srinagar, Col Rajesh Kalia, said in the statement: “The evidence collected by the inquiry has prima facie indicated that the three unidentified terrorists killed in Op Amshipora were Imtiyaz Ahmed, Abrar Ahmed and Mohd Ibrar, who hailed from Rajouri.” The spokesperson said the army had concluded its inquiry into the operation. “The inquiry has brought out certain prima facie evidence indicating that during the operation, powers vested under the AFSPA 1990 were exceeded and the dos and don’ts of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS) as approved by the Hon’ble Supreme Court have been contravened,” Kalia said in a written statement. “Consequently, the competent disciplinary authority has directed to initiate disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act against those found prima-facie answerable.” The statement did not clearly say whether the youths had been killed in a fake encounter or whether they were civilians. “Their DNA report is awaited. Their involvement with terrorism or related activities is under investigation by the police,” the statement said. On July 18, the army’s 62 Rashtriya Rifles had claimed to have killed three “unidentified terrorists” near Amshipora village in south Kashmir’s Shopian district. On August 10, three families in Jammu’s Rajouri had identified the three youths, from pictures circulating on social media, as their children who had been missing since travelling to Kashmir in search of work. The families had said the three were killed in a staged encounter after being falsely branded as terrorists. Many drew attention to the jargon employed by the army in its statement on Friday. “#AFSPA is not for killing innocent civilians under label of terrorists. What disciplinary proceedings under the Army Act? Amshipora encounter is cold-blooded murder of 3 innocent civilians of Rajouri. Don’t hush up DNA report. Rule of law must prevail, guilty punished for murder,” a journalist tweeted. Jammu activist Guftar Ahmad, who has been spearheading the campaign for justice for the families, said they were feeling hopeful now. “This has given us hope. The families are relieved. We are waiting for the DNA report after which we hope the bodies will be returned to their families for burial (in Rajouri),” Guftar told The Telegraph. The three are buried in a graveyard at an unspecified location in Kashmir. Guftar said the army had recorded the statements of five family members at an army installation in south Kashmir on Friday and promised that justice would be done. “There will be a court martial. We came here (Kashmir) to record the statement. We were assured 110 per cent that ‘we (the army) will not let them (the accused) off’,” Guftar said. Security forces personnel involved in such crimes are rarely punished in Kashmir thanks to the immunity they enjoy under the AFSPA. The army, however, is under pressure this time as the three men were from families with an army background. Some politicians welcomed the army action but sought transparency in its dealings. “The families of the three murdered men had continued to proclaim their innocence. Disciplinary action initiated by the army would suggest the army agrees with the families. The process must remain transparent & the guilty must face the full weight of the law,” National Conference leader and former chief minister Omar Abdullah tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||PM battles spreading farm ire||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday accused the Opposition of spreading “misinformation” on farm bills and appealed to the farmers not to get misled, describing the new measures as historic. Modi’s statement, a day after oldest ally Akali Dal had pulled out its lone minister, was seen as a damage-control exercise at a time the farmers’ agitation was threatening to spread and another ally, the Jannayak Janata Party (JJP) in Haryana, had come under pressure to quit. “Misinformation is being spread that wheat and rice will not be procured by government agencies. This is an absolute lie, completely wrong and an attempt to deceive the farmers,” Modi said while inaugurating another round of development projects in poll-bound Bihar. Despite widespread opposition and the resignation of the Akali Dal minister, the Centre has so far suggested it is determined to push the changes that allow farmers to sell produce directly to bulk buyers and make contract-farming easier. The set of three farm bills has been passed by the Lok Sabha and will be taken up by the Rajya Sabha. The farm bills give legislative heft to three emergency executive orders issued in June by the Union cabinet with the stated objective of reforming the antiquated Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act. The act includes a rule that forces the farmers in many states to sell their produce only at regulated wholesale markets. The government says the new farm laws will “unshackle” the farmers and help them get better prices. But many farmer organisations oppose the legislation because they fear that if big buyers start buying directly from the producers, the small growers will hardly have any bargaining power. The government has said the wholesale markets will operate as usual as the APMC Act has not been abolished and the farmers are simply being given an option to sell directly to buyers. But farmer organisations fear that if large buyers are allowed to buy directly, the wholesale markets will gradually disappear. Modi’s angry attack on the Opposition came as the political impact of the farm bills threatened to spread to Haryana where the BJP government is dependent on the support of the 10 MLAs of the JJP, led by deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala. The BJP has 40 MLAs in the 90-member Assembly. Punjab and Haryana have witnessed intense protests by farmers’ organisations against the bills. Chautala’s party, like the Akali Dal in Punjab, draws its support from farmers and has come under pressure to quit the state government after Harsimrat’s resignation from the Union ministry on Thursday. On Friday morning, Chautala was learnt to have met chief minister Mahohar Lal Khattar and then gone into a huddle with his party colleagues. He has not said anything yet about the three farm bills. The Congress sought to taunt Chautala. “Dushyantji, following Harsimrat Kaur Badal you should have resigned at least from the Deputy CM post. You are more attached to the chair than farmers,” Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala tweeted. In this backdrop, Modi made an impassioned appeal to the farmers and allies, contending that the bills aimed to liberate the farmers from the clutches of middlemen. “I want to tell my farmer friends, beware of these people (Opposition) who ruled for decades and are now trying to misguide you,” Modi said. He accused the Opposition of trying to protect “middlemen” who “loot” the farmers. Modi used the phrase “yeh log” (these people) for the Opposition and claimed that in their manifesto they had promised to amend the APMC (Agriculture Produce Market Committee) Act, but were now raising objections for political gain after his government had made the required changes. Farmers’ bodies in Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against the bills, claiming that by deregulating the farm produce market, the government would deprive farmers of the minimum support price (MSP) for their produce. Also, they fear that permitting contract farming would allow corporate houses to exploit the farmers. Modi sought to allay these fears and stress his government’s commitment to continuing with the MSP regime, but added that the reforms would open many more options. “Farmers have been given new independence. They’ll now have more options.… They can sell their produce in any market of the country,” he said, emphasising that the new provisions aim to “unshackle” them. Modi said he was sure the farmers would see through the designs of those trying to misguide them. He said the bills would remove middlemen and liberate the farmers so they can secure the best prices for their produce. Modi referred to Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar and said that after coming to power in the state, he had abolished the APMCs. “Now the country will tread Bihar’s path,” he said. Additional reporting by Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||HC alert against ‘digital apartheid’||Delhi High Court on Friday directed private as well as government schools such as Kendriya Vidyalayas to provide gadgets and an Internet package to poor students for online classes, saying not doing so amounts to “discrimination” and creates a “digital apartheid”. To separate such students from others in the same class because of non-availability of a gadget or a device would generate “a feeling of inferiority” that may “affect their hearts and minds unlikely ever to be undone”, the court said. A bench of Justices Manmohan and Sanjeev Narula said if a school decides to voluntarily provide synchronous face-to-face real time online education as a method of teaching, “they will have to ensure that the students belonging to economically weaker section (EWS) or disadvantaged group (DG) category also have access and are able to avail the same”. The court said: “Segregation in education is a denial of equal protection of the law under Article 14 of the Constitution and in particular the Right to Education (RTE) Act, 2009.” The judgment came on a PIL by NGO Justice for All, represented by advocate Khagesh Jha, seeking directions to the Centre and the Delhi government to provide free laptops, tablets or mobile phones to poor kids so that they can access classes online during the Covid-19 lockdown.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Health is still hush-hush||Amit Shah was discharged from AIIMS on Thursday, five days after he was re-admitted for check-up following recovery from Covid-19. Shah, 55, has been hospitalised thrice in the past six weeks. The government has not offered any specific details or regular updates on his health other than Shah himself tweeting about him testing positive for Covid. The government has no right to discuss in public the medical details of  Citizen Shah. But Shah is also the Union home minister and the second most powerful person in the country for all practical purposes. Medical status has always been a sensitive subject in India, if not the entire sub-continent, although modern democracies have evolved precedents that let citizens know whether those who run the governments -– and take decisions that influence their lives – are in the right frame of mind and body to discharge their responsibilities. Public figures often cite the law to point out that there is no binding rule that compels them to reveal the state of their health. Indian law requires politicians to declare only their assets for contesting polls. However, in the US, the President makes public his annual medical check-up report, although no law requires the President or the presidential candidates to make public medical records or information. The UK also follows a similar protocol. Former US President Barack Obama released reports of his physical examinations periodically throughout his presidency and also during his campaign, although he was not legally required to do so. According to a 2018 poll, 80 per cent of voters in the US said a candidate’s health was important for them and many said the public deserved a sense of a candidate’s physical and mental fitness. Last month Japan’s Prime Minister Shinzo Abe had announced his resignation because of ill-health and told the nation about his medical condition. A former CBI director said: “I think politicians and ministers should have a moral responsibility to disclose their medical condition so that the people are reassured that nothing impairs the elected representative’s ability  to serve.” A retired bureaucrat added: “Shah is the second-in-command and a very powerful minister in the government. He holds a very important portfolio and is in charge of the country’s internal security. Shah is known to be diabetic and hypertensive. In September 2019, he underwent minor surgery at a private hospital in Ahmedabad for the removal of lipoma, or a fatty lump, at the back of his neck. Shah was admitted to AIIMS on Saturday night (September 12) for a “routine check-up”, nearly two weeks after he was discharged from hospital. In a statement  on September 13, the hospital said Shah was admitted for a “complete medical check-up before Parliament session for 1-2 days”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Army to Rajnath: Ready for Ladakh long haul ||India’s army is gearing itself to weather the long and harsh Ladakh winter at icy heights as it awaits Chinese confirmation of the fresh talks expected this week, defence minister Rajnath Singh was told on Friday by the military leadership. Rajnath was reviewing the situation along the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh amid a massive build-up by the Indian and Chinese armies at multiple friction points. “We are maintaining high alertness as the Chinese military has not yet confirmed the date for the corps commanders’ meeting,” a defence ministry official said. “Both sides are expected to decide on the modalities to carry forward the disengagement process from the friction points.” Military veterans and security experts say the Chinese may be using the negotiations to buy time and further consolidate their positions as part of a strategy to establish a new status quo in the region. At Friday’s meeting, Rajnath asked the military brass to ensure operational readiness to deal with any eventualities, the ministry official said. “He asked the top brass to keep the army fully prepared for deployment in the harsh winter months in the treacherous terrain in case the standoff is not resolved during the fresh round of talks,” he said. Sources said the army was fully prepared for winter deployment at altitudes of 14,000-16,000ft, and had stocked up on all essentials including food, clothing and fuel. “We have prepared ourselves to maintain the current strength of men and machines at all the friction points. Considering the hostile terrain, where the temperature drops below minus 20-25 degrees Celsius in peak winter, we have made elaborate arrangements,” an army official said. The temperature has already dipped to minus two degrees Celsius on the south bank of the Pangong Lake, the latest confrontation point, he said. Indian and Chinese troops are eyeball to eyeball, but there has been no fresh confrontation since the recent foreign ministers’ meeting.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||‘Goli maaro’ minister trains gun on Nehru||Junior finance minister Anurag Thakur launched an attack on the Nehru-Gandhi family while defending the PM CARES Fund in the Lok Sabha on Friday, triggering uproar that led to four adjournments. Thakur’s contention was that the 72-year-old Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund set up by Jawaharlal Nehru, which the Opposition favoured over the newly constituted PM CARES Fund, had been created to favour “one family”. His salvo appeared pre-planned, with finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman stepping aside for her junior while replying to the Opposition’s objections to the introduction of a taxation amendment bill that had provisions relating to the PM CARES Fund. Later, in the din over Thakur’s remarks, Sitharaman successfully introduced the bill. Thakur had provided a glimpse of his knack for provocation during campaigning for the February 8 Delhi elections, when he led a rally in chanting: “Desh ke gaddaron ko, goli maro salon ko (Shoot traitors to the country).” The Taxation and Other Laws, Relaxation of Certain Provisions Bill, 2020, deals, among other provisions, with tax relaxations given to donations made to the PM CARES Fund. Congress and Trinamul members raised several objections, including one against the proposal to bring the PM CARES Fund under the same laws that govern the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. Critics say the PM CARES Fund was unnecessary since the PMNRF already existed, and that it reflects an attempt by the Prime Minister at self-aggrandisement. The fund has also faced charges of opacity. After replying to some of the Opposition members’ objections, Sitharaman said Thakur would respond to the rest of the issues raised relating to the PM CARES Fund. She sought the Speaker’s permission and Thakur was allowed to speak. As Thakur began speaking, it was clear he had come prepared to attack the Congress politically, bypassing the technical issues raised against the bill. “They (the Congress) have a problem with everything this government does. They have a problem with PM CARES, demonetisation, triple talaq,” Thakur said. “They (the Opposition) are raising questions about the PM CARES Fund. What about the PM’s National Relief Fund? In 1948, then PM Jawaharlal Nehru had ordered the formation of the PMNRF, which hasn’t been registered yet. How did it get FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act) registration?” he asked. “How was tax exemption given when the trust was not registered? You made the trust just for one family — the PMNRF had Sonia Gandhi as its member. The country needs to know. All this will be exposed.” As Congress and Trinamul members protested, Speaker Om Birla tried to stop Thakur, saying he could speak in detail when the bill was taken up for passage. By then, however, Thakur had possibly said all he had intended to say.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-659
19-09-2020||India||Congress on farm bills: Not what we promised||The Congress on Friday alleged that Prime Minister Narendra Modi was misleading the nation on the three farm sector bills passed in Parliament and contested the government’s argument that these had been part of the Opposition party’s manifesto. The government has this week passed the Farmers’ Produce, Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, disregarding protests by farmers and the Opposition, who claim these are aimed at helping corporate groups. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram, who headed the committee that drafted the Congress manifesto for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, said on Friday: “Disappointed with the BJP spokespersons’ distortion of the Congress manifesto statement on APMC (Agriculture Produce Marking Committee) laws. Our manifesto had promised that we would create thousands of farmers’ markets in small towns and large villages. Once that is accomplished, APMC laws can be changed.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar and BJP president J.P. Nadda have defended the government’s decisions by citing the Congress manifesto. The manifesto had said: “The Congress will repeal the APMC Act and make trade in agricultural produce — including exports and inter-state trade — free from all restrictions.” Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The Congress wanted to set up mandis within 2-3km of farms while APMC mandis are 60-70km away. The manifesto said, ‘We will establish farmers’ markets with adequate infrastructure and support in large villages and small towns to enable the farmer to bring his/her produce and freely market the same.’” Congress leaders have said the three bills brought by the Modi government together have an impact entirely different from what the party had envisioned. They have pointed out that the Congress manifesto had promised complete loan waiver, a separate kisan budget, and a permanent national commission on agriculture development and planning. Chidambaram said: “The way to liberalise agricultural marketing is to create more accessible markets and choice for the farmer. There will be rules to regulate such markets. The APMC system is indeed a safety net for the farmer but it is a restricted market that is not accessible to millions of farmers. “We need to enlarge the market for agriculture produce while preserving the ‘safety net’ principle through MSP (minimum support price) and public procurement. The laws sought to be passed by the Modi government scuttle the MSP principle and undermine public procurement.” The Congress veteran tweeted that the bills “challenge the three pillars of our still-imperfect ‘food security system’. They are (1) MSP, (2) public procurement, and (3) PDS. The grave flaw in the ordinances is that they do not stipulate that the price which the farmer gets ‘shall not be less than the MSP’. States were not consulted. The passage of the laws is a huge blow dealt by the BJP government to states’ rights and federalism.” Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh contested the Centre’s claim that the states were part of the decision-making. He said that Punjab was not initially included in the decision-making process, and was made part of it only after a protest was lodged. Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The enlightened farmers know the government intends to boost the business of his corporate friends through these farm-related legislations which will attack the farmers’ livelihood.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Govt defends Central Vista and bullet train||The government on Friday defended the proposed Central Vista and bullet train projects as measures to boost public spending and remained non-committal on the Opposition’s demand for the restoration of the MPLADS funds. Parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi, speaking in the Rajya Sabha during the debate on the Salaries, Allowances and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, also refuted the charge of lack of transparency in the PM CARES Fund, set up with the aim of tiding over the corona crisis. The bill, which was passed in the Rajya Sabha after being cleared in the Lower House, seeks to cut the salaries of MPs by 30 per cent for a year in view of the pandemic-triggered economic crisis. The Rajya Sabha also cleared the Salaries and Allowances of Ministers (Amendment) Bill, which envisions a similar reduction in the salaries of ministers, and it now awaits the Lower House’s ratification. During the discussion, Congress leader Rajiv Satav said there was no need to spend Rs 20,000 crore on the Central Vista project, which plans beautification and constructions in the capital, including a new Parliament building. The Congress and several other Opposition parties have objected to the project, dubbing it as wasteful expenditure at a time the pandemic had perpetrated an unprecedented economic crisis. The members have not objected to the snipping of their salaries. Satav said the Parliament buildings of the US, the UK, Italy and France were constructed in the 17th and 18th centuries, while the one in India came up in 1927. He argued there is no need to demolish the Parliament complex. Satav also alleged lack of transparency in the management of the PM CARES Fund. He criticised the Centre for the planned bullet train project linking Ahmedabad and Mumbai, and urged the government to halt it as this could not be the priority in the times of coronavirus. Many other MPs such as P. Wilson of the DMK and Manoj Jha of the RJD echoed Satav, pointing to the economy and the massive job losses. Joshi, the parliamentary affairs minister, defended both projects and said the PM CARES Fund was better managed than the way the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund used to be handled by previous governments. “You are saying everything should be stopped. Stop bullet train, stop Central Vista. What is this? I do not understand this,” Joshi said. “Central Vista does not fall within the scope of this bill (on salary cuts). I can only say that all these things, whether bullet train or anything else, these are all projects. On the one hand you say public spending should be more and on the other you are asking us to stop (the) bullet train (project). What is this?” the minister added. The Opposition leaders also protested the decision of the Union cabinet earlier this year to suspend for two years the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) citing the pandemic-induced monetary constraints. Under the scheme, each MP receives Rs 5 crore a year to undertake welfare projects in their respective constituencies. The government has decided that the money under MPLADS will for now be used to strengthen the Centre’s efforts to manage the Covid calamity. Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad (Congress), Tranamul Congress’s Dinesh Trivedi, Biju Janata Dal’s Prasanna Acharya, Telangana Rashtra Samithi’s Kesava Rao and YSR Congress’s Vijayasai Reddy demanded the restoration of the MPLADS funds. “MPLADS is money for the poor. This is used for ambulances, construction of road, culverts, etc. There is so much monitoring. The decision should be modified. You should reduce the suspension period to one year and make a provision for 50 per cent funds at least,” Azad said. Joshi replied that the MPLADS suspension was a temporary measure.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Loss of loved ones and loss of their bodies||As Aqib Riyaz Sofi grieved for his mother after she died in alleged security force firing on Thursday, the 25-year-old had another worry to grapple with. Would the police return Kousar Jan’s body? An epidemic of what Kashmiris are calling “lashe choor” (body stealing) has added to the Valley’s misery amid the Covid-19 outbreak and the militancy-related violence. Since April, the security forces have been refusing to return the bodies of slain militants to their families, citing the Covid protocol that prohibits large gatherings — which the rebels’ funerals invariably turn out to be. Most Kashmiris see this as an excuse to pre-empt the galvanisation of public sentiments and pro-azadi protests. The practice has now been extended to several civilians who, like Kousar, are said to have died in custody or from firing by the forces. The families of the slain now face a double trauma — the loss of a loved one and the loss of their body. Kousar, who was in her late 40s, died during a pre-dawn security operation that killed three militants hiding in a house in Srinagar’s Batmaloo locality and left a CRPF deputy commandant critically injured. Aqib said that as part of their daily routine, he and his mother were travelling to their bakery in his car at 4am. “When my mother saw them (the forces), she panicked and asked me to take a U-turn. They let loose a volley of fire from behind and hit my mother,” Aqib said. “I cried out that my mother was dead but nobody came to help. I brought her out of the car and later took the body to the police control room (as is the norm).” Late on Thursday afternoon, a relative of the family said: “It’s been more than 12 hours since she died but we are yet to get the body. The police have promised to return the body by evening; we have our fingers crossed.” A neighbour later called this newspaper at 7pm to say the body had been returned after 15 hours. At a news conference in Srinagar on Thursday afternoon, director-general of police Dilbag Singh had been asked whether Kousar’s body would be returned to the family. “It will certainly be returned. There are no two opinions about it. She is not related to militancy,” the DGP said. Yet the bodies of several civilians who were killed allegedly by the forces in recent weeks were never handed over to their families. The authorities buried them in remote places, away from the media glare. On Wednesday, 23-year-old Sopore shopkeeper Irfan Ahmad Dar, who had died in police custody the previous night, was buried in Sonamarg, around 130km from his home. The police claim he was an “over-ground worker” for the militants but the family vouches for his innocence. When DGP Singh was asked about gaps in the police claim, he looked agitated and asked the journalists not to “dig too deep” since a magisterial inquiry had been ordered. The police claim that Irfan had escaped in the darkness and that his body was later recovered, without explaining how he had died. Irfan’s uncle Noor Mohammad, who was allowed a look at the body in Sonamarg, told The Telegraph the youth had torture marks on his face and head. “Three of his teeth were broken, his face was smashed and he had a head injury. They (the police) killed an innocent man and refused to hand over his body. This is a double trauma,” Noor said. “Around 30 family members went to Sopore and Srinagar yesterday (Wednesday) to plead for his body but we were told he was being buried in Sonamarg.” He added: “When we reached Sonamarg, only around a dozen family members were allowed to see his body and perform the last rites. The rest were not allowed. We could not give a decent burial to him.” In May, the authorities had refused to return the body of a 14-year-old boy with hearing and speech impairment who had died in alleged security force firing. Three men from Rajouri who were killed in a “fake encounter” in Shopian in July were buried in Shopian, around 150km from their homes. Their families have since been trying to secure permission to get the bodies back for a fresh burial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Mayawati readies for bypoll test||Away from direct public contact and mostly tweeting in support of the BJP governments at the Centre and in Uttar Pradesh, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati has decided to assess her popularity in the bypolls to eight Assembly seats scheduled to be held by the end of this year. The BSP would not usually contest bypolls in the past. A senior BSP leader told The Telegraph on Friday that Mayawati has finalised the nominees from Tundla (Firozabad), Swar (Rampur), Bangarmau (Unnao), Malhani (Jaunpur), Deoria Sadar, Bulandshahar, Ghatampur (Kanpur) and Naugaon (Amroha) seats. “As the Election Commission is expected to announce the date by next month, Mayawati has assigned her party’s sector in-charges to make public the names of her candidates by the end of this month. Some of the selected candidates have already been asked to start campaigning. For example, Kuldeep Shankhwar, former zonal coordinator of the BSP, is already meeting his supporters in Ghatampur,” a BSP leader said on condition of anonymity. “Although, the BSP generally doesn’t contest bypolls as Mayawati believes that it is wastage of party resources and she should focus on general elections to form her government, she is the first to finalise our party candidates much before the ruling BJP and main Opposition, the Samajwadi Party,” the leader said. “Mayawati had said in a party meeting two days ago that the bypolls would be a warming up for the Assembly elections 2022.” The BJP held six and the Samajwadi held two of the eight seats, which had fallen vacant because of the demise or disqualification of the members. The BJP has 304 seats in the House of 404. The Samajwadi, BSP and the Congress have 48, 18 and seven seats respectively.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
19-09-2020||India||Gangtok nurse succumbs to Covid ||Sikkim lost it first health worker to Covid-19 wh­en a 49-year-old nursing assist­a­nt superintendent of the New STNM Hospital near Gangtok passed away from the disease in the early hours of Friday. Health officials said the nurse, who had comorbidities, had been admitted to the very hospital she was serving for the second time on Wednesday and put on ventilator the following day. “She had been discharged from the hospital on Tuesday after undergoing treatment for Covid. She had to be admitted again after her health took a turn for the worst,” said an official. Sources said though the patient had not recovered, she had been discharged because she had already spent two weeks at the hospital. The nurse, who had done Covid duty at the hospital in August, is believed to have contracted the disease at her work place. With her death, the toll from Covid in the state has risen to 24. In all, 2274 persons in the state had tested for the novel coronavirus till Thursday. The Covid warrior’s death has led to an outpouring of grief with people hailing her as a hero. “It is a big loss for our he­alth department. She had done Covid duty in August. I would like to convey my heartfelt co­ndolences to her family. We are in touch with her family. We will talk to the government and see what can be done for her family,” said Pempa T. Bhutia, the director general-cum-secretary of the Sikkim health department. Bhutia also appealed to other health workers not to be discouraged by the tragic loss of a fellow colleague. “We know everyone in the department has been working very hard. We mu­st continue to give our service, but by taking adequate precautions. We must first protect ourselves and then serve others,” he added. The ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha mourned the health worker’s death. “We have had to lose one of our frontline warriors in this fight against the coronavirus. Acknowledging her contribution to the people, we would like to pay our rich tributes to her,” the SKM said in a release. Former chief minister and president of the Sikkim Democratic Front Pawan Chamling, too, expressed his condolences. “This valiant daughter of Sikkim gave her life fighting for the rest of us. I salute this lady with all my heart for her selfless service which led to her heroic death. Her sacrifice will not be taken lightly,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-660
