20-09-2020||India||Opposition members' conduct in Rajya Sabha 'shameful': Rajnath Singh||The top brass of the central government on Sunday flayed the opposition over its members' "unruly conduct" in Rajay Sabha during the passage of the two farm bills, condemning their behaviour as "shameful" and unprecedented in Parliament's history. Union ministers Rajnath Singh, Prakash Javadekar, Pralhad Joshi, Piyush Goyal, Thawarchand Gehlot and Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi held a press conference to hit out at opposition members, with Singh asserting that such conduct was not expected in a healthy democracy. Singh noted that opposition members tore rule book, threw papers at the desk of the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the Chair, and climbed the officials' table -- something, he added, he had never witnessed before. Lauding Harivansh as a man of values, he said the "misconduct" of opposition members towards him was unprecedented. Even if opposition leaders were not convinced with the Chair's decision, does it allow them to attack him and be "violent," he asked. Asked about the decision of BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal to quit the Modi government in protest against the farm bills, he said there are some "political reasons" behind certain decisions. "I want to assure farmers that minimum support price and APMC will continue. These will never be removed at any cost," he said. The Upper House, which witnessed a brief adjournment due to the pandemonium, passed by voice vote the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Anurag Kashyap calls sexual harassment allegations 'baseless', industry friends support director||Filmmaker Anurag Kashyap, who has been accused by actor Payal Ghosh of sexual harassment, on Sunday said the claim is "baseless" and found support in his industry friends, with Hansal Mehta, Taapse Pannu, Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub as well as former wife, film editor Aarti Bajaj crediting him for creating safe work space for women. On Saturday, Ghosh took to Twitter and wrote that the Gangs of Wasseypur director was sexually inappropriate towards her, a claim he has dismissed. The 30-year-old actor tagged Prime Minister Narendra Modi in her tweet, requesting him to take action against Kashyap. In a video released to ABN Telugu, Ghosh claimed that the incident happened in 2014-2015. The actor, who made her Hindi debut with Rishi Kapoor-Paresh Rawal starrer Patel Ki Punjabi Shaadi, also claimed that Kashyap boasted about his connection with megastar Amitabh Bachchan and claimed that there were other female artistes who he got intimate with. Dismissing the allegations, Kashyap called Ghosh's claim an attempt to "silence" him. An outspoken critic of administration and a member of the Indian film industry who is vocal about the vilification of Bollywood by celebrities and trolls online, the director said it had taken some people "such a long time" to "shut me up". While Ghosh found support in National Commission for Women, with its chairperson Rekha Sharma assuring the actor that the NCW will take cognisance of the case, several film personalities including Sayani Gupta, Tisca Chopra, Surveen Chawla and Anubhav Sinha urged that the #MeToo movement must not be abused for vendetta. Calling Ghosh's allegation the "cheapest" stunt, Kashyap's first wife, Bajaj said the filmmaker was somebody who makes sure to create a safe work environment for his female co-workers. "There is no integrity left and the world is full of losers and no brains baying for blood of anyone who has a voice. If everybody spend that energy which they use in hating others constructively this world will be a better place," she added. "Worst of human kind seen in the last few months: 1. Appropriating someone's death for personal vendetta. 2. Appropriating one of the most important movements for political vendetta MeToo #StandwithAnuragKashyap," wrote Gupta. At least "spare an important movement like #MeToo", appealed Ayyub. In a carefully worded, lengthy thread, Mehta questioned whether the allegation against Kashyap was just another "witch hunt", adding he was "troubled and full of questions". "This happening at a time when Anurag often against advice has been outspoken and provided a contrarian view on things happening around us. is he making some people uncomfortable? there are so many questions and they are not necessarily about the allegations leveled against AK. Is this a witch-hunt yet again? are they trying to shut up an artist with a dissenting opinion? where are we headed? and then after hearing the accusation - can this even be anurag? it is definitely not the anurag I know," the director wrote. Mehta said lies will do a "huge disservice" to women who are regularly subjected to sexual harassment and abuse, adding #MeToo movement must "not become a target of abuse for somebody's selfish gains". "The #metoo movement is way too important. Let every victim out there always be heard and justice be done," he said. Pannu, who collaborated with Kashyap on the 2018 romantic-drama Manmarziyaan, took to Instagram and wrote that the filmmaker was "the biggest feminist" she knew. Sinha said the existence of the #MeToo movement is to amplify voices of harassed women and should not be misused. "It is the joint responsibility of women and men both to carefully protect the sanctity of #Metooindia. It is a very very very important movement that should not be misused for any other reason but the dignity of women," he tweeted. Chawla, who worked with the filmmaker on his two-part Netflix series Sacred Games, said the allegation against the director reeked of "opportunism". Chopra, who featured alongside Kashyap and Chawla in the short film Chhuri, said the director was one of the biggest supporters of talent, be it men or women. "To know my friend @anuragkashyap72 is to know generosity, honesty and decency at its core .. even a cursory look at his work reveals his worldview on women .. don't know a bigger supporter of talent, men or women," she tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes two farm bills amid Opposition protests||Rajya Sabha on Sunday passed two key farm bills amid a bedlam as Opposition members charged towards the podium of the presiding officer, flung the rule book at him, tore official papers and heckled him over their demand for a division of vote. The Upper House, which witnessed a brief adjournment due to the pandemonium, passed by voice vote the Farmer's Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now go to the President for his assent before they are notified as law. Prime Minister Narendra Modi hailed the passage of the bills as a "watershed moment" in the history of Indian agriculture, asserting that they will ensure a complete transformation of the farm sector and empower crores of farmers. In a series of tweets after Rajya Sabha passed the bills, Modi assured farmers that the existing government support system would continue. “We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations," he tweeted. Trouble started when the sitting of the House was extended beyond the scheduled time to allow passage of the bills. Opposition members, who felt such a move should be resorted to only by consensus, rushed into the Well, shouting slogans against the government and accusing it of being anti-farmer. This forced Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar to cut short his reply and Deputy Chairman Harivansh took up the approval of the bills. Four Opposition sponsored motions to send the two bills to a House panel for greater scrutiny were negated by voice-vote, but the Congress, TMC, CPM and DMK members sought a division of vote on the issue. As Harivansh over-ruled them saying division of votes can take place only when members are on their seat, TMC leader Derek O'Brien charged towards the podium, thrusting the rule book into the face of the Deputy Chairman. House marshals thwarted the move and also blocked a book that was flung towards Harivansh. An attempt was also made to pull microphones away from the chair but the marshals physically stopped that from happening. DMK leader Tiruchi Siva, who along with O'Brien, K.C. Venugopal of Congress and K. K. Ragesh of CPM had moved resolutions for sending the bills to the select committee, tore papers and flung them into the air. Harivansh, who asked members to go back to their places and not come into the Well due to the COVID-19 protocol requiring physical separation, first muted the audio of the live proceedings but with the ruckus continuing, he adjourned the proceedings for 15 minutes.  When the House reassembled, Opposition parties chanted slogans but this did not prevent Harivansh from putting the bill to voice vote.  As the first bill got voice approval of the House and motions for sending it to a select committee were rejected, at least two members tried to climb on the table of Rajya Sabha officers but were pulled down. Insisting that the rules were not being followed, Trinamool Congress's Derek O' Brien tore up the rule book from the Deputy Chairman's table. His mike was also dismantled, reported ndtv.com. "This is a brutal murder of the Parliamentary democratic system," said Derek O'Brien, whose point of order was not accepted. Both the bills were passed by voice vote and amendments moved by the Opposition parties rejected. In his reply to the debate on the bill, Tomar said minimum price or MSP based procurement of agriculture crops from farmers will continue and is not related to the farm bills that seek to give cultivators freedom to market their produce.  Tomar said several sectors were impacted during the coronavirus times but not agriculture which saw a bumper crop and has record sowing of Kharif.  Contribution from the agri-sector in GDP did not decline, said Tomar while thanking the farmers.  He sought to allay fears that the bills were an attempt to dilute the country's public procurement system and will lead to exploitation by private companies, saying the minimum support price (MSP)-based buying by the government will continue.  "Purchase on MSP was done in the past, continues now and it will be continued in the future. There is no room for doubt on this," he said. Mandis will not stop functioning and trading will continue as before. Under contract farming, the farmer will have full powers to fix a sale price of his choice and they will receive full payment within three days, he said.  The bills are facing staunch opposition from some farmer bodies as well as from within the ruling coalition. Harsimrat Kaur Badal, the food processing minister from the Shiromani Akali Dal party, resigned from the government last week.  Opposition parties as well as the SAD felt the bills are the first step toward removing the MSP which will force the farmers to make distress sales to private companies.  Farmers in states like Punjab and Haryana have been protesting against these bills, with their leaders alleging that the legislations will dismantle the existing system and leave them to the mercy of corporate interests. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 seeks to give freedom to farmers to sell their produce outside the notified APMC market yards (mandis). This, the government says, is aimed at facilitating remunerative prices through competitive alternative trading channels.  Farmers will not be charged any cess or levy for sale of their produce under this Act, according to the government.  It will open more choices for farmers, reduce marketing costs, and help them get better prices. It will also help farmers of regions with surplus produce to get better prices and consumers in areas with shortages at lower prices.  The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 seeks to give farmers the right to enter into a contract with agribusiness firms, processors, wholesalers, exporters, or large retailers for the sale of future farming produce at a pre-agreed price.  It seeks to transfer the risk of market unpredictability from farmers to sponsors.  Tomar said this legislation guarantees cultivators the price they negotiate at the time of sowing itself. A third bill, the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 that seeks to remove commodities like cereals, pulses, oilseeds, onion, and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and will do away with the imposition of stock holding limits, is to be moved separately.  Swaminathan Committee, which has given several suggestions on agricultural reforms, had asked that the MSP should be fixed after adding 50 per cent profit over the input costs of farmers.  "The UPA government was for 10 years but did not accept to fix MSP based on 50 per cent profit over the input cost," he said, adding that a decision was taken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the effect was reflected in the price of the purchase from the farmers.  The minister cited data of purchase of wheat, paddy, soybean, groundnuts, suggesting higher dispensation of money towards the purchase from farmers by the present government. Prime Minister Narendra Modi said new laws were a "watershed moment" in the history of Indian agriculture, asserting that they will ensure a complete transformation of the farm sector and empower crores of farmers.  In a series of tweets after Rajya Sabha passed the bills, Modi said these proposed laws will liberate farmers from numerous adversities as he noted that peasants were for decades bound by various constraints and bullied by middlemen.  He assured farmers that the existing government support system would continue. Modi asserted, "I said it earlier and I say it once again: System of MSP will remain. Government procurement will continue.  "We are here to serve our farmers. We will do everything possible to support them and ensure a better life for their coming generations."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Heated exchanges in Rajya Sabha during debate on farm bills||Rajya Sabha on Sunday witnessed heated exchanges between Congress and YSRCP members during the debate on the farm bills after an MP of the ruling Andhra party made some remarks against the grand old party, prompting them to demand an apology.  There was uproar in the House after V Vijaysai Reddy (YSRCP), while speaking in support of the bill, accused the Congress of "hypocrisy" as the bill contained the promises made by the Congress in its Lok Sabha poll manifesto.  As Reddy accused the Congress of promoting "middlemen" and some other remarks, Congress members created uproar.  Anand Sharma (Cong) said the member's conduct has not been as per the traditions of the House and he should retract his statement and apologise.  L Hanumanthaiah, who was in the chair at the time, said he would look into the records and expunge any objectionable remarks made. "If there is anything objectionable it will be taken off the records," he said.  The din continued for sometime in the House with YSRCP and Congress members engaged in heated arguments.  Reddy said the bill was in favour of the farmers as it promoted contract farming that would ensure sale of his produce and free him from the clutches of middlemen.  He asked why tobacco is not included under the purview of the bill and demanded so.  He also accuses the Congress of being hypocritical as it had promised the same in its manifesto.  "What is this hypocrisy. Why they are opposing these bills. They are nothing but.....," he said that led to uproar.  Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar introduced the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 in the Rajya Sabha.  Ram Gopal Yadav (SP) said the BJP should ensure that it doesn't do anything that the future generations should hold them guilty of.  He said it was difficult to believe that these bills are being put forth by the son of a farmer.  Yadav alleged that there seems to be some compulsion that the ruling party does not want to discuss or debate on any of the bills, as it was rushing through these bills without discussion.  "You did not consult anyone before bringing these ordinances during the pandemic. You should have at least consulted the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh," he said.  T K S Elangovan (DMK) said the two Bills are an insult to farmers and were not necessary.  "This government has no right to bring these bills, as agriculture is a state subject. This bill also repeal the ordinance and the promise of this government to implement M S Swaminathan Committee's recommendations," he said.  "This Bill is not for the sale of farmer's products, this bill will sell the farmers and make them slaves of big businessmen. This bill will affect farmers, kill them and make them commodities," he alleged.  K Keshava Rao (TRS), while opposing the bill, said the Agriculture Minister claimed that this is a Bill for new-age agriculture, but was against it.  Alleging that this bill seeks to change the very character of the country, he said, "you have made an agricultural country into a corporate country".  He said farmers will not have a level playing field as the bills seek to put the poor farmers against the traders.  "This government has set out to kill the golden goose," he said, accusing the government of not discussing the issue with states and people.  He also alleged that these Bills are an assault on state rights and the Constitution.  Ram Chandra Prasad Singh (JDU), while supporting the bills, said it is for the first time that a farmers' policy has come after a long time. He said in 1991 when the country saw liberalisation, it missed bringing agriculture reforms.  He cited the example of Bihar where the Nitish Kumar government has abolished the APMC Act in 2006 and yet farmers are getting good price for their produce through MSP and farmers are producing more.  He said farmers will get different options after the bills are passed. "I urge the Agriculture minister, both these bills are good tasks and agriculture will benefit from it. Please also do research to help increase the farmers' income," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||China ‘spy ring’ busted but silence on leak||Delhi police have arrested a freelance journalist — who was once an admirer of national security adviser Ajit Doval — a Chinese woman and a Nepali man on the charge of espionage but are yet to reveal who in the establishment had leaked the purported sensitive information at a time when Prime Minister Narendra Modi had consolidated his power at the Centre. Rajeev Sharma, 61, who had written about his proximity to Doval and was associated with a Delhi-based Right-wing think tank, was arrested on Monday on the charge of passing on “classified defence information” to China. On Saturday evening, Prashant Pratap Singh, Congress national media coordinator, uploaded a video clip that shows an excerpt from an interview in which a senior journalist is seen introducing Sharma, among other career high points, as someone who “has worked with NSA Doval in the Vivekananda International Foundation for some time”. A few hours earlier on Saturday, deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav had said: “Sharma conveyed information related to army movements, defence acquisitions, Dalai Lama, foreign policy.... The shell company (through which he was paid) was being jointly operated by Chinese and Nepalese nationals.” The officer said Sharma, a strategy and foreign relations analyst, used to write a weekly column for China’s communist party-owned newspaper Global Times between 2010 and 2014. He was allegedly induced into espionage by Chinese intelligence operatives who invited him to China for an interview with a media company and paid for the entire trip. Sharma wrote an article for Global Times this month too, advocating peace on the India-China border. Chinese citizen Qing Shi and Nepalese national Sher Singh alias Raj Bohra were arrested in Delhi on Friday, Yadav told reporters. They were supplying Sharma with “huge amounts of money routed through hawala channels to convey sensitive information to Chinese intelligence”, the officer said. DCP Yadav’s statement gave several specific details but did not mention how the information got leaked from the government and whether anyone in the administration had been held accountable. “If the police claims are true, the investigators need to go after the government officials who were providing Sharma with classified documents. The rot must run deep,” a retired Intelligence Bureau director said. All three accused have been charged under the Official Secrets Act. “A large number of mobile phones, laptops and other incriminating and sensitive material have been recovered from them,” Yadav said. He said Sharma had been arrested on a tip-off from the intelligence agencies. On Tuesday, a court sent the journalist to six days’ police custody. His bail application will be heard on September 22. Sharma had in the past worked for the news agency UNI, The Tribune newspaper and the Pune-based Sakal Times. Soon after Doval’s appointment as national security adviser in 2014, Sharma had written an article for the web news portal Firstpost in which he mentioned his "thousands of interactions with Doval". "Having known Doval from close quarters for such a long time and having interacted closely with top intelligence honchos of India in the past quarter century, I can say one thing with a very high degree of confidence. Doval is the best NSA India could have ever got," he wrote. Last year, Sharma had been among people who had expressed fear that their phones may be under surveillance through the Israeli Pegasus spyware. He had claimed to have received a WhatsApp message from a Canada-based NGO warning him about it. "He was once very closely associated with a Delhi-based Right-wing think tank and was a regular visitor there. It seems he has fallen out of favour now," a journalist said. On the day of his arrest, one of the two videos uploaded by Sharma on Twitter was accompanied by a tweet that said: "The state of Indian media today is pathetic. It was supposed to be a watchdog. Instead, it has become a lapdog of the government." The other was an eight-minute clip titled "China may still do mischief #India ChinaFaceOff". Sharma's accompanying tweet said: "The road to peace in eastern Ladakh is still heavily mined and India cannot trust China despite the two countries having mutually agreed to a five-point plan last week in Moscow to disengage and de-escalate. China can still do mischief." Since Friday night, attempts to access Sharma's Twitter account, which has 5,446 followers, has been throwing up a notification that says: "Caution: The account is temporarily restricted. You are seeing this warning because there has been some unusual activity from this account. Do you still want to view it?" DCP Yadav's statement said that Sharma had during the interrogation revealed he had procured sensitive information and passed these on to his Kunming-based Chinese handlers, "Michel" and "George", using various digital platforms. The DCP said Sharma used to meet his handlers in China and the Maldives. "He has disclosed he was about to send (more) secret documents to his handlers." Yadav described how Sharma allegedly fell into the clutches of the Chinese. "Observing his (Global Times) articles, one Chinese intelligence agent named Michel from Kunming contacted Sharma through his LinkedIn account and invited him to Kunming for an interview with a Chinese media company," he said. Michel funded the entire trip, during which Michel and his junior Xou asked Sharma for secret information on various aspects of India-China relations, Yadav said. "Between 2016 and 2018, Sharma was in contact with Michel and was tasked to provide information/ inputs on issues like Indian deployment on Bhutan-Sikkim-China tri-junction including Doklam, the pattern of India-Myanmar military cooperation, India-China boundary issue, etc," Yadav said. In January 2019, Sharma came in contact with another Kunming-based operative, George, who sought information relating to the Dalai Lama, Yadav's statement said. "For this Sharma was offered $500 per article/ information. Sharma received Rs 30 lakh from George in about 10 instalments from January 2019 to September 2020 in exchange for information provided by him," it said. By current exchange rates, Rs 30 lakh would imply over 80 payments of $500. On September 7, Sharma had written an article for Global Times, titled "A rapprochement road map for Beijing and New Delhi benefits both countries". In the article, he had highlighted that the two countries "have been engaged in a dangerous military standoff… which could wreck their economies and many precious things if the situation is not amicably eased". "The steady deterioration of bilateral relations since the night of May 5, when the latest standoff began, has practically evaporated all the diplomatic gains of the past years in one stroke. The current crisis is the biggest threat to normal ties between the two sides since 1962," he wrote. "It's a lose-lose situation for both. Their common objective must be to build a better and peaceful future for their people and not a military build-up against one another." Sharma added: "China should keep in mind that Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi won his second successive general election in May 2019 solely on nationalistic fervour, even though Modi's critics at home or abroad have dubbed his brand of nationalism as jingoism. Modi can ramp up domestic and international political discourse with his biggest weapon: nationalism." The Press Club of India expressed outrage over the arrest of Sharma under the Official Secrets Act (OSA), pointing to the "dubious track record" of Delhi police's special cell in selectively framing journalists. "We are astounded to hear of the arrest of Rajeev Sharma, a well-known independent journalist of long standing and a member of the Press Club of India. This is on account of the dubious track record of the Special Branch. More generally also, the record of Delhi police is hardly a shining one," the PCI said in a statement. It said "on the basis of the statement of the police released to the media, we have no hesitation in saying that the police action is high-handed, and may be inspired by obscure or questionable considerations". The PCI also pointed out that Delhi police's special cell had been making "preposterous" arrests under the UAPA in connection with the anti-CAA protests. It said he wrote "on strategic affairs and may well have accessed routinely over-classified information on the Internet that is in the public domain".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Ex-judge: Every institution being destroyed||Every institution designed to hold the executive accountable is being systematically destroyed in India since 2014, when the BJP government came to power, a former chief justice of Delhi High Court has said, describing the decline of the Supreme Court as the most troubling. Justice Ajit Prakash Shah, who had also served as chairperson of the Law Commission of India, was delivering the Justice Suresh Memorial Lecture on Friday evening on “The Supreme Court in Decline: Forgotten Freedoms and Eroded Rights”. “We might not be in a state of war but we are in a state of emergency, unprecedented for generations. Central to all this, and certainly, of most concern to me, is the role of the Supreme Court,” the former judge said. “In India today, every institution, mechanism or tool that is designed to hold the executive accountable, is being systematically destroyed. This destruction began in 2014 when the BJP government came into power. There is a temptation to compare this with the blatant destruction that the Indira Gandhi government indulged in the past, but comparisons are odious,” he said. Justice Shah came down heavily on the alleged misuse of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), which he said was being used to stifle dissent and put people in jail by branding them “anti-nationals”. The Supreme Court, he said, had through an April 2019 judgment done grave disservice by evolving the new doctrine that a suspect arrested under UAPA has to remain in jail without bail till the conclusion of trial, even if it is eventually proven that the evidence was inadmissible. The decision in the NIA vs Zahoor Watali case on the interpretation of the UAPA has affected all downstream decisions involving the statute, he said. “The illogic of this veers on the absurd: Why must an accused remain in jail only to be eventually acquitted? According to the decision delivered by Justice Khanwilkar and Justice Rastogi, in considering bail applications under the UAPA, courts must presume every allegation made in the First Information Report to be correct. Further, bail can now be obtained only if the accused produces material to contradict the prosecution,” he said. “In other words, the burden rests on the accused to disprove the allegations, which is virtually impossible in most cases.” This is being abused by the government, police and prosecution liberally, he said, and dissenters are routinely charged with sedition or criminal conspiracy and with UAPA provisions. “Due to the Supreme Court judgment, high courts have their hands tied and must perforce refuse bail as disproving the case is virtually impossible,” the former judge said. “The effect is nearly identical to the draconian preventive detention laws that existed during the Emergency, where the courts deprived people access to judicial remedy. If we want to prevent the disasters of that era, this decision must be urgently reversed or diluted, otherwise we run the risk of personal liberties being compromised very easily,” Justice Shah said. The former judge said this abuse of the UAPA and constant rejection of the bail aplications of the accused as a means of silencing opposing voices can be seen most in the Bhima Koregaon cases. “In the face of all this, the one institution which has the capacity to turn the tide is the judiciary. Unfortunately, it seems to have lost its way. There was a period in history, during the Emergency, as well when the Supreme Court failed the nation, but it realised its follies and returned to its natural path in course of time,” he said. In recent times, Parliament’s limitations have been revealed, Justice Shah said. “Even if Parliament has been debilitated, other entities should have stepped up to the plate and kept the executive in check. We have heard nothing of the Lokpal since forever. The National Human Rights Commission is dormant. Investigation agencies are misused at the slightest opportunity,” the former judge said. “The Election Commission of India appears to have been suspiciously compromised. The information commission is almost non-functional. The list is long and troubling. Even academia, the press and civil society have been systematically destroyed or silenced. Universities are under attack daily, whether it is students being accused of rioting, or teachers being accused of criminal conspiracy. “The idea of an unbiased mainstream fourth estate in India died its death a long time ago. And civil society is being slowly but surely strangled, through various ways. “But the most worrying of all is the state of the judiciary.” With Parliament weakened, the Supreme Court would have been the next best space to discuss the Kashmir trifurcation, the constitutional validity of the Citizenship Amendment Act, the suppression and criminalisation of the protests against this law, the misuse of draconian legislation like the sedition law and the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, and the electoral bonds, he said. “Sadly, most of these are ignored or brushed aside or mysteriously kept pending for an indefinite period of time,” Justice Shah said. “Our Supreme Court today, sadly, has time for a billion-dollar Indian cricket administration, or the grievances of a high-profile journalist, but (it has) studiously ignored the real plight of millions of migrants, who do not have either the money or the profile to compete for precious judicial time with other litigants.” Justice Shah recalled how the Supreme Court had, when it did take up the migrants’ issue after the longest time, accepted the government’s “bizarre” argument that the exodus was caused by fake news. Democracy derives its legitimacy from representing the will of the majority, Justice Shah said. “But this legitimacy comes at a cost, which is invariably borne by minority groups, and especially those that are unpopular or victims of deep prejudice and who cannot influence the legislature in any way. This power to protect minorities from the tyranny of the majority is the basis of judicial review powers that allow the courts to strike down laws for violating the Constitution,” he said. “Now, though, it seems that the court is turning away from decades of its own history, and is, instead, aligning with the majoritarian view unhesitatingly and without question. Two recent cases which demonstrate this clearly are Sabarimala and Ayodhya.” Another kind of repression, perhaps unprecedented in modern India, is the stifling of the right to protest and the right to free speech, Justice Shah said. He cited the crackdown on the anti-CAA protests and the implication of civilians critical of the government in the Delhi riots. The government is using every imaginable means to silence dissent and the judiciary is watching this happen, like a mute spectator, he said. But in conclusion, Justice Shah voiced the hope that the judiciary would return to its glorious era of zealously guarding the fundamental rights of the citizens. “The Supreme Court has had a glorious past that it should be proud of. The statesmanship that the 13-judge constitution bench exhibited in the decision in Kesavananda Bharati, where the ‘basic structure’ doctrine was laid down and judicial custody of the Constitution reclaimed, is but one shining example of what the court is capable of,” he said. “Now, too, we have many judges and exemplary lawyers in practice who are sincere and committed to constitutionalism and to the rule of law. I expect they will rise to the occasion. The occasion is now.” The former judge recalled that Jawaharlal Nehru had said in the Constituent Assembly that the country needed “judges of the ‘highest integrity’, who would be ‘(persons) who can stand up against the executive government and whoever might come in their way’”. “I am hopeful that we will once again be able to see judges like these thrive in India,” Justice Shah said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||Bill to make layoffs easier for big firms||The Centre has introduced a bill in the Lok Sabha that seeks to allow industrial establishments with 300 or more employees to retrench staff without the approval of state governments. The chapter on a special provision related to layoffs and retrenchment under the Industrial Relations Code bill has given such an option, which will enable large organisations to lay off staff. “The provisions of this chapter shall apply to an industrial establishment (not being an establishment of a seasonal character or in which work is performed only intermittently) in which not less than three hundred workers, or such higher number of workers as may be notified by the appropriate government, were employed on an average per working day in the preceding twelve months,” says the provision in the new bill. Right now, only industrial establishments with up to 100 employees enjoy the power to retrench staff without the approval of the state government. Earlier in April, a parliamentary standing committee had recommended the threshold (floor) of 300 after tweaking an open-ended plan. Almost all trade unions have opposed the provision. In 2015, Rajasthan, then ruled by the BJP, had amended the old provision to introduce the threshold of 300.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
20-09-2020||India||How Covid numbers were hushed up||Researchers acting under government orders expunged from a scientific paper the prevalence rates of the new coronavirus infection in containment zones or hotspots in 10 cities, estimated through a nationwide survey, authoritative sources have said. The head of India’s health research agency, Balram Bhargava, had asked the researchers to remove the infection prevalence data from the 10 cities’ hotspots they had included in their paper, multiple people familiar with these events have told The Telegraph. Bhargava, director-general of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and health research department secretary, told the researchers that the council did not have approval to publish the findings from the hotspots, the sources said. They said the ICMR chief — himself a co-author of the paper — did not specify who had disapproved the publication or why. This newspaper spoke to seven of the 74 co-authors. Four of them spoke on the condition of anonymity while three spoke on record. “We were told: remove the hotspots data or don’t publish,” one co-author said. Two other co-authors corroborated this account. The Telegraph sent a questionnaire to Bhargava on Friday, detailing the information conveyed by the co-authors and requesting his comment by Saturday afternoon. On Saturday, three more messages were sent to Bhargava but there was no response till night. The newspaper will publish Bhargava’s comments when he replies. The survey to determine what proportions of people the coronavirus had infected used randomly selected blood samples from 400 people in each of 70 districts and 500 people from hotspots in each of 10 cities — Ahmedabad, Bhopal, Calcutta, Delhi, Hyderabad, Indore, Jaipur, Mumbai, Pune and Surat. The survey, conducted by the council and collaborating institutions between May 11 and June 4, sought to estimate infection prevalence rates in early May. Under Bhargava’s directive, the researchers omitted from their paper the relatively high prevalence rates found in the hotspots — for instance, 36 per cent in Dharavi, Mumbai; 48 per cent in Ahmedabad; 30 per cent in Calcutta. Their paper, published this month in the Indian Journal of Medical Research, described only the lower prevalence rates in the other districts —ranging from 0.62 per cent to 1.03 per cent — and a national average of 0.73 per cent in early May. The order blocking public disclosure of the high prevalence rates in the hotspots has raised concerns among experts about extraneous influences on science and a breach of research ethics by the council, the very agency tasked with writing medical ethics codes for India. Samiran Panda, head of the council’s epidemiology division and a co-author of the paper, said the survey could be viewed as containing two components — the district survey aimed at estimating prevalence in the general population and the hotspot survey focused on high transmission areas. Panda said independent surveys in cities such as Delhi, Mumbai and Pune showing similarly high prevalence rates had diminished the relevance of the containment zones’ results from early May. Bhargava, outlining preliminary findings of the survey in June, had said the 0.73 per cent prevalence implied the lockdown and containment efforts had been “successful” in keeping the prevalence low and preventing any rapid spread. Six among the 74 co-authors of the scientific paper have told this newspaper that they cannot explain why they were asked to expunge the data from hotspots, especially because subsequent surveys revealed comparable prevalence rates in several cities. “The pursuit of science is to look for the truth — suppressing research is illogical,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a co-author and former head of community medicine at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, and a member of the council’s epidemiology and surveillance group for the coronavirus disease. The researchers tried to publish the full findings but found themselves stonewalled. The co-author, who disclosed they were told to “remove the hotspots data or don’t publish”, said the ultimatum had triggered a debate among them over whether to publish an incomplete paper or drop the publication in protest. “We decided to publish anyway,” the co-author said. Medical ethics experts view the council’s directive to alter the paper’s content as tantamount to cherry picking — deleting data that is inconvenient — and a violation of its own rules on research integrity. The council’s 2019 Policy on Research Integrity and Publication Ethics specifies: “Completed research irrespective of results must be published and shared on public databases such as the Clinical Trials Research India, institute websites or other available relevant platforms.” Amar Jesani, a physician and editor of the Indian Journal of Medical Ethics, said: “Keeping selective data out of the results distorts the paper’s analysis — this is a violation of research integrity.” Jesani and others have underlined that collecting blood samples from volunteers after informed consent and then failing to publishing the results too represents a violation of ethics. “These 5,000 people would have volunteered to give their blood samples because they believed the analysis would benefit science or society. Eliminating their data without good reason is troubling,” Jesani said. Anant Bhan, an independent bioethics specialist and adjunct faculty member at the Yenepoya Medical College, Mangalore, said the removal of data from the hotspots would also constitute a “wasted research effort” through public funds. “Research findings, no matter what they are, need to be disseminated honestly all the time — and absolutely during a pandemic,” Bhan said. Independent health experts tracking India’s response to the Covid-19 pandemic said the directive to conceal high prevalence data in cities in early May may have been part of efforts to portray the lockdown as a success. “The abrupt nationwide lockdown with a four-hour notice had brought misery and tragedies to many,” said a senior physician at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, who requested anonymity. “The country’s health research community has been used to portray the lockdown as a success.” The professor added: “India was under complete lockdown during April and May — a paper reporting 30 or 48 per cent prevalence rates in early May would have put a question mark on the claims about a successful lockdown and containment.” D.C.S. Reddy, a senior community medicine specialist, co-author of the paper and member of the council’s research group on epidemiology and surveillance, said the district-level data by themselves had shown “how big and widespread the infection has become”. “But containment-zone data from the city hotspots was considered important to understand the dynamics of transmission in areas with large infections,” Reddy said. “As members of the surveillance group, we cannot say why the data was held back. The council can answer that.” The omission of the hotspot data marks a fresh instance of government representatives directing researchers to alter a scientific paper. In April this year, health officials had blocked publication of the names of the 36 districts where researchers had detected evidence of community transmission.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Bengal students, Kerala 3 in NIA ‘Al Qaida’ net||The National Investigation Agency arrested six youths from Murshidabad and three from Ernakulam in Kerala on Saturday, accusing them of plotting terror strikes across the country on behalf of al Qaida. Among the suspects, all aged in their 20s, is a second-year engineering student of computer science from Domkal in Murshidabad, and a first-year undergraduate arts student from Jalangi, NIA sources said. All the three arrested from Ernakulam are migrants from Murshidabad, and all the suspects except the two students are day labourers, the sources added. The agency claimed to have seized batteries, switches, bomb-making manuals, sharp weapons, country-made firearms and “jihadi literature”. “These individuals were part of an inter-state module. They had been radicalised by Pakistan-based al Qaida terrorists through social media,” a senior NIA officer said. “They planned to carry out attacks at multiple places, including the National Capital Region. They had begun a fundraising drive, and some of them were planning to travel to Delhi to procure arms and ammunition.” Murshid Hasan, Iyakub Biswas and Mosaraf Hossen were arrested from Ernakulam. Najmus Sakib, Abu Sufiyan, Mainul Mondal, Leu Yean Ahmed, Al Mamun Kamal and Atitur Rehman were picked up from Murshidabad. Agency sources said the nine had created a WhatsApp group to exchange messages and plan their moves. Murshid, believed to be the leader of the module, used to be a next-door neighbour of Abu Sufiyan, a tailor at Raninagar market in Murshidabad. Najmus is enrolled in an engineering college in Basantapur while arts undergraduate Atitur is a student of a college in Karimpur, Nadia, which is about 15km from his home in Jalangi, Murshidabad. Mosaraf, arrested from Ernakulam, is Atitur’s elder brother. He had settled in the Kerala town nearly a decade ago with his family and worked at a sari shop. Iyakub, also arrested from Ernakulam, hails from Madhubona village in Jalangi. He and Mainul, arrested from Jalangi, used to stay together while working as migrant labourers in Ernakulam. Mainul’s family said he had returned to Murshidabad during the lockdown. Senior state police officers said an NIA team began raiding each of the suspect’s homes in Murshidabad from 2am on Saturday, accompanied by BSF personnel. The raids continued till dawn. Some of the suspects were sleeping or had just woken up when the officers arrived, asked for the accused by their names and picked them up. “The handlers of terror outfits like al Qaida zero in on poor people and then brainwash them,” an NIA source said. Hundreds of thousands of youths from Murshidabad, a border district, work as migrant labourers across the country. In February 2019, Calcutta police’s special task force had arrested two operatives of the Jamat-ul Mujahideen Bangladesh from Murshidabad for their alleged involvement in the Khagragarh blast in Burdwan in 2014. State BJP chief Dilip Ghosh attacked the administration of poll-bound Bengal, holding up the arrests as “proof that there is no law and order in our state”. “Such incidents have happened time and again in Bengal and Kerala. The police in Bengal are used to stopping central agencies from doing their work. The Bengal police have turned anti-national. The Trinamul Congress benefits from these organisations,” he said. State Congress chief Adhir Chowdhury targeted both the BJP and the Trinamul. “The whole country is witness to a communal polarisation. Whenever such communal forces get active, terror groups will target the poor (for recruitment). Additionally, in Bengal, law and order has broken down. These arrests prove these two points,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||No other government as sensitive as Modi dispensation about death of doctors: Harsh Vardhan on Covid||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Saturday claimed that no other government was as sensitive as the Modi dispensation about the death of doctors and others health workers at the frontlines of the Covid battle and held up as evidence how he had dissolved into tears at an event on “corona warriors”. Vardhan had been confronted in the Rajya Sabha by Opposition leaders over the lack of data on doctors who had died fighting the pandemic. The Congress’s P.L. Punia pointed out that the Indian Medical Association had counted 382 deaths among doctors. The IMA, the country’s largest body of doctors, earlier this week accused the Modi government of “hypocrisy” for describing healthcare workers on the frontlines of the coronavirus epidemic as “warriors” but not caring to count Covid-19 deaths among them. Vardhan appeared to suggest that the Centre was in possession of data but had not released them. “I had gone to AIIMS on August 14 for a blood donation programme organised by resident doctors. They had put up pictures of corona warriors. They made me stand in front of a picture and gave me a microphone. They had displayed the pictures with the India map in the background. The pictures were of doctors, nurses, health workers. Tears came to my eyes. The atmosphere was emotionally charged. They showed pictures of 45 such people,” the health minister said. “Here questions have been raised about non-availability of data on the death of doctors. We know such unfortunate incidents happen every day. The states keep the data and share them with us whenever we want. Just because we are not saying the exact number, it does not mean we are not sensitive. I am convinced that no other government can be more sensitive on this issue than the Modi government,” Vardhan added. During discussions on the Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, Punia had pointed out: “The IMA report says 382 doctors have died of corona. On the other hand, the government says it has no data. Does the government want to say that no doctor has died? This data is only on doctors, not all corona warriors.” Punia said the families of these doctors should have been given compensation. However, the bill has no provision for compensation in case of death of frontline pandemic workers. The RJD’s Manoj Jha said: “The bill has spoken about the obligation of people during the epidemic but is silent on the government’s responsibility. While giving unlimited power to the government, the law should have ensured protection of human rights of common people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Covid rethink on Parliament session duration ||Most political parties have expressed concern about MPs testing Covid-positive and a consensus is emerging that it might be prudent to curtail the ongoing monsoon session of Parliament. The session, which began on September 14, is scheduled till October 1, with curtailed business hours but working days even on Saturdays and Sundays. The emerging consensus suggests the session may end anytime next week if the government manages to get through key bills. At a meeting of the Business Advisory Committee on Saturday, most parties felt it was not advisable to run the House for long.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Congress taps friends on farm bills||The Congress on Saturday accused the Narendra Modi government of surrendering to corporate entities and traders and approached other political parties to stall the three farm-related bills that will be tabled in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday for passage. Although senior Congress leaders have approached the Biju Janata Dal, Telangana Rashtra Samithi, YSR Congress, AIADMK and the Shiv Sena apart from other secular allies to force the government to at least send the bills to a select committee for a deeper examination, the principal Opposition party is not very hopeful of the outcome because of the clear numerical advantage the BJP enjoys. While the Shiv Sena and the TRS have opposed the bills and decided to vote against the government, the others are not expected to lend support to the Opposition to embarrass Prime Minister Modi, who has hailed the proposed reforms as historic. While the stated purpose of the bills is to allow farmers to sell produce directly to bulk buyers and make contract-farming easier, the Congress has alleged that it is aimed at handing over the farm sector to corporate entities and also expressed fear of peasants being deprived of the minimum support price. The Congress has called a meeting of office-bearers outside Parliament on Monday to discuss the plan of action as farmers are continuing with their protests and have refused to relent despite the government’s assurances. The Parliament session is anyway likely to be curtailed because of the growing number of coronavirus cases, winding up probably as early as Wednesday itself. Widespread protests are taking place in Punjab and Haryana while the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee has called a nationwide bandh on September 25, asserting that the government’s assurances are false. While Haryana will have a “chakka jam” protest on Sunday, there will be a three-day agitation including a “rail roko” in Punjab from September 24. Former finance minister P. Chidambaram issued a statement on Saturday, saying: “The Congress and other Opposition parties must join hands to oppose the bills in every forum and ensure that they do not become law in the present form. Every party has to take a stand — is it with the farmers or is it with the BJP threatening the livelihood of farmers? The BJP government has surrendered to the corporate and traders.” Explaining the infirmities in the bills, Chidambaram said: “The…farm bills do not contain a clause that the price that the farmer will get from the private purchaser shall not be less than the MSP. Why is such a clause absent? The bills undermine the only regulated market available to the farmer today, without creating thousands of alternative markets that will be accessible to the farmer.” He added: “The bills assume perversely that the farmer and the private purchaser have equal bargaining power. They do not. The small farmer will be at the mercy of the private purchaser. If a dispute arises between the farmer and the private purchaser, the machinery under the bills is so bureaucratic and convoluted that no farmer will have the strength or the resources to fight the purchaser. The small and medium farmer will be ruined.” Questioning the sagacity of the government, Chidambaram said: “…A little knowledge is dangerous; little reading is even more dangerous. Today, our farmers produce huge surpluses in many agricultural produce — notably wheat and rice. On the strength of our farmers, successive Congress governments built, brick by brick, a food security system that culminated in the National Food Security Act, 2013. The three pillars of our food security system are MSP, public procurement and PDS.” Chidambaram accused Modi and other BJP leaders of deliberately and maliciously distorting the Congress manifesto. “The Congress manifesto 2019 was based on the foundational principles outlined above. We promised: 1. To promote farmers producer companies/organisations to enable farmers to access inputs, technology and markets. 2. To establish farmers’ markets with adequate infrastructure and support in large villages and small towns to enable the farmer to bring his/her produce and freely market the same. “Farmers need multiple accessible markets and choice. The Congress’s proposals would have given them that. Once that is accomplished, the Congress manifesto promise on repealing the APMC Act and making trade in agricultural produce free would be a natural sequel in course of time.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
20-09-2020||India||Talks on with China, why not Pak also: Farooq||National Conference chief Farooq Abdullah on Saturday asked in the Lok Sabha that if the government can talk to China then why not “our (eastern) neighbour”, advocating dialogue with Pakistan to end the rising border skirmishes and deaths while speaking in Parliament for the first time since his release from detention. Farooq, the Srinagar MP and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister, painted a grim picture of the Valley in the aftermath of the scrapping of the erstwhile state’s special status guaranteed under Article 370 and stressed that there was no way out other than holding talks with “our neighbour”. “Border skirmishes have been rising and people are dying. A way has to be found to deal with this,” Farooq said in his brief mention during Zero Hour. “Except for talks, there is no way out. As you are talking to China (so that) it withdraws (from India-claimed territories in Ladakh), we should also talk to our (other) neighbour to find a way out to get out of this situation,” he added, inviting protests from the BJP members. The 82-year-old leader, who was released in March after more than seven months in detention following the abrogation of Article 370, wanted to speak more but was not allowed. Farooq’s microphone was switched off a little after he advocated talks with Pakistan and the BJP members created a ruckus. Zero Hour mentions by MPs, however, are required to be brief and the Speaker’s discretion is binding on the members. Thousands of people in Kashmir, including politicians, had been arrested or detained, often under the stringent Public Safety Act, after the cancellation of the special status on August 5 last year. The Centre enforced an unprecedented clampdown and communications blockade and crushed all dissent with an iron hand. Former chief ministers Farooq and his son Omar are among those released but some, including People’s Democratic Party chief and former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti are still under detention. Farooq said “no progress” was taking place in Jammu and Kashmir after it was made a Union Territory. “There has been no progress in Jammu and Kashmir. Our children and shopkeepers have no facility for 4G network,” he said, asking how students would study online without a stable Internet connection when schools and other educational institutions were closed due to the pandemic. “How are they going to grow? The rest of the country has every Internet facility and our children are being denied,” Farooq added. The Srinagar MP, however, expressed happiness over the findings of an inquiry by the army into the killings of three men on Shopian. “I am happy the army has admitted that three men in Shopian were killed mistakenly. I hope the government gives a hefty compensation,” Farooq said. The army admitted on Friday that its personnel had exceeded the powers granted under AFSPA while killing the three cousins. The army had called them terrorists but their families had said the trio were residents of Jammu who had travelled to Kashmir in search of work.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-658
