21-09-2020||India||Farm bills not against agriculture 'mandis' , clarifies PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asserted that the farm sector reform bills passed by Parliament were the need of the 21 century India and again reassured farmers that the government purchase of their produce coupled with minimum support price mechanism will continue. Farmers remained in shackles for long leading to a clique benefiting from their "compulsions", he said, adding that it needed to be changed and his government has done it. Noting that his government had brought farm ordinances, which these legislations will replace, in June, he said farmers are already getting a better price for their produce in several states. Farmers will now have the freedom to sell their produce at a place and price of their choice, he said. Modi made the comments at a virtual ceremony to lay foundation stones of nine highway projects in Bihar and to inaugurate optical fibre internet services through which the state's all 45,945 villages will be connected. Seeking to dispel concerns among a section of farmers, he said he wanted to make it clear that the bills are not against agriculture 'mandis' (agricultural markets) and they will continue like they always have. Two key farm bills, dubbed as the biggest reform in agriculture by the government, were on Sunday passed by Rajya Sabha with voice vote. The two bills were earlier cleared by Lok Sabha. No government has done as much to boost MSP and government procurement of farmers' produce than his dispensation, the prime minister said. The government, he said, lifted a record amount of grains amid the coronavirus pandemic and also made a record payment to farmers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Seven children among 10 killed in a building collapse in Thane||Seven children and three others were killed and 11, including a four-year-old boy, rescued after a three-storeyed building collapsed in Maharashtras Bhiwandi town on Monday, police said. Around 10 persons are still feared trapped after the 43-year-old Jhilani building caved in at 3.40 am, police said, adding search operations are underway. The dead children include a two-year-old, a civic official said. Personnel of the Thane Disaster Response Force (TDRF) were seen pulling out the boy, Ubed Quraishi, from the debris and feeding him water. Bhiwandi is a powerloom town around 10 km from Thane. The building had 40 flats and around 150 persons lived in it, an official said. A civic official the building, located at Narpolis Patel Compound near Dhamankar Naka, collapsed while the residents were asleep, reported PTI. Teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) rushed to the spot. NDRF DG S N Pradhan said the teams were using a canine squad to search persons trapped in the debris. A portion of the building collapsed and many occupants were trapped in the debris of the collapsed building, a Thane Municipal Corporation official said. The building was not in the list of dilapidated structures of the Bhiwandi-Nizampur Municipal Corporation, he said. An eyewitness said local residents rushed to the spot immediately after the collapse and helped pull out some persons from the debris. The power supply to the locality was snapped as a precautionary measure, the official said, adding the injured have been admitted to local hospitals.  Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday expressed anguish at the loss of lives. "Saddened by the building collapse in Bhiwandi, Maharashtra. Condolences to the bereaved families. Praying for a quick recovery of those injured. Rescue operations are underway and all possible assistance is being provided to the affected," Modi wrote on Twitter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||8 MPs suspended, RS chairman rejects no-trust motion||The Rajya Sabha on Monday suspended eight MPs, including TMC leader Derek O'Brien and AAP’s Sanjay Singh, for the remaining part of the monsoon session over their "unruly behaviour" during the passage of farm bills. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu termed the behaviour of Opposition MPs  on Sunday as "very unfortunate, unacceptable and condemnable" and one that has "tarnished the image of Parliament, particularly elders' House." He also rejected the notice for a no-confidence motion moved by Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad and 46 other MPs against Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair during the bedlam on Sunday, saying it was not in proper format and does not give the required 14-day notice period. Two key farm bills were passed by Rajya Sabha on Sunday with voice vote amid protests by Opposition members who were demanding that the proposed legislation be referred to a House panel for greater scrutiny. The government on Monday moved a motion seeking suspension of Derek O'Brien (TMC), Sanjay Singh (AAP), Rajeev Satav (Congress), K.K. Ragesh (CPM), Syed Nazir Hussain (Cong), Ripun Boren (Cong), Dola Sen (TMC) and Elamaram Kareem (CPM). Amid opposition, the motion was adopted by voice vote and the Chairman asked them to leave the House but they remained present and protested against the ruling. Naidu called for taking up a call attention motion on GST compensation to states where O'Brien, Ragesh and Kareem were listed as movers. But with members protesting, he moved on to the next listed business saying they were not interested. As the protests continued, he adjourned the proceedings for 20 minutes. The House saw three more adjournments as the suspended members remained present in the House and Opposition parties protested against the decision. Soon after Zero Hour, Naidu said he was "pained" at the happenings during the passage of the two bills. He condemned the unruly behaviour of some members and also the "physical threat" to the deputy chairman. As some Opposition members wanted to put across their point of view, Naidu asked them to obey the Chair and not speak in between. He rejected their point of order and when they persisted, he named O'Brien and asked him to leave the House. "It was a really bad day for democracy," he said. "Some members came to the well of the House and also threw papers. They wrenched the mike of the Deputy Chairman. They hurled some papers on the Deputy Chairman. They abused the Deputy Chairman, according to the Deputy Chairman," he said, adding the "Rule book was also thrown on him". "Climbing on the table, dancing, shouting in the Well, tearing papers, breaking the mike, obstructing deputy chairman from doing his duties, throwing papers, rule book on deputy chairman, is it a parliamentary standard," he asked. "I only suggest to members of Parliament please do some introspection and is it a way to conduct ourselves?" he said. Naidu said marshals prevented ugly scenes. "If marshals were not called on time what would have happened to the deputy chairman. I am worried. He says he was abused with objectional words. This is very unfortunate. This should not be allowed. If you have any problem, the way (out) is to discuss, debate and decide. "If you have numbers, vote against the resolution. Deputy Chairman also stated that if you please go to your seat he will conduct voting...it is on record." he said. He said the deputy chairman was "physically threatened. So I am worried he would have been harmed also. Keeping this in mind, the government wants to move a resolution," he said. Naidu said he had received a letter expressing no confidence against the deputy chairman. "I have gone through the entire proceedings of the House yesterday (Sunday). In light of allegations made by the Leader of the Opposition and other members, I observe that the deputy chairman had persistently requested the members to go to their seat and participate in the debate and move amendments. "Obviously in view of the continuous disruption of the House, the division could not have taken place... Certainly, the conduct of some members grossly crossed all barriers of parliamentary decorum and etiquette and thereby bringing down the prestige of the House," he said. He said after carefully going through the provisions of the Constitution, rules of the House and past precedence, it is "observed at the outset that the motion is not in a proper format." "As per provision of Article 90(C) of the Constitution, a notice period of 14 days is required for moving a resolution of the motion. As the House is going to be adjourned sine die on October 1...the notice does not complete the required period of 14 days. Hence I rule that motion is not admissible," he said. Minister of State for Parliamentary Affairs V. Muraleedharan moved a resolution that eight members be suspended for the remaining part of the session "for their unruly behaviour especially with the chair." "And their gross disorderly conduct in the violation of rules and etiquette of Rajya thereby bringing disrepute to this House and causing insult to the office of deputy chairman," he said reading out the motion. Amid protests, the motion was passed by voice vote and the Chairman said the eight members are suspended for the remaining part of the session. Naidu also noted that Covid-19 precautions were violated by some members on Sunday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Covid: For 5 months, daily wait in vain for work in Bhubaneswar||Abhimanyu Nayak, 40, walks to the Delta Square labour congregation point in Bhubaneswar every morning, only to return empty-handed after waiting for several hours. “I have been coming here every day since May, but I have got work on hardly 15 days in the past five months,” said Abhimanyu, who has been living and working in the Odisha capital for the past 15 years. Urban labourers in the state are among those hardest hit by the pandemic and the resultant economic slowdown, with most of them pushed into breadlines because of lack of work. Odisha has an estimated 30 lakh urban labourers, employed mostly in real estate and other construction jobs, house painting and repair work. But these activities have come to a grinding halt in the lockdown. People wary of catching the coronavirus have been jittery about allowing workers into their homes even for sundry repairs. Bhubaneswar has more than 10 labour congregation points where workers from slums across the city gather early every morning to be picked up by contractors and taken to work sites. But for the past few months, labourers have had to mostly return home after a futile wait for hours for work. Abhimanyu, the daily wager, said: “During the lockdown I had travelled to my village in Ganajam (240km from Bhubaneswar). As the situation turned worse in the rural belt, I returned to Bhubaneswar.” But for Abhimanyu and countless others like him, it has been like jumping out of the frying pan into the fire. “Those who have the expertise go to Surat (in Gujarat) to work in the textile industry. Many migrate to Chennai, where the income opportunities are much more. But people like us who neither have the skill to work in the textile industry nor the wherewithal or opportunity to settle in Chennai are suffering,” Abhimanyu said. Pratima Tudu, another labourer, said: “No one comes to take us for work. It seems all construction work has stopped.” Pratima said the plight of women workers was worse as the handful of contractors who come prefer the male workers.  The women have lost their financial independence, Pratima said. Hunger is also gnawing at the labourers and their families because the pandemic has not allowed them to travel to their villagers to pick up rations. Most urban labourers have their ration cards registered in their native villages. But because of the pandemic restrictions, and refusal by city residents to allow those travelling to villages to return to their homes in slums and colonies for fear of contracting the virus, the urban labourers are running short of food. “As I cannot go to my village, I am no longer getting rice at Rs 1 a kilo under the government scheme (from ration shops). We hardly have any income these days and it is difficult to buy food and other essential items at retail prices,” said Dhurba Guada, a labourer in Bhubaneswar. The workers also have to pay room rent. “My room rent is Rs 2,000 a month. I have no way of paying it. This is leading to daily fights with the landlord,” said Mangal Behera, another labourer. Labour minister Sushant Singh said labourers in rural areas were still better off. “They are getting work under the MGNREGA. But skilled workers in urban areas are struggling. We hope the situation will improve once normality returns in the private sector,” he told The Telegraph. Trade union leader Janardan Pati said a proper survey was needed to find out the true extent of joblessness among urban labourers. “While there has been a survey on the loss of white collar jobs, there is no authentic data on joblessness among urban labourers on account of the corona pandemic. This is because most of them are unregistered workers. There are no government records on them,” Pati said. Odisha is grappling with an acute unemployment problem, according to data available with the government. Figures available with the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy show that Odisha’s unemployment rate had increased by 10.7 percentage points to reach 23.8 per cent in April, higher than the national rate of 23.5 per cent. “Now after the lockdown, the unemployment rate has multiplied, rendering lakhs of people helpless,” Pati said. The Odisha government had launched a Rs 100-crore urban employment wage initiative in April, aimed at providing work to the urban poor. However, the amount was inadequate, labour leaders said. “Before Covid-19 too, unemployment was an issue. Now the situation has got aggravated. We demand that the central government introduce an urban job guarantee scheme on the lines of the MGNREGA. It should also introduce a national employment guarantee act,” said Ramakrishna Panda, the national secretary of the Congress-affiliated Aituc. Panda said what had compounded the problem was that around 10 lakh skilled labourers had returned to Odisha during the lockdown. The principal secretary in the urban and housing development department, G. Mathivathanan, said the crisis was not unique to Odisha. “This is a phenomenon visible across the country and not specific to Odisha. We are sincerely trying to give employment to the urban labourers. But until the economy returns to the pre-Covid situation, it would be tough to provide employment to all the labourers,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Fresh Delhi summons to Facebook India ||The Delhi Assembly’s Committee on Peace and Harmony has issued fresh summons to Facebook’s India head Ajit Mohan, who had refused to be questioned by the panel on the social media giant’s alleged culpability in communal riots here in February that claimed 53 lives. The committee, which sent the summons on Friday, warned of punitive action if Mohan refuses to appear on Wednesday. Committee chairperson Raghav Chadha said in a statement: “Any rebuttal or disregard to this subsequent notice shall be deemed as a wilful act of breach of privilege and thus shall entail various proceedings initiated against Facebook India.…” “Having regards to their disobedience, the committee mulled over exercising its powers and privileges conferred to it by the Constitution of India by applying its penal jurisdiction against Facebook after affording them one last opportunity to appear before the committee,” he said. Facebook is yet to respond to queries this paper sent them last week on their response to the panel. The company had earlier written to the panel that only the Centre, and not a state or union territory government, could regulate communications in India. Mohan had appeared before the parliamentary standing committee on information technology earlier this month amid reports of the company’s inaction on hate speech by BJP MLAs. After the hearing, Facebook removed several accounts in the name of Telangana’s BJP MLA T. Raja Singh. In previous hearings of the Delhi Assembly’s committee, expert witnesses, including journalists, had alleged that Facebook officials might have deliberately ignored hateful posts on the platform that incited the riots. Last week, Buzzfeed News reported a leaked memo of a former Facebook staff that accused the company of ignoring or acting slow on fake accounts that undermined elections across the world, and that the company has not disclosed the existence of such a network to influence Assembly polls in Delhi, earlier this year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Farmer death warrant: Congress on bills||The Congress on Sunday described the passage of the contentious farm-related bills in Parliament as a “death warrant” for farmers, declaring its intent to launch political and legal battles to defeat what it said was a government plan to facilitate a corporate takeover of the agriculture sector. Asserting that such a conspiracy would never succeed, Congress MP Rahul Gandhi said: “The farmer who cultivates gold from land, the arrogance of the Narendra Modi government has forced him to shed tears of blood. The manner in which the death warrant for farmers was issued in the garb of legislation passed in the Rajya Sabha today has shamed democracy.” The former Congress president added: “How will the farmers get MSP (minimum support price) after these black laws abolish the mandi system? Why is there no guarantee of MSP? Modi is turning farmers into slaves of capitalists. The country will never allow this to happen.” While farmers blocked several roads in Haryana on Sunday, hundreds of protesters from Punjab began a march towards Delhi. The protests have been the most widespread in Punjab. There have been demonstrations in Maharashtra, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, western Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh as well. Senior leader Ahmed Patel said September 20 would be remembered as a “black day” in India’s history as the Centre had attacked not only farmers but also federalism. Congress spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi hinted at a legal challenge, saying: “The bills have not been passed; the government has claimed the passage of the bills on the basis of the tyranny of majoritarianism. Amendments and resolutions were moved, division of votes was demanded but the government just bulldozed its way through this. The Constitution is clear that laws relating to agriculture trade can be passed by states only. This will be struck down by the Supreme Court.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The agriculture minister says that the government will guarantee that the farmer will get MSP. Private trade takes place even today. The price paid to the farmer is invariably less than MSP. If the agriculture minister can magically ensure MSP, why has he not done that so far? How will the minister know which farmer sold his produce to which trader? How will he know the millions of transactions that will take place every day all over the country?” The Congress senior added: “If he (agriculture minister) does not have the data, how will he guarantee MSP is paid in every transaction? Does the minister and the government think that the farmers are so foolish to believe the empty promise of the government? “Did the Modi government fulfill the promise of putting Rs 15 lakh in the bank account of every Indian? Did the Modi government fulfill the promise to double the farmers’ incomes? Did the Modi government fulfill the promise to create two crore jobs every year?” Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala compared the government’s move to push through the proposed farm reforms to the situation during British rule. Like the British who tried to snatch the rights of the Indians, Surjewala said “an autocratic ruler is now trying to snatch the land of the farmers”. The Congress spokesperson said: “The Prime Minister should directly answer: Who and how will the MSP be paid once the mandi system is over? Will the Food Corporation of India go to every farm of 15.5 crore farmers to offer MSP? Why has the law not incorporated a guarantee for MSP? Even the British said, we are giving freedom from Mughal rule. If what the government is saying is true, why are 250 farmers’ organisations protesting?” The Congress general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, issued a statement condemning the “high-handedness” shown in the Rajya Sabha as a “murder of democracy”. He said violation of established parliamentary norms had become the new normal as an “authoritarian” government was bulldozing democratic practices to help its capitalist friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Watershed moment for the history of Indian agriculture: Defiant Modi on farm bills||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday termed the passage of the farm bills as a “watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture”, exhibiting defiance in the face of intense protests by peasants’ organisations and risking losing allies. “A watershed moment for the history of Indian agriculture! Congratulations to our hardworking farmers on the passage of key bills in Parliament, which will ensure a complete transformation of the agriculture sector as well as empower crores of farmers,” he tweeted. Modi posted a series of tweets, in Punjabi apart from Hindi and English, asserting that the three farm bills would transform the lives of farmers. The Prime Minister’s choice of Punjabi was an attempt to assuage concerns in a state where the farmers’ protests have been the most intense, forcing BJP ally Shiromani Akali Dal to pull out its lone cabinet minister from the central government. Led by Modi, BJP ministers, MPs and leaders went into an overdrive to tom-tom the bills as an unprecedented measure for the welfare of farmers and slam the Congress and other parties for trying to block the reforms. The bills have triggered massive protests by farmers’ outfits in Punjab and Haryana that are now spreading to other states. Modi’s tweets and the manner in which the government pushed the bills through both houses of Parliament, riding roughshod over the Opposition, reflected a sense of determination and defiance that was in sharp contrast to the government in 2015 backtracking from a pro-industry land acquisition bill, buckling under similar protests by farmers. The Akalis, the BJP’s oldest ally, have this time cautioned the government against underestimating the strength of farmers.The RSS’s economic wing, the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, and farmers’ arm Bharatiya Kisan Sangh had demanded that the government insert a clause guaranteeing at least the minimum support price for farmers even when they sell their produce to private players. The government, however, disregarded this demand too. Asked about the RSS outfits’ demand, defence minister Rajnath Singh said: “There was no such provision earlier too.” Ashwani Mahajan, co-convenor of the Swadeshi Jagran Manch, told The Telegraph: “Our demand stands and we will continue to press for it. This government is pro-farmer and we are sure it will protect the rights of the farmers.” Mahajan stressed the need to provide protection to farmers from big corporate entities. “Corporates have the right to fix the MRP (maximum retail price) of their products. The farmers should at least be guaranteed minimum support price,” he said. Internally, the RSS and its affiliates are uncomfortable with the government’s rush. “The farm bills are not like the land acquisition bill that was blatantly anti-farmer; still we should be cautious,” an RSS leader said. While Akali Dal’s Harsimrat Kaur Badal has already quit the Modi government, the BJP appears to be on collision course with another ally as well — the Jannayak Janata Party in Haryana. So far the BJP has been able to keep JJP boss Dushyant Chautala calm but he too dangled the threat of resignation on Sunday. “I will quit my post the day any danger is posed to the MSP system,” Dushyant, the deputy chief minister in the BJP-led government, told news agency ANI after the passage of the bills. “There is no mention of ending the MSP system in the bills passed,” he added. The government, however, sought to project an image of nonchalance. A battery of ministers led by Rajnath, who claimed he too was a farmer, were fielded to attack the Opposition for “spreading lies” and assure farmers that their income would increase after the new provisions come into force. “Narendra Modi now feels he has decimated the Opposition and with his excellent connect with the people he’ll be able to convince the farmers,” a BJP old-timer said, fearing that such over-confidence could be “misplaced”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||A question for Ajit Doval on arrested ‘spy’||The arrest of freelance journalist Rajeev Sharma on the charge of passing on “classified defence information” to China has thrown up one question at a time India is locked in the worst border crisis in decades with the neighbour. “Sharma knew Ajit Doval (national security adviser) very well and the accredited journalist was very open about it. The logical question to be asked now: was the NSA not aware of his alleged illegal activities?” senior journalist Paranjoy Guha Thakurta, who had interviewed Sharma in November last year, told The Telegraph in response to a question on Sunday. The question has wide national security implications. The claims made by Delhi police and the time-frame they listed on Saturday suggest that Sharma received cash from a Kunming-based Chinese handler, “George”, from January 2019 till September 2020 for information allegedly provided by the journalist. The wording of the Delhi police statement does not make it clear when the information was passed on. If the charges are true and the alleged payment was not made for information handed over earlier, it would mean that classified information was being leaked from the government even at the height of the current border crisis in eastern Ladakh. During the interview with Thakurta last year, Sharma had said: “I am unable to understand why I am under surveillance. I was told that the present government is doing this but I do not know why the government will do this since I am not involved in any anti-national or illegal activities.” Sharma was in the news then because he was among those who had said their phone was under surveillance through an invasive Israeli-developed spyware called Pegasus. The Centre had denied it had anything to with the purported surveillance. If Sharma was indeed under surveillance, it does not appear to have been very effective or the inputs were not taken seriously by the security establishment. Untrammelled by such surveillance, Sharma, according to the Delhi police statement, managed to receive Rs 30 lakh in 10 instalments from his Chinese handler between January 2019 and September 2020 and had meetings with the handler in Malaysia and Kunming City (in China). All these loose ends pose troubling questions before the national security apparatus headed by Doval. Calls from this newspaper to Doval’s office were not answered on Sunday, a holiday. If and when the national security adviser comments on the subject, this newspaper will publish them. In the November 2019 interview, a clip from which gained traction on social media on Saturday night after questions began to be asked about Sharma’s past association with a think tank linked closely to Doval, Thakurta had introduced Sharma as someone who had worked with Doval in the Vivekananda International Foundation for some time. Besides, an article by Sharma published in 2010 on the rediff.com portal describes the writer as “senior fellow with the New Delhi-based think tank Vivekananda International Foundation” (VIF). Yet, when The Telegraph phoned a senior official of the foundation on Sunday to enquire about Sharma, the official said: “I can’t recall his association with the VIF. Why are you asking me this?” The VIF was set up in 2009 with Doval as its founding director. The VIF, which describes itself as an “independent, non-partisan institution”, is a project of the Vivekananda Kendra, founded in the early 1970s by former RSS general secretary Eknath Ranade. The VIF has its office in Chanakyapuri, known as the diplomatic hub of the capital. The VIF’s website lists its “relationships” with multiple Chinese institutions/ think tanks that deal with strategic studies. In 2011, the foundation had organised a seminar on corruption and black money, which was attended by Doval, the then VIF director, Baba Ramdev and Team Anna members Arvind Kejriwal and Kiran Bedi as well as several RSS ideologues. Later, Anna Hazare and Ramdev began the much-publicised fast against corruption. The campaign ignited a massive protest and is said to have helped bring Narendra Modi to power in 2014. If Sharma did pass on classified defence information, the question how he had accessed such intelligence has not yet yielded any convincing answer. Media reports quoting sources in Delhi police have suggested that Sharma accessed the information by giving the impression that he was collecting the data for his work as a journalist. Inherent in such a theory is an assumption that the officials who reportedly gave the information to Sharma were aware that they were speaking to a journalist and the information was for publication. It is unlikely that any official would innocuously hand over classified information for publication. “If the police disclosures are correct, they should also name who in the government establishment was providing him with highly sensitive documents. They should pinpoint those responsible in the security establishment,” a retired Intelligence Bureau director said. Asked whether the investigators too are probing this angle, a senior Delhi police officer said: “We have nothing more to say now.” Thakurta, the journalist who had interviewed Sharma, raised another important matter. “Sharma is an accredited journalist. It never struck me that he was a shady character. He wrote mainly on defence, security issues and foreign affairs,” Thakurta said. A journalist is provided with an accreditation card by the Press Information Bureau after multiple layers of security checks, and it has to be renewed every year. If Sharma was indeed indulging in questionable activities, the accreditation process does not appear to have come across any red flags. If Delhi police’s charges turn out to be true, the efficacy of the accreditation process will face questions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Bill cloud on rights of workers in many plants||Three-fourths of India’s factories will be exempt from norms meant to protect workers against arbitrary dismissal or punishment, or discrimination in promotion and transfers, if a modified labour bill is passed, labour economists have said. Only factories with less than 100 employees are now exempt from following these norms, under the Industrial Employment (Standing Order) Act and the Industrial Disputes Act, which the Industrial Relations Code bill looks to subsume. The IR Code bill, introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday, seeks to extend the exemption to all industrial establishments with less than 300 employees. Analysts said this would facilitate layoffs and usher in a “fire at will” culture as in the US, because three in four factories in India have fewer than 300 employees. If the IR Code bill is enacted — likely given the government’s numbers and the standing committee’s nod — factories with less than 300 employees will not need the state government’s permission to sack workers. Nor will they need to follow the state government’s rules on probation, promotion or transfer, or those governing notices, inquiries and punishment for misconduct. They will also be exempt from certain rules that protect workers against punishment or dismissal for forming trade unions or for participating in strikes that had sought the necessary permissions. Further, the code bill says that employees cannot go on strike until the company has responded to their 14-day notice while the existing law says they can start the strike if the company fails to respond within the 14-day notice period. Apart from the Industrial Disputes Act and the Standing Order Act, the IR Code will also subsume the Trade Union Act after its passage. The code is one of three pending labour reform bills that had been referred to a standing committee. With the panel giving its recommendations, the government has tweaked them and introduced them in the Lok Sabha. The chapter on “standing order” (on service conditions) in the modified IR Code says: “The provisions of this chapter shall apply to every industrial establishment wherein three hundred or more than three hundred workers are employed, or were employed on any day of the preceding twelve months.” Labour economist Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at the XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the Standing Order Act aimed at standardising the terms of service as a safeguard against arbitrary or discriminatory acts by employers. “The employers could not punish or dismiss workers according to their whims because of this law and various court judgments,” he said. “The Standing Order Act and the Industrial Disputes Act provide substantial employment security. Now this IR Code will exempt three-fourths of factories from its purview... and provide employers the liberty to ‘fire at will’ (as in the) highly liberalised labour market of the US.” Sundar said the exempted employers would be free to decide the probation periods, promotion criteria and transfer norms as they please. The trade unions will come under pressure and holding strikes will become virtually impossible, he added. Labour economist Ravi Srivastava said that once the IR Code is enacted, “the workers will no longer be able to take any industrial action and their collective bargaining power will become weak”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Centre blames ‘irresponsible societal behaviour’ for rise in Covid cases||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday blamed the spurt in Covid cases in the country on “irresponsible societal behaviour” and called upon everyone to hail Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership in tackling the pandemic. “We have seen a spurt in the number of cases recently. This is because of irresponsible societal behaviour. People should not relax,” the minister told the Lok Sabha. Modi had said in March the war against Covid would last 21 days. India now has the second highest number of Covid cases in the world.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-656
21-09-2020||India||Voice nails farm bills, democracy speechless||Two contentious farm bills were steamrollered through Parliament on Sunday with the Rajya Sabha passing these by a much-contested voice vote amid protests. Such was the outrage that 12 Opposition parties have moved a no-confidence motion against deputy chairman Harivansh who was elected less than a week ago on last Monday. The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, have been portrayed by the government as a facilitator that will help farmers to sell their produce to big players. The Opposition has described the bills as a “death warrant” on farmers that undermine price guarantees and leave them at the mercy of corporates. The bills were passed in a melee in the Rajya Sabha. The Lok Sabha had earlier cleared them. Not just the regular Opposition but even parties seen as friendly to the Narendra Modi government were either opposed to the bills or wanted to send them to the Select Committee. Among the sceptics were the AIADMK, TRS and the BJD. With the Akali Dal pulling out its minister, the BJP was left friendless, barring the JDU — a turn of events that must have turned the government with a brute majority cautious. Ignoring calls for a division (vote), the amendments moved by Opposition to refer the bills to the committee were defeated by voice vote. When any member seeks a division, House Rule 252 says: “If the opinion of the Chairman as to the decision of a question (by voice vote) is challenged... he shall order a division to be held, under which the votes can be recorded and matter decided”. Trouble began when the government sought to extend the day’s sitting till the passage of the bills, which have triggered protests by farmers across several states. This was immediately contested by the Opposition, which said there was no consensus in the House. The government showed no signs of relenting, Opposition MPs entered the Well to protest and in the din that ensued, a mike on the presiding officer’s table was broken, a rule book torn and papers thrown towards the Chair. A short adjournment followed. Marshals were called in and made to stand as a human wall around the Parliament reporters’ table and the Chair to keep the protesting MPs away. On Sunday, there was considerable support for the Opposition amendments seeking to refer the bills to the Select Committee. AIADMK’s S.P. Balasubramoniyan said the bills had been “enacted to make contract farming legitimate so that big businesses and companies can cultivate vast swathes of land on contract. This is like disinvestment of Indian farming sector and selling it to big corporates and MNCs.’’ Picking on the BJP’s Bhupendra Yadav’s description of the bills as ushering in “New Age Agriculture”, K. Kesava Rao of the TRS — a party that usually goes along with the government — said: “We are totally against this new age…. Now, you are pitting the poor farmers against rich corporates…. The government has set out to kill the golden goose. Agriculture is the only sector that beat the pandemic in the April-June quarter.’’ BJD, another party that is unaligned but votes with the government, stressed the need to send the two bills to the Select Committee for further consideration. The BJD and the AIADMK may not have voted against the bills but there was an indication that they would support a move to refer them to the Select Committee, strengthening the Opposition’s chances of stalling them. Since the amendment for moving the bills to the Select Committee would have to be disposed of before putting them to vote, the government did not want to risk it. Had the amendment been passed, it would have had to move a resolution to refer the bills to the Select Committee. Akali Dal MP Naresh Gujral, too, favoured referring the bills to the Select Committee. Stating that the farmers of Punjab had helped make India self-sufficient in food, he said they feel aggrieved now because of these bills. “Don’t think the farmers of Punjab are weak.... If injustice is done, they will fight,’’ he said. BSP’s Satish Chandra Mishra demanded that the government amend the bill to provide for MSP (minimum support price) protection under the new regime. Responding to the BJP’s allegation that the Opposition was spreading rumours about abolition of MSP in the new bills, Shiv Sena’s Sanjay Raut asked if the Akali Dal minister resigned from the Modi cabinet on the basis of rumours. The Left parties demanded an amendment to protect MSP so that farmers are reassured. Through Yadav, the BJP’s counter to much of the criticism was that the Congress had left farmers in the lurch and the Modi government was making a course correction. It said the Congress manifesto, too, had promised the end of the Agriculture Produce Market Committees. Ahmed Patel of the Congress responded: “You are selectively quoting our manifesto to suit your agenda. I challenge you to implement the rest of what we have promised also.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
21-09-2020||India||Opposition parties move no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy chairman||Twelve Opposition parties have taken the rare step of moving a no-confidence motion against Rajya Sabha deputy Chairman Harivansh after the voice vote was used to defeat amendments linked to the farm bills. The government is said to be planning a counter-strike by moving a motion to suspend the MPs who misbehaved with Harivansh. The Opposition motion is unlikely to be allowed as under Article 90 of the Constitution, a resolution to remove the deputy Chairman cannot be moved without giving 14 days’ notice. Emboldened by farmers erupting in protest in multiple states, the Opposition took the unparalleled step of filming their protests in the House and uploading videos on social media. Parliamentary ruckus is traditionally not telecast. Both sides called it a “black day” for democracy. The government cited the commotion in Parliament while Opposition members pointed to the manner in which the bills were passed without giving them a chance to press for a division (voting by electronic or paper ballot). Congress MP Abhishek Manu Singhvi questioned the voice vote itself, underlining that there was no audio in the Lok Sabha — where several of the Rajya Sabha members are seated this session owing to physical distancing requirements — and so the question of quorum arises. The audio link was apparently disrupted after the mic on the chairman’s podium was broken by some Opposition MPs. As is the wont whenever MPs enter the well, Rajya Sabha TV kept the cameras frozen on the Chair once the Opposition moved in to picket the deputy Chairman over the decision to extend proceedings beyond 1pm and till the passage of the farm bills. “The dictatorial attitude of the Chair in not wanting to get a sense of the House, which is the convention to extend the session beyond the scheduled 1pm, led to bedlam & chaos. The anti-farmer bills were passed in the din without voting. Why the tearing urgency? On whose orders?” tweeted Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh. In the din that ensued, the amendments moved by members from different Opposition parties were defeated by voice vote and their demand for a division not taken up, prompting them to move the no-confidence motion against the deputy Chairman. Later in the evening, the government brought out a pantheon of ministers under the leadership of defence minister Rajnath Singh, the favoured trouble-shooter of late, to defend Harivansh. Asked why the Opposition demand for division was not granted under Rule 252, minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi said the Chair had asked the Opposition members to return to their designated places and make a request. They did not, so the division was not allowed. In a video message, Trinamul’s Derek O’Brien said: “Today, the right to seek a division was taken away from the Opposition.... It’s like literally taking parliamentary democracy and shoving a knife into it.… You don’t expect the Opposition to sit down and eat lollipops while this happens. So, we protested. Interestingly, the TRS and the BJD, which normally vote with the government, also wanted the bills to go to a Select Committee. So, were the government not sure of their numbers? If they were so sure of the numbers, they could have allowed us to have the vote.” AAP’s Sanjay Singh tweeted a video showing him standing on the Parliament reporters’ table in front of the Chair and shouting slogans. The video showed Singh being bodily lifted from the table as some Congress and Trinamul MPs tried to stop the marshals. In the same video, Congress MP Rajeev Satav was seen climbing onto the same table to shout slogans. “Yes, there are rules that we should not be shooting inside the Rajya Sabha. But we won’t let you get away with it.... You want to suspend me, suspend me. We shot it... there are no rules left. Yes, the Opposition took videos.… You tried to rewrite the rules of Parliament... we took you on today, not for ourselves but for... Indian Parliament, farmers and the Opposition,” O’Brien said. Briefing journalists after the government’s media conference, Congress leader K.C. Venugopal said: “It is unfortunate that ministers are justifying what the deputy Chairperson did. In a parliamentary democracy, the government has the way — we agree — but the Opposition has its say.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
21-09-2020||India||Our concern is livelihood: father of terror accused||Tazimuddin Sheikh’s house at Ghoshpara in Jalangi, Murshidabad, has become a spectacle of sorts as people are turning up to check the home that an NIA team had surrounded early on Saturday to arrest a man with alleged terror links. “Is this the house of the two terrorists?” asked a young man, who came from a neighbouring village to see the house. The disbelief in his voice after he walked along a winding mud-road, cutting through rows of fields and ponds, to reach the house — built of jute-sticks with corrugated tin shades on the top — was palpable. A local youth pointed to the corner of the house that Tazimuddin had left for Atitur, his sixth son and a college student. The NIA claimed Atitur had connections with the banned terror outfit al Qaida and so did his elder brother Mosaraf Hossen, who was living in Ernakulam in Kerala. The father, who has around a bigha of land for himself and cultivates jute, pulses and occasionally wheat, said he had no clue that his sons had terror links. “We are poor people.... Our concern is earning a living. How can you believe that we will have links with terror outfits?” asked Tazimuddin. According to him, he could barely earn Rs 6,000 to Rs 7,000 a month with his toil in the fields, while his sons were all fending for themselves by using their labour. Officers probing the case said they were aware of the poor background of the detainees. “The al Qaida handlers were also aware of the abject poverty of these people,” said a source, without explaining how he was aware of this. “Youths from such families are usually the targets of handlers who are tasked with recruiting people,” said a senior office, adding that the promise of “economic stability”, along with “fame and glory”, is dangled as carrots to take the youths under their fold. Among the nine arrested from Ernakulam and parts of Murshidabad on Saturday, almost all, barring one, have been struggling with their family income for some time now. Some had left their homes for Kerala in search of additional income, but had to return during the lockdown after losing jobs. Al Mamun Kamal from Jalangi, for instance, had been to Kerala as a migrant labourer and had returned a few months back with others during the lockdown. A father of two sons, he had been making a living these days as a stop-gap driver of private vehicles. The others, who were living in their villages, didn’t have any gainful employment.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-657
