22-09-2020||India||Nepal stops distribution of textbook with new map ||Nepal has stopped the distribution of a new textbook that includes a revised political map showing three strategically-important Indian areas as part of its territory, saying there were a number of factual errors in it, according to a media report on Tuesday. India has already termed as untenable the "artificial enlargement" of the territorial claims by Nepal after its Parliament unanimously approved the new political map of the country featuring Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura areas which India maintains belongs to it. A Cabinet meeting on Tuesday instructed the Ministry of Education not to distribute and print any more copies of the text book meant for class IX to XII as there were some reservations from the Ministry of Land Management and Cooperatives and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, The Kathmandu Post reported. The Ministry of Education does not have the authority to change Nepal's geographical area and there are faults in the book, said spokesperson for the Ministry of Land Reform and Cooperatives Janak Raj Joshi. There are errors in the book prepared by the Ministry of Education on a subject it has no expertise in, he said, adding that the higher authorities have been asked to take corrective measures. The concerned body of the Nepal government is yet to officially declare the revised geographical area of the country. The Department of Survey, which is the official agency that declares the total area of the country, however, hasn't made any decision on the area, Joshi said. Education Minister Giriraj Mani Pokharel on September 15 released the 110-page book titled, Self Study Material on Nepal's Territory and Border, which dwells around historical facts about the country's territory and its border dispute mainly with India. The book states Nepal's new area to be 147,641.28 square kilometres including the 460.28 sq km area of the Kalapani area which was included in Nepal's political map on May 20 by the Cabinet. Minister for Education Pokharel has written a six-page preface for the book in which he has mentioned about Nepal's border disputes and other related issues. He said that he had launched a campaign to protect the Nepalese territory, including the areas of Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura. However, Pokharel told The Kathmandu Post that the distribution of the book has been halted for now. After Nepal's Parliament approved the revised political map comprising Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura areas, the Cabinet had endorsed the new map and decided to use it in government offices and print school text books with the new map. Nepal in May released the revised political and administrative map of the country laying claim over the three strategically important areas in Uttarakhand, more than six months after India published a new map in November 2019. Following the endorsement of the new map by the Nepal Cabinet, then government spokesperson and Finance Minister Yuvaraj Khatiwada told the media that the government had decided to update the schedule of the Constitution and school curriculum incorporating the new political map. India in its response said that it had already made its position clear on it. "This artificial enlargement of claims is not based on historical fact or evidence and is not tenable. It is also violative of our current understanding to hold talks on outstanding boundary issues," the Ministry of External Affairs had said. The India-Nepal bilateral ties came under strain after Defence Minister Rajnath Singh inaugurated an 80-km-long strategically crucial road connecting the Lipulekh pass with Dharchula in Uttarakhand on May 8. Nepal reacted sharply to the inauguration of the road claiming that it passed through Nepalese territory. India rejected the claim asserting that the road lies completely within its territory. (PTI)||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
22-09-2020||India||Seven bills passed in three and a half hours in Rajya Sabha||In one of the most productive days in its history, Rajya Sabha on Tuesday in a matter of three and half hours passed seven key bills including one that removes cereals, pulses and onion from the essential commodities list and another that abolishes penalty for certain offences by companies. This after most of the opposition including the Congress, Left parties, the TMC, the Samajwadi Party and the NCP decided to boycott House proceedings in protest against the suspension of eight MPs for the remainder of the session for unruly behaviour. Only members from the ruling BJP and its ally JD-U and those of parties such as AIADMK, BJD, YSR-Congress and TDP, which have been extending support to the Modi government on various issues, participated in the debates on the bills. In most bills, the members participation was sparse and the minister's reply brief. The Upper House took up government legislative business after nearly an hour of discussion over the conduct of opposition MPs during the passage of two agriculture reform bills on Sunday, with Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu saying the suspension could be revoked if the members expressed regret over their action. First, it passed a bill to declare five newly-established Indian Institutes of Information Technology (IIITs) as institutions of national importance. The crucial Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, which removes cereals, pulses, oilseeds, edible oils, onion and potatoes from the list of essential commodities and removes stockholding limits on them, was passed next. This bill is part of the agriculture reforms bills that the government is pushing to raise farm incomes. The bills passed on Sunday gave farmers the freedom to sell produce anywhere in the country and enter into forward contracts with companies. Rajya Sabha also passed amendments to the Bank Regulation Act to bring cooperative banks under the supervision of the RBI in a bid to protect the interest of depositors. Thereafter the Companies (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which removes the penalty for certain offences, was passed. The National Forensic Sciences University Bill, 2020 and the Rashtriya Rakash University Bill were passed in quick succession. Thereafter the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 to relax time limit on compliance with tax laws, GST payment and filing in view of the coronavirus pandemic. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020 as well as the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill, 2020 replace emergency ordinances. The sitting of the Rajya Sabha was extended by just over an hour beyond the scheduled time to allow the passage of the bills. The legislative business started at 10.29 hours and ended at 14.03 hrs - 214 minutes in all. All the seven bills have already been passed by Lok Sabha and will now be sent to the President for assent. Once he gives his assent, they will become the law.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
22-09-2020||India||Congress leads Opposition walkout in Rajya Sabha, wants suspension of 8 MPs revoked  ||Several Opposition parties, led by the Congress, staged a walkout from Rajya Sabha on Tuesday, saying they would boycott the rest of the session unless the suspension of eight members were revoked. Subsequently, the 8 suspended MPs ended their overnight sit-in inside Parliament House complex. "All the Opposition parties have boycotted the rest of the session (in Rajya Sabha), nobody is attending the session. They appealed to us to withdraw the dharma and since nobody is attending the session till the suspension is revoked, there is no point in continuing with the dharna," suspended Congress MP Nasir Hussain told PTI. The Monsoon Session is scheduled to end on October 1. The Congress was the first to walk out from the House along with members of the AAP, TMC and Left parties. The members of all the three parties are among those who have been suspended by the House for the remaining part of the monsoon session. Some parties like the NCP, SP, Shiv Sena and RJD also staged a walkout later. Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu appealed to members of all Opposition parties again, asking them to rethink their decision of boycotting the House proceedings. “I appeal to all members to rethink their decision of boycott and participate in the discussion," Naidu said in the House. Earlier, leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said they would boycott the proceedings of the House till the suspension of eight members was revoked. Speaking after the Zero Hour, Azad also demanded that the government bring a bill to ensure private players did not procure food grains below the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government. He also asked the government that the MSP should be fixed from time to time as per the C2 Swaminathan formula. The eight Opposition MPs, who were suspended on Monday and spent the night on the lawns near Mahatma Gandhi's statue, are: Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of Trinamul Congress, Elamaram Kareem and K. K. Ragesh of the CPM and Sanjay Singh of AAP. The morning began with Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh choosing to meet the protesting MPs on the lawns and offering them tea. Prime Minister Narendra Modi described his gesture as proof of his greatness, but several Opposition MPs refused to have tea, maintaining all along that the deputy chairperson was in the wrong. At least one the protesting MPs said Harivansh’s appearance with a posse of cameramen looked like a gimmick. "To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji," the Prime Minister tweeted. AAP's Sanjay Singh tweeted a picture from the protest site in the morning, saying the "whole night was spent under the open sky in front of Bapu's statue". "The protest in favour of farmers' rights is continuing," he added. When the Rajya Sabha deputy chairman arrived, a senior MP told him to meet them without the cameras and sit with them. "Another senior MP also told him that while bringing tea was a nice gesture, he was still in the wrong in what he did. He was told that he was the one who broke the rules," a protesting MP told PTI. Several leaders said they did not accept the tea and snacks offered by the deputy chairman. "I did not have the tea brought by him," Sanjay Singh said. Harivansh has been in the thick of things since the suspension drama unfolded. The eight MPs were suspended for the remaining part of the current session over their "misbehavior" with the deputy chairman during the passage of the farm Bills on Sunday. Later, Harivansh expressed his deep anguish and pain at the Opposition MPs’ "humiliating" conduct towards him and announced a 24-hour fast to inspire a feeling of "self-purification" in them. In a letter to Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu, Harivansh recounted the ruckus in the House on Sunday during the passage of the farm bills, and said members engaged in "violent" conduct in the name of democracy, tried to frighten the Chair and tore to shreds every norm and convention of the House. This sight of "disrobing of democracy" jolted his mind and heart and he could not sleep for the whole night, the Bihar MP wrote in the letter underscoring his agony and pain at the development. Whatever happened in front of me on September 20 has caused unimaginable loss to the dignity of House and Chair, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
22-09-2020||India||Street vendors struggle to feed families||A stack of unsold shawls is an unsettling sight for street vendor K. Kunjalata Devi, reminding her of the daily struggle to feed her family as Covid-19 threatens the livelihoods of millions of informal traders across India. India — one of the countries worst-hit by the coronavirus — has eased most lockdown restrictions and sought to reopen its battered economy, but some curbs on street trade remain and many customers are staying away. That is taking a heavy toll on the nation’s ubiquitous street vendors, who sell everything from snacks and cups of tea to toys and shoes at traffic lights, on pavements or from carts. “Financially, we are shattered and that has led to a near mental breakdown with stress and tension building up every passing day,” said Devi, 64, who had been selling the handwoven shawls for four decades before the lockdown hit in March. Devi and several thousand fellow vendors at a market run by women in Manipur have still not been able to return to their stalls because authorities ruled that the many elderly vendors were at high risk from the virus. “Making ends meet and having two meals a day is now a big problem... life for many of us has been hell,” Devi, the sole breadwinner in her household, said by phone from the state capital, Imphal. Coronavirus infections are rising faster in India than anywhere else in the world as it repeatedly reports the highest global daily caseloads, with the total surging to 5.4 million on Sunday, according to the latest official data. It is the world’s second-worst affected country after the United States, which has 6.7 million cases. Imphal mayor L. Lokesore said the state government would provide Rs 10,000 in assistance to women like Devi. “We have already processed their documents and very soon we shall release the payments,” he said. In June, the Centre launched a scheme offering collateral-free loans of Rs 10,000 to about 5 million street vendors — about half of the country’s total, according to the National Association of Street Vendors of India. Of 15 street vendors interviewed by the Thomson Reuters Foundation in New Delhi, only three said they had applied for the loan. Others said they did not plan to apply, citing reasons including red tape or lack of interest in the amount on offer. “It’s a lot of effort for just pocket change. They don’t realise how much we have to spend on raw material, transport and helpers,” said Pappu Gupta, 50, who runs a food stall near Connaught Place, the capital’s central business district. Nearby, roadside cobbler Santosh Kumar said: “What’s the point of a loan if people are too scared to come out? Who will I expand my business for?” Calling street vendors an “inseparable constituent of the urban informal economy”, Rajeev Jain, a spokesman for the ministry of housing and urban affairs, said 470,000 loans had been approved of the 1.3 million applications received. Ranjana, 38, used to sell thousands of rupees worth of colourful, hand-embroidered bags and cushion covers to foreign tourists before the lockdown. Now, she gets two customers on a good day and has started wearing a face mask and using hand sanitiser, hoping that will convince buyers to come back. “People need to see that we’re the ones who can help fix the economy,” said Ranjana, who goes by one name. “If you buy from us, we can then spend money on artisans, rickshaw drivers, tea vendors... we can generate growth.” Vinod, who declined to give his full name, said that in 30 years of selling tea in Delhi he had never struggled so badly. “There is no hope in sight.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
22-09-2020||India||Why farmer Nimai Ray feels he has lost his independence||Nimai Ray, an MA in sociology and a farmer, feels the two farm bills that were pushed through in Parliament on Sunday have cost him his independence. “It’s like your independence has been taken away and you are working as a labourer in some company,” Ray, 56, told The Telegraph on Monday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has described the passage of the bills as “a watershed moment in the history of Indian agriculture” and the Opposition has labelled them a “death warrant” on the farmer. But the fears of farmers like Ray, imaginary or otherwise, articulate loud and clear the pitfalls of securing legislative approval without adhering to the basic principles of a parliamentary democracy: proper debate, scrutiny and consultation. The fears expressed by Ray, who cultivates multiple crops on 12 acres in Jajpur district of Odisha, underscore the importance of transparency, communication and precise drafting while dealing with topics as sensitive as land and food. “When I got my MA in sociology in 1988, I could have opted for a government or private-sector job, but I decided to live as a farmer. I have worked hard to create my identity as a farmer,” Ray said. “With the farm bill coming into force, national and international players will come into the picture and we will not be able to hold on to our independent identity. Though there may seem to be some immediate gains for farmers as the market will open up, the bills have long-term repercussions that everyone may not realise at the moment.” The big fear: The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, one of the bills cleared on Sunday, allows growers to directly sell their produce to institutional buyers such as big traders and retailers. Once the bill is signed into law, the farmers can take their produce beyond the premises of what are known as “APMC markets or mandis”. Under the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act, a law more than 55 years old, it is compulsory for farmers to take their products to regulated wholesale markets where commission agents help the growers sell their harvest to either the state-run food procurement agency or private traders. The stated aim of the APMCs is to protect farmers from being exploited by big institutional buyers, but over the years they have become a powerful tool for political parties to control the farm trade. Many farmer organisations oppose the change that allows big players to buy directly from them, saying it will leave the smaller growers with little bargaining power. Nearly 85 per cent of India’s poor farmers own less than 5 acres, and they find it difficult to directly negotiate with large buyers. What has deepened the fear is the government’s refusal to categorically state in the bill that the provision of a minimum support price (MSP) would be guaranteed. The Centre has been saying the MSP will be there but “saying” is not the same as incorporating it in the bill in black and white. A counter-argument has been that once an MSP is set, no private player will pay more than that, and the MSP will become the unofficial “maximum” price or a ceiling that will leave farmers at a disadvantage. Trust deficit: The bill has been rammed through before a consensus emerged. Besides, what has been unfolding in the past few years has been far from reassuring. Ray, the farmer, said: “What happened to the hundreds of small grocery shops in urban areas? After big players entered the market, customers started getting things online. They are giving more offers. The small grocery shops started closing down.” Hypermarkets and e-commerce are still a work in progress in India. While unrealistic discounts offered by the big players have hurt small shops, some traders have gained from the easier availability of wholesale stocks and consumers have enjoyed wider choice. In the lockdown, small groceries thrived while many big stores had to be closed. Ray added: “One can see the monopolisation in the telecom sector. A similar situation will crop up in the farming sector too. The big companies will enter and take away the farm produce at higher prices. No one will turn up at government mandis to sell their produce. The mandis will be closed down. The farmers will be forced to dance to the tune of the big companies that will dictate the price.” Contract farming: The second bill, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, allows contract farming. Farmers and buyers can enter into agreements before cultivation at a guaranteed price. A dispute settlement mechanism has been prescribed. On paper, such an arrangement should help the farmer as it removes uncertainties about the demand for the crop, the size and the price. Trust deficit: But age-old fears, aggravated by a perception that a BJP-friendly oligarchy is being promoted, are a reality. Ray, the farmer, said: “It will open the door for the conversion of farmers into labourers. We used to cultivate the land of our forefathers. Now, drawn by the lure of money, some farmers may hand over their land to affluent farmers. Later, the big players will take the land and decide what is to be cultivated. Farmers who once owned the land will now work on that land as some or other company’s worker. He will become a labourer in his own land. We don’t want that.” However, one-third of fruits and vegetables produced in India perish before reaching the food plate. Key among the reasons are the lack of a cold chain infrastructure and an inadequate capacity to process food. The entry of the organised sector with attendant investments may help address some of these issues, leading to more income for the farmers. States' fear: The grain bowl states of Punjab and Haryana fear that if big institutions start buying directly from the farmers, the state governments will lose out on the tax that these buyers have to pay at wholesale markets. Political sources say that had the concerns about the MSP and the states’ revenues been addressed, the opposition would not have been so fierce. The ‘Middlemen’: For decades, some affluent Indians have been justifying their reluctance to pay better prices for farm produce by saying the “middlemen” take the lion’s share, leaving a pittance for the farmer. Political parties too have promoted this theory, blaming every problem on the faceless “middlemen”. The current controversy has shed light on how commission agents (the “middlemen”) have been discharging useful functions as intermediaries do in most segments where distance separates the producing source and the consumption point. The government argues that the middlemen at wholesale markets form an extra link in the supply chain, and that their commission pushes up the prices for consumers. The commission agents help the farmers grade, weigh, pack and sell their harvest to buyers. They also ensure timely payments to the farmers. The agents are also often a source of credit for farmers after droughts or crop failures, or before a daughter’s wedding. Trust deficit: Some fear that the agents, who form the backbone of the wholesale markets, will be replaced by a set of enforcers on the payroll of the big buyers. Farmer leaders have said that wholesale markets, which play a crucial role in ensuring timely payments to small farmers, would gradually disappear if large players buy directly from the growers. Without the offer of an alternative arrangement, such as private markets or direct-purchase centres, the new rule does not make any sense, growers have said. Additional reporting by Reuters||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
22-09-2020||India||Eight Rajya Sabha MPs suspended for the rest of the session ||Eight Rajya Sabha MPs from four parties who had led the protests against the farm bills in the House were suspended on Monday for the rest of the session by chairperson M. Venkaiah Naidu, who disallowed the Opposition’s no-confidence motion against his deputy Harivansh. The MPs stayed put in the House, despite several reminders from the Chair that the rules mandate they leave immediately, resulting in successive adjournments. As a result, not much business was transacted in the Rajya Sabha, which adjourned for the day an hour ahead of schedule. The eight MPs then moved to the front lawns next to the Mahatma Gandhi statue to stage an indefinite dharna. Leaders of several Opposition parties and even the TRS — which usually stands with the government on contentious issues — joined their protest through the day against the “assassination of parliamentary democracy’’. As the sit-in continued into the night, several MPs, including Ahmed Patel of the Congress and the RJD’s Manoj Jha, joined their suspended colleagues in solidarity. Sanjay Singh of AAP and Dola Sen of Trinamul Congress, who are among the suspended eight, kept spirits high with protest songs. The Opposition is also demanding that President Ram Nath Kovind return the two farm bills to the Rajya Sabha for proper consideration and approval under Article 111 of the Constitution. The Opposition will seek an appointment with the President to present their case, a senior  leader said. The bills were passed on Sunday by voice vote after demands for a division (paper or electronic vote) were not accepted. The Opposition’s contention is that proper procedure was not followed by the presiding officer during the passage of the bills, resulting in the ruckus. On Monday, the day began in the Rajya Sabha on a quiet note with Chairman Naidu getting the papers listed tabled and allowing special mentions for about 20 minutes. Thereafter, referring to the pandemonium during which mikes were broken and MPs clambered on to the parliamentary reporters’ table to protest, he said: “I was so pained yesterday. All social distancing and Covid-19-related precautions were violated by some members in the House yesterday. It pained me a lot because of what happened yesterday. It defies logic. It was really a bad day for the Rajya Sabha.’’ Defending the deputy Chairman, Naidu said division could not be taken up because of disruptions. “If marshals were not called on time, what would have happened to the deputy Chairman? I am worried. He says that he was abused with objectionable words,’’ he said. Citing the record of Sunday’s proceedings, Naidu said: “The deputy Chairman had persistently requested the members to go to their seats and participate in the debate and move amendments. Obviously, in view of the continuous disruptions in the House, the division could not have taken place.’’ Before allowing the government to move the motion for suspension of Rajeev Satav, Syed Nasir Hussain and Ripun Bora of the Congress, Derek O’Brien and Dola Sen of Trinamul Congress, Elamaram Kareem and K. K. Ragesh of the CPM and Sanjay Singh of AAP, Naidu declared the Opposition’s no-confidence motion inadmissible as 14 days’ notice had not been given as is mandated under Article 90(c) of the Constitution. The disciplinary action against the eight MPs has been taken under Rule 255 and 256. The government’s motion did not refer to any rule. The motion moved by junior parliamentary affairs minister V. Muraleedharan said: “That the following members be suspended from the services of the House for the remaining part of the current session for their unruly behaviour especially with the Chair and their gross disorderly conduct in violation of the rules and etiquettes of Rajya Sabha, thereby bringing disrepute to this august House and causing insult to the Office of Hon. Deputy Chairman, yesterday, i.e. the 20th September, 2020.’’ Later, law and justice minister Ravi Shankar Prasad accused the Opposition of “humiliating” deputy Chairman Harivansh, calling him an “eminent Indian” from Bihar, seeking to draw electoral mileage in poll-bound Bihar. “An eminent Indian who hails from Bihar, who has made a mark not only in the country but the globe, was being humiliated and Congress party and the RJD were encouraging this in the most unabashed manner,” Prasad said, speaking on behalf of the government. “The people of Bihar will give a reply of this. The country too will give. This will not be tolerated,” he added. “I want to say this very clearly. We don’t want to make it a political issue but the way such an intellectual son of Bihar, editor, journalist was humiliated… People of Bihar are hurt and the Opposition will have to face it,” Prasad said. Bihar is scheduled to vote in November. The minister hails from the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Excess deaths among dialysis patients||Patients in India undergoing dialysis under government health insurance cover faced 25 per cent excess mortality during the nationwide lockdown, a study to assess the lockdown’s impact on health outcomes among kidney patients has suggested. The study by Stanford University researchers has found that mortality among dialysis patients increased sharply from 2.72 per cent during March to 4.56 per cent during May, an increase never seen over the previous year. The mortality levels reduced to 3.42 per cent in June and 2.96 per cent in July, leading to an overall death rate between April and July 2020 that was 25 per cent higher than the mortality during the same months in 2019, the researchers said. “We see this sharp spike in the death rate in May; it falls over the next two months but remains higher than it was in March,” Radhika Jain, a post-doctoral fellow studying health policy at Stanford, told The Telegraph over the telephone. “These are the unintended consequences of the lockdown,” she said. The Stanford study is among the first to assess how the death rates among dialysis patients changed during India’s lockdown. An earlier study by medical researchers had tracked a reduction in demand for dialysis services across eight government and 11 private hospitals in India. Jain and Pascaline Dupas, professor of economics at Stanford, used a unique strategy to study death rates — phone calls to households with patients undergoing dialysis. They picked a sample of 2,110 patients on dialysis in Rajasthan and called their households during and after the lockdown. They found that 63 per cent patients had experienced a disruption to their dialysis care services because of the lockdown. The commonest causes were travel barriers, hospital closures or refusals by hospitals to provide dialysis services. Over 40 per cent of the patients reported being unable to reach their hospitals while 15 per cent found their hospitals shut or were turned away by hospitals. About 17 per cent of the patients could not obtain the necessary medicines and 11 per cent had to pay extra hospital charges. The study found that monthly dialysis visits decreased by 6 per cent between March and April — the same level of decrease reported by the National Health Authority, the government agency implementing the nationwide government-paid health insurance programme. The researchers’ calculation of a 25 per cent excess mortality implies that if 100 patients on dialysis had died between April and July 2019, a total of 125 died between April and July 2020. The study also found that women and socially disadvantaged groups experienced larger increases in mortality than men or groups with socio-economic capital. “We looked at a sample population in Rajasthan, but we believe our findings are indicative of the likely effects of the lockdown across India,” Jain said. The findings, the researchers said, corroborate concerns that a universal lockdown of the kind India had imposed abruptly at four hours’ notice can have large and adverse impacts on healthcare-seeking behaviour, hitting vulnerable populations the hardest. “These results look quite realistic,” said Vivekanand Jha, senior nephrologist and executive director of The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, who was not associated with the Stanford study but was part of the independent 19-hospital survey two months ago. Jha and his colleagues from the Sanjay Gandhi Postgraduate Institute of Medical Sciences, Lucknow, and other hospitals had found that 704 (28 per cent) of a group of 2,517 dialysis patients had experienced one or more disruptions in dialysis during the lockdown. About 4 per cent (104 of the 2,517 patients) had stopped reporting for dialysis. “We had found large-scale disruptions in hospital-based care in multiple centres – the Stanford group has gone beyond and confirmed the impact on mortality,” Jha said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Govt omits causes in latest data on farm suicides||The Centre on Monday told the Rajya Sabha its latest data on farm suicides had omitted the causes because the matter had become “untenable” with many states and Union territories reporting “nil” agriculture-sector suicides. Junior home minister G. Kishan Reddy did not explain why the states’ “nil” figures had rendered the reasons rather than the suicide figures themselves untenable, nor did his written reply leave any scope for questioning. Congress member P.L. Punia had asked why the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB) had done away with listing the causes for farmer suicides in its annual report on accidents and suicides. “As informed by NCRB, many states/ UTs had reported ‘nil’ data on suicides by farmers/ cultivators and agricultural labourers... even while reporting suicides in other professions,” Reddy said. “Due to this limitation, national data on causes of suicide in farming sector was untenable and not published separately.” The NCRB, which functions under the Union home ministry, had tracked farmer suicides and their reasons every year from 1995 to 2015 before the government withheld the data on farm suicides for three years. Civil rights activists had accused the Centre of deliberately suppressing farm suicide figures just the way it was hiding unemployment data, but the government said the states weren’t sending farm suicide data. This year, the NCRB has published farm suicide data for both 2018 and 2019 without mentioning or categorising the reasons. Its report counts 10,281 farm suicides (5,957 farmers and 4,324 agricultural labourers) last year, down from 10,357 the previous year. Till 2015, the NCRB would not just enumerate the reasons behind farm suicides but classify them under categories such as farm distress, crop failure, loans, family problems and illness. Under the head of “loans”, there were sub-categories on the source, such as banks, moneylenders and micro-finance institutions. The report also included data on the socio-economic status and land-holding of each victim. But the latest report does not even report the farm suicides separately — it has included them under the category “suicides by profession”. The only break-up it gives is in terms of male and female (5,563 male farmers and 394 women farmers, and 3,749 male and 575 women farm labourers, killed themselves in 2019). The states and Union territories that reported zero farm-sector suicides were Bengal, Bihar, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Manipur, Chandigarh, Daman and Diu, Delhi, Lakshadweep and Puducherry. Home ministry sources said it had repeatedly nudged these states to revalidate and send the data. Maharashtra accounted for 38.3 per cent of farm suicides last year, followed by Karnataka (19.4), Andhra Pradesh (10), Madhya Pradesh (5.3), Telangana and Chhattisgarh (4.9 each). Farm suicides accounted for 7.4 per cent of the total suicides in the country in 2019, the report says. Suicides among day labourers have risen from 30,132 last year to 32,559 in the year of Covid-19 and lockdown, the NCRB report shows. Among the victims were 29,092 men and 3,467 women.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Narendra Modi offers potato logic to farmers||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday claimed that “ground reports” suggested the fruits of the new farm laws had begun reaching the farmers, trying to placate the agitating cultivators who say the newly enacted legislation would lead to their exploitation by big business. Modi was speaking a day after his government had forced two farm bills through the Rajya Sabha via voice vote amid Opposition protests. Wooing the angry farmers while launching development projects for poll-bound Bihar, the Prime Minister said the benefits of the early-June ordinances that heralded the new laws were already visible on the ground. “Aise states jahan par aloo bahut hota hai, wahan se report hai, June-July ke dauran thok kharidaron ne kisano ko achchhi bhav de kar sidhe cold storage se hi aloo kharid liya (Reports from states that grow potatoes in abundance show that the big traders paid good prices to the farmers in June-July, buying their potatoes directly from the cold storage),” the Prime Minister said. He said the “pressure” created by this led to farmers receiving better prices in the mandis (wholesale markets) too. Modi said reports from Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan suggested that oil mills had bought mustard seeds directly from the farmers at prices 20 to 30 per cent higher than usual. He said farmers in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Bengal had received 15 to 25 per cent more for their dal (lentils) as the “dal mills” had brought the produce directly from them. The Prime Minister’s outreach comes at a time intense farmer protests against the new bills have been reported from Punjab and Haryana, amid suggestions that the agitation could spread to other states. Modi has also been under pressure from allies, with the Akali Dal quitting the government in protest at the farm bills. The Akalis, who met President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday and requested him to withhold assent to the new laws, would decide in a week whether to remain in the NDA, party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal has said. Modi sought to address fears that the new legislation would lead to closure of the mandis and bring the farmers under the thumb of the big agri-market players. “This legislation has nothing to do with the mandis. They will continue to function,” the Prime Minister said, citing how his government had helped modernise the mandis by equipping them with computers. He argued the farmers would benefit from the new laws if they form associations and enter into agreements or contracts with the buyers. Modi said more than 85 per cent of India’s farmers had small landholdings. “Their input cost is high and they don’t get a good price. If they come together and form associations, they stand to benefit a lot,” he said. Citing an example, he said that if a young entrepreneur wanted to set up a chips factory, he could now directly approach the farmers, declare the quality and quantity of the potatoes he needed and enter into a contract with them. This, he argued, would benefit the farmers. Modi said the new laws were a necessity for 21st-century India, and that his government was freeing the farmers from their age-old shackles. He took an indirect dig at the Opposition, saying some people were instigating the farmers because they found their “control slipping away” following the enactment of the new laws. “These are the same people who kept sitting on the recommendations of the Swaminathan Committee on the MSP (minimum support price) for years,” the Prime Minister said. He claimed no other government had done as much to raise the MSP as his had. The Swaminathan report of 2006 had suggested a formula that would have raised the MSP. The Modi government claims to have implemented most of the report’s recommendations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Congress plans national agitation over farm bills||The Congress on Monday announced a nationwide agitation plan from Thursday against the undemocratic imposition of a regressive system on the farmers and vowed to turn it into a people’s movement unless the “black laws” were withdrawn. Describing the attitude of the Narendra Modi government as dictatorial, the Congress not only lent its “full support to the agitating farmers” but also worked out its own agitation programme despite the coronavirus-induced restrictions. The Congress leadership believes the issues of farmers and youths — two sections of the society that cut across caste and religious barriers — could play a decisive role in its revival strategy. The party has been highlighting the unemployment crisis to lure youths away from the BJP. While the party will create awareness on the farm bills by holding press conferences across the country over the next few days, every state unit has been directed to organise protest marches culminating in the submission of memoranda to governors. Party chief ministers, legislature party leaders, state chiefs, MPs, MLAs and senior leaders have been asked to participate in the march. While Mahatma Gandhi’s birth anniversary on October 2 will be observed as “Kisan-Mazdoor bachao diwas” along with sit-in protests at every district headquarters, state-level farmers’ conference will be organised across the country on October 10. This will be followed by a nationwide signature campaign in which Congress workers will spread out in villages to collect signatures from farmers who are opposed to these legislations. These signatures will be submitted to the President on November 14, the birth anniversary of Jawaharlal Nehru. Congress leaders have also been allowed to participate in protests by farmer unions. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Samiti (AIKSCC) on Monday announced a separate agitation programme along with social boycott of any party that supports these laws. At a press conference on Monday, the AIKSCC said the government was trying to mislead the farmers in its brazen attempt to help corporate houses and traders. The Congress worked out the agitation plan at a meeting of general secretaries and state in-charges on Monday afternoon. After the meeting, senior leader Ahmed Patel said: “Democracy is being strangled in and outside Parliament and the government is gradually imposing dictatorship on India. The government is bulldozing its way as if Opposition and views of the people do not matter in democracy. We will not allow this to happen.” K.C. Venugopal, general secretary in-charge of the organisation, said: “What is the problem if the Opposition demanded wider consultation and deeper examination of the issues when there are serious apprehensions in the minds of the farmers? It is unfortunate that the Prime Minister himself is misleading the nation. The Congress is totally with the farmers and this agitation will continue till these black laws are withdrawn.” Party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala said: “The Prime Minister says the Opposition is misleading the farmers. Why can’t the commitment that no crop can be purchased below MSP (minimum support price) be written in the law? Let there be an in-built guarantee. But the government has to abolish the mandi system and procurement system and slowly scrap the public distribution system as well. Modi is not willing to listen to the farmers; he listens only to his financers.” Questioning the Prime Minister’s understanding of agriculture, Surjewala said: “Look at Modi’s latest tweet, he doesn’t know the difference between kharif and rabi crops. He doesn’t know paddy is kharif crop, not rabi. He doesn’t know arhar (pulse) is kharif crop, not rabi. How will he help the farmers? That’s why it is said little knowledge is a dangerous thing.” The Prime Minister’s official Twitter handle had posted: “This year, record procurement of wheat was done in the Rabi season despite Corona. This year, wheat, paddy, pulses and oilseeds worth Rs 1.13 lakh crore was purchased at MSP in the Rabi season.” Former finance minister P. Chidambaram tweeted: “The Prime Minister and other ministers have promised that MSP will be guaranteed to the farmer. Pray tell us HOW? How will the government know which farmer sold what produce to which trader? There will be millions of private transactions every day in thousands of villages all over India. “How will the Government guarantee MSP is paid in these transactions? Under which law is a private purchaser obliged to pay MSP to the farmer in a private transaction? The Modi Government should stop lying to the farmers and making false promises. The promise of guaranteeing MSP in private transactions is like the promise to deposit Rs 15 lakh in the bank account of every Indian.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Jamia Millia Islamia to conduct in-person exams ||At a time when Covid-19 infections are at its peak, Jamia Millia Islamia university has decided to hold annual examination for private students in pen and paper mode from Tuesday. The move is seen as a health risk for students and staff who will do the invigilation duty. University registrar A.P. Siddiqui has issued an order asking teaching and non-teaching staff to come for the examination duty. The duty includes checking admit card and taking attendance of each examinee, distribution of question papers in centres, collection of answer sheets and submission with the university authorities. Many teachers and non-teaching staff fear that this measure would “unnecessarily” expose them to Covid infections. Prof. Syed Afzal Murtaza Rizvi from the department of computer science has written to the registrar to defer the test for now. An email was sent to the registrar but no comments could be obtained.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||SC mulls law on Shaheen Bagh protests||The Supreme Court on Monday said it would lay down a law with regard to citizens’ right to protest on roads as an expression of free speech vis-à-vis the rights of other citizens to seek protection from such inconvenience in the context of the Shaheen Bagh protests in Delhi against the Citizenship Amendment Act, 2019. The protests were withdrawn in April this year following the coronavirus-induced countrywide lockdown. The matter, which was last heard in February, came up briefly on Monday before a bench headed by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul during which solicitor-general Tushar Mehta suggested that the petition should be disposed of as infructuous since the protesters have already vacated the place. However, the two separate PIL petitioners opposed the suggestion.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Seven-day lockdown begins in Gangtok||Residents of Sikkim capital Gangtok observed a complete lockdown on Monday at a time life started becoming normal in towns and cities of the country because of the relaxations announced by the Centre and different state governments. This is the first day of the seven-day lockdown that has been clamped in the Gangtok Municipal Corporation (GMC) area after there was a spike in Covid-19 cases. The contagion has infected three state ministers and two MLAs. The lockdown will be in force till September 27, said sources. “Only essential services like medical shops and grocery stores have been exempted from the lockdown. On Monday, it was total and we appreciate the cooperation extended by people in our effort to stop the spread of the disease,’ said a senior police officer. In Sikkim, the Covid mortality rate is 1.2 per cent, which is less than the national average of 1.6. Till Sunday, 29 out of the 2,391 Covid patients had died in the state. So far as the recovery rate of patients is concerned, it is 79.2 per cent, marginally less than the national average of 80.1 per cent. Two infants — a male baby and a female, who were tested Covid-19 positive when they were barely two days old —  have recovered fully. Born to two different corona-positive mothers at the New STNM Hospital, they had themselves tested positive two days after their birth. While the male baby was born on September 8, the female baby was born a day later. “Their mothers were tested Covid positive at the hospital and their babies too were subsequently tested positive. While the male child was discharged on September 16, the female child was discharged on Monday,” said Pempa T. Bhutia, the director general-cum-secretary of Sikkim health department. The P.S. Tamang government has decided to make arrangements for buses to ferry candidates to examination centres. Scores of examinees are due to appear for CBSE compartmental examinations for Classes X and XII, in term-end examinations of IGNOU and in NET at different centres in Gangtok. Bhim Thatal, the director of elementary education and samagra shiksha and spokesman for the state education department, said buses of the Sikkim Nationalised Transport would be available for examinees at three different entry points to the GMC area, including Ranipool, Ranka and Tashi View Point. “Students are required to reach these three points on their own. To avail themselves of the bus service, candidates have been advised to register with the education department with relevant documents,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Shelved book on Delhi riot sees ‘jihadis’, not victims||A group of activists has released a 51-page review of a leaked copy of the manuscript of a book, shelved by Bloomsbury last month, that blames the February riots in Delhi on the protests against the new citizenship matrix. According to the reviewers, the leaked manuscript of Delhi Riots 2020: The Untold Story mentions the expressions “urban Naxal”, “jihadi” and combinations of them a total 115 times while the word “victim” occurs just 16 times. The review wonders about a possible “conspiracy” between the authors and the police, highlighting how the riot chargesheets mirror the book’s theories. Bloomsbury had dropped the book after protests from authors and academics who accused the volume of portraying the riot victims as the perpetrators. The three authors complained to the Delhi police commissioner earlier this month that Bloomsbury had deliberately leaked a copy of the manuscript and that several people had used it to criticise the unpublished text, which the trio claimed was property stolen from them. The book — written by lawyer Monika Arora and academics Prerna Malhotra and Sonali Chitalkar — was released online on Sunday, with the same title, by local publisher Garuda Prakashan. American Hindutva commentator Rajiv Malhotra was chief guest at the event. The review has been published online by a group of NGOs that promote secularism: Karwan-e-Mohabbat led by former bureaucrat Harsh Mander, Act Now for Harmony and Democracy led by Shabnam Hashmi, and the Muslim Women’s Forum, steered by former Planning Commission member Syeda Hameed. “During a programme on NDTV telecast on 26 August 2020, one of the authors questioned the anchor’s authority asking if he had read the book, and said that reports critical of the book were coming from ‘fake portals’,” the review says. “We conclude that the authors wanted people to have an informed opinion based on their close reading of the book. What we found is contained in the pages that follow — passages from the book with false claims, factual inaccuracies, and distorted/ selective presentations. As reviewers, we have simply used the yardstick of evidence and fact and lack thereof. There are many statements in this book that amount to libel.” The review adds: “It is fair to say that in this book, all people who express liberal views and take public positions against the ruling BJP are urban-Naxal. All Muslims — men, women and children — are jihadi. The tale takes a broad sweep, invokes images of ISIS, Syria and Egypt, and quotes from purported Maoist pamphlets about guerrilla warfare. “In a 190-page book about the Delhi riots, the approximate number of times these words/phrases appear (not counting titles and references) is as follows: urban-Naxal — 45, jihadi — 42, urban-Naxal-jihadi (occurring in close combination) — 28; Syria — 13; ISIS — 24; PFI — 17; Left — 46; international (media/internationalising the issue): 16. “This is more times than the names of any of the victims of this tragedy. This is more times than the word ‘victim’ itself which appears only some 16 times.” “PFI” is the Popular Front of India, an extremist Muslim group. The book appears part of a “conspiracy” between the authors and the police, the review says. “The theories in this book have been replicated down to details in the chargesheets being filed by the Delhi police in the Delhi riots cases,” it says. “These criminal cases have already incarcerated scores of people who participated in the movement against the CAA…. Each chargesheet begins its narrative with the movement against the CAA, it then goes on to talk about conspiracy, pre-planning, networks, and so on, with no evidence whatsoever.” The review follows the same structure as the book, with six chapters, each with a list of falsehoods quoted and rebutted, sometimes with Internet links. According to the reviewers, the leaked version of the foreword that former Punjab director-general of police P.C. Dogra wrote for the Bloomsbury book, has quotes falsely attributed to India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, and Delhi University professor Nandini Sundar. Dogra was among 26 former DGPs who issued a statement on Friday saying former police officers, including former DGP and ambassador Julio Ribeiro, had “no right to suspect or question the integrity and professionalism of their successors in the Indian Police Service”. Ribeiro had twice written to Delhi police commissioner S.N. Srivastava, asking whether his officers “have been true to their oath” — an allusion to the allegations of bias in the riot probe — and that “Gandhians have lost favour with this regime!” In their statement, the 26 former DGPs attributed an incendiary slogan to jailed rights activist Umar Khalid without citing any source. The review concludes saying: “This purported ‘fact-finding’ amasses imagery and dog whistling to hint at a conspiracy and build image of the ‘global brutal killer Muslim’ without a shred of evidence.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Taj Mahal opened for public after 188 days||Agra's Taj Mahal was opened to tourists on Monday after 188 days of its CovidD-19-led closure. The Taj Mahal and Agra Fort were closed to tourists from March 17 amid the Covid-19 outbreak in the country. With a Delhi resident entering the 17th-century ivory-white marble monument on the southern bank of the Yamuna from its western gate and a Chinese woman from its eastern gate, the duo became the first visitors to the monument after its reopening. Chinese tourist described the Taj Mahal as a very beautiful building , while Delhi resident Shubham Singh too appeared exalted on becoming one of the first visitors to the monument after its reopening. Naees, a resident of Spain, too visiting the Taj mahal on the first day, said she was very eager to see the monument and her wish has been fulfilled. Earlier, sanitization work was done inside the Taj Mahal under the supervision of Superintending Archaeologist Basant Kumar Swarnakar. With the opening of Taj Mahal, there was an atmosphere of happiness among the people associated with the tourism business. Tourist guide Nitin Singh said tourists will soon start visiting the Taj Mahal as before and people associated with the tourism will benefit. The Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and other religious places opened in Agra on Monday, though emporiums have not yet been opened. Tourists coming to see the Taj will have to follow the anti-Covid precautions and guidelines issued by the administration and Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) because of the Covid-19 spread. According to the new guideline, a maximum of 5,000 tourists will enter the monument every day and maximum 2,500 tourists will enter the Agra Fort. Tourists have to book tickets online from the ASI website. Access is being given after scanning the QR code on the monuments. In this regard, officials of the Department of Archeology say that the Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) is being followed at Taj Mahal and Agra Fort. Tourists will have to make all payments, including parking, digitally. It will be compulsory for tourists to follow physical distancing and wear masks. Tourists have to stay away from the walls and railings of the buildings. Tourists are allowed to enter the monuments only after their thermal screening and only those with no symptoms are being allowed to enter the premises.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
22-09-2020||India||Hindu Army members arrested for 'Krishna Janmabhoomi movement' call||Twenty-two members of the Hindu Army were arrested on Sunday night after the fringe group announced a “Krishna Janmabhoomi movement” — a longstanding Sangh parivar demand to remove the Shahi Idgah mosque adjacent to a Krishna temple in Mathura. The outfit had put up posters across Mathura town declaring the movement would start from 11am on Monday and urged supporters of all Hindutva groups to gather at the site. Such a movement would be expected to help the BJP in the 2022 Assembly elections. “A large number of Hindu Army members began assembling near the temple on Sunday evening without permission from the local administration,” Mathura superintendent of police Uday Shankar said. “They were trying to conduct objectionable activities. We arrested 22 of them under Section 151 of the Code of Criminal Procedure to prevent the commission of cognisable offences.” The VHP and the BJP had in the mid-1980s resolved to “reclaim” the purported birthplaces of Ram and Krishna in Ayodhya and Mathura, and the Kashi Vishwanath temple in Varanasi, by demolishing the Babri Masjid, Shahi Idgah and the Gyanvapi Mosque that shared the premises. After being put on the back burner during the Ram temple campaign, the Mathura and Kashi demands have gained momentum since the Supreme Court handed the disputed Ayodhya land to Hindus last November. While the BJP’s top leadership has taken care to play down the possibility of temple movements in Mathura and Varanasi, the party’s motormouths have aggressively endorsed both issues. The Hindu Army, a decade-old organisation, has been known to canvass votes for the BJP. Parivar outfits tend to raise the Mathura issue before almost every election. “We had sought permission to launch the Krishna Janmabhoomi movement but the Mathura administration ignored the demand,” Hindu Army chief Manish Yadav, who has been arrested, told reporters at a police station in Mathura, 400km west of Lucknow. “We want the Islamic structures removed from Krishna’s birthplace and the site handed over to us.” Cases seeking the removal of the Gyanvapi Mosque and the Shahi Idgah are pending with the lower courts.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Cop ‘assault’ on J&K reporter||A Srinagar journalist was summoned by Kashmir’s cyber police chief and allegedly beaten and abused at a police station for writing a news report accusing the cops of silencing social media users critical of the government. Auqib Javeed, the journalist, spoke out on Monday after initially deciding to stay silent as Saturday’s experience had left him “traumatised, anxious and nervous”. “I was awake most of that night, haunted by the physical assault and their abuse,” he wrote in Article-14, the same news portal that had published the report that had angered the police. “But later, I realised my silence would set a precedent and embolden the police to treat other journalists similarly. So I write this, for myself and for my colleagues who often work on the razor’s edge -- that is journalism in Kashmir.” Javeed has since tweeted that he fears for his life. “If anything happens to me they (the police) will be responsible,” he said. The cyber police, who play a key role in counter-insurgency operations, said the journalist’s “allegation of excesses” was “factually incorrect”. The unit has summoned several journalists in recent months in connection with their professional work, and the police have booked two journalists under the anti-terror law UAPA. Javeed’s ordeal came a day after the cyber police chief, SP Tahir Ashraf, had publicly warned him of “legal action” for writing a “fake and misleading story” that was “jeopardising the good work done by Cyber Police Station Kashmir”. However, talking to The Telegraph on Monday, the only specific factual mistake in the report Ashraf could identify was a detail about the exact location of the cyber police station. Javeed’s report, published last week, had claimed the cyber police had dubbed 300 social media accounts the “cyber-bullying group”. Its headline read: “The real cyber bully: Police in Kashmir question Twitter users”. The report had claimed that social media users were being “questioned, hectored by police and left off only after promising not to issue posts against the government and its policies”. Javeed said that after being summoned, he had travelled 60km from his home in Bandipora to Srinagar on Saturday, accompanied by two journalists from the Kashmir Press Club, to meet Ashraf. He said the trio were frisked and their phones taken away. A policeman asked Javeed to accompany him while his two colleagues waited in another room. “(Thereafter) a masked policeman slapped me hard on my left cheek. He did sound like a local. ‘Kis liye aaya hai tu (Why have you come)?’ he demanded,” Javeed wrote. “Once I recovered from the shock of the slap, I said, ‘SP saab has called me.’ He slapped me hard again and left.” Javeed was taken to Ashraf’s room, where the officer reportedly asked him how he had dared write that the cyber police were “bullying people?” “He started abusing my mother and sister and kept up the shouting,” Javeed wrote. He said Ashraf told him: “Ab mai tujhe dikhavu ga saalay (I shall now teach you a lesson).” Javeed said that from the police station, he called his editor Samar Harlankar who reluctantly agreed to change the headline, given his ordeal. But, Javeed said, he and Article-14 refused to accept Ashraf’s claim that the report was “fake and baseless” and there should be a retraction. Ashraf told this newspaper he had objected to the headline as well as the report’s claim that the cyber police were operating from the “notorious” Cargo Centre, headquarters of the counter-insurgency Special Operations Group. “This story, accompanied by a picture of that building and mentioning that a cyber police station has been established inside the notorious detention centre, was fake and misleading,” Ashraf said. The cyber police unit is located near the Cargo Centre. Before being upgraded into a full-fledged cyber police station last October, it had operated out of the Cargo Centre for years. In a statement, the cyber police said Javeed had regretted the “incorrect details and assured that the story will be tweaked accordingly”. “The allegation of excesses by police officials/ officer, published subsequently by Article-14 and other social media handle are misleading and factually incorrect, hence refuted,” it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Haze over Social Security Code Bill||A bill introduced last week that proposes social security measures for unorganised workers including pension, life and disability cover, and health and maternity benefits has left the issue of funding hazy, labour economists have said. They have argued that one of the four funding options the Social Security Code Bill suggests — a multiplicity that they believe reflects government indecision — is particularly problematic because it seeks contributions from the beneficiary. A two-year-old contributory pension scheme for unorganised workers already exists, the economists say, and has witnessed abysmal enrolment and significant payment defaults because informal workers find it difficult to pay premium regularly. The Social Security Code Bill is one of three draft labour reform laws that were introduced in the Lok Sabha on Saturday after incorporating some of the modifications suggested by a standing committee. It seeks to subsume nine existing laws including the Employees’ Provident Funds Act and the Payment of Gratuity Act. It mandates the Centre to formulate and notify welfare schemes for unorganised workers and says the states can adopt similar measures too. The bill stipulates the creation of a social security fund, the money coming (a) wholly from the Centre; (b) from the Centre and the states; (c) from the Centre, states and contributions from the beneficiaries or the employers; or (d) from any source including the Corporate Social Responsibility funds paid by companies. Shyam Sundar, professor of Human Resource Management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said the bill’s assurances about social security were unconvincing because there’s “no clarity on funding”. “The bill is disappointing as the government is unable to provide a roadmap on social security,” Sundar said. Referring to the option of seeking contributions from the workers, he highlighted the problems with the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maan-dhan, a contributory pension scheme the Centre had launched in 2018 for unorganised workers. The scheme allowed unorganised workers aged 18 to 40 to become members by paying monthly contributions between Rs 55 and Rs 200, depending on the age at which they were signing up. After turning 60, each beneficiary would be paid a monthly pension of Rs 3,000. On Monday, labour minister Santosh Gangwar revealed, in reply to a written question in the Rajya Sabha, that the scheme had enrolled 44.44 lakh members. Labour economist and former JNU professor Santosh Mehrotra said this was just over one per cent of India’s unorganised workers, who formed 93 per cent of the country’s workforce of 466 million. Mehrotra added that India was becoming an ageing nation and the government needed to ensure universal social security coverage. Sundar said the Shram Yogi scheme was failing to attract members because of its long gestation period and because unorganised workers feel unsure about paying regular contributions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
22-09-2020||India||Congress peeved at RJD over seat sharing||The Rashtriya Janata Dal is willing to spare maximum 63 seats for its Grand Alliance partner Congress. It is also trying to dump the seats it has never won on the Grand Old Party. The Congress is peeved over the RJD move and these issues will be among the major bones of contention as the two parties sit across the table for the first time in Delhi on Monday evening and Tuesday to negotiate seat-sharing for the forthcoming Bihar Assembly elections. Senior leaders from both the parties will participate in the negotiations. While RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav is expected to attend it, Rajya Sabha member Ahmad Patel will lead the Congress team. “The talks are in the final phase but the RJD is willing to spare just 63 seats for us. It is also trying to dump weak seats on our party. These are seats that it has either never won, or has failed to retain in the last few elections. We are a national party and this is unacceptable to us,” a senior Congress leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. These ‘weak’ seats include four seats in the state capital, Mokama, Danapur, Bagaha, Chanpatia, Belsand, Hayaghat, Kalyanpur, Muzaffarpur town, Sheohar, Gaya town, Purnea town, a couple of seats in Nalanda district and elsewhere. The BJP has successively won many of these seats. Of the total 243 seats in the Bihar Legislative Assembly, the Congress contested 41 in the 2015 state polls and won 27 as part of the then Grand Alliance with RJD and chief minister Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal United (JDU), which fought on 101 seats each and emerged victorious on 80 and 71 seats, respectively. The alliance went on to form the government. This time the JDU is not a part of the Grand Alliance, leaving 101 seats to be redistributed. But then, several other parties like the Rashtriya Lok Samta Party, Vikassheel Insan Party, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, Nationalist Congress Party, CPI, CPM and CPI-ML, want to contest under the alliance umbrella. Asked about the scenario Congress spokesperson and former MLA Harkhu Jha said: “There is progress in the seat-sharing negotiations. Some delay is happening, but that is due to the presence of many smaller parties and the attempts to adjust the seats among them. However, the deal will be announced soon.” Sources in the Congress said that the party has conducted internal assessment and prepared a list of 112 Assembly seats that it wants to contest. They also said that the party does not want less than 80 seats. The negotiations will be done on this basis. State Congress legislature party leader and Kahalgaon MLA Sadanand Singh asserted, “The high command will honour the sentiments of party workers and leaders who want to contest on more seats. This will boost the enthusiasm among our rank and file. I believe it will also focus on the need to make our party stronger in future.” Meanwhile, the RJD evaded questions on the basis on which seat sharing would happen, and whether the talks have hit a hurdle due to disagreement over the number of seats. “Seats are not important in the Grand Alliance. The focus is on how to win the elections and dislodge the NDA government in the state. There is no disagreement on seats. Winnability will be the foremost criteria for the distribution of Assembly constituencies,” RJD spokesperson Mritunjay Tiwary told The Telegraph. The seat sharing deal in the Grand Alliance is expected to be announced later this month.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-655
