23-09-2020||India||Focus on micro-containment to fight Covid: Modi to states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday asked states to press on with full strength in opening economic activities along with fighting the coronavirus pandemic and suggested that they should now focus on "micro-containment zones" to curb the disease. In a review meeting through video conference with chief ministers and representatives of seven states with a high burden of Covid-19 cases, Modi said having micro containment zones will help states in dealing with the spread of the infection and also allow normal activities to continue. The Prime Minister also questioned the efficacy of one or two-day local lockdowns imposed by certain states from time to time and asked them to reassess as to how effective they are in curbing the disease. "Is it that this is creating difficulties in the resumption of economic activities in your states? This is my request that all states consider it seriously," he said. Several states, including Bengal and Punjab, have from time to time imposed local lockdowns to contain the virus spread. He noted that only 60 districts out of more than 700 districts across the country, and that too in seven states, have a high number of cases. He suggested that the chief ministers draft a one-week programme to interact directly with officials in a few blocks of the recognised locations on a daily basis. The nationwide lockdown after the pandemic's outbreak benefitted us a lot, and the world has also lauded it, Modi said. "We should now focus only on micro-containment zones so that coronavirus spread is curbed and normal activities of life will also continue... We have to enhance our focus on effective testing, tracing, treatment, surveillance and clear messaging," he said. "We have to continue with the patience, empathy, dialogue and cooperation which the country has displayed during these corona times. While battling the infection, we have to press on with full strength on the economic front," Modi added. Chief ministers and other representatives, including health ministers of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Delhi and Punjab attended the meeting. Union Home Minister Amit Shah was also present. An official statement had earlier said that more than 63 per of the active cases in the country are concentrated in these seven states. These states also account for 65.5 per cent of the total confirmed cases and 77 per cent of the total deaths. Acknowledging the continuous rise in the Covid-19 cases, he noted that over 10 lakh tests are being conducted on a daily basis and the number of people recovering is also going up sharply. Noting that most of the Covid-19 patients are asymptomatic, Modi said an effective messaging is all the more important as rumours often get spread and the common man wonders if the testing is wrong. He also said that wearing a mask is important in stopping the virus spread. The country has been able to supply medicines across the world during such hard times, Modi added. The infrastructure developed to treat Covid-19 in the last few months has been very helpful, and it has to be strengthened further and the tracking-tracing network should be given better training, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
23-09-2020||India||Covid: Union minister Suresh Angadi dead||The minister of state for railways, Karnataka BJP MP Suresh Angadi, passed away on Wednesday, days after he tested positive for Covid-19. The 65-year-old passed away around 8pm at the AIIMS trauma centre which has been converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility, sources at the hospital said. A fourth-term MP from Belagavi, Angadi is the first Union minister to have died of coronavirus. At least six MLAs and three MPs have earlier succumbed to it. Former President Pranab Mukherjee, who died on August 31, was also diagnosed as Covid-19 positive. Angadi had on September 11 announced on Twitter that he had contracted the disease. The MP from Belagavi had requested all those who came in close contact with him over the past few days to monitor their health and get tested in case of any symptoms. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal said on the microblogging site: “Deeply anguished at the unfortunate demise of Suresh Angadi ji. He was like my brother. Words fall short to describe his commitment & dedication towards the people. My thoughts and prayers are with his family and friends in this hour of need. Om Shanti.” Former Prime Minister and JDS chief H.D. Deve Gowda expressed his sadness over the demise and tweeted that Angadi was like a younger brother. Rajya Sabha MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar also described Angadi’s death as a tragic, terrible, and sad news.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
23-09-2020||India||Rajya Sabha passes 15 bills in two days in Opposition's absence||The Rajya Sabha passed 15 bills in the last two sittings with opposition parties boycotting the proceedings to protest the suspension of eight members on Monday for their "unruly" behaviour in the House during the passage of two key farm bills. Seven of the bills were passed yesterday, eight today. Three of them were hugely contentious labour laws that have been opposed by the most labour unions, including one affiliated to the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh. Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Wednesday said it is "extremely unpalatable" when bills are passed amid a boycott of proceedings by some sections of the House, but not taking up legislative work in such a situation may legitimise their action as an "instrument of blocking legislation". He was speaking before adjourning the Upper House sine die, eight days ahead of schedule, due to the Covid-19 pandemic.  "Though it is not the first time that some members are suspended and bills are passed when some sections of the House boycott the proceedings, I find it extremely unpalatable. This kind of situation needs to be avoided by all means," Naidu said in his remarks on the conclusion of the 252nd session of Rajya Sabha. Expressing concern over the conduct of some of the members, he said it was "deeply painful" and all need to "collectively ponder" over these issues. Over the suspension on the eight members, Naidu said rules of the House do provide for such action when it becomes inevitable. "If legislative work is not taken up during the boycott by some sections of the House, it may legitimise such boycott as an effective instrument of blocking legislation," he said. Naidu said the House had to hold 18 sittings but it held only 10. "We have to conclude this session eight sittings ahead of the scheduled 18 sittings as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to challenge humankind across the globe even after nine months of its outbreak," he said. The Chairman also said that for the first time in the history of Upper House, a notice of motion for removal of the Deputy Chairman has been given, which was rejected by him. "The developments in the House surrounding this unprecedented move have been deeply painful for all those who hold the stature and the dignity of this august House dear to their hearts," he said Most of the opposition including the Congress, Left parties, the TMC, the Samajwadi Party and the NCP had decided to boycott House proceedings in protest against the suspension of the eight MPs Terming it an "unpleasant turn of events", Naidu appealed to members to ensure that "such unseemly behaviour is not repeated". "I am naturally more pained to see that happen as the chairman of this august House. It hurts me the most when the Chair is rendered helpless by the turn of events and has to perforce take action against the members as per the rules," said Naidu. Earlier in the day, the House passed key bills including three on labour reforms, two Appropriation Bills and the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment. Naidu said the 10-day session was productive and as many as 25 bills were passed and six were introduced. "The productivity of the House during this session has been 100.47 per cent. As against the scheduled available time of 38 hours and 30 minutes, the actual functional time of the House has been 38 hours and 41 minutes," said Naidu. Though the Upper house has lost three hours and 15 minutes due to disruptions, it sat for an extra three hours and 26 minutes. "The new normal of high productivity witnessed during the last three sessions has continued during this session as well," he said, adding "as a result, the overall productivity of the last 4 sessions comes to a praiseworthy 96.13 per cent. This high productivity for four consecutive sessions is the best during the last 5 years." In this 252nd session, the Upper House has spent 22 hours 03 minutes on discussions over the government's legislative proposals during these 10 sittings, which is a record 57 per cent of the total functional time of the House during this session. Besides, 1,567 unstarred questions were replied to in writing by the government "Members raised issues of urgent public importance through 92 Zero Hour and 66 Special Mentions on which a total time of four hours 15 minutes was spent, accounting for 10.99 per cent of the total functional time of the House," he said. Despite the pandemic, 198 members participated in the discussion on various Bills During the session, Rajya Sabha had done readjustment of the sitting patterns to maintain social distance. It functioned from six different locations including the chambers of both the Houses - Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha and four galleries of the upper house. "We are living in extraordinary times warranting several adjustments requiring us to live a new normal life," he said. The Monsoon session had started on September 14.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
23-09-2020||India||NCB summons Deepika, Shraddha and Sara Ali Khan in drugs case||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), which is probing an alleged Bollywood-drugs nexus, on Wednesday summoned actors Deepika Padukone, Shraddha Kapoor, Sara Ali Khan and Rakul Preet Singh, among others, for questioning, an official said.  Padukone has been summoned on Friday, the senior NCB official said here.  The NCB, which began the probe after a drugs angle came to light in connection with actor Sushant Singh Rajput's alleged suicide, has now widened its investigation and asked these A-list celebrities of the Mumbai film industry to "join the probe", he said.  Earlier, NCB sources had claimed that there was a "reference" to Rakul Preet Singh and Sara Ali Khan in the statement of Rhea Chakraborty, who has been arrested in the case.  Deepika has been called to record her statement on September 25, Sara Ali Khan and Shraddha Kapoor on September 26 while Rakul Preet Singh, Rajput's talent manager Shruti Modi and designer Simone Khambata have been asked to appear on Thursday, September 24, the official said.  Jaya Saha, a talent manager who was questioned in the case, provided some important information, he said.  Earlier, Padukone's manager Karishma Prakash was summoned to join the investigation, but she sought time due to ill health, he said, adding she was exempted from appearance till Friday.  Prakash's WhatsApp chats included conversations about drugs with one `D', NCB sources said, adding that the agency wanted to find out who this person was.  The NCB has arrested actor Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput's girlfriend, for alleged procurement and use of drugs.  On Wednesday, film producer Madhu Mantena arrived at the NCB guest house here to record his statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||SC asks Centre to clarify modalities of air ticket refund||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Centre to clarify by Friday the modalities of refund of air tickets to be made to the passengers and travel agents in view of cancellation of flights during the Covid-19 induced lockdown period. The top court asked the Centre to file a fresh affidavit by September 25, with regard to issues relating to modalities of ticket refunds on which Solicitor General Tushar Mehta conceded that the instant affidavit is poorly drafted. A bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan, R Subhash Reddy and M R Shah said that it is only concerned with refund and non-refund of money for tickets booked during the lockdown period. It was hearing a plea which has raised the issue of air tickets refund owing to cancellation of flights due to Covid-19 induced lockdown which had commenced from March 25. Senior advocate Sanjay Hegde, appearing for NGO Pravasi Legal Cell', said that if one books tickets in airlines like Air India, Indigo etc and fly out of India then the affidavit filed by Director General Civil Aviation (DGCA) is applicable. He said that the DGCA should also cover people for refund, who have booked flights on these carriers to come back to India like in the Gulf Countries and therefore the issue needs to be sorted. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for Ministry of Civil Aviation and DGCA, said that the government has taken a decision of refund keeping in mind the welfare of all and an appropriate solution has been worked out. Mehta said that a holistic view has been taken keeping in mind the interests of passengers and the airlines. The bench asked the Solicitor General what if prior to one day before the lockdown, a passenger has booked a flight ticket for travel during the period of lockdown, then what about his refund. Mehta replied that he would not get the refund immediately. The bench then asked Mehta what will happen to the refunds of a travel agent, who has already paid to the airlines for the tickets booked. Senior advocate Pinaki Misra, appearing for Air Vistara and AirAsia, said that usually travel agents deposit with airlines a corpus of Rupees one crores and its balance keeps coming down with the issuance of each ticket. He said that if the passenger has not yet paid for the ticket, then the corpus amount of travel agent will get reimbursed. Mehta said that under the prevailing circumstances this is the best solution which the government could arrive at keeping in mind the interest of all stake holders including the passengers and the Airlines. Misra said that DGCAs approach is one size glove fits all and the aviation regulator cannot say you must refund. "If passengers accept my offer voluntarily then how can I be compelled to pay a refund? I can't pay nine per cent interest on the refund amount," he said, adding that if this continues, then airlines may need a moratorium. Senior advocate C A Sundaram, appearing for Passengers Association, said that there is no question of entitlement of moratorium as this is the case of individual refunds. Senior advocate Arvind Dattar, appearing for some Airlines, said that it is a question of collapse of airlines which will close down otherwise and it is also a question of 30,000 to 40,000 employees working in these companies. Senior advocate Pallav Sisodia, appearing for travel agents federation, said that often the booking of tickets is only a part of the large bookings including hotels, food, etc and its part of a large trade channel. "If the money is not refunded to us then there will be numerous insolvencies. We will refund the amount to the passenger and if we don't refund then we can't work," he added. The top court gave another scenario and said that if a travel agent books a ticket for a passenger and if refund is granted to the passenger then what happens to the agent. It asked Mehta suppose a passenger has a refund voucher and he has not paid to an agent, then whether that voucher will only fetch a ticket from the same agent. Mehta said he will file a better affidavit with regard to the modalities of refund of tickets booked for flights which were cancelled as the instant affidavit is poorly drafted on this aspect. On September 9, the top court had asked the Centre to clarify whether it is willing to give complete refund of air tickets booked for travel during the Covid-19 lockdown. The DGCA, in its affidavit said that full refund shall be provided by airlines immediately for tickets booked during the Covid-19 lockdown for domestic or international travel within the lockdown period. It had said if airlines are not able to refund on account of financial distress, they shall provide a credit shell equal to the amount of fare collected and this shall be issued in the name of the passenger who has booked the ticket for domestic travel directly or through an agent including online platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Elders pass three key labour bills amid Opposition boycott||Parliament on Wednesday approved three key labour reform bills that will remove impediments for winding up of companies and allow firing of staff without government permission in firms with up to 300 workers. Amid boycott by opposition parties including Congress and Left over suspension of eight MPs, Rajya Sabha passed by voice vote the three remaining labour codes on industrial relations, social security and occupational safety. The three codes were passed by Lok Sabha on Tuesday and these will now be sent to the President for his assent. Replying to the debate on the three labour reforms bills, Labour Minister Santosh Gangwar said,"The purpose of labour reforms is to provide a transparent system to suit the changed business environment." The minister also told the House that as many as 16 states have already increased the threshold for closure, lay off and retrenchment in firms with up to 300 workers without government permission. He maintained that is not good for employment generation to keep the threshold low at 100 because it discourages employers to recruit more workers than this and they deliberately keep their workers' strength below it. The minister was of the view that the increase in threshold would result in job creation and encourage employers to hire. He said these bills would safeguard the interest of workers and provide universal social security to workers by expanding the ambit of Employees' Provident Fund Organisation and Employees' State Corporation of India. He also said that there would a social security fund to cover around 40 crore unorganised sector workers. Over 29 labour laws have been merged into four codes and one (Code on Wages Bill, 2019) of them has already been passed, according to the minister. The Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2020, will consolidate and amend the laws regulating the occupational safety, health and working conditions of persons employed in an establishment and related matters. The Industrial Relations Code, 2020, seeks to consolidate and amend laws relating to trade unions, conditions of employment in industrial establishments or undertaking, investigation and settlement of industrial disputes. The Code on Social Security, 2020, will amend and consolidate laws relating to social security with the goal to extend social security to all employees and workers either in the organised sector or the unorganised sector. The Code on Wages 2019 was passed by Parliament last year. The passage of the remaining three codes by Parliament completes government efforts to reform labour laws in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Mumbai struggles to stay afloat||||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Rain disrupts rail, road traffic in Mumbai; more showers on the cards||Mumbai received one of the highest showers in the last 24 hours of this monsoon season and more rainfall is likely in the city and suburbs on Wednesday, MeT officials said. Heavy showers overnight and early Wednesday morning caused waterlogging at many places in the metropolis, disrupting rail and road traffic. Rains across the island city and the western suburbs picked up late Tuesday evening. There were intense spells across Mumbai for a few hours overnight, an official said. "Mumbai received one of the highest rainfall in the last 24 hours," India Meteorological Department's (IMD) Mumbai centre Deputy Director General K S Hosalikar said. The city and suburbs are likely to receive heavy showers on Wednesday also, he added. The Santacruz observatory (in western suburbs) received 286.4 mm showers during the 24-hour period ending at 8.30 am on Wednesday, which is the fourth highest rainfall in the Maharashtra capital's history, another IMD official said. The Colaba observatory (in south Mumbai) recorded 147.8 mm rainfall during the same period. As per IMD Mumbai's record of Santacruz observatory since 1974, it reported 318.2 mm rainfall in 24 hours on September 23, 1981, 312.4 mm rainfall on September 23, 1993 and 303.7 mm rainfall on September 20, 2017. "Today's rainfall of 286.4 mm is the fourth highest between 1974 and 2020," the official said. According to the IMD, rainfall recorded below 15 mm is considered light, between 15 and 64.5 mm is moderate and above 64.5 mm is heavy. Several parts of Mumbai received more than 120 mm rainfall in the last 24 hours, the MeT department said. The Ram Mandir area received 298 mm rainfall, while Dahisar received 190 mm rainfall during the period. "Most of the rainfall in Mumbai was received after late Tuesday night," the official said. In neighbouring Navi Mumbai, Diwale area received 304 mm rain, Nerul-301.7 mm, CBD Belapur-279.8 mm, Sanpada-185.1 mm, Vashi-179.5 mm and Ghansoli-136.9 mm in last 24 hours. Besides, in neighbouring Thane city, Kopri area received 195.3 mm rain, Chirak Nagar-136.5 mm and Dhokali area got 127 mm during the same period. Since June 1 this year, the Santacruz observatory has so far recorded 3,571.1 mm downpour, while the Colaba observatory has recorded 3,147.3 mm rainfall during the period, the official said. The Bombay High Court on Wednesday suspended its hearings scheduled for the day, including all virtual hearings, in view of the heavy rainfall in the city and suburbs. The bail pleas filed by actress Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik Chakraborty, both arrested in a drugs case related to the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput, were to be heard on Wednesday by a single bench of Justice Sarang Kotwal through video-conferencing. Besides, a division bench led by Justice S J Kathawalla was scheduled to hear actress Kangana Ranaut's plea against the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation over the demolition of a part of her bungalow in Pali Hill area here. As per the communication issued by the high court registrar, these cases and other matters scheduled during the day will be taken up by the benches concerned on Thursday. Heavy showers overnight and early Wednesday morning caused water-logging at many places in Mumbai, disrupting rail and road traffic, officials said. Five teams of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) are on standby in view of heavy rains that have lashed Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts and caused water-logging in many areas, Maharashtra Relief and Rehabilitation Minister Vijay Wadettiwar said on Wednesday. "Since last night, Mumbai, Thane and Palghar districts have been witnessing very heavy rains, due to which there is flood-like situation in many places. Five teams of NDRF are on stand by to assist local administration," the minister said. He appealed to people to stay indoors in view of flooding in many areas in Mumbai and other places.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Mobile app for Vaishno Devi devotees ||Devotees of the Mata Vaishno Devi shrine in Trikuta hills of Jammu and Kashmir's Reasi district will soon have live 'darshan' of the cave shrine through its mobile app, officials said. The app, set to be launched on October 17, the first day of Navratri, would also have a feature to conduct live 'hawan', they said. "Although, the coronavirus outbreak briefly halted the large gathering at religious places, the board is devising new methods so that devotees unable to take nearly 12 km trek to the cave and can still have darshan and blessings while sitting at home," a senior official of the board said. He said that this would be in continuance to the formal launch of home delivery of Mata Vaishno Devi pooja prasad launched by Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha on Monday. Pertinently, devotees can book the pooja prasad through the board's website, which is then dispatched by the board to the devotees across the country through speed post for which the board has entered into an agreement with the postal department. This has been done on the directions of the Lt governor for optimum use of technological interventions to expand the reach. The Chief Executive Officer of the Board, Ramesh Kumar, said, currently, 'aarti' (daily ritual of worship) is being live-streamed on a religious TV channel. "However, the mobile app would provide an opportunity to the worshippers across the globe to have individual experience of godliness and bliss. Mobile App also provide flexibility so devotees will not miss the 'Amrit Vela' even if they are on the move," Kumar said, adding that the new app for live 'darshan' and 'hawan' will work on both 'Android' and 'iOS' operating systems. Since the inception of the Shrine Board in 1986, there has been a steadfast increase in the pilgrims visit (yatra) to the holy shrine, however, due to the Covid-19 pandemic, it witnessed a significant decline this year. The yatra was resumed on August 16 initially with a ceiling of 5,000 pilgrims per day with the safety procedures. Personal protective equipment kits have been provided to the Shrine Board employees and standard operating procedures have been put in place to keep the infection under check.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Quiet burial whiff on Ladakh status quo  ||India and China on Tuesday night issued statements that suggested New Delhi has either not pushed or has been unable to push for the restoration of status quo ante along the Line of Actual Control. A military veteran went so far as to say that “India seems to have accepted the new status quo and given up the restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020”. The statement issued by the Indian defence ministry around 9.45pm on Tuesday — almost 24 hours after 14 hours of military talks on Monday — said: “The two sides had candid and in-depth exchanges of views on stabilising the situation along the LAC in the India-China border areas. They agreed to earnestly implement the important consensus reached by the leaders of the two countries, strengthen communication on the ground, avoid misunderstandings and misjudgements, stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation.” An identical statement was issued by the Chinese embassy in New Delhi. The military talks on Monday were attended by an official of the Indian foreign ministry. The agreement to “stop sending more troops to the frontline, refrain from unilaterally changing the situation on the ground, and avoid taking any actions that may complicate the situation” appears to imply that India has settled on the alignment of border forces, and lines of control, as they exist now, rather than as they were aligned in April, when the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) of China began to push into areas India considered its own. The thrust of the ongoing effort appeared to be on managing the border situation and preventing it from escalating further, not ensuring that the Chinese withdraw from areas it had intruded upon since early May. That problems on the ground were yet to be resolved was apparent from the statements. “The two sides also agreed to hold the 7th round of military commander-level meeting as soon as possible, take practical measures to properly solve problems on the ground, and jointly safeguard peace and tranquillity in the border area,” the statements from the Indian defence ministry and the Chinese embassy added. On Monday, the sixth round of talks was held. In the months since April, the PLA has radically altered the unmarked LAC, pushing south and west along several friction points including the Galwan Valley, the Depsang plains and heights overlooking the Pangong Tso. According to some estimates, the PLA has now taken over close to 1,000sqkm in the barren but strategically critical plains and valleys of eastern Ladakh. The demand to restore status quo ante has been missing from recent negotiations India has had with the Chinese at both the military and the diplomatic levels. Publicly, the Indian government had made the restoration of status quo ante the prerequisite for bringing bilateral ties back on track. Through the day on Tuesday, before the statements were issued at night, several veterans had aired suspicion that India may have resorted to a give-and-take formula to wriggle out of the border dispute. After the identical statements, veteran Sushant Singh tweeted:  “To put it bluntly, the contention that talks between India and China are ‘deadlocked’ is not borne by today’s joint press statement. China has not conceded anything. India seems to have accepted the new status quo and given up the restoration of status quo ante as of April 2020.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||How to add hot tea to injury||After using actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death to divert attention from Bihar’s floods and the pandemic situation, the BJP has latched onto Rajya Sabha deputy chairman Harivansh to steer it through the gathering storm over the contentious farm bills ahead of Assembly elections in the state and to shield itself from the charge of bulldozing Parliament. Harivansh’s morning visit to Parliament House to offer tea and snacks to the eight MPs suspended from the Rajya Sabha for Sunday’s ruckus over the farm bills that he had declared passed by a contested voice vote, and his letter to the President saying he was so anguished by the MPs’ attacks on him that he had been unable to sleep were used by none other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hail the deputy chairman. The Prime Minister tweeted: “To personally serve tea to those who attacked and insulted him a few days ago as well as those sitting on dharna shows that Shri Harivansh Ji has been blessed with a humble mind and a big heart. It shows his greatness. I join the people of India in congratulating Harivansh Ji.” This was followed up later with another tweet in which he shared Harivansh’s letter to the President. In the letter, dated Tuesday, the deputy chairman dwelt on his Bihar background and announced his decision to observe a day’s fast. Around the same time that Modi tweeted the letter, it was referred to in the Rajya Sabha by leader of the House Thawar Chand Gehlot. Soon enough, several ministers and multiple BJP handles were sharing the letter on social media, leaving no one in doubt about the strategy that was being unfolded for that force multiplier — news television — to carry forward. “For centuries the great land of Bihar has been teaching us the values of democracy. In line with that wonderful ethos, MP from Bihar and the Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairperson Harivansh Ji’s inspiring and statesman like conduct this morning will make every democracy lover proud,” Modi tweeted. The Opposition is up in arms over the manner in which the two farm bills were steamrollered through the Rahya Sabha on Sunday, with Harivansh who was in the Chair not accepting its demands for a division (paper or electronic vote). Leader of the Opposition Ghulam Nabi Azad said in the Rajya Sabha on Tuesday the way the bills were rushed through the House was the last straw. Arguing that the Opposition has a duty towards the people, Azad announced a boycott of the rest of the session by the Congress unless the government ensures through legislation that private buyers of agriculture produce will pay the MSP (minimum support price) and the suspension of the eight MPs is revoked. Subsequently, other Opposition parties also followed suit. The MPs, who were at the forefront of the protests against the farm bills in the House on Sunday, were suspended on Monday and spent the night on dharna on the Parliament Complex lawns. By the time the rest of the Opposition along with the Telangana Rashtra Samithi — which usually votes with the government — boycotted the Rajya Sabha, the eight MPs had decided to call off their dharna at Parliament House, having completed the 24-hour cycle that saw several party leaders join them in solidarity. The BJP accused the Opposition of “humiliating” Harivansh and sought to portray this as an “insult” to Bihar, describing him as a “son” of the state. Nominated to the Rajya Sabha from Bihar, Harivansh is from Ballia district in Uttar Pradesh. He was chief editor of Prabhat Khabar, a newspaper based in Ranchi. Although the BJP and the government sought to make this a fight between the Opposition and Harivansh, the Opposition was careful not to oblige. “Why should we react? That’s what they want,” said an Opposition leader even as Trinamul’s Derek O’ Brien said the fight was against the “Fascist methodology to demolish Indian democracy” by the two people in charge — “M&S” — as he calls the Modi-Shah duopoly. Azad stressed the Opposition had nothing personal against Harivansh. But the Opposition also made it clear it was not taken in by his tea and snacks trip. “If the deputy chairman was sincere in his intent, why did he come to offer us tea in the morning with three cameras in tow?” asked the CPM’s Elamaram Kareem. “When he came to our protest site near the Gandhi statue on the Parliament House lawns, he told us that he was coming in an unofficial capacity and had, therefore, not used his official vehicle. We asked, ‘If so why are there three camerapersons with you?’” Kareem told The Telegraph. Another leader who did not want to be quoted said the alacrity with which the Prime Minister amplified the tea offer and the letter showed how desperate the BJP was to divert attention from the farm bills that have triggered widespread apprehension among farmers across the country. “Farmers are out on the streets; it is not about individuals,” RJD’s Manoj Jha told this newspaper; steering clear from the BJP’s efforts to deify Harivansh. Earlier, in the Rajya Sabha, chairman Venkaiah Naidu said Harivansh had adopted Mahatma Gandhi’s and J.P. Nayaran’s way by deciding to observe a day’s fast in the hope that it will inspire introspection among those MPs who “misbehaved” with him. Harivansh was not alone in announcing a fast. Veteran politician and former agriculture minister Sharad Pawar also announced a day’s fast in solidarity with the suspended MPs in their fight for farmers and democracy.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Lockdown is making us work in mysterious ways ||Nilachala Parida, 26, lost his job during the lockdown but not his will to surmount obstacles and lend a helping hand. Parida, a mountaineer who earns his living as a taxi driver, lost his job during the lockdown, but not one to be cowed down he took to selling vegetables. The mountaineer’s spirit in him not only helped him to pick up the pieces of his life but also to come to the aid of others to whom the lockdown had dealt a more cruel blow. Parida has started a free delivery service, carrying vegetables and groceries to the homes of elderly people and others restricted by the pandemic and the lockdown. He has also been paying from his pocket to sanitise the houses of Covid patients. In the process, the youth caught the eye of Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB), the IPL team led by Virat Kohli that is honouring “Covid heroes”. Gestures such as that of Parida would not hurt the IPL in case it feels squeamish about going out of its way to stage the jamboree in the middle of the pandemic. On Monday, RCB’s South African all-rounder Chris Morris sported a jersey that had Parida’s name embossed on it during the match against Sunrisers Hyderabad. Before the start of this IPL, RCB had announced they would honour the efforts and sacrifices of the Covid-19 warriors with “My Covid Heroes” inscribed on the back of their jerseys while training as well as during matches. Parida told The Telegraph on Tuesday: “I was so happy to see his (Morris’s) jersey embossed with my name. At least my work for the people has been recognised. I don’t want anything but recognition, which will motivate me to move ahead. It’s also a kind of recognition of the good work being done by thousands of Covid warriors who are helping people in their respective areas without any self-interest.” Sitting with his widowed mother Urmila in his ramshackle hut near Delta Square in Bhubaneswar, Parida said: “First I could not believe when I saw Morris wearing a jersey with my name on it. To be sure, I asked my friends to check. Morris not only wore the jersey, he also changed his Twitter handle to my name. I was overwhelmed. No money can buy this happiness.” Morris, a pacer who is also known for his lusty blows with the willow down the order, tweeted on Monday, along with a picture of him wearing a jersey with Parida’s name embossed on it: “Nilachala Parida set up a vegetable shack during lockdown and offered free delivery to senior citizens. Saluting Nilachala’s spirit, I’ll be wearing a jersey dedicated to him and all such challengers!” Morris did not play Monday’s match and Parida would have seen him during pre-match. Parida said he lost his job during the lockdown. “Suddenly, the Janata Curfew was announced in March. I became jobless like thousands of others. The car owner for whom I worked asked me not to come. I was depressed for three-four days. Then I decided to fight back. I have learnt this as a mountaineer,” he said. Parida has scaled more than eight peaks in India and attended various national adventure camps. He had been selected to climb Mount Elbrus in Russia in August. However, the mission had to be postponed due to the pandemic. Parida said he could not sit idle, seeing the sufferings of people during the lockdown. “Me and my friends from my adventure club Go India Adventure plunged ourselves into social service. With the help of my volunteers, I am sanitising homes of Covid patients. I fund the service with the profit I make from selling vegetables,” he said. “I have also started a free delivery service. My volunteers and I deliver vegetables and groceries to people’s doorsteps,” Parida added. On how he was spotted by RCB, Parida said: “When I started selling vegetables by the roadside it caught the attention of people. Some people posted about my work (to help people) on social media. On August 6, I got a call from RCB business head Simran Duggal who said they were impressed with my work and wanted to honour me.” “Duggal asked me about my background and the details of my work and achievements. The RCB management called me eight to nine times to check various facts. Fifteen days back, they sent two photographers (from Odisha) to click my pictures and those of my house and work place,” Parida said. His mother, Urmila, said: “He is my youngest son. Let him live happily. May Lord Jagannath bless him.” Parida’s elder brother Seemachal supports him in his social work. “My ultimate ambition is to see him climb Mount Everest,” Seemachal said. Parida’s work has also been recognised by Himachal Pradesh’s APG Shimla University that has selected him for admission to a law course on a scholarship.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||Never seen Chair behave like this: NCP chief Sharad Pawar ||NCP chief Sharad Pawar on Tuesday said that never in his 50 years in legislative politics had he seen a presiding officer behave the way Rajya Sabha deputy Chairman Harivansh had during the passage of the farm bills and expressed concern over the Chair “not allowing” Opposition MPs to put forth their views. Talking to reporters, the former Union agriculture minister also objected to the manner in which the farm bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha on Sunday amid Opposition protests. The Rajya Sabha member said he was observing a fast in Mumbai on Tuesday in support of the eight MPs who had been suspended from the Upper House. “Members like me had expected that the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman or those in the Chair would look at the issue seriously and give the members an opportunity to express their views. But it did not happen,” the veteran leader said. Opposition members had conveyed to Harivansh that he had not gone by the rules when the bills came up for discussion in the Rajya Sabha, Pawar said. “It was expected from the Deputy Chairman that he would at least listen to the rules the members were referring to. But it did not happen and immediately voting was held, that too by voice.… Hence, the members reacted sharply,” he added. The NCP leader pointed out that Harivansh had been projected as a leader who followed the ideology of Karpoori Thakur, the late Bihar chief minister who was considered an expert on parliamentary democracy and rights. But Harivansh had ignored all these ideologies, resulting in the suspension of Rajya Sabha members and the snatching of their rights, Pawar said.  Pawar has been served a notice by the income tax department in connection with the poll affidavits he had submitted to the Election Commission. Pawar told reporters that the income tax department had sought his “clarification and explanation”. “I got the notice yesterday.... We are happy that they (the Centre) love us from among all the members.… The notice was served by the income tax department after the Election Commission asked (it) to.… We will reply to the notice,” he said. Pawar was responding to a query on reports that his daughter and Lok Sabha member Supriya Sule, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and environment minister Aaditya Thackeray had received similar notices from the income tax department. Pawar also made light of reports on the possibility of the imposition of President’s rule in Maharashtra. “Is there any reason for (imposing President’s rule)? Is President’s rule some joke?” he asked, adding that the ruling Sena-NCP-Congress Maha Vikas Aghadi combine enjoys a clear majority in the Maharashtra Assembly. Pawar also criticised the central government for banning the export of onions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-652
23-09-2020||India||SC asks CBSE, UGC to ensure admissions||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the University Grants Commission and the Central Board of Secondary Education to take steps for facilitating admission of over 2 lakh compartmental students across the country into various universities or colleges after they pass the supplementary exams, citing “exceptional” circumstances because of the pandemic. The supplementary exams started on Tuesday. The CBSE told the apex court that it would take at least three to four weeks to declare the results while the UGC said the admission process would start by October end. “Don’t release the academic calendar till Thursday. Let the CBSE inform us and then you both coordinate. Two lakh students is not a small number and we have to work out a solution in this exceptional year. You need to work in tandem with the CBSE,” a bench headed by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar told additional solicitor general Rupinder Singh Sodhi appearing for the Centre. The bench also comprising Justice Sanjiv Khanna was dealing with a petition filed by some aggrieved students, seeking extension of college admissions deadline because of the delayed compartmental exams and time to be taken for results. According to the students, the exams should have been ideally cancelled on account of the pandemic as was done in the case of regular students by the CBSE. But since the board had decided to proceed with the compartmental students, the admission deadline in colleges should be extended to give them an opportunity, senior advocate Vivek Tankha appearing for the petitioners told the court. “If students don’t get admissions then what is the use of exams?” he asked, while pointing out that 2 lakh students are appearing for the exams. In response to a query from the bench, advocate Apoorv Kurup appearing for the UGC said the cut-off date for the admission process is by end of October. “This is a peculiar situation and can you make some room for these students,” Justice Khanwilkar said while asking the CBSE to declare results of the compartmental exams before the cut-off date so that successful students can get admission. Advocate Rupesh Kumar appearing for the CBSE told the court that papers need to be corrected at 16 regional centres and the board would require three to four weeks for completing the evaluation. “This is an exceptional year and you have to make some room. The academic career of two lakh students cannot be hampered…. If the CBSE declares results by end of October, then you can wrap up admissions by first week of November,” Justice Khanwilkar told the UGC counsel. The court has adjourned the matter till Thursday by which the CBSE and the UGC are to take a joint decision on declaration of results and admissions.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Modi has lit farm fire: Congress||The Congress on Tuesday fiercely contested Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s assertion that the farm bills had nothing to do with the mandi system and the minimum support price, arguing that there was a definite plan to undermine public procurement and promote private players who are not legally bound to pay the MSP. The Congress MP from Fatehgarh Sahib in Punjab, Amar Singh, who had been chairman of the Food Corporation of India and knows agriculture trade in and out, said: “Mark my words, public procurement will be reduced drastically and the public distribution system will be weakened. They are implementing the recommendations of the Shanta Kumar Committee and the World Trade Organisation. Why don’t they bring in a legal provision for MSP and make a commitment that public procurement will not be reduced? There will be nothing left of the mandi system over the next five years.” The Modi government had set up a six-member committee headed by BJP veteran Shanta Kumar in August 2014. The committee recommended in 2015 the encouragement of private players in agriculture trade, including procurement and storage, procurement by the FCI only in states where mandi systems are weak or non-existent, deregulation of the fertiliser sector and reduction in the number of beneficiaries under the Food Security Act. Questioning the credibility of the Prime Minister’s assurances, another Congress MP from Punjab, Jasbir Singh Gill from Khadoor Sahib, said: “The Prime Minister said during demonetisation, ‘Give me 50 days, everything will be all right.’ He said the corona battle would be won in 21 days. Now the agriculture minister says these reforms will change the face of agriculture in two years. What kind of change, the same as we saw during demonetisation and corona? Modi has lit a fire that will damage agriculture. I appeal to every farmer all over the country to boycott the MPs who support these bills.” Amritsar MP Gurjeet Singh Aujla said: “The question is — how will the government force the private companies to pay MSP? A plan to introduce private players in a big way is already afoot. You can check in Punjab: silos and warehouses of the Adani Group have already been built.” Adani Agri Logistics is the leading player in the silo storage of grains with significant presence in Punjab, Haryana, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala explained how the government was “misleading” the farmers on MSP. He said the MSP for wheat announced on Monday was a rise of merely 2.6 per cent over last year’s figure but the government was claiming that they were giving input cost plus 50 per cent profit on most crops. “The report of the CACP (Commission for Agriculture Costs and Prices) exposes the government’s lie. The report shows that the government has taken the input cost of wheat in 2020-21 and 2021-22 as same — Rs 960 per quintal. As if the costs of land, diesel, fertiliser and labour have not increased in one year! The MSP at actual input cost plus 50 per cent profit should be Rs 2,200, but it is only Rs 1,975. The same is the case with barley and chana. The MSP is lesser than the input cost in many states,” Surjewala said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Opposition away, 7 bills rushed through Rajya Sabha in 3 hours ||The Rajya Sabha on Tuesday passed or returned as many as seven bills in three hours with most Opposition parties boycotting the business. The Upper House approved the Indian Institute of Information Technology (IIIT) Laws (Amendment) Bill, Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, Banking Regulation (Amendment) Bill, Companies (Amendment) Bill, National Forensic Sciences University Bill, Rashtriya Raksha University Bill and the Taxation and Other Laws (Relaxation and Amendment of Certain Provisions) Bill. Some of the bills had already  been passed by the Lok Sabha. Opposition parties like the Congress, Trinamul Congress, DMK, RJD, CPM, Shiv Sena, CPI and the Aam Aadmi Party were absent in the House in protest against the suspension of eight MPs. Each bill was discussed for less than 30 minutes. Apart from the BJP and its allies, leaders of a few parties that are seen to be friendly to the NDA government —  such as the Biju Janata Dal, YSR Congress and the Telugu Desam Party — were present. Since most Opposition members were absent, the number of speakers for every bill was reduced. Nobody demanded any division of votes, an instrument sometimes exercised by Opposition parties while bills are passed by voice votes. On each bill, each speaker was allowed two minutes to speak. The IIIT bill refers to award of Institution of National Importance (INI) status to five IIITs. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill aims to remove cereals, pulses, oil seeds, edible oil, onion and potato from list of essential items. The government had passed an ordinance in June. Minister of state for home Kishan Reddy moved the National Forensic Sciences University Bill and the Rashtriya Raksha University Bill. The Forensic University Bill seeks to upgrade the Gujarat Forensic University to an INI, a status that will enable greater funding for research. The Rashtriya Raksha University in Gujarat will also enjoy the INI status and focus on defence studies. The National Investigation Agency on Tuesday took over the investigation in two cases pertaining to violence in Bangalore on August 11 night and named Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) leader Muzamil Pasha for “instigating the mob” over an alleged derogatory social media post by the relative of a Congress MLA. Three persons were killed after police opened fire to quell a mob on rampage in DJ Halli and adjoining areas.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||BJP leader suicide linked to poverty||A village level BJP leader allegedly committed suicide in Etawah district in Uttar Pradesh because he didn’t get a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana though police claimed he took the extreme step because of a family dispute. Pramod Kumar Yadav alias Bhura, 35, Saifai block secretary of the BJP, consumed poison on Monday. He was rushed to the Uttar Pradesh University of Medical Sciences, Saifai, where he died during treatment. BJP’s Saifai district president Ajay Pratap Singh Dhakre told reporters that Bhura was trying to get a house under the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana — Gramin for the last two years. “He was disillusioned because he was unemployed and didn’t have a house of his own. He was trying for the last two years to get a house under the PM Awas Yojana,” Dhakre said. Bhura leaves behind his wife and two children, who live in a rented house in Nagla Safi area of Saifai, 230km west of Lucknow. Chandra Sen Yadav, station house officer of Saifai, claimed that Bhura committed suicide because of a family dispute. “There was some dispute in his family and so he committed suicide. His body was handed to his family members after post-mortem. An inquiry is going on,” said the police officer. Saroj Devi, wife of the deceased, said, “He was in the BJP for the last four years. Two years ago, he had applied for a house under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana but his application was rejected on Saturday. We were in a financial crisis because he was unemployed.” Previously known as Indira Awas Yojana, a social welfare programme for the poor, its name was changed in 2015 to Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana — Gramin. A similar scheme was launched for the urban poor in the same year. An officer of the rural development department in Etawah said on the condition of anonymity that Bhura didn’t get a house under the scheme because for the 30,000 applicants, there were only 3,000 houses ready. “We are in the process of allotting houses to the beneficiaries. Maybe he would have got a house at a later stage,” said the officer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Covid cases dip but don’t let your guard down||India’s count of coronavirus disease patients under medical supervision fell below 1 million for the first time on Tuesday after crossing that mark a week ago, but experts cautioned the epidemic remains huge and primed for further spread. The number of Covid-19 patients fell by more than 27,000 over the previous 24 hours to reach 975,861 on Tuesday from 1,003,299 on Monday after three successive days with daily recoveries exceeding the daily new cases. The numbers of Covid-19 patients declared recovered every day has exceeded the numbers of daily new cases detected for the past four days, a top official in the Union health ministry said. “We have not seen this kind of successive increase in daily recoveries over daily new cases since May,” Rajesh Bhushan, the Union health secretary said. Each day, if the number of patients recovered is higher than new cases, the load of active patients reduces. The number of new cases has fallen over the past four days — 93,337 cases from about 881,000 samples tested on September 18, 92,605 cases from 1.2 million tests on September 19, 86,961 cases from 731,534 tests on September 20, and 75,083 cases from 933,000 tests on September 21. New cases detected hinges on the numbers of samples tested. “It cannot be said that testing has come down, therefore these figures are showing something that is not as per reality,” Bhushan said, seeking to douse concerns that the observed fall in new cases might be the outcome of fall in tests. However, public health specialists say any abrupt drop in new cases would be worrying, particularly because the epidemic still appears to be in its growth phase and the vast majority of the population across the country remains susceptible. “Any sudden drop would need careful review of the number of diagnostic tests done to make sure that everyone who needs a test has access to a test,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. The health ministry has been urging states to expand testing to help diagnose patients early. The cumulative number of samples tested in India has increased from 10 million by July 7 to 30 million by August 3 to over 60 million by September 17. Daily testing data from the Indian Council of Medical Research and the National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, shows that the total number of tests done over the past week had fallen to around 7.01 million tests from 7.66 million during the previous week — a fall of around 8.4 per cent. Infectious disease specialists point out that a four-day trend of a fall in the number of patients is insufficient to draw any inferences about the epidemic that they expect to last for several months. “Even after the epidemic has reached its peak level, it will last for months afterward,” T. Jacob John, a senior infectious disease epidemiologist and formerly at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, had told The Telegraph earlier this year. Health officials on Tuesday iterated the need for members of the public to continue to adopt personal precautionary measures such as the use of masks, physical distancing and hand and respiratory hygiene. “Our numbers are large — the larger numbers mean that more people could spread the infection,” said Vinod Paul, a senior physician and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank and chair of the national task force on Covid-19. “We need everyone to wear masks — we need 100 per cent compliance,” Paul said. “We all need to take such precautions now more than even earlier.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Sikkim CM house becomes corona unit||The Sikkim government has taken flak for converting Mintokgang, the official residence of the chief minister, into a corona care centre to treat chief minister P.S. Tamang (Golay)’s wife and some of her family members, all of whom tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday. After Krishna Kumari Rai, the chief minister’s wife, and some family members were detected with the pathogen, the government moved all of them to Mintokgang and the state health department set up a six-member team of doctors and nurses to monitor their health. Mintokgang had been lying unused since former chief minister Pawan Chamling vacated it following his defeat in the last Assembly polls in April 2019. His successor Golay, however, refused to shift to the chief minister’s official residence, which he had repeatedly promised to convert into a cancer hospital on coming to power. M.K. Subba, the SDF spokesman, said Golay had made a populist promise to convert Mintokgang into a cancer hospital for the sole purpose of winning an election and it was but expected that he wouldn’t be able to deliver on it. “He set up a technical committee (to carry out a feasibility study on cancer hospital), which was nothing but a hogwash.” The chief minister had also said it had been decided not to covert Mintokgang into cancer hospital because of the people living in its vicinity who feared the disease. ‘Covid is more contagious than cancer. Don’t the people know it?’ asked Subba. “This is absurd. How can you convert Mintokgang into a Covid care centre? The public is highly disillusioned and very shocked to see this,” he added. The SDF spokesman said by virtue of being the chief minister’s wife, Krishna Kumari Rai was entitled to better health facility anywhere else, but Mintokgang. Passang Sherpa, the coordinator of IAM371F campaign, said meting out VIP treatment to the family members of the chief minister was most unfortunate, especially when hospitals were already in shortage of healthcare workers. “The poll promise of the SKM was to convert Mintokgang into a cancer hospital but, unfortunately, it has been turned into a Covid care centre for the family of the chief minister. It is a blatant misuse of power and encouragement of VIP culture in Sikkim, which the SKM had promised to end,” he said. Jacob Khaling, the political secretary to the chief minister and SKM spokesman, neither took calls nor responded to WhatsApp message.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Have Rs 15 lakh? Hop onto bus from Delhi to London||Hippies whose trail was disrupted by the turmoil in Iran in the late 1970s can take the bus back next summer if they have saved up for the last four decades. A travel company in Gurgaon has announced a Delhi-to-London-and-back bus service from next May, by when it hopes the pandemic-induced international travel curbs will have been lifted. Buses on the Hippie Trail — from London and other European cities to India and Bangladesh through Turkey, Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan — had become popular among low-budget travellers from 1957 onwards. After the Iranian revolution in 1979, followed by civil war in Afghanistan that year, the service stopped. Delhi’s Connaught Circus used to be one of the stops for these brightly painted buses with charming names like Waltzing Matilda and Swagman. Most of the trips ended in Calcutta or Panjim. The tickets were priced between £85 and £145. Adjusted for inflation, they would be worth more than Rs 1 lakh today. Since those days, air travel has become more affordable and the global political geography has changed, effectively ending transcontinental passenger road transport in this part of the world. The demand for such unhurried global travel, with a lot of wayside social interaction thrown in, too seemed to have vanished. The hippie counterculture of the 1960s had morphed into the New Age of the 1970s, and by the 1980s the youth of the developed world had mostly returned to the materialist mainstream. But on Independence Day this year, a travel firm that has been organising transcontinental car and bike adventure tours for almost a decade announced the restart of the bus route from next May. It will bypass the western route through Pakistan, going instead through Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, China, Central Asia, Russia and Eastern Europe — covering 20,000km and 18 countries. At Rs 15 lakh a ticket for the 70-day ride, with night halts in premier hotels along the way that even offer Indian food, the trip is targeted at travellers wealthier than the hippies were. Bookings for the 20 spots on the bus are expected to open on bustolondon.in in October. The Delhi-London distance along the old route via Turkey was about 8,500km but many of the hippie buses took circuitous routes that took between 20 and 50 days. Tushar Agarwal, co-founder and director of Adventures Overland — which has announced the new service — said the route and the nitty-gritty had been worked out on his own road journeys, starting from 2010 when he drove from London to Delhi in a Jeep Cherokee. “I worked for seven years in London as a software engineer. When I decided to drive back, I contacted the embassies of countries along the way, including the Pakistan High Commission, who told me it would not be possible for a person with an Indian passport to drive through the country,” he told The Telegraph. “I came through Tibet from Russia and drove up to Kailash Mansarovar before entering Nepal on the way to India.” In 2012, Agarwal was part of the Asean-India car rally from Yogyakarta in Indonesia to Delhi. “I found Myanmar to be a beautiful and welcoming place, where people are nice and open.” Following this, he teamed up with Sanjay Madan — another travel enthusiast — to start Adventures Overland. The duo went on the Great Indian World Trip by road in 2013-14, passing through 50 countries and covering 90,000km. The trip broke s everal Guinness and Limca records and was featured in a documentary series and a book. Over the past three years, Adventures Overland has led car and bike convoys through the 18-country route from Delhi to London. “Since 2018, we’ve been getting a lot of enquiries from people who want to go on the journey but don’t want to drive. We tried to accommodate them in one of the cars but these enquiries kept increasing,” Agarwal said. “Many want it for their parents and they need some luxuries and professionals who can take care of all their needs. We thought, why not start a bus journey?” Their initial plan was to announce this service on the Platinum Jubilee of India’s independence, in 2022, but it was advanced by a year after the lockdown period witnessed a spurt in enquiries. “As the travel industry is the most affected sector in the lockdown, we also started offering deals on our other packages. Our next Road to London (car trip) is sold out,” Agarwal said. The car trip was to happen this year but has been postponed to next April because of the travel curbs. The bus service “will involve 25 other companies in the countries it will touch, including guides, hotels — four or five star, or the best available in the place — and so on”, Agarwal said. The trip will have four segments and the travellers can choose any one or more, but those who can stay for the whole trip will get preference. All the paperwork for the visas will be done by the company. A bus that will have a pantry car is being shortlisted. Loo halts will be at pre-decided restaurants on the way — where even Jain food is promised. “We’re going to those countries where people rarely go. In our previous (car and bike) trips, people found western China the most beautiful,” Agarwal said. “We will be going through a part of the Silk Route through Tashkent, Samarkhand and Bukhara. We will see the western part of the Great Wall in Xinjiang, the Gobi desert, the Pamir Glacier in Kyrgyzstan and wild horses in Kazakhstan.” Agarwal added: “In places like Myanmar’s Bagan or Moscow that are full of sites for tourists to see, we shall halt for a day or two and organise sightseeing tours and shopping. In Europe, our focus is on the east of the continent.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||SC gives week to Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker to speak||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Madhya Pradesh Assembly Speaker to inform it by next week when he would decide the disqualification petitions against 22 Congress MLAs who joined the BJP and brought down the Kamal Nath government. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, while hearing a plea filed by Congress MLA Vinay Saxena, said the “Speaker has to only make a statement as to when these applications will be decided”. At the outset, senior advocate Vivek Tankha, appearing for Saxena, said that the disqualification petitions were pending with Speaker Rameshwar Sharma since March 12. Tankha said the Speaker had to pass an order on the disqualification petitions, otherwise some of the defectors would continue to be ministers in the state government. “We want that the Speaker should decide these petitions within a week,” Tankha said. The bench noted that a letter for adjournment of the hearing of the matter had been circulated among the parties. The counsel appearing for the Vidhan Sabha secretariat said they had been served the copy of the petition only on Monday evening and that they would need three weeks to respond. “We understand the request for time but you only have to make a statement when it will be decided,” the court said. The counsel replied that he was appearing for the Vidhan Sabha secretariat, not the Speaker. The bench observed: “We don’t see any practical difference between the Vidhan Sabha and the Speaker.” The counsel for the Vidhan Sabha then sought two weeks’ time to respond. The court asked the lawyers who among them was appearing for the Speaker. A lawyer replied that he was to appear for the Speaker but had been discharged on Monday. The bench then posted the matter for next week and said the Speaker should make a statement on deciding the disqualification applications. On August 17, the top court had sought the response of the Speaker’s office on Saxena’s plea contending that the Congress MLAs who had resigned to join the BJP could not be appointed as ministers in the Shivraj Singh Chouhan government during the pendency of their disqualification proceedings. The plea had said that as per the apex court verdict in a case relating to Manipur, the disqualification proceedings had to be decided within three months by the Speaker. It had said that during the pendency of these disqualification applications, 12 of the 22 Congress MLAs in Madhya Pradesh had been appointed as ministers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Girls tackle child marriage on football pitch in Rajasthan||When India began lifting its coronavirus lockdown, Meera, a child bride from Rajasthan, was focused on just one thing: when she could start playing football again. In Rajasthan, one of the regions where early marriage persists despite being outlawed more than a decade ago, a girls’ soccer initiative is tackling gender inequality, and giving child brides the confidence to fight for their rights. “The day I was married, I was supposed to go to my first football camp. I protested, but my father didn’t listen to me,” the soccer-crazy 15-year-old told Reuters over phone. “I’m more assertive now. I’m no longer shy. I started playing again about a month ago.… The question of me leaving does not arise,” said Meera, who was married three years ago in a mass wedding along with her two sisters. In keeping with the usual practice for girls married early in Rajasthan, most child brides do not have their “gauna” — the ritual sending off to live with their husband and in-laws — until they turn 18, the legal marriage age in India. But as the coronavirus pandemic closed schools and deepened rural hardship in one of the world’s worst-hit countries, Meera feared the gauna might come early for girls in her village. Unicef data from 2018 found that about 27 per cent of girls in India get married before they turn 18, down from 47 per cent a decade earlier, but advocates have warned that the Covid-19 crisis could lead to a spike in child marriage and put paid to recent progress. Of 223 million women and girls in India who were married off as children, almost half were wed before turning 15, according to the Unicef. Meera and her teammates got their first taste of the Beautiful Game thanks to a programme launched four years ago by the non-profit Mahila Jan Adhikar Samiti (MJAS), which aimed to fight child marriage and help girls achieve their dreams. It focuses on four villages in the Ajmer district of Rajasthan where early marriage is common. When Indira Pancholi, founder of MJAS and joint head of the Girls Not Brides Rajasthan Alliance, got funding for a sport-based initiative, she went out to ask girls which was their favourite game, only to find most had never played anything. But in the end, they opted for soccer. “We didn’t know why they chose football, but realised from their conversations that they wanted to run in an open ground,” Pancholi said. More than a quarter of the 170 girls who belong to Meera’s team were also married as children or engaged to be married. When the coronavirus lockdown brought India to a virtual standstill in March, Sudhir Joseph, joint secretary at the Rajasthan Football Association, which coaches the girls, said he worried that many of them would give up. “Football took them out of their homes... they have seen the world outside their villages,” he said. When Rashi, 17, returned from her first football camp wearing shorts and a t-shirt and not the wide skirt, blouse and long scarf that she had set off in, her parents reacted angrily. Little by little, parents and neighbours began to accept the football-playing girls as they brought trophies home from local tournaments or matches in big cities. Pancholi said football had turned out to be a “great strategy”, highlighting the success of convincing the girls’ families to let them take part in week-long camps. “I want them to have the courage to speak up and not get trapped in marriage,” she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||Left-RJD talks break down||The alliance talks between the Left parties and the Rashtriya Janata Dal have fallen apart over the disagreement on the number of seats to be contested and the CPI leader Kanhaiya Kumar. The communist parties are now mulling either to contest the polls together or go solo if the situation is not salvaged quickly. Sources said the RJD is willing to spare less than 15 seats for the six Left parties in the state, including the major ones like the CPI, the CPI-ML, the CPM, and the minor ones — All India Forward Bloc (AIFB), Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP), and the Socialist Unity Centre of India (SUCI). The Assembly has 243 seats. The Left parties had come forward in August to join forces with the RJD-led Grand Alliance to counter the ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in the state polls. Since then they had been separately negotiating with the RJD. Apart from the RJD, the Grand Alliance includes the Congress and several smaller parties. “As the negotiations progressed, two things became clear. The RJD has a problem with Kanhaiya Kumar, and it was willing to spare just five seats for us to contest. This is neither acceptable nor respectable. Chances of an alliance are now slim,” a senior CPI leader told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. The matter came to a standstill on Sunday when a CPI delegation negotiating seat sharing with the RJD walked out from the meeting. Though the CPI currently has no representative in the Assembly, it used to be the second largest party in the 1980s and early 1990s. It still has influence across all the 38 districts in Bihar. CPI national council member and former JNU Students’ Union member Kanhaiya Kumar is popular in the chiefly agrarian state. Though he lost in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections from Begusarai constituency, his Jana-Gana-Mana Yatra against the Citizenship Amendment Act, National Population Register (NPR) and National Register of Citizens (NRC) across Bihar in January-February this year attracted a large number of people from different sections of the society. The RJD sees Kanhaiya as a contender to its leader and party national president Lalu Prasad’s son Tejashwi Prasad Yadav as the next generation leader. “Any seat-sharing deal should be respectable,” said CPI state secretary Ram Naresh Pandey. “We had allied with Lalu Prasad in the 1995 state polls, contested on 55 seats and won 26. When Lalu had come to power in 1990, his government was in minority. At that time the CPI with its 23 MLAs gave him unconditional support. We are just hoping that all secular forces contest the elections together this time to defeat the BJP and the NDA,” Pandey added. CPI-ML, which has currently three MLAs and is another broad-based Left party in several parts of the state, is facing a similar predicament. It submitted a list of 53 constituencies to the RJD for negotiations, but the latter is willing to allot it just six to seven seats. So far, three meetings between both the parties have been unfruitful. “We have been contesting virtually independently till now, but took the initiative to go with the Grand Alliance to defeat the communal, anti-democracy forces and the NDA. There are several seats in different parts of Bihar that are identified with our struggle for the rights of the people and against feudalism. Our base of workers and supporters would become demoralised if we accept the RJD’s terms,” CPI-ML state secretary Kunal told this newspaper. Kunal asserted that with polls reaching closer it was high time for the RJD to decide whether it wanted “to defeat the NDA or to downsize us”. CPM state secretary Awadhesh Kumar also held the view that the number of seats allotted to the Left parties should be respectable. Meanwhile, the Left parties have started mulling the option to contest the polls together or to go solo. All six of them had contested the 2015 Assembly elections in a bid to provide a third option to voters away from the Grand Alliance and the NDA. They could muster only around 3.5 per cent votes in the state, with only the CPI-ML managing to win three seats.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-653
23-09-2020||India||EC to decide on Bihar visit soon||The Election Commission on Tuesday clarified that the schedule of the visit of the three election commissioners to Bihar will be announced in the next couple of days. This will precede the declaration of poll dates. The Bihar polls will be a test case for the commission as the first full-fledged election to be conducted under the new norms put in place after the Covid-19 pandemic. This includes increasing the number of polling stations and counting centres, regulating rallies to ensure social distancing and sanitation, and offering the postal ballot to more voters than ever before. In a webinar on Monday on conducting polls during the pandemic which several election bodies from other countries attended, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said that Covid has compelled the commission to revisit its existing norms, and the number of polling stations have increased from 65,000 to 1 lakh in Bihar with 7.29 crore voters. A press release from the EC on Monday said, “CEC mentioned that the Commission would take a decision within the next two to three days, on visiting Bihar.” After reports that poll dates were going to be announced soon, the EC clarified on Tuesday: “Please note that Commission’s schedule of visit to State of Bihar has no correlation with announcement of dates of Bihar Elections.” An EC official told this paper that the dates of Arora’s visit have still not been finalised. The EC is considering a request of the BJP to increase the spending cap from the current Rs 28 lakh per candidate, to account for the higher number of rallies that would have to be conducted to reach voters. In July, the state’s Opposition parties had asked the EC to reconsider conducting polls during the pandemic. The release said, “Inaugurating the Webinar, Hon’ble Chief Election Commissioner of India and Chairperson, Shri Sunil Arora spoke of the ‘ predicament’ faced by Election Management Bodies across the world — whether and how to hold scheduled elections in a state of public health emergency. He said the contextual framework of every country was different, the extent and trajectory of the disease varied and so did the capacity of each country to respond to the novel coronavirus and its catastrophic impact. He mentioned countries such as South Korea, Australia, Malawi, Taiwan, Mongolia and many others who went ahead with scheduled elections even as they put in place the enormous arrangements required to ensure the health and safety of people while conducting election.” An official claimed that the EC which was keen on showcasing India’s ability to conduct polls in difficult circumstances is also now mindful of the need to show that it has done everything in its power to prevent the spread of Covid-19. “To my understanding, the CEC’s message is that we have to be more prepared, rather than hasty,” he said. Last month, the Supreme Court dismissed a plea to postpone polls to the Bihar Assembly — whose term expires on November 29 — due to the spread of Covid-19 and floods. The EC has clubbed 64 bypolls in several states along with Bihar, which is expected to be held in multiple phases.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-654
