24-09-2020||India||Second wave of Covid has hit its peak in Delhi: Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic has hit its peak in the national capital with experts hinting that the cases of infection will decline in the coming days. He said the government was “keeping its fingers crossed” and hoped that Covid-19 cases will “gradually” decline due to the steps taken by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) dispensation. Delhi has been witnessing a surge in the number of coronavirus cases in the past few days. “All the experts believe that the second wave (of coronavirus infections), which had come to Delhi, appears to have hit its peak. Now, the cases will come down in the coming days,” Kejriwal told reporters. Covid-19 cases in the city were by and large under control between July 1 and August 17 and on an average, 1,100-1,200 new cases were being reported everyday, he said. “From August 17, the cases rose slightly from around 1,100 to 1,500 and as a responsible government, we did not take any risk and immediately scaled up testing from around 20,000 to 60,000 tests per day. “The best way to defeat the coronavirus is to conduct aggressive testing to identify and isolate positive cases,” the chief minister said. He said coronavirus cases have increased in Delhi because testing was massively scaled up. “The daily cases were around 4,500 on September 16 which have now started coming down and currently, there are around 3,700 cases (daily),” Kejriwal said. According to the chief minister, if the testing would have scaled down to the previous level of 20,000 tests per day, the cases would also have come down to around 1,500 per day in the city. Kejriwal hoped that the steps taken by the government, including increasing the number of containment zones from 550 in mid-August to around 2,000 now, will gradually bring down the number of Covid-19 cases in the coming days. Earlier this month, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain had said it couldn’t be said that the national capital was witnessing a second wave of Covid-19. On September 7, Jain had said the sharp spike in coronavirus cases in the national capital will plateau after 10 days or so and asserted that the home isolation policy has proven to be a game changer in taming the surge, a strategy the city government would continue to pursue. On Wednesday, Delhi recorded 3,714 fresh Covid-19 cases as the infection tally in the city mounted to over 2.56 lakh, while the death toll rose to 5,087. More than 60,000 Covid-19 tests were conducted in the city on Tuesday, according to the bulletin issued by the Delhi health department on Wednesday. The total number of active cases, as on Wednesday, stood at 30,836, it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||'Dadi of Shaheenbagh' in Time magazine list of top 100 influential people||Bilkis, who became the face of a women-led anti-citizenship law protest at Shaheen Bagh here, on Thursday said she was happy to have been recognised by the TIME magazine as one of the 100 most influential people of 2020, but would have been happier had her demand been met. The 82-year-old, along with her two friends Asma Khatoon (90) and Sarwari (75), was at the protest site every day, braving a chilly winter last December, the coldest in over a century. The trio were hailed as "Dadis of Shaheen Bagh" on social media. "When we told her that she has been declared as one of the most influential people in the world, she just said 'okay'," her son Manzoor Ahmad told PTI on the phone. She is not as excited as the family is, Ahmad, who works as a translator, said. "I am thankful to the almighty. I would have been much happier had our demand been fulfilled...had the government listened to us and given us what we wanted (withdrawal of the Citizenship Amendment Act)," Bilkis said in a trembling voice. "It is sad we had to call it (protest) off because of the disease (COVID-19). I was there till the end, she said. Ahmad said his mother had taken ill in December last year, but she continued going to the protest site. It was so cold and she was running a fever, despite that she went there to support other women, he said. Ahmad said all women in his family participated in the protest. We are a joint family. So, the women took turns to participate in the dharna, he said. Time named Bilkis as one of the “icons” of all those who had joined the protests. “Bilkis gave hope and strength to activists and student leaders who were being thrown behind bars for standing up for the unpopular truth in a democracy that was sliding into authoritarianism, and inspired peaceful copycat protests across the country,” jounalist Rana Ayyub wrote for Time’s profile of the elderly protester. “I will sit here till blood stops flowing in my veins so the children of this country and the world breathe the air of justice and equality,” Bilkis told Ayyub during the protests earlier this year , reported AlJazeera. The Shaheen Bagh protest demanding the government to withdraw the law went on for over a hundred days. It ended in March this year in view of the Covid-19 outbreak and a subsequent lockdown announced by the government to contain the spread of the disease. Also on the TIME magazine's list from India are Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bollywood actor Ayushman Khurrana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||Punjab farmers begin rail roko agitation over agri bills ||Farmers in Punjab on Thursday began their three-day 'rail roko' agitation to protest against the three farm bills while the Ferozepur Railway division suspended the operation of special trains due to the stir. Railway authorities said 14 pairs of special trains will remain suspended from September 24 till 26. The decision has been taken keeping in mind the safety of passengers and protection of railway property from any damage, officials said. Among the trains which will remain suspended are Golden Temple Mail (Amritsar-Mumbai Central), Jan Shatabdi Express (Haridwar-Amritsar), New Delhi-Jammu Tawi, Karambhoomi (Amritsar-New Jalpaiguri), Sachkhand Express (Nanded-Amritsar) and Shaheed Express (Amritsar-Jaynagar), officials said. At present, routine passenger train service remains suspended because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The call for 'rail roko' agitation was given by the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and later, different farmers' outfits also extended their support. Activists of Bhartiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan) squatted on rail tracks in Barnala and Sangrur on Thursday morning. Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee have decided to squat on rail tracks near Devidaspur village in Amritsar and Basti Tanka wala in Ferozepur. The representatives of the committee said they were getting support from several sections including government employees and labourers. Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee president Satnam Singh Pannu said that they have appealed to representatives of political parties, ministers, MPs and MLAs not to take part in the farmers' agitation. They vowed to gherao BJP leaders and socially boycott those who voted in favour of the farm bills. As many as 31 farmers' outfits have given a call for the complete shutdown of Punjab on September 25 to protest against the bills. Farmers in Punjab have expressed apprehension that the bills would pave way for dismantling the minimum support price system, leaving them at the mercy of big corporates. The Rajya Sabha has passed the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020. The Railways on Thursday said the agitation in Punjab is likely to severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods as well as movement of passengers travelling on special trains mostly on an urgent basis. Officials here said that Punjab loaded 990 rakes of FCI foodgrains in August this year and 816 rakes till September 23. Thus, FCI is loading more than 35 rakes of food grains daily from Punjab. They said Punjab also loads 9-10 rakes daily of fertilizer, cement, auto, mixed goods in containers. The state also receives around 20 rakes daily of coal, food grain, farm products, machinery petroleum products, imported fertilizer etc. "Punjab Rail Agitation will severely impact loading of foodgrains and other essential goods. It will hurt ordinary citizens and fast recovering Rail Freight and economy," a railway spokesperson said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||12th compartment exams results by Oct 10, CBSE informs SC||The CBSE informed the Supreme Court on Thursday that it will declare the results of class 12th compartment exams on or before October 10 keeping in mind the students' interest. A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar was also informed by the University Grants Commission (UGC) that it will commence the academic calender for undergraduate courses from October 31 and by that time the results of almost two lakhs students who appeared for the retest will be out. The statements of the CBSE and the UGC assume significance in view of the earlier observation of the bench that they should work in tandem to ensure that the academic year of students, appearing in the compartment exams of 12th class, was not wasted. It had said that the CBSE should declare the results of compartment examination expeditiously and the UGC ensure that students get admission in colleges. Referring to Covid-19 pandemic, the top court had said that these are exceptional times and the authorities should act to help students. The bench then disposed of the plea filed by one Anika Samvedi seeking a direction to ensure that the academic year of students of 12th class, appearing in compartment exams, shouldn't go waste.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||Umar Khalid sent to judicial custody till Oct 22 in UAPA case||A Delhi court on Thursday sent former JNU student leader Umar Khalid, arrested under the stringent anti-terror law Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, in a case related to the communal violence in north east Delhi in February, to judicial custody till October 22. Khalid, who was arrested on September 13 in the case, was produced before the court through video conferencing at the end of his 10 days police custody. His custodial interrogation had started on September 14. Since police did not seek his further custody, Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat ordered his judicial custody with direction to the Tihar Jail Superintendent to take all necessary steps, within the rules, to ensure the safety and security of the accused. Khalid claimed before the court that he has not signed any document whatsoever during his police custody. During the last 10 days' in police custody I have not signed any paper or statements, he told the court. In the FIR, police has claimed that the communal violence was a "premeditated conspiracy" which was allegedly hatched by Khalid and two others. He has also been booked for the offences of sedition, murder, attempt to murder, promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion and rioting. Khalid had allegedly given provocative speeches at two different places and appealed to the citizens to come out on streets and block the roads during the visit of US President Donald Trump to spread propaganda at international level about how minorities in India are being tortured , the FIR alleged. In this conspiracy, firearms, petrol bombs, acid bottles and stones were collected at numerous homes, the FIR alleged. Co-accused Danish was allegedly given the responsibility to gather people from two different places to take part in the riots, police alleged. Women and children were made to block the roads under the Jafrabad metro station on February 23 to create tension amidst the neighborhood people, FIR said. During the proceedings in the court today, Khalid said he be allowed to meet his family members before sending him to judicial custody. Special Public Prosecutor Amit Prasad said police will allow Khalid's family members to meet him provided they reach within time as he has to be taken for medical examination and thereafter they will send the accused to judicial custody. Khalid's counsel made submission that priority should be given for his safety and security and he be allowed to take his spectacles inside the jail which was permitted by the court. Communal clashes had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 after violence between citizenship law supporters and protesters spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-649
24-09-2020||India||Labour regime tilts to employer||Parliament passed three bills on Wednesday to usher in a labour regime that promises employers a less stressful hiring environment that can be tailored to business cycles and increases the size of units that can exit when conditions turn adverse. While trade unions and some economists warned of deeper uncertainty and anxiety on factory floors, large sections of industry celebrated the passage of the bills as a milestone in labour reforms. The Rajya Sabha passed the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, Social Security Code and the Industrial Relations (IR) Code a day after the Lok Sabha had cleared them on Tuesday. These laws will replace 25 existing labour laws — some of them put in place by the Raj – essentially telescoping the multiplicity of state and central laws dealing with protection of worker rights and privileges. A section of labour economists say the provisions will boost fixed-term contract employment without protections and weaken workers’ power of collective bargaining, while bringing some benefit to formal-sector workers since appointment letters have been made mandatory. Trade unions, including the RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, expressed concern at several provisions that they felt restricted trade unions’ ability to negotiate with management or organise strikes. Industry seemed to be chuffed by the changes proposed, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi held aloft the passed bills as “shining examples of minimum government, maximum governance”. Modi added that the reforms would “ensure the well-being of our industrious workers and give a boost to economic growth”. Although industry leaders used terms like “big-bang” reforms to fete the bills, few were prepared to say whether investors would flock to the states that grant exemptions from provisions of the Industrial Relations Code which legalises a fixed-term employment contract. The expected short-term labour arrangement takes into account the “gig economy” which is characterised by contracts for brief periods and freelance work. States like Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh which had introduced some labour reforms a couple of years ago have not yet experienced a spurt in industrial investment — and it’s hard to say whether there will be an immediate surge in private investment in a post-Covid environment. The big relief that industry is truly pleased about is the lowering of the exit barrier for firms. Under the Industrial Relations Code, establishments hiring 100 or more workers needed government permission for closure or layoffs. The new code has raised this to 300, which means a number of small and medium firms will be able to shut shop at will if the business starts to flounder. Chandrajit Banerjee, director-general of the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), termed the new labour code as the “big-bang structural reforms” that would improve the climate for both workers and industry by resetting “the entire regulatory framework... and providing enterprises with flexibility, transparency and clarity”. Both Banerjee and Deepak Sood, secretary-general of Assocham, were gung-ho over the fact that the new labour reforms had been extended to the gig economy. “The new labour laws will be easy to implement and will provide better social security to the workers including those employed in the emerging gig economy,” said Sood who felt that it would send out a positive signal to global enterprises looking to relocate their businesses to India. Rohit Relan, President of the All India Organisation of Employers’, an allied body of Ficci, said it was a historic day for the country as the reforms would bring “India’s large informal sector employees into formal workforce”. “Business is uncertain. Investors need flexibility. When the going is good, you may need people but when the business is doing bad, you should have the option to align the workforce accordingly,” Rajiv Singh, director-general of the Indian Chamber of Commerce (ICC), said. “Last time round, the companies that were looking to expand outside China mostly went to Vietnam, which provided flexibility in labour terms. As a country, we should not miss such an opportunity again,” he added. Some of the features of the three new bills: The IR Code gives legal backing to the expression “fixed-term employment” or FTE, which refers to establishments appointing employees for a fixed, limited period without any obligation stretching beyond that period. FTE is similar to the contractual appointments in the formal sector that the existing laws allow, but economists said the durations are likely to be shorter in practice. The shorter durations reflect the practice in the gig economy. Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh general secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said in a media statement that FTE would pave the way for the “casualisation” of the workforce. “Casualisation and contractualisation is going to create explosive situation in the near future. It will also lead to below-quality productive activities in industrial sector and create an India of casualised labour,” he said. Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, underlined that the government had through an executive order allowed FTE a couple of years ago. “Under FTE, the employee may be appointed for six months or one year. After the expiry of the period, employment will be terminated without any notice or compensation,” another labour economist, Amitabh Kundu, said. “The company will not be obliged to cite any reason for terminating the services.” The IR Code introduces a stringent recognition criterion that trade unions must meet to be able to bargain with the management. While retaining the existing provision for registration -— that a union should have the support of 10 per cent of the workers or 100 workers, whichever is less — it says a union will need the support of 51 per cent workers to be recognised and be allowed to negotiate. The existing central laws have no provision of recognition for the unions. A few states did have such a provision but it was less stringent, labour economists said. Earlier, more than one union could negotiate with management but Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu said only one would be able to do so under the new code. “The code says 51 per cent support is a requirement for negotiation. If the remaining 49 per cent workers have a different view, they will have no say. This is unfair,” Sindhu said. The existing law allowed employees to go on strike 14 days after issuing a notice but the IR Code prohibits any strikes during the two-month “conciliation process” starting from the date of notice. Nor can strikes be held if the matter goes to a tribunal - a new restriction. “The workers’ ability to strike, and therefore their collective bargaining strength, seems to have been weakened,” Kundu said. “The bills will usher in a deregulated labour market with an informal, precarious and insecure workplace where the employer will enjoy unbridled labour market power over the highly disadvantaged workers,” Sundar said. Unlike the existing laws, the occupational safety code requires employers to issue appointment letters to every employee, a provision both Kundu and Sundar praised as progressive. Kundu said this would empower the individual worker. The occupation safety code mandates a national helpline for inter-state migrant workers -— whose sufferings during the lockdown attracted national attention -—- and an annual travel allowance from the employer to visit their place of origin. Sindhu was unhappy that the registration of inter-state migrant workers on a national portal has been left to the workers themselves instead of the government installing a mechanism to make sure every migrant gets registered. Establishments recruiting 10 or more inter-state migrant workers are, however, required to take the initiative to get them registered. Registered inter-state workers will get subsidised food from designated ration shops at the place where they work. The One Nation One Ration scheme is expected to be launched in March 2021. Kundu highlighted that for inter-state migrant workers, the code provides for access to health apart from educational facilities for their children. “Industries, however, can try to escape these requirements by showing the inter-state migrants as intra-state migrants,” he said. “The bill could provide for welfare measures for intra-state migrants too, as there are more of them.” Labour minister Santosh Gangwar described the new labour regime as a “historic” game changer that would be a “milestone” for the welfare of workers. The major Opposition parties, protesting the manner of the farm bills’ passage on Sunday, were absent from Parliament on Wednesday as the labour bills were discussed and passed by voice vote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Teen who helped army dies in fight with army ||Asif Muzaffar Shah was a teenager six years ago when he and several other residents of former militancy stronghold Samboora in Pulwama had risked their lives to save soldiers caught in a devastating flood. On Tuesday, Asif, now 25 and a college graduate turned militant, was killed in an encounter with the army that lasted over 24 hours in adjoining Budgam district. Two militants are believed to have escaped. Asif’s body was not returned to the family and was buried 100km from home, in Handwara. The army has of late been refusing to hand over the bodies of slain militants to their families for burial, citing the Covid protocol. “His body was not returned. The family was allowed to participate in his burial (in Handwara),” a family member told The Telegraph. It is not clear what prompted Asif to turn to militancy. His family, shattered by his death, appeared unwilling to share the details of his heroics during September 5-6 night in 2014. “All the villagers helped them (army men from the 50 Rashtriya Rifles) and he was one of them. The army tried to pay him back later, offering to help him, but he refused,” the family member said, refusing to be identified. “All I can say is that he went missing on August 10 (this year) and lasted only 40 days or so (as a militant).” The family member said Asif had been running a stationery shop in Kakapora village after completing his graduation a few years ago. Local people said Asif had been picked up by police several times in the past year and a half. Sometime before he joined militancy, he had been called by the National Investigation Agency to Jammu in connection with the investigation into a militancy-related case, they said. “We heard he had left for Jammu but had an afterthought and disappeared to join the militants as he smelt something fishy,” a local resident said. Samboora resident Mushatq ul Islam said he vividly remembered how Asif had risked his life to save soldiers from drowning in the 2014 floods, the worst to hit the Valley in a century. “There was a breach in the Jhelum and some army men had drowned. Amid a heavy downpour, I saw Asif jumping into the water to pull the soldiers out,” he said. Shabir Ahmad Dar, a band-saw owner who had led the rescue operation by local people that day, however, said he did not remember whether Asif was among the rescuers. “Maybe he was there but I did not see him,” Shabir said. In 2014, this newspaper had published several articles on how the villagers had saved the soldiers from drowning. Two soldiers — Naik Khem Chandra of the 20 Kumaon Regiment from Uttarakhand, and Rifleman Mir Owais from the 15 JAKLI from Tral — could not be rescued and died. The army had claimed that the soldiers had died while rescuing the villagers but local people had a different version. “Nature’s fury came like a bolt from the blue. On the midnight of September 5, a motorboat was launched to rescue women, children and elderly people in Kakapore and Sambur (Samboora). While on their rescue mission with nine other troopers on the intervening night of September 5 and 6, the boat capsized in strong currents of the flash floods,” the army spokesman had then said. Local people, however, had said the 50 Rashtriya Rifles camp at Kakapora had got submerged, prompting several jawans and officers to run for safety. A boat carrying soldiers capsized in a paddy field that was 12ft under water, they had added. Villagers of Samboora who had been retrieving goods from their inundated houses had responded to the soldiers’ cries for help, the local people had said. “Some of them (soldiers) were rescued. They were shivering. I remember Asif handing over his own pheran to one of the soldiers,” Mushtaq, the Samboora resident, said on Wednesday. Eight soldiers were still marooned, six of them clinging to tree branches, as the strong currents prevented others from coming to their aid, Mushtaq recalled. Early next morning, band-saw owner Shabir and three others had volunteered to join an army rescue effort in a boat. Soldier Owais, a local man who died that day, was buried in a graveyard in Tral that was reserved for militants and civilians killed by security forces, next to his childhood friend turned militant Mir Aadil Bashir. Aadil’s father Bashir Ahmad had offered to bury the soldier in the “martyrs’ graveyard” to unite the old friends.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Centre’s telling TV chronology ||The Centre has said a TV programme by Sudarshan News on Muslims is “prima facie” in violation of a code and that the channel has been showcaused afresh on Wednesday, prompting the Supreme Court to point out that had it not intervened, the “show would have been completely aired by now”. The controversial, multi-episode programme that suggests jihadi elements have infiltrated the civil services had been broadcast from September 11. But the Supreme Court, acting on multiple petitions, had stayed the telecast of the remaining episodes on September 15 until further orders. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the channel had been asked to reply by September 28 why action should not be taken against it. “If the case wasn’t heard, the show would have been completely aired by now,” said Justice D.Y. Chandrachud. In view of the Centre’s fresh notice, the bench adjourned the matter till October 5. The stay will continue.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Panchayat official shot in Valley||Suspected militants killed the chairperson of a block development council in central Kashmir’s Budgam district on Wednesday evening, making him the highest ranking elected panchayat official to die in militancy-related violence since the 2018 elections. The killing came on a day the Jammu and Kashmir administration decided to hold polls for vacant panchayat seats in the fledgling Union Territory. Police sources said Bhupinder Singh was shot dead outside his ancestral residence inBudgam district at 7.45pm. Some reports indicated he was associated with the BJP but the party has denied it.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Rail accused of window dressing ||The Comptroller and Auditor General of India on Wednesday accused the railways of “window dressing” to present its operating ratio in “a better light” during the 2018-19 financial year by including advance freight payments in its calculations. Operating ratio (OR) represents the proportion of working expenses to earnings. A higher ratio indicates poorer ability to generate surplus. The CAG also raised concerns over delays in projects over the past five years due to inefficiency of zones and weak monitoring by the Railway Board. In a report on the railways’ finances tabled in both Houses of Parliament, the CAG said the OR for 2018-19 was 97.29 per cent against the target of 92.8 per cent in the budget estimates. This meant that the national transporter spent Rs 97.29 to earn Rs 100. “However, if advance freight of Rs 8,351 crore from NTPC and CONCOR was not included in the earnings of 2018-19, the OR would have been 101.77 per cent instead of 97.29 per cent,” the report said. “The net surplus in 2018-19 was Rs 3,773.86 crore. The OR would have ended with a negative balance of Rs 7,334.85 crore but for receipt of advance freight and less appropriation to DRF (depreciation reserve fund) and pension fund. The ministry of railways resorted to window dressing for presenting the working expenses and operating ratio in a better light,” the CAG said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Law for blanket exemption from workers’ rights||A bill on industrial workers’ rights passed on Wednesday empowers the states to grant unconditional exemptions to any new industry, prompting academics and labour unions to voice fears for the future of labour rights. Another bill, also passed on Wednesday and dealing with workers’ health, safety, death compensation and working conditions, allows the states to grant exemptions to industries against unspecified conditions that they “think fit”. Labour economists said the bill should have specified the conditions. The first bill, the Industrial Relations (IR) Code — dealing with matters such as safeguards against arbitrary dismissal or punishment, or discrimination in promotion — not only automatically exempts every factory with less than 300 employees but allows state governments to exempt any new factory irrespective of worker strength. Under the old laws it subsumes, such automatic exemption accrued to factories with less than 100 employees. New industries could be granted exemption only if they had an adequate in-house mechanism to protect workers’ trade union and individual rights. That is, only if the government trusted the employer not to violate workers’ rights could it relax the bureaucratic and legal control as an incentive. Clause 96(2) of the IR Code makes the exemption unconditional, saying: “Where the appropriate government is satisfied in relation to any new industrial establishment or new undertaking or class of new industrial establishments or new undertakings that it is necessary in the public interest so to do, it may, by notification, exempt, conditionally or unconditionally, any such new establishment or new undertaking or class of new establishments or new undertakings from all or any of the provisions of this Code.” RSS affiliate Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh on Wednesday joined the Left and Congress labour arms in opposing the provision for blanket exemption. “It’s not advisable; we don’t agree with such exemption,” its general secretary Virjesh Upadhyay said. The second bill, the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, deals with subjects such as the health and safety of workers, their work hours, holidays, leave, and compensation for death or injury. Clause 127 of the code allows the states to grant exemptions from the entire legislation to any industry or group of industries, imposing conditions to be decided by the Centre and the states. Labour economists said the states tended to grant employers exemptions from regulations on labour rights or working conditions in the name of promoting industry, and that laws allowing blanket exemptions could end up defeating the objective of having workers’ rights. “Clause 96 of the IR Code is a very dangerous clause. The whole purpose of protection will be defeated,” Shyam Sundar, professor of human resource management at XLRI, Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, said. He said the occupational safety bill should have spelled out the conditions under which exemptions can be granted, “instead of leaving it to the bureaucracy”. Not defining the conditions is “dangerous”, given the regular industrial accidents, he said. “The code deals with sensitive and critical issues of the workers’ safety and health.” Labour economist Amitabh Kundu said: “The general thinking of the state governments is that if they permit exemptions in labour laws, industrialisation and employment generation will get a boost.” But such measures in the last seven years in Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh “did not lead to an increase in investment while Gujarat attracted capital-intensive industries which did not increase employment in any significant manner”, he said. “This is against the general expectation that relaxations in labour laws would lead to the growth of labour-intensive industries,” Kundu said. He said that relaxing labour laws temporarily because of the Covid-and-lockdown-induced economic crisis could be acceptable, but the relaxations should not be allowed permanently and need to be reviewed periodically. The Supreme Court had in January 2017 (Krishna Kumar Singh v State of Bihar) recognised the states’ powers to issue ordinances but argued that these pieces of legislation were subject to judicial challenge and could be struck down on constitutional grounds. Both the IR Code and the bill on occupational safety had cleared the Lok Sabha before their passage in the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday. The occupational safety code has several new worker-friendly features, such as the mandatory issuance of appointment letters and mandatory annual health check-ups for all the workers||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||No coercive action against Facebook||The Supreme Court on Wednesday recorded an undertaking from the Delhi Assembly secretary that no coercive action would be taken against Facebook India chief Ajit Mohan for “breach of privilege” for defying summons over the February Delhi riots. The Delhi Assembly’s committee on peace and harmony had summoned Mohan, the vice-president and managing director of Facebook India, in connection with the social media giant’s alleged role in instigating the Delhi riots in which 53 people had died. Mohan had refused to appear before the committee, questioning the Assembly’s authority to summon him, and moved the Supreme Court along with Facebook when a second summons was issued asking him to turn up on Wednesday. On September 20, committee head and AAP leader Raghav Chadha had issued a statement on behalf of the panel announcing that “breach of privilege” proceedings would be initiated against Facebook India for the “default”. Appearing for the Delhi Assembly secretary, senor advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi said the summons had been deferred and assured the court that no coercive action had been proposed against Mohan. Sighvi said Mohan had been called as a witness, not an accused. The court recorded the assurance. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul, Aniruddha Bose and Krishna Murari, while issuing notices to the Assembly secretary and the Centre over the summons, posted the matter for further hearing to October 15. The summons, issued on September 10 and 18 by the Assembly committee’s chairman, had mentioned that Mohan was being called to explain the “alleged premeditated conspiracy between Facebook, rioters and antisocial elements”. Facebook and Mohan challenged the summons on the ground that the Delhi Assembly had no jurisdiction to deal with the issue as any such power is conferred only on the Union government. Senior advocate Harish Salve, appearing for Mohan, questioned the summons, saying: “This is quite remarkable. Who is this deputy secretary issuing this serious threat? What privilege? Whose privilege? “I am an outsider. I am not interrupting proceedings of your committee. Question is whether I can be asked to appear or not? But if I don’t want to appear in a matter that has political overtones? I don’t want to come in middle of this. Can I be compelled?” “You cannot put me in the pain of punishment by asking me to appear…. I don’t know whether they want him as a witness or an expert,” Salve added. He said Facebook had written to the committee on September 13, asking it to withdraw the first summons but it was ignored. Instead, Mohan was issued another summons on September 18 to appear on September 23, Salve said. “Privilege is something to be decided by the Assembly. A committee cannot decide whether action on privilege can be taken or not,” Salve said, adding that Mohan’s refusal to appear before the committee was being deemed as a “breach of privilege”. The advocate said this was a “serious threat” to a citizen’s fundamental right to free speech and expression. “I (Mohan) have a right under Article 19, and the right to free speech includes right not to speak. As a House you may decide whatever you want to do but if I do not want to participate and give my views before the committee, then? And please consider I work for a US-based company. I do not want to comment on this politically sensitive issue,” Salve said. The lawyer referred to reports in The Wall Street Journal that Facebook had condoned hate posts of BJP leader. “Wall Street Journal has accused Facebook of favouring a certain party but I don’t want to get into all this,” Salve argued on Mohan’s behalf. Salve said public order and police were not under the jurisdiction of the Delhi Assembly and so the committee had no jurisdiction to deal with Facebook or its employees. “In a constitutional framework such as ours, can a person be punished summarily without a proper trial and absent legislation? There is no question of recognising an action that impinges upon one’s Article 21 (right to life and personal liberty),” Salve said. “If you want to impinge on my rights then it has to be with the authority of law.” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Facebook, told the court that the summons were unconstitutional. “He (Mohan) is my employee. I don’t want my employees to get in the middle of such a matter,” Rohatgi said. Rohatgi told the court that committee chairman Chadha had held a media conference where he declared Facebook guilty in connection with the Delhi riots. “At the press conference they said that incriminating material was not taken down. If it was not taken down, then everyone has the right to move the court for it,” Rohatgi said. Senior advocate Singhvi submitted that Facebook was trying to project the summons as “coercion” to get favourable orders from the court. However, Justice Kaul remarked: “As far as notice is concerned, we are going to issue it. You argue on protective order or relief to be given or not…. You have given them the chance to come to the court by sending the orders (summons).” Justice Bose said: “Article 19 can apply to Petitioner 1 (Ajit Mohan) because you are compelling him to say something.” Singhvi countered: “This person is called only as a witness and no coercive steps would be taken.” Justice Kaul replied: “If you are trying to change the legal tenor then it must be in those terms. You may have to take a stand for this committee.… You may have to file an affidavit to clarify this.” Singhvi then said that no coercive action would be taken against Mohan, and that this assurance could be recorded by the court. “Reason Facebook is called, not as an accused, but (we) want to get safeguard measures from them as to how the platform will not be misused,” Singhvi told the court. “He (Mohan) is only being summoned as a witness.” Justice Kaul said: “This is not what you have said in the notices. You have advised them (committee secretary), advise them better and issue better notices.” Singhvi responded: “I will rectify the order and address the deficiencies that are bothering My Lords.” Justice Kaul said: “I’m sure you will be able to remedy the notice. And in that press conference, if you have said those things, then you will have to take a stand.” Singhvi argued that the transcript of the media conference read out by Salve and Rohatgi was misleading. The committee announced later that Wednesday’s hearing had been deferred “in view of the issues of law pending before the Supreme Court”. None from the AAP commented on the court developments.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Bihar top cop seeks, gets VRS ahead of polls||Bihar director-general of police Gupteshwar Pandey, who had aggressively pursued the Sushant Singh Rajput death case and questioned actress Rhea Chakraborty’s “aukaat” (a derogatory word for stature) to comment on chief minister Nitish Kumar, has taken voluntary retirement and said people want him to join politics. Pandey, who had taken VRS in 2009 as well ostensibly to contest elections but had been reinstated later by Nitish’s government despite administrative and procedural objections, was to retire in February 2021. The DGP submitted his VRS application late on Tuesday night, and the state and central governments promptly waived the three-month notice period. IPS officer S.K. Singhal has been made the Bihar DGP till further notice. Sources said Pandey could contest the Bihar Assembly elections, due in November, on a ticket of either Nitish’s JDU or ally BJP. Rhea’s lawyer Satish Manshinde issued a statement saying: “The request for VRS by DGP Bihar Gupteshwar Pandey and granting VRS by Bihar government and Union government in 24 hours is as fast as Bihar government’s transfer of FIR against Rhea to CBI and acceptance of it by the Union government. This is not justice for SSR (Sushant Singh Rajput), but justice for Gupteshwar Pandey.” Pandey had made the “aukaat” comment against Rhea when her lawyer said in the Supreme Court that the Nitish government was playing politics over Sushant’s death. The DGP was unusually vocal about the case after the actor’s father K.K. Singh registered an FIR in Patna in July, accusing Sushant’s girlfriend Rhea and her family and friends of abetment of suicide and cheating. No evidence has been produced so far for the charges of cheating and abetment to suicide but Rhea is now behind bars on drug charges related to the case, which is being investigated by the CBI, the Narcotics Control Bureau and the Enforcement Directorate. The BJP government at the Centre, aided by a section of the media, has been accused of using Sushant’s death to try to divert attention from the pandemic and the economic crisis and to destabilise the Maharashtra government. Shiv Sena Rajya Sabha member Sanjay Raut said on Wednesday: “People will not trust the party that fields him (Pandey) as a candidate. The agenda behind his rajkiya tandav (dance of destruction at the government’s behest) over Maharashtra and Mumbai is clear now. He was running a political agenda with his statements and is now going to be rewarded for it.” Pandey said his premature retirement had nothing to do with Sushant’s case. Asked if he would take the political plunge, Pandey said: “I will first consult the people and then decide. People from Buxar, Begusarai and Bagaha are contacting me. The people are pressurising me to join politics.” Recently a former Bigg Boss contestant had released a video hailing Pandey as “Robin Hood Bihar ke”. The video featured shots of Pandey in uniform and had praised his achievements, including how he had raised his voice in Sushant’s case. Neither the government nor Pandey objected to the album. In 2006, videos had surfaced showing a man resembling Pandey showering money on a woman dancer in Sasaram. He was then a DIG. A probe was held and his salary increment stopped in 2008, but the order was not eventually implemented. In 2012, a couple had accused Pandey, then the police chief of Muzaffarpur, of involvement in the murder of their 12-year-old daughter, Navruna Chakravarty. The CBI is probing the case and had examined Pandey in 2018.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Wary of ‘outsiders’, Leh calls election boycott||The political and religious leaderships in Buddhist-majority Leh have decided to boycott next month’s hill development council polls to press for special status for Ladakh, the move carrying echoes of Kashmir and undercutting the BJP’s “integration” theory. Ladakh’s Buddhists had celebrated last year’s revocation of the special status of Jammu and Kashmir — which then included Ladakh — and its bifurcation into two Union Territories. But now, like the Valley, Ladakh is bristling with suspicion about a possible invasion of “outsiders” from “mainland India”. Ladakh’s Muslim-majority region of Kargil always resented the scrapping of Article 370 and, like Kashmir, wants it restored. While Leh does not favour the article’s restoration, it wants back the guarantees over land and jobs that the article provided to the native population. It fears that the Centre plans to bring in a domicile law for Ladakh that will open the door to “outsiders”, as has happened recently in Jammu and Kashmir, and insists that Ladakh be brought under the Sixth Schedule. Tensions are therefore flaring up in Leh at a time war clouds are hovering over eastern Ladakh, with the Chinese army intruding into India-claimed territory at multiple places. The recently floated People’s Movement for Sixth Schedule for Ladakh, made up of all the major political, social and religious bodies in Leh, on Tuesday announced the boycott of the October 16 elections to the Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, Leh. The apex body of the movement has “unanimously resolved to boycott” the polls “till constitutional safeguards under the Sixth Schedule on the lines of the Bodo Territorial Council (in Assam) are extended” to Ladakh, former Lok Sabha MP Thupstan Chhewang told reporters in Leh. This is to be the first election in the new Union Territory of Ladakh since the scrapping of Article 370. The current body in Leh is headed by the BJP. Kargil has its own Ladakh Autonomous Hill Development Council, where elections are three years away. Earlier, the National Conference, People’s Democratic Party and other Valley-based groups had boycotted the municipal and panchayat elections of 2018 and 2019 in protest at the Centre’s perceived plans to scrap Article 370. That boycott had allowed the BJP to win many more seats than it would normally have in the Valley. However, the Leh boycott call has raised the possibility of the elections being put off. The boycott call comes at a time Ladakhi environmentalist and Magsaysay Award winner Sonam Wangchuk has sounded an alert about the possibility of a separatist movement in Ladakh if the region’s identity and environment concerns are not addressed. Nawang Samstan, the BJP’s Leh unit president, was among those who signed Tuesday’s poll boycott pledge, his stand reflecting how the party’s local leadership was willing to defy the central leadership on the issue. Many in Ladakh believe that a recent resolution by the Leh autonomous council — seeking privileges for Ladakh under Article 371, the Sixth Schedule or domicile laws — was passed at the Centre’s behest with the BJP Lok Sabha member from Ladakh, Tsering Namgyal, playing a key role. Ladakhis are fiercely opposed to the domicile law or Article 371 — in force in many northeastern states — being extended to the region, fearing they could open the floodgates for outsiders. Sources in Ladakh said the Centre intended to extend the domicile law to Ladakh as it had done in Jammu and Kashmir, where thousands of outsiders have been granted domicile. Chhewang, who resigned from the BJP in November 2018, hoped that Ladakhis would not only boycott the upcoming polls but desist from even filing nomination papers. Nominations can be filed between September 21 and September 28. “We are confident we will get full support from the entire population. Our struggle will continue until our demands are met,” Chhewang said. Among the signatories to the boycott pledge were Ladakh Buddhist Association president P. Kunzang, former Rajya Sabha member Skyabje Thiksey Khampo Rinpochey, former minister Chhering Dorje Lakrook, and Ladakh Congress president and former minister Nawang Rigzin Jora. Three Leh-based Muslim and Christian organisations too signed the pledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||24 lakh tonnes of e-waste in 3 years||As much as 24.94 lakh tonnes of electronic waste was generated in the country in the past three years, the ministry of environment informed the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, adding that India’s electronic-waste generation is increasing every year. Responding to a query, minister of state for environment Babul Supriyo told the Lower House that for the 21 types of notified Electrical and Electronic Equipment (EEE), an estimated 7.08 lakh tonne e-waste was generated in 2017-18, while the respective figures for the next two financial years were 7.71 lakh tonnes and 10.14 lakh tonnes. “As per the information available with the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) generation of e-waste is increasing every year. The government has made provisions for inventorisation of e-waste generation across the country under the E-Waste (Management) Rules, 2016,” he said. “Under the said rules, the responsibility for inventorisation of generation of e-waste has been assigned to State Pollution Control Boards (SPCBs) and Pollution Control Committees (PCCs),” Supriyo said. According to the information of the CPCB so far seven SPCBs namely Goa, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab have completed the inventorisation of e-waste generation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-650
24-09-2020||India||Govt pushes digital health plan despite privacy worries||India’s government is using the coronavirus pandemic to push its plan to digitise the health records and data of its 1.3 billion people, despite concerns about privacy and increased surveillance, technology and human rights experts say. India’s number of confirmed coronavirus cases has topped 5.4 million according to government data, with the virus spreading at one of the fastest paces in the world. In a speech last month to mark Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the launch of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM), under which unique health IDs will be created to hold digital health records of individuals. “Whether it is making a doctor’s appointment, depositing money or running around for documents in the hospital, the mission will help remove all such challenges,” Modi said. Praveen Gedam of the National Health Authority (NHA) said in emailed comments that the pandemic had highlighted the need to “move swiftly to improve medical infrastructure”. But without a data protection law or an independent data protection authority, there are few safeguards and no recourse if rights are violated, said Raman Jit Singh Chima, Asia policy director at Access Now, a digital rights non-profit. “It will possibly be the largest centralised health ID and data storage system in the world, and it is being done in the absence of a data protection law and data protection authority,” he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation. “Health is a state subject, but the central government is rushing this policy in the middle of a public health emergency, and forcing states to play ball. It’s very problematic.” There has been a move in recent years to digitise medical records and data as part of the Digital India campaign to deliver services electronically. A federal medical insurance scheme aimed at 500 million people launched in 2018. A draft Health Data Management Policy unveiled last month has guidelines for regulating the collection and storage of the data that can only be accessed with the individual’s consent. The aim of the NDHM is to create and maintain registries that are portable and accessible across India to everyone associated with healthcare delivery, according to the draft. The new health ID, which the health minister said will be “entirely voluntary” with an opt-out option, will hold information such as tests, prescriptions, treatments and medical records. Gedam of the NHA, which oversees the NDHM, said that “the policy has been years in the making and undergone multiple rounds of consultation. Hence it is incorrect to assume that this has been a rushed undertaking”. It has been more than a decade since India created Aadhaar, the world’s largest biometric identity system, with more than 1.2 billion IDs issued. The 12-digit ID, which is linked to an individual’s fingerprints, face and iris scan, was introduced to streamline welfare payments and reduce wastage in public spending. Yet it soon became mandatory for a host of public and private services. The Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that Aadhaar could not be a requirement for welfare programmes. In 2018, the top court flagged privacy concerns and reined in a government push to make it compulsory for everything from mobile services to pensions. The government has repeatedly denied charges of data misuse or surveillance, even as large numbers of people remain excluded and many are denied essential services, a report by consulting firm Dalberg said last year. The new health ID has the potential to be made mandatory and deny services to those who opt out, while also posing the risk of data abuse, human rights campaigners say. The draft policy is only available online and in English, thus preventing access to a large majority of people, said Satendra Singh, a physician and disability rights campaigner who petitioned to extend the deadline for feedback to September 21. The policy also allows the sharing of anonymised data with third parties — “a matter of grave concern”, particularly for sexual minorities and those with disabilities, he said. Privacy of data will receive “the highest degree of attention”, said Gedam. “The draft policy draws from provisions of the Personal Data Protection Bill and will be kept compliant with any future legislations and rulings,” he added, referring to the draft bill that was tabled in Parliament last year. India’s public and private hospitals, clinics and labs have varying levels of digitisation, and patients usually cannot digitally transfer their health records from one to another. Like several other nations, India quickly embraced technology to track and trace the spread of the coronavirus. The Aarogya Setu, or “Health Bridge” mobile app uses GPS location data to augment information gathered via Bluetooth and build a centralised database — an approach avoided by most countries because of privacy concerns. The experience with Aadhaar and Aarogya Setu — and the health ID pilot — does not inspire confidence, said Amulya Nidhi, co-convener of the People’s Health Movement (Jan Swasthya Abhiyan) non-profit. “At a time when we are struggling for hospital beds and oxygen, the government is focusing on digitisation,” he said. “People’s vulnerability while seeking health services may be misused to get consent. Informed consent is a real issue when people are poor, illiterate or desperate,” he said. “Your health data — once it’s out there, it’s out there. You can’t do anything about it.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Security guards drown in flooded lift in central Mumbai||Two security guards died after getting stuck in a flooded elevator in the basement of a building in rain-lashed central Mumbai on Wednesday morning, police said. The incident took place at Nathani Residency, a high-rise near Kala Pani junction of Agripada area. Security guards Jamir Ahmed Sohanan, 32, and Shehzad Mohammed Siddhique Memon, 37, had taken the elevator to go to the basement to open a valve for water supply, a police officer said. The basement was flooded because of heavy rain through the night. Water rushed into the lift as soon as the doors opened, he said. Before the two could step out, the doors got closed and they were stuck inside. They pressed the alarm button to alert the residents, following which the police and fire brigade were called in. Fire brigade personnel cut open the upper portion of the lift and pulled the duo out but both had died by then, the officer said. The exact cause of the death was yet to be ascertained but drowning appeared to be the reason.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||HC stays arrest warrant against Shourie||Rajasthan High Court on Wednesday stayed the arrest warrant against former Union minister Arun Shourie and one other accused in a case involving the sale of Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel in Udaipur at an alleged loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. The high court, however, told Shourie to appear before the trial court on any day by the next hearing on October 15 and furnish a personal bond of Rs 2 lakh and two sureties of Rs 1 lakh each. The hotel’s valuer, Kantilal Vikamsey, has been told to do the same on October 8. On Wednesday, the CBI told the high court that no irregularity was committed by them, justifying the closure report filed by it earlier. The Centre’s additional solicitor general S.V. Raju said the CBI court’s order was not in conformity with law. A special court last week had asked the CBI to file cases against Shourie and four others with regard to the sale of public sector Indian Tourism Development Corporation’s Laxmi Vilas Palace Hotel to a private firm around two decades ago. The property was sold to Bharat Hotels Ltd for Rs 7.52 crore when Shourie was the minister in charge of divestment in the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led National Democratic Alliance government at the Centre. During a preliminary investigation by the CBI, the property was valued at Rs 252 crore, suggesting a loss of Rs 244 crore to the exchequer. On Wednesday, Shourie’s counsels Pradeep Shah with Prashant Bhushan said through videoconferencing there was neither the condition nor the urgency to summon the accused by arrest warrant and the CBI court erred in passing this order. Mentioning about the other three accused who were granted bail by the court on Tuesday, Bhushan said: “Though the petitioner’s case was identical, but required a different order in as much as petitioner was not even named in the FIR.” He argued that the trial court erred in invocation of Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Shourie also sought exemption from appearance in person in the CBI court for furnishing the bond and sureties, citing his age, ill-health and family conditions. Admitting the arguments, Justice Dinesh Mehta converted the arrest warrant of Shourie and Vikamsey into a bailable warrant. However, it asked Shourie and Vikamsey to appear in the CBI court on any day by October 15, to furnish the bonds and sureties. With this, all five accused in the case have been granted relief from arrest as ordered by the CBI court on September 15.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||MP slammed over quota comment||An organisation that espouses the cause of Sikkim’s special constitutional status has accused the state’s lone Lok Sabha member of jeopardising the unique position by demanding Assembly quota for the Limboo and Tamang communities under Article 332 of the Constitution, instead of Article 371F. Passang Sherpa, the coordinator of IAM371F, said it was unfortunate that Sikkim Krantikari Morcha MP Indra Hang Subba appeared to be unaware of the provisions for seat reservation under Article 371F, which grants special status to the Himalayan state that merged with India in 1975. “Seat reservation for Limboos and Tamangs needs to be sought within the ambit of Article 371F. Such blatant advocacy of Article 332 will not just delay seat reservation for the Limboos and Tamangs, but can also jeopardise the special status enjoyed by Sikkim under Article 371F,” he said. Raising the reservation issue in the Lok Sabha on Monday, Subba had cited the provisions of Article 332 reserving seats in a state legislature for the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes in proportion to the total number of seats in the Assembly and the percentage of the two communities’ population in the state. “The Tamang and Limboo communities are being deprived of their Constitutional rights, violating constitutional provisions, its values and its ethos. Therefore, I urge upon the government to provide reservation of seats for these ST communities in the legislative Assembly of Sikkim,” Subba had said. The Limboos and Tamangs were given the ST status in 2003, but Assembly seats are yet to be reserved for them. Sherpa’s contention is that there is already a provision in Article 371F which allows parliament to reserve seats in the Sikkim Assembly for any section of the Sikkimese society. Section (f) of the Article reads: “Parliament may, for the purpose of protecting the rights and interests of the different sections of the population of Sikkim make provision for the number of seats in the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim which may be filled by candidates belonging to such sections and for the delimitation of the assembly constituencies from which candidates belonging to such sections alone may stand for election to the Legislative Assembly of the State of Sikkim.” Sherpa asked Subba to withdraw his statement demanding the Assembly quota for the Limboos and Tamangs on the basis of Article 332. “It is either the MP’s ignorance or a conspiracy being hatched by the SKM-BJP alliance to do away with Article 371F. If it is out of ignorance, he should withdraw his statement immediately. People of Sikkim should remain vigilant against any attempts to undermine the special status of our state,” he said. In the 32-member Sikkim Assembly, 12 seats are reserved for the Bhutias and Lepchas, two for the Scheduled Castes and one for the sangha, which is a body of Buddhist monks.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Govt uses boycott as Rajya Sabha free pass||The Rajya Sabha cleared eight bills in four hours on Wednesday, taking to 15 its combined two-day tally and raising the question whether the Opposition’s House boycott over Sunday’s steamrollering of the farm bills had proved counter-productive, handing the government a free pass. The 15 bills passed or returned over the two days account for 60 per cent of the 25 bills the Upper House has cleared during this truncated, 10-day monsoon session. This was noted with displeasure by Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu in his valedictory address on Wednesday afternoon before the session was adjourned sine die because of several Covid-19 cases emerging in Parliament House since the session began on September 14. “Though it is not the first time that some members are suspended and bills are passed when some sections of the House boycott the proceedings, I find it extremely unpalatable. This kind of a situation needs to be avoided by all means,” Naidu said. He said the House rules provided for suspension of members when it became inevitable, adding: “If legislative work is not taken up during the boycott by some sections of the House, it may legitimise such boycott as an effective instrument of blocking legislation.” In so saying, he seemed to be responding to a letter sent to him by Opposition leaders in the morning urging him not to allow the three labour-related bills to be passed in their absence on Wednesday. “These bills affect the livelihood of crores of workers across the country. It will be a great blot on our democracy to have these bills passed unilaterally today,” the letter said. Naidu conceded the Opposition members’ right to protest but said: “The question is, how should it be done? The floor of this august House is the most effective platform for contestation of ideas. But if boycott is done for a longer period, it amounts to leaving the very platform that enables you to effectively convey your ideas and contesting those of others.” Opposition leaders said they were conscious of this but argued that the government had left them with no option after the way in which the two farm bills were “rammed th-rough” on Sunday despite several parties demanding their referral to a select committee. “Boycott was the only option,” Congress chief whip Jairam Ramesh told The Telegraph when asked whether, in hindsight, the Opposition should have participated in the discussions on the labour bills so their viewpoint and resistance became part of parliamentary record. Several Opposition members said they were not entirely comfortable with the boycott strategy but went along with the majority view.“I wanted to speak on the labour code bill and FCRA amendment. There were members who will be retiring before the next session, so today was their last day. Still, they relinquished their privilege of making their farewell speeches because farmers would not have forgiven us if we had returned to the House without stopping the farm bills,” said the RJD’s Manoj Jha. “Even if we appear losers today, history shall record that we were in sync with the people on the streets.” Jha asked rhetorically what the Opposition had got from speaking eloquently on Sunday on the farm bills. Two Left members — Binoy Vishwam of the CPI and Elamaram Kareem of the CPM — accused the Modi government of being bent on pushing through anti-farmer and anti-labour bills this session to please the corporate houses. “Now that they have a majority in both Houses, they would not have listened to us; they would have pushed the labour bills through just the way they did with the farm bills,” Kareem said. “We had requested the Chairman in the morning not to allow the government to take up these bills.” Vishwam said the Opposition had been forced to boycott the House by the government’s refusal to listen to anyone and insistence on breaking all the rules to have its way. “On Sunday we witnessed how M&S (Modi-Shah) murdered parliamentary democracy. They then bulldozed their way through 15 bills in eight hours. They are no more just murderers of democracy, they are serial killers,” said Derek O’Brien, Trinamul’s leader in the Rajya Sabha. After writing to the Chairman, Opposition members from the two Houses had demonstrated before the Gandhi statue on the front lawns of Parliament House. They had then marched to Ambedkar’s statue at the complex because, as Shashi Tharoor put it, “Ambedkarji’s Constitution is being trampled upon”. He said the boycott was the Opposition’s way of showing that it would not cooperate with this “travesty of democracy”.In the evening, leaders of several Opposition parties met President Ram Nath Kovind to urge him to return the farm bills, saying the rules of procedure had not been followed during their passage.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Jammu and Kashmir language bill passed||The Rajya Sabha on Wednesday passed the Jammu and Kashmir Official Languages Bill, 2020, to add Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi as official languages of the Union Territory, in addition to Urdu and English. The Lok Sabha has already passed the bill. Though the official languages are Urdu and English, the speakers in these languages are a minority section. Minister of state for home Kishan Reddy said that 53 per cent people speak Kashmiri and 26 per cent people speak Dogri. He said such a historic mistake is being corrected by this bill. During the discussion, Akali Dal leader Naresh Gujral demanded inclusion of Punjabi in the list of official languages while PDP leader Mir Mohammad Fayaz demanded Punjabi, Gujri and Pahari in the list. Chairman Venkaiah Nadu asked the minister to look into the demand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
24-09-2020||India||Grassroots Covid drive||The Centre on Wednesday asked 10 states with three-fourths of India’s coronavirus disease cases to launch “grassroot level” public communication initiatives to encourage behaviour change that health experts say would be crucial to control the epidemic. The Union health ministry has asked Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Telangana, Odisha, Kerala and Chhattisgarh to set up district-level communication teams to promote masks, hand and respiratory hygiene and physical distancing, and coax people to seek early diagnosis. The ministry said the targeted communication campaign would seek to encourage Covid-19 appropriate behaviour through multiple media vehicles, including electronic, folk, print, outdoor and social media platforms, to convey messages “in an effective manner”. The move comes amid concerns that significant numbers of people across India are not adopting precautionary measures such as masks at a time the epidemic continues to grow. India on Wednesday recorded 83,347 new Covid-19 cases, an upward swing after five days of declining daily counts. The health ministry and state health authorities have for months stressed the need for members of the public to adopt precautionary measures. But health experts suspect such top-down messages have had limited impact because they were iterated with limited knowledge about target communities. “Human behaviour change is tricky,” said Preeti Kumar, vice-president for health systems support at the Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, who has spent several years guiding HIV prevention efforts. “It is a challenge that needs to be addressed through well-designed communication strategies that understand the local communities,” she told The Telegraph. “We have to know why do people behave the way they do — is it lack of knowledge, or lack of perception of the threat of the infection, or other factors?” Kumar and other experts say targeted communication campaigns would likely need to be region-specific. Experts believe effective risk communication strategies will need to combine top-down messaging from health authorities already in play with horizontal messaging driven by influential groups from within communities that they say is virtually non-existent at present. “We need urgent, intensive involvement of special groups in local communities to spread safety messages,” said Samiran Panda, chief of the epidemiology division at the Indian Council of Medical Research. “This means young people, residential welfare associations, religious leaders, or members of village councils.” Both Kumar and Panda believe some of the communication strategies that had been deployed in HIV prevention programmes could hold lessons for efforts to encourage Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. In HIV prevention efforts, for instance, female sex workers or men who have sex with men played critical roles in encouraging safe sex through peer-led communication in an unprecedented way, Panda said. “They were agents for behaviour change and they weaved success stories thread by thread.” Similarly, there is a role for peer groups for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, he said, to curb the spread of the virus. India’s numbers of daily new Covid-19 cases detected remained below the daily numbers of patients declared recovered for the fifth successive day, lowering the case load of patients under medical supervision to 968,377 on Wednesday compared with 975,861 on Tuesday. Doctors view any reduction in the number of active cases as encouraging because that would mean less demand for oxygen, intensive care unit beds or ventilators. But infectious disease experts point out that the vast majority of the country’s population remains susceptible to the infection and the epidemic is expected to continue growing. Public adherence to precautionary measures such as masks and physical distancing will be crucial to curb and slow down the spread of the infection. The slower the spread, experts say, the more manageable is the epidemic. Ten states account for nearly 74 per cent of the 83,347 new Covid-19 cases documented on Wednesday. Maharashtra made up the largest chunk (18,390 new cases) followed by Andhra Pradesh (7,553), Karnataka (6,974), Uttar Pradesh (5,650), Tamil Nadu (5,337), Odisha (4,189), Kerala (4,125), Delhi (3,816), Bengal (3,182) and Chhattisgarh (3,126). Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday interacted with the chief ministers of seven states — Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh — to review the Covid-19 situation. These states make up 62 per cent of active cases and 77 per cent of Covid-19 deaths in the country. Modi stressed the need to increase focus on testing, treatment, surveillance and “effective messaging”, the health ministry said in a media release. He said effective messaging was necessary because of the asymptomatic nature of the infection that may lead to doubts about the efficacy of tests. Around 80 per cent of Covid-19 infected persons remain asymptomatic or have only mild symptoms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-651
