25-09-2020||India||Balasubrahmanyam: The gifted singer with no formal training||Sripathi Panditaradhyula Balasubrahmanyam, popularly known by the magical three letters SPB, belonged to a rare breed of playback singers whose golden voice cast a spell over generations. The mesmerising voice of Balasubramanyam, who died aged 74 at a hospital in Chennai after being treated for Covid-19, endeared him to millions of fans as he strode like a colossus in the film and stage music world with numerous hits in 16 languages, more dominantly in South Indian films -- Tamil and his mother tongue Telugu. Quite unassuming despite his unparalleled achievements, including countless national and state awards and the coveted Padma Shri and Padma Padma Bhushan, he worked with generations of music composers, crooning a staggering 40,000 plus songs during his enviable over five decade career. An extraordinary singer, who was influenced by veteran Mohammed Rafi, SPB stamped his class in thousands of evergreen songs, evoking various emotions, be it joy, romance or pathos and later also took to acting in some films. Living and breathing music aptly fitted him as the gifted singer said a couple of years ago that he was recording a song every day, even over 50 years after he made his debut in 1966, besides being associated with several reality shows on TV. The evergreen song Ayiram Nilave Vaa (come thousand moons) from MGR starrer Tamil flick Adimaipen catapulted him to fame in 1969 and there had been no looking back for SPB since then. He carved out a niche for himself after entering the field when the then veterans like T M Soundararajan (TMS) and P B Srinivas were ruling the roost. For someone with no formal training in classical music, the heights SPB scaled were not something that even well trained singers could touch. Born on June 4, 1946, in Nellore in neighbouring Andhra Pradesh, the film world was never in the mind of SPB, also fondly called Balu by many of his friends such as music maestro Illayaraja. "It was never my desire to enter the film industry. I wanted to become a gazetted rank engineer which could fetch Rs 250 salary, a jeep with a chauffeur in the 1960s," he had repeatedly said over the years. It was renowned playback singer S Janaki who first spotted his talent when he took part in a music competition while pursuing engineering (AMIE) in Chennai and told him he will have a bright future in the film industry if he gave it a shot. In 1966, his career began with Telugu and Kannada songs with S P Kothandapani, whom SPB regarded as his guru, giving him the opportunity. His debut song in Tamil "Athanodu Ippadi Irundhu" a duet song with L R Easwari in a movie titled Hotel Rambha never saw the light of the day. Undeterred, he continued to try for opportunities and his entry in the Tamil film industry happened with Shanthi Nilayam and Adimaipen, both of which hit screens at the same time in 1969. He bagged the best playback singer award from the Tamil Nadu government for songs in both Adimaipen and Shanthi Nilayam. SPB went on to sing under music directors spanning generations from Kodhandapani, M S Viswanathan, Ilayaraja, A R Rahman and Deva and pairing female artists like P Suseela, S Janaki, Vaani Jayaram and Chitra, among others, and won six national awards. He could whistle, mimic any sound or voice and had the uncanny ability to seamlessly blend stammer, laughter, cough or give a voice form to any emotion in songs. There are thousands of melodies to soothe as in "Vannam Konda," and "Pehla Pehla Pyar Hai", which are all an inseparable part of people's everyday lives. He proved he can handle classical also with a sterling performance in the 1979 super hit "Sankaraparanam" by K Vishwanath, rendering as many as nine songs, including "Dorakuna Ituvanti Seva" and "Samaja vara gamana". Celebrations became merrier with his peppy numbers and for over three decades, no new year eve event has gone on in Tamil Nadu without playing of his "Elamai Etho Etho" song. Songs in several languages, including south Indian and Hindi have the indelible mark of his sweet voice and going beyond playback singing, he showed his impressive music composing skills in movies like "Sikaram." Acting and dubbing came to him naturally and many movies like "Midhunam", "Kadhalan", "Priyamanavaley", "Manadhil Urudhi Vendum" and "Sathya" vouch for it. He also had the knack to make his voice appear as though the particular actor himself rendered it. On the "secret", he had once said a singer has to be an actor to bring compatibility. "I have never changed my voice for Rajini or Kamal," he had said years ago. Once he suffered vocal cord nodule or singers nodule after singing in a very coarse voice for Nachina foodu song in Kamal Haasan starrer Telugu movie Indrudu Chandrudu (1989). He underwent a surgery, though Latha Mangeshkar had advised him against it and started singing after a gap. In his 54-year career, SPB acknowledged the influence of veteran singer Mohammed Rafi on him , especially during his early years in playback singing. Renowned for his diction in Tamil now, it would be hard to believe that music composer M S Viswanathan had once told SPB that he could consider giving him an opportunity only if he learnt Tamil pronunciation properly. "I learnt Tamil mainly through movie wall posters," he used to tell his fans with a chuckle. he always improvised, wherever it was possible, in making songs more lively and he candidly disclosed even things considered closely guarded secrets. "Singing in a single go without pausing for breath is just a gimmick and not true and it is only a technological innovation," he had said. In the 1990 Tamil flick Keladi Kanmani the "Mannil Indha" song had a portion that was claimed to have been rendered "without taking a breath." He always reinvented himself and for about 20 years, hosted innumerable reality music shows on television. SPB was known for self-ridicule, love for ice-cream, a self-proclaimed smoker for 35 years and a social drinker. Though accolades kept pouring his way as his stature rose, he continued to be humble and became more spiritual. On his success, he used to say it was a God given gift and probably had a connection to his previous births since he had even rendered classical compositions, which he neither understood nor was trained for. "I love my life. If possible I dont want to die. I have a passion for life," he had said once while speaking about his spiritual inclinations. Contrary to the special care taken by many singers to protect their voice, SPB enjoyed ice creams, chilled drinks and sweets. "I used to effortlessly eat half a kilo of sweets at one go," he had said several times. His friendship with music maestro Ilayaraja is legendary and their combine produced innumerable songs, which will forever be remembered in the Tamil speaking world. His love for K J Yesudas is also well known and he used to always address him as guru. SPB's sister S P Sailaja and his son Charan are also well known playback singers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
25-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh provides mid-day meals for children during pandemic  ||The Chhattisgarh government has shown the way by ensuring school children are given mid-day meals during the duration of the Covid crisis. Also, sources in the government have confirmed that 90 per cent students get the benefit of dry rations. So far, the state government  of Bhupesh Baghel has disbursed a host of benefits to farmers, livestock owners and tendupatta collectors. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on August 20, it handed out a number of benefits. Among the benefits were the second instalment to farmers from a corpus of Rs 1,500 crore. The money was directly transferred to 20 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. This apart, the Baghel government also sanctioned Rs 5 crore that was to be paid under Godhan Nyay Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
25-09-2020||India||Chhattisgarh to appoint over 14,500 teachers in state||The Chhattisgarh government has shown the way by deciding to appoint over 14,500 teachers in the state, a move that will help the youth of the state amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. So far, the state government of Bhupesh Baghel has disbursed a host of benefits to farmers, livestock owners and tendupatta collectors. On the occasion of the birth anniversary of former prime minister Rajiv Gandhi on August 20, it handed out a number of benefits. Among the benefits were the second instalment to farmers from a corpus of Rs 1,500 crore. The money was directly transferred to 20 lakh farmers under the Rajiv Gandhi Kisan Nyay Yojana. This apart, the Baghel government also sanctioned Rs 5 crore that was to be paid under Godhan Nyay Yojana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
25-09-2020||India||Farmers across India begin protest on farm bills ||Farmers on Friday began their protest as part of the 'Punjab Bandh' call against the contentious farm bills that were recently passed in the Parliament. As many as 31 farmer organisations, under the aegis of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) have joined hands for the complete shutdown of Punjab. Among farmers' unions which are supporting the bandh call included Bharti Kisan Union Krantikari, Kirti Kisan Union, Bharatiya Kisan Union (Ekta Ugrahan), Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee and BKU (Lakhowal). Several organisations in Haryana, including the BKU, have also extended support to the nationwide strike called by some farmers' bodies against the bills. Police personnel in adequate strength were deployed across the state to maintain law and order, officials said. While the ruling Congress and the AAP have extended support to the farmers' protest, the Shiromani Akali Dal has announced to hold road blockades. Farmers at several places in the state started gathering at roads for stopping the movement of traffic. Women protesters under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangharsh Committee in Amritsar took out a protest march. Shops and commercial establishments at many places in Punjab remained shut on Friday morning in the wake of farmers' stir. Shopkeepers had been appealed to keep their shops shut in support of farmers. Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal said farmers would hold protests at over 150 places across the state adding that they were getting support from traders, transporters and taxi operators among others. The Punjab Bandh call is getting support from government employees' unions, singers, commission agents, labourers and social activists. Farmers on Thursday had started a three-day rail blockade against the bills and squatted on tracks at many places in the state. Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh had said on Thursday the state government was fully with the farmers in their fight against the bills and no FIRs would be registered for violation of Section 144, which bars assembly of more than four people. The protesters have expressed apprehension that the Centre's farm reforms would pave the way for dismantling of the minimum support price system and they would be at the "mercy" of big corporates. The farmers said they would continue their fight till the three farm bills were revoked. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill were passed by the Parliament earlier this week. Security beefed up at Delhi borders The Delhi Police has intensified deployment of its personnel at the border areas in view of a nationwide protest call given by various farmer associations against the agriculture-related bills passed by the Parliament recently, officials said on Friday. They said police personnel have been deployed in the Chilla area near Delhi-Uttar Pradesh border in the wake of the protest. Police said adequate arrangements have been made to ensure the situation remains peaceful at the border areas. The situation is under control, according to the Delhi Police. "Our personnel have been deployed in Delhi-Uttar Pradesh picket borders as a precautionary measure in the wake of a protest call given by farmers in neighbouring states," said a senior police officer. Congress backs Bharat Bandh Voicing support for the Bharat Bandh call given by farmer organisations to protest the farm bills, the Congress on Friday alleged that the new agriculture laws will "enslave" farmers and the MSP will be "snatched away" from them. Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra spoke out against the farm bills and backed the Bharat Bandh. "A flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave our farmers," former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted with the hashtag 'I Support Bharat Bandh'. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi also hit out at the government, saying the three farm bills brought by it are reminiscent of the "East India Company rule". The MSP (minimum support price) of the farmers will be "snatched away" and they will be forced to become slaves of billionaires through contract farming, Priyanka Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi. `"Neither will they get the price nor respect. Farmers will become labourers in their own land," she alleged. "BJP's agriculture bills are a reminder of the East India Company rule. We will not allow this injustice to happen," she added, using the hashtag 'Bharat Bandh'.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||S.P Balasubrahmanyam dies at a Chennai hospital ||Celebrated playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, who held sway over millions of fans with his golden voice for over five decades, died on Friday at a hospital in Chennai where he was being treated for Covid-19 since last month. The 74-year old singer, whose condition became extremely critical on Thursday, breathed his last at 1.04 pm, a statement from MGM Healthcare, where he was admitted on August 5 after testing positive for Covid-19, said. However, the hospital said he had tested negative for Covid-19 on September 4. A six-time national award winner, Balasubrahmanyam, who had sung over 40,000 songs, was also honoured with Padma Shri in 2001 and Padma Bhushan in 2011. He is survived by wife, a son and a daughter. Announcing the death of SPB, as he was popularly known, his son and filmmaker S P Charan told reporters that his father's songs would live forever in the hears of his fans. Charan thanked all those who had prayed for the recovery of his father and the doctors, nurses and the administrative staff of the hospital for their attempts to save him. A statement from MGM Healthcare said: "In a further setback this morning, despite maximal life support measures and the best efforts of the clinical team, his (Balasubrahmanyam's) condition deteriorated further and he suffered a cardio-respiratory arrest. "With profound grief, we regret to inform that he passed away at 13.04 hours," it said. The hospital extended its condolences to his family, friends and well wishers. The hospital noted that from August 14 the singer was put on life support measures -ventilator and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support- in view of severe Covid-19 pneumonia.' "He continued to be closely monitored by our multi-disciplinary team in the critical care unit. He tested negative for Covid-19 on September 4," it added. Tributes poured in from all parts of India as the news of the demise was mourned by celebrities and common man alike. President Ram Nath Kovind condoled death of the celebrated playback singer and said Indian music has lost one of its melodious voices. "In the passing of music legend SP Balasubrahmanyam Indian music has lost one of its most melodious voices. Called 'Paadum Nila' or 'Singing Moon' by his countless fans, he was honoured with Padma Bhushan and many National Awards. Condolences to his family, friends and admirers," the president tweeted. Paying rich tributes to legendary singer S P Balasubrahmanyam, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said that he was a household name across the country and that his melodious voice and music enthralled audience for decades. In his condolence message, Modi tweeted, "With the unfortunate demise of Shri SP Balasubrahmanyam, our cultural world is a lot poorer. A household name across India, his melodious voice and music enthralled audiences for decades. In this hour of grief, my thoughts are with his family and admirers. Om Shanti." Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Friday expressed grief over the demise of playback singer S P Balasubrahmanyam and said he would forever remain in people's memories through his melodious voice and unparalleled music compositions. "Deeply saddened by the passing away of legendary musician and playback singer Padma Bhushan, S. P. Balasubrahmanyam ji. He will forever remain in our memories through his melodious voice & unparalleled music compositions. My condolences are with his family & followers. Om Shanti," Shah tweeted. Prominent names from Indian film industry such as veteran singer Lata Mangeshkar, music composer AR Rahman, actors Salman Khan and Akshay Kumar paid tributes to legendary singer SP Balasubrahmanyam and remembered his contribution in the field of music. "I'm very disturbed by the demise of SP Balasubrahmanyam. We have recorded many song together and did a lot shows. My condolences to his family," the veteran singer wrote on Twitter. Anil Kapoor remembered the musician as "great human being" and "an incredible singer" and said that he will be "missed truly". "Lucky to have had him dub for me... Give his voice to my performances in my first Telugu and Kannada film... SP Balasubrahmanyam will be missed truly...my heartfelt condolences & prayers to the family..." he added. A.R Rahman shared his photo with Balasubrahmanyam and posted, "#ripspb ...Devastated". Akshay Kumar expressed his condolences and said he was 'deeply saddened' to hear the news. "Just a few months back I'd interacted with him during a virtual concert in this lockdown..he seemed hale, hearty & his usual legendary self...life is truly unpredictable. My thoughts & prayers with his family," he wrote. Balasubrahmanyam's voice played a huge role in establishing Salman Khan as a romantic hero in the 1990s with songs "Mere rang main", "Pehla pehla pyaar hai", "Mausam ka jaddu", and "Hum aapke hain koun" among others. Khan, who on Thursday wished the legendary singer a speedy recovery, said he was heartbroken by the news of his demise. "Heartbroken to hear about #SPBalasubrahmanyam sir... you will forever live on in your undisputed legacy of music! condolence to the family #RIP," he tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Bihar polls in three phases from October 28, results on November 10||Voting for Bihar assembly elections will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and November 7 in one of the biggest elections globally during the Covid-19 pandemic, followed by counting of votes on November 10, the Election Commission announced on Friday. Announcing the poll schedule for the 243-member Bihar assembly, Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora said voting will begin as usual at 7 am but the period will be extended by one hour until 6 pm, except in the Left Wing Extremism-affected areas, so that Covid-19 patients can vote in the last hour of the day. "The world has changed significantly since the last major election in our country, which was held for Delhi assembly, and the Covid-19 pandemic has forced a new normal in every aspect of our life. "Bihar assembly polls will be one of the biggest elections globally to be held during prevailing Covid-19 situation," Arora said. He also said special protocols have been readied for voters who are Covid-positive patients. Announcing the poll schedule at a press conference here, Arora said the number of phases for 243-member Bihar assembly polls has been reduced keeping in mind security arrangements and festive season, among other factors. Voting for the first phase on October 28 will cover 71 assembly constituencies, while the second-phase voting on November 3 will cover 94 seats. The third phase of voting on November 7 will cover 78 assembly seats. Counting of votes for all seats will take place on November 10. According to the Election Commission, 7 lakh hand sanitisers, 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits, 6.7 lakh face shields and 23 lakh pairs of hand gloves have been arranged for Bihar polls. Besides, postal ballot facility will be provided wherever required and requested. Social distancing norms will need to be followed at public gatherings during the poll campaign. Arora further said anyone using social media for mischievous purposes, such as for flaring communal tension, during elections will have to face consequences, while hate speech will be also dealt with harshly by the Election Commission. On bypolls for one Lok Sabha seat and 64 assembly constituencies, Arora said the Election Commission will take a decision after a meeting on September 29 where issues raised by some states on timing of polls would be discussed and a press release should be issued subsequently the same evening. The notification for the first phase of Bihar assembly elections would be issued on October 1, while last date of nominations would be October 8 and withdrawal of candidature can be done till October 12. For the second phase, notification would be issued on October 9, nominations can be filed till October 16 and candidature can be withdrawn till October 19. The third-phase notification would be issued on October 13, the last date of nominations would be October 20 and the last date for candidature withdrawal has been fixed October 23. The number of people accompanying a candidate for submission of nomination has been restricted to two, while door-to-door campaign can have maximum five people including the candidate. Arora further said there are about 18.87 lakh migrants across 38 districts of Bihar, out of which 16.6 lakh are eligible to vote. While 13.93 lakh already had their names on the electoral rolls, 2.3 lakh more have been registered and the the process is still on, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Covid measure dips but no inference yet||A mathematical measure of the new coronavirus epidemic’s growth in India has dipped below 1 for the first time, researchers said on Thursday but cautioned against attempts to draw any inferences from the change. An analysis by the researchers at the Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Chennai, has found that the R value — a measure of the epidemic’s growth speed — fell from 1.04 estimated over September 13 to 17 to 0.93 estimated over September 19 to 22. The reduced R reflects a fall in the numbers of coronavirus disease patients under medical supervision for six successive days, as reported by the Union health ministry earlier this week, resulting from daily recoveries exceeding new cases detected. “We still see large numbers of new infections every day — but R has gone below 1 for the first time since local transmission started here in early March,” said Sitabhra Sinha, a computational physicist who led the analysis. “The number of active patients has been decreasing for several days.” India on Thursday recorded 86,508 new cases but the number of active patients declined to 966,382 from 968,377 on Wednesday. India’s total number of lab-confirmed infections is now over 5.73 million, of whom 4.67 million patients have recovered and 91,149 have died. But Sinha and medical researchers tracking the epidemic warn that the trend has been observed for too short a period and it is unclear whether other factors, if any, such as the number of samples tested daily might have influenced the change. “We cannot yet make any inferences from this dip — we’ll have to wait, possibly for weeks,” Sinha told The Telegraph, pointing out that the R value for Delhi had dipped below 1 for about a month during July-August, but increased and remains above that level. The analysis also found that R values for the five states with the largest numbers of active patients have also fallen below 1. Maharashtra, for instance, has an R of 0.86 while the values for other states are 0.91 in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, 0.80 in Andhra Pradesh, and 0.99 in Tamil Nadu. Bengal, Jammu and Kashmir, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab are among states with R slightly above 1. “We cannot make any interpretations from this data without looking at the numbers of the samples tested and what tests were used,” said a community medicine specialist and member of a research group on epidemiology and surveillance set up by the Indian Council of Medical Research. Diagnostic labs across the country are using two types of tests — one called the PCR test looks for viral genetic material and is considered reliable while the other so-called antigen test looks for viral protein components and is less reliable.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Kashmir: Hours after liquidation video, Babar Qadri killed||Lawyer and TV panellist Babar Qadri was shot dead outside his Srinagar home on Thursday, shortly after he had publicly excoriated separatist ideologue and Kashmir High Court Bar Association president Mian Qayoom and accused the advocate’s associates of looking to kill him. Eyewitnesses said two youths came looking for Qadri, 40, late in the afternoon and shot the father of two young daughters as he stepped out of his home in the Hawal locality. “We heard gunshots and saw him lying blood-soaked. He had multiple gunshot wounds,” a neighbour said. No group has claimed responsibility so far. Qadri was a frequent participant in debates about Kashmir on national television and was variously dubbed an Indian or Pakistani agent by his opponents. He knew people in high places in both countries. A few hours before his murder, Qadri had in a Facebook video accused Bar Association lawyers of planning to kill him. Qayoom had been released recently after being arrested ahead of the abrogation of Article 370 on August 5 last year. A key aide to Hurriyat hawk Syed Ali Shah Geelani, Qayoom had been a vocal advocate of the pro-azadi struggle. A lawyer close to Qayoom said the Bar had neither any role in Qadri’s murder nor any knowledge of who killed him. Retired army officers and BJP politicians had, however, accused Qadri of being a Pakistani agent. During a TV debate, BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra had addressed the lawyer as “Mr Gaddari”. “Khate India ka ho, gaate Pakistan ka ho (You eat India’s bread but sing for Pakistan),” Patra told him. In his Facebook video, Qadri cited messages that some lawyers close to Qayoom had apparently exchanged among themselves, possibly within their WhatsApp groups. “If you look at their comments… it is clear their intention is to liquidate me. This is because they have no answers to my questions,” he said, without revealing the content of these “comments”. Qadri had accused Qayoom of using militants and Pakistani agencies to stifle opposition within the Bar and turning it into an extension of Geelani’s Hurriyat faction. He had also criticised senior lawyers for sending their children to the US and other foreign countries to study while provoking the children of ordinary people to pick up arms and stones. In the video, he claimed that Qayoom had secured his release from jail by pledging silence on political issues. A lawyer close to Qayoom claimed Qadri had recently sought renewal of his Bar membership, terminated in 2012 because of his constant criticism, and had resented it when told a decision could be taken only after internal elections at an unspecified date. National Conference politician Agha Ruhullah appeared to blame the government's inaction for Qadri's death. "They didn't listen to you and you had to pay with your life for their deafness. They ignored you and it proved criminal," he tweeted. It's unclear whether the police had investigated Qadri's allegations. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah condemned the assassination and demanded a probe. "The assassination of Babar Qadri this evening is tragic & I unequivocally condemn it. The sense of tragedy is all the more because he warned of the threat. Sadly his warning was his last tweet," Omar tweeted.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Farmers block train tracks while Modi tracks fitness routine||On a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi persuaded captain Virat Kohli to give him a crash course on the Yo-Yo test, farmers in Punjab began blockading tracks and the railways expressed fear that the movement of food grain and other essentials could be severely affected. Farmers in Punjab and Haryana, supported by the Opposition, are protesting against the farm bills that they fear will deprive them of the minimum support price for their produce and aid a takeover of the farm sector by big companies. A three-day rail blockade was launched on Thursday in Punjab, ahead of a call by farmer unions for a nationwide strike on Friday. By nightfall, at least 20 trains had been “partially cancelled” and five “short-terminated” till September 26 as the protesters in Punjab blocked tracks at several places. “The disruption of rail services at this time will have a serious impact on freight loading as well as passenger movement. It will affect the movement of essential goods,” Northern and North Central Railway general manager Rajiv Chaudhry told PTI. While the Congress on Thursday offered support to Friday’s strike, the Prime Minister marked the first anniversary of the “Fit India Movement”. One of the fitness influencers Modi interacted with over video was Kohli. The Prime Minister asked the skipper about the Yo-Yo test and a smiling Kohli explained the running aerobic fitness routine to him. The two farm bills have been passed in both Houses of Parliament disregarding Opposition protests and are awaiting presidential assent. For all its show of nonchalance, the BJP has decided to deploy the full might of its massive organisation to try and restrict the farmers’ protests to Punjab and Haryana. Agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar said on Thursday: “I am ready to talk to any farmer or any farmers’ body even at midnight.” A day before the countrywide protest called by the farmers, the BJP’s central leadership directed all state units to launch a massive campaign at the district and block levels to counter the Opposition's charge, sources in the ruling party said. “I have personally reached out to thousands of farmers and explained to them the benefits of the (proposed) laws,” said BJP parliamentarian Virendra Singh Mast, who heads the party’s farmer cell. The BJP leadership is hoping that the farmers’ agitation will fizzle out in Punjab and Haryana and not spread. The BJP leadership is concerned about Haryana, where the party is in power with the support of the regional Jannayak Janata Party. The BJP fears that if the protests intensify in Haryana, JJP leader and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala could come under pressure like the Shiromani Akali Dal in Punjab. The Akali Dal has pulled out its lone minister from the Union cabinet in protest at the passage of the farm bills.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Digvijaya accuses BJD of supporting BJP||Senior Congress leader and former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Digvijaya Singh on Thursday targeted the BJD for supporting the BJP, which he said was working against the interest of the farmers. Addressing a press conference here, Singh said: “The BJD opposed the farm bills but it continues to support most of the BJP-led Centre’s decisions. There seems to be some kind of an understanding between both the parties. Both have joined hands to finish the farmers.” The Naveen Patnaik-led BJD had opposed the two farm bills — the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, and the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 — in the Rajya Sabha. It had also demanded that the bills be sent to the standing committee in the Lok Sabha and the select committee in the Rajya Sabha for scrutiny. Singh said “The Congress is in touch with different parties at the state and the national level to oppose the two bills. We will also appeal to the BJD to support us and oppose the BJP’s anti farmer policies.” He said the Congress would continue to oppose the bills which were introduced by the BJP-led government in Parliament because of international pressure. “India during the Congress regime had resisted these pressures and never allowed anti-farmer powers to succeed. But the BJP government has succumbed to these pressures. We will take the issue to the farmers,” he said. Stating that all kinds of misinformation was being spread by the ruling dispensation with regard to the bills, he said now even rich people can open grain mandis. “Earlier, if there was a farmer related grievance, it was decided at the collector level and even in the civil court. Now the appeal will be heard at the joint secretary level in New Delhi. Is it possible for farmers to run to Delhi all the time for justice?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Uttarakhand government eases Covid norms for tourists  ||The Uttarakhand government has eased coronavirus norms for tourists, exempting them from producing a negative test report on arrival. The requirement of a mandatory stay of a minimum two days in a hotel or homestay will also not be required anymore, chief secretary Om Prakash said. However, it will be mandatory for tourists coming to the state by any mode of transportation to register on the Smart City portal prior to their travel. The new directions supersede the order issued on September 19 by which tourists were required to produce a negative RT-PCR test report issued by an ICMR-authorised lab not more than 96 hours ahead of their arrival, the order issued by the chief secretary said. Checks like thermal scanning, sanitisation and other prescribed health protocols for hotels and restaurants must be complied with, the new guidelines said. In case a tourist is found coronavirus positive, the hotel management shall intimate the district administration and make an arrangement for random testing to ensure the compliance of the guidelines issued by Union Ministry of Home Affairs and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Tweet from Jammu officer’s handle blames one religion for spreading terrorism||A post from the Twitter handle of a senior police officer in Jammu appears to accuse followers of one religion of spreading terrorism across the world and names Myanmar and Sri Lanka as countries that have learnt this lesson well. Swarn Singh Kotwal, senior superintendent of police (security), Jammu, on Thursday posted he had “no relation whatsoever” to the controversial tweet, but had not removed the 26-day-old post by late evening. The IPS officer said he had complained to the police cyber cells in Jammu and Srinagar against “trolls” who were abusing him but said nothing about hackers. The controversial August 29 tweet said: “Time n again all political parties after every terrorist act of violence paddles (sic) aatankwad Ka koi dharm Nahi hota (terrorism has no religion)...but this I think is the biggest fraud being played on all of us. From Delhi Bengaluru to Sweden the religion is very much visible. Srilanka n Burma knew it in days.” Myanmar authorities are accused of genocide against Rohingya Muslims while in Sri Lanka, Muslims have faced attacks in recent years, especially since the April 2019 Easter Sunday bombings. Ironically, the worst and longest terrorist threat in Sri Lanka’s history came from the Tamil Tigers, a secular outfit whose leaders and cadres were mostly Hindus. Kotwal’s tweet had initially gone unnoticed, perhaps because he has few followers, but it has been widely read in the past few days. Police sources said there was anger in the force, where the ranks are largely Muslim. While the tweet did not name any religion, Kotwal later expressed agreement when some of those replying to him explicitly criticised Muslims in this context. Kotwal, whose Twitter profile describes him as a Hindu nationalist, appears to be a fan of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Many PMs served the country in d past n many will in future, but d way u r serving like a true Sewak, this Bharat is indebted of (sic) Ur integrity, Dynamism, Vision n Energy. Very happy birthday Mr PM. May God bless on this n keep u Hale n hearty in future yrs. Long live my PM,” he tweeted on September 17. Kotwal’s August 29 tweet underlines a recent trend of people in uniform being increasingly associated with sectarian views. Former interim CBI chief and one-time Modi government favourite M. Nageswara Rao had days before his retirement in July alleged a “Project Abrahamisation of Hindu Civilisation” and accused past governments of whitewashing “bloody Islamic invasions/rule”. Gupteshwar Pandey, who retired as Bihar police chief this week, had been aggressively vocal about the Sushant Singh Rajput case, which the BJP has been accused of using to divert attention from its failures. Pandey had publicly hurled allegations, without citing evidence, against actress Rhea Chakraborty and questioned her “aukaat” to comment on chief minister Nitish Kumar. When The Telegraph called Kotwal, the call dropped before the officer could answer the first question. He did not respond to further calls. In response to this correspondent’s WhatsApp query whether he was advocating an anti-Muslim pogrom by referring to Myanmar and Sri Lanka, he said: “Never supported, will not support.” He gave no further explanations, nor answered the remaining queries. On Thursday afternoon, Kotwal posted a tweet that said: “Three days back some 8 t 9 tweet handerlers (sic) from valley suddenly followed me, started trolling n (and) threatening me about a tweet to which I have no relation whatsoever. I have formally lodged a complaint in this regard with SP Cyber cell Srinagar n SP Cyber cell jmu for n / a.” Superintendent of police Tahir Ashraf, the Kashmir cyber police chief, neither denied nor acknowledged that Kotwal had lodged a complaint. “People don’t complain with the SP, they can complain at police stations…. His writing a tweet (that he has lodged a complaint with Ashraf’s office) does not make any sense,” Ashraf said. “Why should he file a complaint here… he is (posted) in Jammu. If he has any grievance he can forward a complaint to cyber police Jammu.” Asked whether this meant he had no knowledge of the complaint, Ashraf asked this newspaper to check with his police station. The cyber police station did not answer calls. On social media, Kotwal has been accused of fanning communal disharmony. “Now I realise where this bigotry is coming from! SSP saab is very keen what kapil mishra has to say! After seeing this I rest my case!,” a tweet said. Kotwal replied: “I don’t subscribe to any idealogy (sic) or party. These r my personal views. You r my fellow countrymen. Let’s b proud of our nation. Hindustan Zindabad.”
Mishra, a BJP leader, has been accused of making communally provocative speeches in the run-up to the Delhi February riots that killed 53 people. Kotwal has re-tweeted several of Mishra’s tweets, suggesting he is a fan. Kotwal’s Twitter timeline is crammed with tweets attacking Muslims. When one tweeter said that “people of only one religion take to rioting, burning public property, loot, arson and plunder each time they feel their religion is insulted, no matter which country they live in...”, Kotwal’s reply was: “Because they are taught so.” “Excellent sum up Ma’am. The sooner we all realize n accept it the better it is !!# Delhi Bengaluru n Sweden,” Kotwal said in reply to another tweet that read: “They seek asylum in ‘secular’ liberal western democracies crying victimhood, saying they want to escape from their oppressive sharia states. Once they get citizenship, they use the liberal laws of the same western democracies to turn them into oppressive sharia states! #BoloKaun.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Bhima-Koregaon case: 2 years in jail, ‘good case’, but no bail yet for Sudha Bharadwaj ||The Supreme Court on Thursday refused interim bail to rights activist Sudha Bharadwaj in the Bhima Koregaon case, questioning her claim that her poor health was a “ticking time bomb”. Bharadwaj, 58, has spent over two years in a Pune jail since her August 2018 arrest in the case, which relates to caste violence on January 1, 2018, and an alleged Maoist plot to target the Prime Minister’s rallies. Her lawyer, senior advocate Vrinda Grover, had underlined in court that Bharadwaj suffered from heart ailments, diabetes and arthritis. She said Bharadwaj could easily pick up Covid-19 from fellow inmates, with her existing diseases making her particularly vulnerable against the virus. But the bench of Justices U.U. Lalit and Ajay Rastogi decided after going through health records furnished by the Maharashtra government that her medical condition did not warrant interim bail. The bench advised Bharadwaj to approach the appropriate court for regular bail. “I am in custody since two years as an undertrial. Charges are not proved. I am only seeking interim bail,” Grover said. “She is 58 and is not severely diabetic,” Justice Lalit remarked, referring to her medical reports. Grover said Bharadwaj had developed her heart problems in jail and her condition was “a ticking time bomb”. “It (Bharadwaj’s condition) needs a cardio profile, lipid profile. Let me get the check-up done. She has also developed arthritis. She has never abused any court order,” Grover said. She argued the prosecution had produced no evidence to connect Bharadwaj with the violence in Bhima Koregaon, and asserted her client had at the time been practising at Bilaspur High Court. Justice Lalit asked why Bharadwaj had not applied for regular bail from the competent court. Grover replied that a plea for regular bail was pending with Bombay High Court. Justice Lalit then said that Bharadwaj’s blood sugar level was not excessive — it was only 114. (It’s normal to have sugar levels of 100 mg/dL after fasting for at least eight hours, and 140 mg/dL two hours after eating.) Grover said Bharadwaj’s family was concerned more about her cardiac problems and arthritis. Justice Rastogi then underscored that jail doctors had examined Bharadwaj on August 20 and found no serious problems. The apex court noted that the high court too had recorded that the medication provided to her was in order. “Are you saying this report is false? You have a good case on merits, why don’t you file a regular bail application? Either you withdraw it (interim bail plea) or we will dismiss it,” the bench said. Grover then withdrew the plea for interim bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
25-09-2020||India||Trade unions to join farmer protests||Ten central trade unions have decided to support the all-India protests by farmers on Friday against the farm bills and highlight the employer-friendly provisions in the three labour code bills recently passed by Parliament. The trade unions, including Indian National Trade Union Congress, CPM-affiliated Centre of Indian Trade Unions (Citu) and CPI-affiliated All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) will hold a meeting on Saturday to decide their future action against the passage of Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, Industrial Relations Code and Social Security Code with many relaxed provisions. RSS-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh (BMS) said these bills were “tilted too much in favour of employers and bureaucrats”. The Sangh in a statement said it would hold a three-day national conference from October 2 to discuss these bills. Citu secretary A.R. Sindhu said central trade unions would join farmers’ organisations on Friday to protest against the farm bills. “We are extending solidarity to the agitation against the farm bill. The labour bills are equally dangerous in terms of their impact on workers. We will highlight the anti-worker provisions like the weakening of trade union, restrictions on holding strikes, relaxation in the requirement of permission for industry to sack employees and relaxation of norms on probation, promotion or initiation of inquiry against any employee,” Sindhu said. Parliament on Wednesday passed the three labour bills amid boycott of the session by major Opposition parties. Officials in the labour ministry said the rule-making process would be fast-tracked with regard to the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code and Industrial Relations Code after their notification. “They do not have much complexity. The rule making should not take much time. But the Social Security Code will need wide-ranging consultations and data. That may take a long time,” the official said. Parliament had passed the Wage Code in August last year. The rules of bill are not yet ready. G.P. Bhatia, former labour welfare commissioner, expressed doubt about the completion of the rule-making process before 2024. He said many of the provisions were not clear and had been left to the bureaucracy. “In all the codes, many things have not been defined like the applicability conditions. Once the Centre frames the rules, the states will take time to framing theirs. I feel it may take three years for these laws to come into force,” Bhatia said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Assam board cuts Nehru chapters from syllabus||If Nehru is not to blame, then better to keep him out. The Assam Higher Secondary Education Council (AHSEC), the state board, has removed several chapters on Jawaharlal Nehru while pruning the syllabus for Classes XI and XII to “reduce exam stress” and make up for the academic time lost because of the pandemic. The 30 per cent reduction in syllabus will be for the 2020-21 academic year. The AHSEC, an autonomous body, was established on June 1, 1984, to “regulate, supervise and develop” higher-secondary education in Assam. Many, however, pointed out that Assam is ruled by the BJP, which blames India’s first Prime Minister for all that ails India over half a century later. The topics that have been lopped off the Class XII political science syllabus are “Unit-I: First three general elections”, “Unit-II: Nehru’s approach to nation-building”, “Unit-III: Famine and suspension of five-year plans”, “Unit-IV: Nehru’s foreign policy” and “Unit-V: Political succession after Nehru, politics of and Garibi Hatao”. Chapters on the Ayodhya dispute and the Gujarat riots have also been deleted. Nehru was Prime Minister from 1947 till his death in 1964. The five-year plans were launched in 1951 under his watch. “Garibi Hatao” (abolish poverty) was the pet slogan of Nehru’s daughter and Prime Minister Indira Gandhi. “The Nehru years are the defining years of an emerging new India,” educationist Paresh Malakar told The Telegraph. “It is bit surprising,” he added, referring to the removal of the topics related to Nehru. Asked why topics related to Nehru had been chucked out, an AHSEC official told this newspaper: “There are still a lot on Nehru in the syllabus that the students can learn. We have not dropped whole chapters but only sub-topics. It is only for this session.” A government official said the AHSEC was an autonomous body that took its own decisions, ruling out government interference in the syllabus changes. In a brief report uploaded on its website on the reduced syllabus, the AHSEC said the move had been influenced by the decision of the CBSE, the country’s largest education board, to cut down the volume of the curriculum in view of the pandemic. The report pointed out that valuable time had been lost to the coronavirus pandemic, which had affected 1.6 lakh people and claimed 597 lives in Assam till Wednesday. All government schools in Assam have resumed physical classes for students of Classes IX to XII from September 21 in keeping with a central government suggestion. However, attendance, which is voluntary and requires mandatory parental consent, has been thin. The other deleted topics included the Punjab militancy crisis and the anti-Sikh riots of 1984, the implementation of the Mandal Commission report to introduce reservations, the United Front, NDA and UPA governments, and the 2004 elections. The Plus II syllabus has been trimmed after seeking views from other state boards, experts, college principals and teachers, the AHSEC said. The decision was taken at a meeting held on August 19, it said, adding that subject experts from various reputed institutions had been physically present during the finalisation of the reduced syllabus. “The main objective is to reduce the exam stress of the students for the 2020-21 session due to this pandemic situation and to prevent learning gaps,” Manoranjan Kakati, the AHSEC secretary, was quoted as saying in the report uploaded on the board website.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Modi ‘busy with fitness’, not farmers||The Congress on Thursday lent its voice to the agitating farmers by accusing the government of giving licence to the corporates for profiteering in agriculture trade and also exposed the inconsistencies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi who was busy discussing fitness regimes of celebrities. As farmers started a rail roko agitation in Punjab, a precursor to Friday’s nationwide strike, the Congress held media conferences in Delhi, Nagpur, Ahmedabad, Thiruvananthpuram, Patna, Jammu and Shimla to explain the ill effects of farm reforms, while Rahul Gandhi took a dig at Modi for spending time on celebrities instead of solving the country’s pressing problems. Senior Congress leaders will on Friday move to other big cities to talk about farm bills. Rahul, who returned to Delhi on Wednesday along with Congress president Sonia Gandhi from the US where she went for medical check-up, tweeted: “Priorities of Modi Government: Instead of talking to farmers and labourers to find a solution to their problems, they are busy in public relations.” Rahul attached a report with the tweet which explained how Modi told cricketer Virat Kohli that Delhi’s famous “chhole-bhature” got ignored because of his strict fitness 
regime. The Prime Minister was talking to celebrities as part of Fit India dialogue. While Rahul clearly hinted that Modi’s priorities were wrong, party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi also lamented tactics of “diversion and distraction” as issues ranging from economy to Chinese intrusion and Covid-19 were crying for attention. Apart from creating a noise about the injustice meted out to the farmers across the country, the Congress also pointed to the Prime Minister’s duplicity on the question of problems of agriculture sector. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh recalled how Modi as Gujarat chief minister wanted statutory guarantee for MSP (minimum support price) and refused to concede the same as Prime Minister. “U-Turn Modi. 1. Opposed GST as Chief Minister. Introduced it as Prime Minister (and made a mess of it) 2. Wanted MSP for private trade in law as Chief Minister. Against it as Prime Minister,” Ramesh tweeted. Modi as Gujarat chief minister had chaired a working group on consumer affairs in 2011 and submitted a report to then Prime Minister Manmohan Singh. The report said, “Since intermediaries play a vital role in the functioning of the market and at times they have advance contract with farmers, in respect of all essential commodities we should protect farmers’ interest by mandating through statutory provisions that no farmer-trader transaction should be below MSP wherever prescribed.” This is what the Opposition and the agitating farmers are demanding now. In the report, Modi had also suggested strengthening of the public distribution system (PDS), improvement in effectiveness of the Essential Commodities Act and other statutes and stepping up vigilance against hoarding to ensure reasonable prices of essential commodities. Ironically, the Modi government has now removed stock limit by diluting the Essential Commodities Act. Abhishek Singhvi said at a news conference: “This government is introducing new forms of feudalism. By removing the stock limit, they are giving licence to hoarding and profiteering. Modi is lying that now there will be no restrictions on selling the produce anywhere in the country. “There was never any restriction on the farmers. He calls the reform historic and says the moves are good for farmers. With friends like these, farmers don’t need an enemy.” He added: “Why didn’t any other Prime Minister think of contract farming? Is Modi the wisest? Over 86  per cent farmers have less than five acres of land, mostly two acres. Will a farmer having two acres of land have the bargaining power against big corporate players? “This is new feudalism. Also, the changes are unconstitutional and will be struck down by the Supreme Court as agriculture as well as trade and commerce are exclusive domains of the state. Markets and fairs also fall in the state’s jurisdiction.” Singhvi demolished the attempts to paint a rosy picture by recalling the Bihar example where the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) Act was abolished in 2006. He cited from several studies which suggest that promises of private investment proved fallacious and the public procurement system got completely ruined. Procurement of grains by government agencies in Bihar have been less than 1 per cent over the last many years and the number of procurement centres  got reduced from 9,000 in 2015-16 to merely 1,600 in 2019-20.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Delhi riots: Kapil Mishra meets special cell||Kapil Mishra appeared before the special cell over the riots in the capital in February. The former MLA, who had delivered a provocative speech immediately before the riots in which 53 people were killed, has been accused by the Delhi minority commission of provoking the flare-up. The police, however, have said in a chargesheet that Mishra did not deliver any inflammatory speech. Senior police officers remained tight-lipped about Thursday’s interaction, in sharp contrast to the official and unofficial media briefings whenever students and social activists are questioned in connection with the case. Mishra said after coming out of the Lodhi Gardens office of the special cell: “At a time when the police are filing chargesheets in the case and rioters are being arrested, a section is running a hate campaign against me and trying to save the real conspirators. That is why I came to the special cell office to file a complaint so that these people can be investigated.” Delhi police have been accused of conducting a “one-sided” investigation into the riots and “shielding” some BJP politicians, including Mishra. The Delhi minority panel has alleged that “the police were complicit and abetted the attacks” during the riots and arrested the victims rather than the perpetrators.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Air quality improves in Delhi’s 13 hotspots||Air quality in Delhi’s 13 pollution hotspots improved significantly because of restrictions on industrial operations and commercial and vehicular activity during the lockdown, according to the Central Pollution Control Board. The Delhi government has identified 13 pollution hotspots in the city based on the annual average of PM10 and PM2.5 levels. These are Okhla Phase-II, Dwarka, Ashok Vihar, Bawana, Narela, Mundka, Punjabi Bagh, Wazirpur, Rohini, Vivek Vihar, Anand Vihar, R.K. Puram and Jahangirpuri. PM2.5 is tiny particulate matter less than 2.5 microns in diameter. It can enter deep into the lungs and even into the bloodstream. The CPCB said it analysed air quality data in three stages — pre-lockdown (March 1-21), lockdown phase-I (March 25-April 19) and lockdown phase-II (April 20-May 3). A comparative analysis was also done for the corresponding time periods in 2019 to assess the improvement. “Noticeable reduction in PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 levels in hotspots of Delhi was observed during the lockdown period as compared to 2019 levels, in all likelihood due to restrictions on operations of industrial and commercial areas and vehicular activity,” it said. The reduction in PM2.5 levels varied from 54 per cent in Jahangirpuri to 26 per cent in Punjabi Bagh. Dwarka recorded a 50 per cent decline in PM2.5 levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||CBSE retest result for Class XII by October 10||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday informed the Supreme Court that it would declare the compartment exam results for Class XII by October 10. The University Grants Commission (UGC) also informed a bench comprising Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna that it would start the academic calendar for undergraduate courses from October 31 and by that time the retest results will be out. The top court was hearing a plea filed by Anika Samvedi seeking a direction to ensure that the academic year of these students shouldn’t go waste. The statements of the CBSE and the UGC assume significance in view of the earlier observation of the bench that they should work in tandem to ensure that the academic year of students appearing for the retest was not wasted. It had said that the CBSE should declare the results of compartment examinations expeditiously and the UGC ensure that students get admission in colleges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Covid: Supreme Court to examine civil services exam postponement plea ||The Supreme Court on Thursday agreed to examine the plea by some aspirants seeking postponement of the upcoming civil services exams by two-three months in view of the spiralling Covid-19 cases in the country. A bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar and Sanjiv Khanna, while adjourning the matter to September 28, asked the counsel for petitioner Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash to serve a copy of the petition to the Centre and the Union Public Service Commission. The court, however, refrained from either issuing notice or any interim directions like stay on the exams as sought by the students. “Liberty is granted to serve advance copy on the Standing Counsel for the Union Public Service Commission as well as on the Standing Counsel for the Central Agency representing Union of India through email/online. List the matter on 28.09.2020,” the bench said in its order. An estimated 6 lakh students would be taking the UPSC exam scheduled on October 4 in over 72 centres in different parts of the country. The petitioners have contended that the UPSC and the authorities had decided to proceed with the exams in an “arbitrary” and “whimsical” manner in utter disregard of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, thus ignoring the safety and health of the 6 lakh-odd aspirants. According to the candidates, making them write the exams being conducted in an offline mode has made lakhs of students vulnerable to get affected by the pandemic and cause a threat to their lives, which they said was a violation of their fundamental rights guaranteed under Article 21 (right to life and liberty). Besides, it was argued that in several other parts of the country the flood situation would make it difficult for the students to take the exams scheduled for October 4. Hence, they pleaded that the exams be postponed by two-three months as by that time the pandemic situation may stabilise in the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Delhi riots: witch-hunt of India’s brightest, say scholars||More than 200 scholars, writers and artistes on Thursday demanded the release of Umar Khalid and other social activists arrested in connection with the Delhi riots and the protests against the new citizenship regime, denouncing the action as a “premeditated witch-hunt” against “India’s best and brightest”. The signatories include linguist Noam Chomsky; authors Salman Rushdie, Amitav Ghosh and Arundhati Roy; philosophers Angela Davis, Cornel West, Achille Mbembe and Akeel Bilgrami; economists Richard Jolly and Prabhat Patnaik; filmmakers Mira Nair and Anand Patwardhan; actress Ratna Shah; former Indian Navy chief L. Ramdas; and historians Ramachandra Guha, Sheldon Pollock, David Hardiman, Rajmohan Gandhi and Sumit Sarkar. They said in a statement: “Currently, 19 of the 21 people falsely accused under terror laws (in connection with the February riots) are Muslim. If we allow their identity to become their crime, India shall stand shamed in the global community of secular nations. These people are not terrorists, and the police investigation into the Delhi riots is not an investigation. It is a pre-meditated witch-hunt.” Demanding the release of Khalid and others arrested for protesting against the new citizenship matrix “that denies equal citizenship rights”, the signatories said: “We stand in solidarity and outrage with the brave young scholar and activist Umar Khalid, arrested in New Delhi on September 14, 2020, under fabricated charges of engineering the Delhi riots in February 2020…. “This process of criminalising all dissent has been underway for a few years and even under a Covid-19 pandemic, relentless political arrests under fabricated charges are punishing the innocent long before they are brought to trial.” They added: “He (Khalid) has been projected as a jihadi and a figure of hate by sections of a compromised Indian media, not only because he speaks persuasively against government policies that he believes are unjust, but also because he is Muslim. “Today Umar Khalid joins a long list of those targeted, implicated and unjustly incarcerated under the UAPA (Unlawful Activities Prevention Act), only because they were active in the equal citizenship movement, against the CAA-NRC. To send its chilling message to all critics, the State has chosen India’s best and brightest; the young, the fearless, the dreamers of a better country, where inequality is not a bitter pill for some to swallow but a vile aberration to be fought against at all times.” The statement comes days after the police denied, in a chargesheet, that BJP leader Kapil Mishra had delivered a provocative speech before large-scale rioting started and that he was merely conveying his intention to cops to start protesting if they did not clear a road in northeast Delhi of those agitating against the new citizenship regime. 
Delhi High Court had pulled up the police for not acting against Mishra and played his speech in court. The signatories said: “Although between December 2019 and February 2020, leaders from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) gave hate speeches inciting their supporters to ‘shoot the traitors’, no cases have been registered against them. The role of BJP leader Kapil Mishra has shockingly not attracted the merest police scrutiny; even though he stood in Northeast Delhi on February 23, 2020, along with the deputy commissioner of police and threatened that his supporters would ‘take matters into their own hands’ if the CAA protesters were not removed.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
25-09-2020||India||Jurists see NGO ‘harassment’ in amendment||The Geneva-based International Commission of Jurists has condemned the passage of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Amendment Bill in the Indian Parliament, saying it would seriously undermine the work of civil society and small NGOs that seek to safeguard the freedom of speech and fundamental rights with the help of foreign funding. The commission, an NGO that defends human rights and the rule of law worldwide, noted that “the restrictions in the Bill continued a larger pattern of threats and harassment faced by civil society in India”. “The Indian government has sought to restrict human rights defenders from travelling outside India and used overbroad laws like sedition (Section 124A, Indian Penal Code) and Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, 1967, to arbitrarily arrest human rights defenders. At present, over 20 human rights defenders are in pre-trial detention. The spirit of the Bill is to stigmatise certain NGOs and lend credence to the authoritarian voices that have attacked them as ‘anti-national’,” the commission said. According to the commission, the proposed law had significantly amended the previous Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, which too had imposed overbroad and vague restrictions on civil society. The bill, which cleared the Rajya Sabha on Wednesday and is awaiting presidential consent, makes it mandatory for NGO office-bearers to furnish their Aadhaar numbers, enables the Centre to allow NGOs or associations to surrender their FCRA certificates and bars public servants from receiving funds from abroad. The government has said the legislation is aimed at ensuring transparency. While tabling the bill in the Rajya Sabha, minister of state for home Nityanand Rai had said the proposed amendments were in the interest of good NGOs that want to do good work in the country. “Those NGOs which do not adhere to transparency may feel bad,” Rai said, adding that some NGOs misused money to fund extremists and anti-national outfits. The Geneva-based commission said the measures would effectively restrict access to foreign funding, particularly for public servants and smaller NGOs. The bill adds onerous governmental oversight, additional regulations, certification processes and operational requirements while simultaneously reducing the limit of administrative expenditure that can be allocated to foreign contributions to 20 per cent from 50 per cent, the commission pointed out. In the statement issued from Geneva, Ian Seiderman, the legal and policy director of the commission, alleged that the bill had failed to comply with India’s international legal obligations and constitutional provisions to respect and protect the rights to freedom of association, expression and assembly. The commission stressed that the bill’s provisions would impose arbitrary and extraordinary obstacles for human rights defenders and other civil society actors. Alleging that the bill was incompatible with international law, the commission called on India’s President to withhold assent. It urged the government to at least scrap the provisions that are inconsistent with international law. “The bill has been passed by both Houses of Parliament only four days after it was tabled, and without any stakeholder consultation. This hasty lawmaking that clearly undermines human rights and the work of civil society is yet another attempt by the government to destabilise the functioning of democratic institutions in India,” Seiderman said. He pointed out that the UN Human Rights Council had in its Resolution 22/6 on Protecting Human Rights Defenders declared that “no law should criminalise or delegitimise activities in defence of human rights on account of the origin of funding”. Further, the UN Special Rapporteur on Assembly and Association has clarified that controls in laws should not “unduly obstruct the legitimate work” and need to be “fair, objective and non-discriminatory, and not be used as a pretext to silence critics”, the commission said. The statement added: “The unfortunate result is that many civil society organisations will be chilled from seeking or accepting scarce funds from the largest pool of donors, even in cases where it is not clear whether they would be running afoul of the FCRA. These resources are also vital to maintaining the independence of the work of NGOs.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-648
