26-09-2020||India||Akali Dal quits BJP-led NDA over farm bills||The Shiromani Akali Dal has quit the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) after differences over the controversial farm bills, SAD chief Sukhbir Singh Badal announced late on Saturday. Badal made the announcement after a core committee meeting of the party in Chandigarh. The highest decision-making body of the SAD at its emergency meeting decided unanimously to pull out of the NDA, he said. According to a party statement, he said the decision to quit the NDA was taken because of the Centre’s stubborn refusal to give statutory legislative guarantees to protect assured marketing of farmers crops on MSP and its continued insensitivity to Punjabi and Sikh issues like excluding Punjabi language as official language in Jammu and Kashmir. The SAD had also requested President Ram Nath Kovind to “please stand by farmers” and not to sign off on the laws, NDTV reported. Badal’s wife Harsimrat Kaur Badal had resigned as Union minister in protest over the bills. The SAD becomes the third major NDA ally to pull out of the alliance after the Shiv Sena and the TDP. Badal said the SAD will continue to stand by its core principles of peace, communal harmony and guard the interests of Punjab and Punjabis in general and Sikhs and farmers in particular. He said the decision has been taken in consultation with the people of Punjab, especially party workers and farmers. Badal said the bills on agricultural marketing brought by the BJP-led government are lethal and disastrous for the already beleaguered farmers. He said the SAD was the oldest ally of the BJP, but the government did not listen to it in honouring the sentiments of farmers. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has defended the bills, saying they will rid India’s agricultural sector of antiquated laws and allow farmers to sell to institutional buyers and retailers. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has described the Akali Dal's decision to quit the NDA as a case of "political compulsion" for the Badals, who were left with no other option after the BJP's public criticism of the SAD over the farm bills. Amarinder Singh said there was no moral high ground involved in the decision of the SAD. The Akalis had no choice before them, since the BJP had already made it clear that it held the SAD responsible for failing to convince the farmers about the benefits of the agriculture bills. The SAD's decision to quit the NDA was just the culmination of their saga of lies and deception, which eventually led to the party being cornered on the issue of farm bills, said the Punjab chief minister. Badal was virtually caught between the devil and the deep sea after his initial unprincipled stand on the farm ordinances, followed by the sudden U-turn in the face of farmer protests, he added. The chief minister said with the BJP-led ruling coalition at the Centre exposing the SAD's web of lies, fabrications and doublespeak, the Akalis could not have done anything except leave the NDA. But far from helping them save face, which they probably hoped to do, the Akalis will now find themselves in a bigger political mess, having been left with no place either in Punjab or at the Centre, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
26-09-2020||India||How long will India be kept out of Security Council, asks Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday raised questions on the response of the United Nations in combating the COVID-19 pandemic, and assured the global community that India will use its production and delivery capacity to help all humanity in fighting the deadly disease. "Over the last 8 to 9 months, the whole world has been battling the pandemic of the coronavirus. Where is the United Nations in this joint fight against the pandemic? Where is its effective response?" Modi said as he asserted that reform in the responses, in the processes, and in the very character of the United Nations is the need of the hour. In his pre-recorded video statement to the landmark General Debate of the 75th session of the UN General Assembly, Prime Minister Modi said that even during these very difficult times of the raging pandemic, India's pharmaceutical industry has sent essential medicines to over 150 countries. "As the largest vaccine producing country of the world, I want to give one more assurance to the global community today. India's vaccine production and delivery capacity will be used to help all humanity in fighting this crisis," Modi said in a strong assurance to the international community that is battling the devastating coronavirus pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has so far infected over 32 million people and more than 993,500 people have died across the world. In India, the deadly virus has infected nearly 6 million people and killed more than 93,000. The Prime Minister's remarks questioning the UN's effectiveness in combating the pandemic came amidst the strident criticism of the role played by the World Health Organisation (WHO) by US President Donald Trump, who this week alleged that the top world health body was virtually controlled by China. Trump has repeatedly blamed China for the coronavirus pandemic which originated in the central Chinese city of Wuhan in December last year and accused Beijing of suppressing the details of the deadly contagion. Modi told the 193-member UN General Assembly that in India and the neighbourhood, we are moving ahead with phase 3 clinical trials in India." He further assured the UN that India will also help all the countries in enhancing their cold chain and storage capacities for the delivery of the vaccines. Prime Minister also made India's strongest pitch yet for a more prominent role in the UN Security Council, asking the global body, "Till when do we have to wait? Till when will India be kept away from the UN's decision-making process?" In his opening remarks, Modi said, "When we were weak, we didn't trouble the world. When we became strong, we didn't become a bojh (burden) on the world. Till when do we have to wait? India has sent soldiers to UN peace-keeping missions and India has lost the most number of soldiers. India has always thought about the welfare of the world." In his speech, which was for around 22 minutes, the Prime Minister also spoke of several milestones the country had crossed, including setting up over 40 crore bank accounts to propel financial inclusion. This year's high-level UN General Assembly is being held in a largely virtual format as world leaders did not travel to New York for the annual gathering due to the coronavirus pandemic. Heads of State and Government and Ministers sent in pre-recorded video statements for the high-level week, including the special commemoration of the UN's 75 years and the General Debate. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
26-09-2020||India||Ram Madhav moved out in BJP reshuffle of office-bearers  ||BJP president J.P. Nadda announced a new team of party's national office-bearers on Saturday with party sources describing it as an exercise aimed at combining young people, women as well as experienced faces. The list of eight general secretaries, crucial organisation positions in the party as they are the link between state and central leadership, has five new faces with Bhupender Yadav, Arun Singh and Kailash Vijayvargiya being retained. However, Ram Madhav, P Muralidhar Rao, Saroj Pandey and Anil Jain have been replaced. Dushyant Kumar Gautam, D. Purandareshwari, C. T. Ravi, Tarun Chugh and Dilip Saikia are new choices as general secretaries. Party MP Tejasvi Surya, a fiery speaker, has been made the president of the party's youth wing in place of Poonam Mahajan. The party has also expanded its list of spokesperson to 23, with MP Anil Baluni being elevated as the chief spokesperson and remaining its media head. The new spokespersons include Rajeev Chandrasekhar, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Sanju Verma, Iqbal Singh Lalpura, Aparajita Sarangi, Heena Gavit, M Kikon, Nupur Sharma, Raju Bisht and K.K. Sharma. Prime Minister Narendra Modi welcomed the changes on Twitter. This is the first reshuffle under Nadda who was elected unopposed as party chief in January, taking over from Amit Shah. Radha Mohan Singh, Mukul Roy, Rekha Verma, Annapurna Devi, Bharti Shiyal, D.K. Aruna, M Chuba Ao, A.P. Abdullakutty were appointed national vice presidents. Other appointments include K. Laxman as head of the OBC (Other Backward Classes) Morcha, Jamal Siddiqui as chief of the minority wing and Lal Singh Arya as chief of the SC (Scheduled Castes) Morcha. Ram Madhav reacted to the new appointments on Twitter, saying, "Congratulations to the newly appointed office-bearers of d BJP. Grateful to d party leadership for providing me d opportunity to serve for one term as Gen Sec."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||S.P Balasubrahmanyam laid to rest with state honours||Versatile singer, actor and music composer S P Balasubrahmanyam, hailed as "singing moon" and "music cloud" by his millions of fans, was laid to rest at his farm house near here on Saturday with a 24-gun salute by Tamil Nadu police. After the singer's son S P Charan performed the funeral rites amid Vedic chants by priests, last post was played by a police band and 24 personnel in ceremonial attire gave a gun salute. Later, the body with SPB's glasses on and smeared with Thiruneeru (sacred ashes) on the forehead and draped in zari dhoti was lowered into a deep pit and buried. With policemen, their rifles tucked under their arms marching along, the body was brought on a traditional hay lined bier to the final resting place on the verdant premises from a pandal earmarked for people to pay homage and perform rituals. The farm house at Tamaraipakkam in nearby Tiruvallur district teemed with his fans, well-wishers and celebrities for the funeral and 500 police personnel were deployed to regulate the crowd. Tamil Nadu Culture Minister K Pandiarajan, Andhra Pradesh Irrigation Minister Anil Kumar Yadav, Tiruvallur District Collector Mageswari Ravikumar, SP Aravindan, top actor Vijay, film director Bharathiraja, music composer Devi Sri Prasad, singer Mano were among the celebrities who turned up to pay their last respects. Though police had initially said only about 150 people would be allowed to pay homage, more and more men and women trooped to the singers idyllic house to pay homage. Several people could be seen without masks and they jostled to catch a glimpse of the dead star singer and individual distancing went for a toss. The 74-year old singer, praised as "Paadum Nila" (singing moon) and "Isai Megam" (music cloud) by his fans for his mellifluous voice tested positive for coronavirus and he was admitted to MGM Healthcare here on August 5. On August 20, when he remained critical, SPB's long time friend and legendary Tamil filmmaker Bharathiraja gave a call for a mass prayer and it evoked a tremendous response with people from all walks of life including celebrities and the general public coming together to pray for his early recovery. His condition improved, he stabilised and towards the end of last month, he underwent passive physiotherapy and later he actively participated in physiotherapy. A video clip of him rotating a device as part of the physiotherapy exercise also went viral following his death. Early this month, the hospital had said that his condition warranted an extended stay requiring ECMO and ventilator support. He was declared extremely critical on September 24 and passed away on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||NCB questions Deepika, her manager for 5 hours   ||Actress Deepika Padukone was on Saturday questioned here for five hours by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) probing the alleged Bollywood-drug nexus linked to film star Sushant Singh Rajput's death case, an official said. Padukone was confronted with her manager Karishma Prakash during questioning, sources said. Prakash's WhatsApp chats, including purported conversations about drugs with one 'D', are on the radar of the anti-drugs agency, sources had said. Padukone, who reached the NCB guest house in Colaba in south Mumbai around 9.50 am, left around 3:50 pm, a police official deployed outside the guest house said. After questioning, both Padukone and Prakash were allowed to go home around 3.40 pm, NCB sources said. Prakash first came out of the guest house, followed by Padukone. They left in their cars separately, the police official said. Media personnel were present in large numbers outside the barricaded area near the guest house. There were reports that Padukone's husband and actor Ranveer Singh had asked NCB if he could also remain present during her questioning. However, the NCB had on Friday clarified that it did not receive any such request. The NCB is also questioning actresses Shraddha Kapoor and Sara Ali Khan at its office separately in connection with the alleged drug nexus. The federal agency had arrested actress Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, and some suspected drug peddlers, earlier. Rajput (34) was found hanging in his apartment in suburban Bandra on June 14. Actor Sara Ali Khan reached the NCB's zonal office in Ballard Estate around 1 pm to record her statement in connection with drugs probe linked to film star Sushant Singh Rajput's death, an official said. Her name cropped up during the questioning of Rhea Chakraborty, Rajput's girlfriend who has been arrested by the NCB in the drugs case along with over a dozen others, officials said. Sara was Rajput's co-star in "Kedarnath". Another co-star of Sushant, Shraddha Kapoor arrived at the NCB's zonal office in Ballard Estate on Saturday to record her statement. The NCB probe team will record her statement regarding the drugs case related to Rajputs death and Bollywood-drugs nexus as well, the official said. Shraddha’s name cropped up during the interrogation of some persons, who were earlier summoned by the probe team, sources said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Bihar three-phase Assembly elections from October 28||Bihar will witness three-phase Assembly elections from October 28 to November 7, the Election Commission announced on Friday, with the counting coinciding with the IPL final on November 10. To improve physical distancing, the number of polling stations has been increased by almost 63 per cent — from 65,367 in 2015 to 106,526 — and the upper limit of voters per polling station has been lowered from 1,500 to 1,000. Voters will be provided gloves at the booths — and masks too, if necessary. Those with confirmed or suspected Covid-19 infection can vote only during the last hour, under health authorities’ supervision. They can cast postal ballots if they choose. Bihar elections, with 243 seats and 7.3 crore voters, usually stretch over a longer period. The last election in 2015 took place in five phases, between October 12 and November 5. Asked about this, chief election commissioner Sunil Arora shot back: “Will the disease spread more in three phases or seven phases?” Although the Bihar Assembly’s term expires on November 29, Opposition parties had requested the poll panel for a deferred election. Arora defended the decision to have the election now. “See the figures on children from how many districts who appeared for NEET and JEE and what extensive arrangements were made,” he said, without mentioning the figures. “I don’t consider conducting Bihar polls a misadventure…. It is a leap of faith, not a leap in the dark.” Attendance at the JEE, the all-India engineering entrance exam held early this month, was 75.5 per cent nationwide, lower than last year’s figure of 94 per cent. The stats for Bihar could not be ascertained. Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal had in a written reply told the Rajya Sabha this week that the NEET figures were still being calculated. Polling will be held from 7am to 6pm, an hour longer than usual, except in the Maoist-hit districts where the timings haven’t been decided. The booths will be located only on ground floors for the convenience of the disabled and the elderly. The disabled and those above 80 also have the option of postal ballots. Southern constituencies that share their borders with Jharkhand, and any other seat with a Maoist presence, will vote on October 28. Central seats including Patna will vote on November 3, and northern seats that include all those bordering Nepal will vote on November 7. By-elections to eight legislative council seats in Bihar will take place on October 22, with the votes counted on November 12. A by-election to a council seat in Nizamabad, Telangana, will be held on October 9, with counting scheduled for October 12. Arora said he and the two other election commissioners would visit Bihar on September 30 and 31 after the September 29 declaration of by-election dates in several states. He said that chief secretaries and chief electoral officers, especially from southern India, had requested a postponement of by-elections because of the Covid-19 outbreak. By-elections are due in five Assembly seats in Kerala, and in two seats in Tamil Nadu. Safety steps Elaborate Covid-19 safety measures will be adopted for polling staff, the commission said, with arrangements made for 7 lakh hand-sanitiser containers, 46 lakh masks, 6 lakh PPE kits, 6.7 lakh face shields and 23 lakh pairs of gloves. Some 7.2 crore single-use gloves have also been arranged to ensure the voters don’t get infected while using the electronic voting machines and signing the polling station registers. Face masks will be kept handy for voters who turn up without one. An official said the postal ballot facility for Covid-19 patients would be different from the one used by voters from the services, whose ballots are indeed sent by post to the poll authorities. After a Covid-19 patient willing to use the option fills in a form, an official will carry the ballot to the voter’s home, video-graph the voting to ensure transparency, and bring it back. Arora had a word of caution for social media platforms. “Social media platforms are expected to make adequate arrangements to safeguard against misuse of their platforms and set up strict protocols to handle such issues as and when they arise,” he said. “If such arrangements are not made by them then they will not be allowed to use the pretext of being only the providers of the platform and shall be held responsible if necessary action is not taken by them promptly and adequately.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Farmers and trade unions hit the streets across states||Thousands of farmers in several states hit the streets on Friday to protest against the new farm legislation that was pushed through without addressing their concerns. The protests shattered some myths and brought clarity to certain questions. A significant section of Indians is bothered about matters other than substance abuse among some Bollywood figures — something multiple TV channels have been addicted to ever since the Covid and China border crises escalated. The concerns are not limited to farmers in Punjab and Haryana. Farmers in Bihar, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra and Karnataka did participate in the protests. With several trade unions — upset over the labour bills passed in Parliament — extending support to the farmers, smaller meetings were held almost across the country. If the Opposition did manage to marshal so much support on Friday, the government should start worrying. In Muktsar district of Punjab, the Badals of the Shiromani Akali Dal, the oldest among the BJP’s current allies, sought to assume leadership of the protests. The Badals are recent converts to the anti-farm-bill movement, forced as they have been by the wave of protests to take a position. Again, not a reassuring sign for those who feel all’s well in India’s farms. The biggest acknowledgement came from Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself: he asked BJP workers to reach out to small groups of farmers and educate them over tea about the advantages of the new legislation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Share-cropper fears threat from big firms ||Damburu Soren, a 50-year-old tribal labourer who came to the Odisha capital 30 years ago from the mineral-rich belt of Keonjhar in search of work, was rendered jobless by the coronavirus pandemic. After 30 days in search of a job, he took up farming on the outskirts of Bhubaneswar as a share-cropper. But he now finds himself at a crossroads because of the farm bills passed by Parliament recently. Damburu, who joined the protests against the farm bills on Friday, is concerned that the proposed laws will pave the way for contract farming which will allow the entry of big players into the agriculture sector. “They will finish us. I took up farming on two maann (nearly two acres) of land on sharecropping basis recently. As per the understanding, I will give two quintals of paddy for one acre to the landowner and the rest would be mine. From the two acres, I hope to earn Rs 30,000. I have already spent around Rs 4,000 on the land. But these bills have now put everything in jeopardy,” he said. Soren said he has taken the land from a person who owns 10 acres. “He is not in a position to cultivate the land. He has given the land to poor landless labourers for cultivation and I am one of them. I can’t afford to lose this source of livelihood,” he said. On how he could be affected by the farm bills, he said, “As the land is only 22km from Bhubaneswar, many companies may try to grab it by making a contract with the landowner. He may agree because he will get more money. He will not give it to me anymore. Where will I go then?” asked Soren. Though he does not know about the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, he is aware that big players are going to take away his livelihood by adopting the method of contract farming. The labourer-turned-sharecropper said, “Before the lockdown, I used to work as a mason and earned Rs 550 per day. Everything was fine. I could even organise the marriage of my elder daughter smoothly. “But now my income is gone and I have to look after my other two daughters also. As no one knows when the situation will improve, I decided to opt for farming as suggested by some of my friends. But now even this work is threatened by the new laws.” Soren said “The bills should not have been passed at a time when the coronavirus has broken the backbone of our economy and poor have become poorer. I am protesting against the bills because I want to save my livelihood. Earlier we used to take part in rallies sponsored by political parties. But I have joined this protest on my own and came here by spending from my own pocket.” Like Soren, many marginal and small-scale farmers came and joined the protest rally. More than 70 per cent farmers are share-croppers in Odisha. Many of them also raising their voice against the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, which allows growers to directly sell their produce to institutional buyers such as big traders and retailers. “We want government intervention and not any companies to decide our fate. We don’t want to put our future in the hands of multinationals,” said 62-year-old farmer Natabara Behera. The Congress also supported the agitation. Members of Navanirman Krushak Sangathan were detained while they were trying to force their way into the state secretariat, Lok Seva Bhavan. They also tried to gherao the Krushi Bhavan in the city. “The government should immediately roll back the bills,” said Suresh Panigrahi, state secretary of All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||BJP workers thrash farm bill protesters||The protest against the new farm bills sparked violence in Patna on Friday with BJP workers attacking agitators from the Jan Adhikar Party of Rajesh Ranjan aka Pappu Yadav with their fists and sticks. The violence erupted when participants in a Jan Adhikar march of about 400 people, while passing the Bihar BJP headquarters, chanted slogans against the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Some 200 BJP workers, wearing saffron kurtas and waistbands and some of them carrying sticks, rushed out of the party office screaming “Narendra Modi zindabad” and attacked the marchers. Most of the protesters ran away. Those who could not were beaten up. The BJP workers damaged a vehicle that displayed Jan Adhikar posters and was fitted out with a public address system. Police were present on the spot but could rescue the Jan Adhikar supporters only after the BJP workers’ initial burst had subsided. No FIR had been registered till evening. “There was a small skirmish outside the BJP office. None of the two parties involved have submitted any complaint, so no FIR has been lodged,” Patna additional superintendent of police (law and order) Swarna Prabhat told The Telegraph. The police could not say how many had to be taken to hospital. There was no statement from the Jan Adhikar Party till evening, and Pappu Yadav’s mobile was switched off. Bihar BJP president Sanjay Kumar Jaiswal alleged the protesters had attacked the party office. “The attack on the BJP headquarters by parties that have exploited the farmers and their supporters reveals their cowardice,” he said. “Jan Adhikar Party leaders attacked our office at the behest of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD).” Farmers are protesting the passage of two bills that they say would deprive them of a minimum support price for their crops and allow big companies to dictate terms to them. Opposition parties RJD, Congress, CPI, CPIML Liberation and the CPM protested against the farm bills across Bihar. RJD leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav led a massive tractor rally in Patna, himself driving one of the vehicles. “The BJP government plans to turn our food-grain producers into puppets of its fund-givers. The farmers are sad and frustrated. They have lost hope,” Tejashwi said. “They are becoming poorer by the day, and are migrating to become labourers. The BJP is trying to push our entire agriculture sector into the hands of private players. We demand these black bills be withdrawn.” RJD leaders in Darbhanga held a march with tractors and buffaloes. CPIML Liberation general secretary Dipankar Bhattacharya, who led a march in Patna, said: “Company raj is unacceptable to us. The anti-farmer government will have to go.” The Congress has promised a law guaranteeing a minimum support price if it is voted to power in Bihar. Elections have been announced in the state in three phases between October 28 and November 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Modi turns to foot soldiers for outreach||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday asked BJP workers to reach out to farmers and educate them about the advantages of the new farm laws, betraying signs of concern as farmer protests erupted in several parts of the country. “Each BJP worker should go to the villages and explain to farmers in simplified language the good work the BJP government has done,” Modi said, addressing party colleagues and workers on the birth anniversary of BJP ideologue Deen Dayal Upadhyay. He explained how the outreach could be carried out amid the pandemic: “Chhote chhote group mey... panch kisan, dus kisan charpai pe baithe hain, chai pee rahe hain, bat-chit kar rahe, sawal kar rahe hain (Small groups of 5 to 10 farmers seated on charpoys, sipping tea, talking, asking questions)....” The Prime Minister did not directly refer to the road and track blockades by the protesting farmers; instead, he accused the Opposition of spreading “lies” and using the farmers for political gain. “Some people who have always lied to farmers are these days misleading the farmers for political objectives,” Modi said. He said it was the “biggest duty” of every BJP worker to expose these people before the farmers. “Explain the minute details of the new laws so that nobody can exploit the farmers.” Road and railway traffic was severely affected on Friday in Punjab, Haryana and some other parts of the country because of the farmers’ agitation, backed by Opposition parties. The farmers are protesting against two new farm bills that they fear would deny them a minimum support price (MSP) for their produce and place them under the thumb of big companies. Modi claimed the new laws would give the farmers full rights over their produce and lead them to prosperity. He accused past governments of shackling farmers and labourers with a “complicated web of laws”. The BJP doesn’t so far seem too worried about the farm laws queering its pitch in poll-bound Bihar. It believes that farmers’ landholdings are so small in Bihar and swathes of Uttar Pradesh that they never bothered about the MSP. BJP sources explained that most small farmers cannot afford the cost of transporting their produce to the mandis (regulated wholesale markets) where they can claim the MSP, so they sell locally. Modi sought to underline the point, saying “85 in 100” farmers in the country were “small and marginal”, and the new laws would benefit them. He told the BJP workers that 85 per cent was a huge proportion and urged party colleagues to unite these farmers against those trying to paint the new laws as “anti-farmer”. Modi defended the new labour bills too, which provide for large-scale exemption to factories from regulations relating to labour rights, safety and working conditions. He argued the reforms would transform the lives of the working class while also making things easy for their employers. “So far, only 30 per cent workers were covered by a minimum wage guarantee. It will now be extended to all workers including those in the unorganised sector,” he said. Trade union bodies, including RSS labour arm BMS, have criticised the new labour laws. Modi urged the BJP workers to educate villagers about his government’s performance in general, highlighting how it had fulfilled most of its big poll promises such as those on Article 370 and the Ram temple.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Farm bill protests: Rahul Gandhi sees freedom struggle parallel||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said on Friday that the proposed agriculture laws would enslave farmers but expressed hope that they would fight back to free the country from oppression. As the nationwide bandh called by farmers’ organisations witnessed total shutdown in Punjab and massive protests at several places in Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu and other states, Rahul compared the movement with the freedom struggle. The former Congress chief said while interacting with farmers through videoconference: “These bills will have to be opposed for India’s future. Farmers, youths, workers fought for India’s freedom. Today again, the farmers will fight and deliver freedom to India.” When some farmers referred to “Adani-Ambani” while claiming that big companies would gain from the proposed changes, Rahul said: “East India Company had come then, now it is West India Company.” Prime Minister Modi and several industrial bigwigs trace their roots to the western part of the country. The Congress has plunged headlong into the farmers’ agitation. While party leaders held a series of media conferences in major cities for the second consecutive day, MLAs in Punjab organised and took part in protests in both Punjab and Haryana. No effort was made by the Congress-led Punjab government to prevent farmers from blocking rail tracks and roads. In BJP-ruled Haryana, the administration cracked down on protesters. The Congress has also planned a Twitter campaign using the hashtag “SpeakUpForFarmers” on Saturday. Rahul told the group of farmers selected from states such as Haryana, Maharashtra, Bihar and Delhi that he wanted to understand what their objections to the bills were. The farmers said the changes would benefit only the big companies and turn them into labourers. They said they did not have the bargaining capacity and clout to deal with big corporate entities and feared that they would be beaten up if they sought justice from them. One farmer said: “Why don’t they include MSP (minimum support price) in (the proposed) laws if they want to help farmers?” Another farmer said: “What is the problem in stating in the bill that any transaction done below the MSP will be punishable by law?” None of the cultivators had any doubt about the ill-effects of the planned changes and insisted that the good work done by previous governments had been watered down by the current regime. The farmers also pointed to the privatisation spree of the Modi government, lamenting that airports and even railways were being handed over to private players. Rahul had tweeted earlier in the day: “A flawed GST destroyed MSMEs. The new agriculture laws will enslave our farmers.” The Congress has worked out programmes for the next two months, declaring that the campaign will continue till the bills are withdrawn or a provision to ensure MSP is included in the statute. Party communications chief Randeep Surjewala recalled how Modi as Gujarat chief minister had demanded statutory backing for MSP and wondered why he had changed his stand after becoming Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||S.P. Balasubrahmanyam: music titan & good man who loved life||Veteran playback singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who lent his mellifluous voice to over 41,000 songs in 16 languages, mesmerised millions for half a decade with his range and versatility without a formal classical training and had become the voice of superstar Salman Khan in the 90s, passed away on Friday. He was 74. SPB, as he was fondly called, had been admitted to MGM Hospital in Chennai on August 5 with mild Covid-19 and had expressed hope in a video message to his well-wishers that he would be released in a couple of days. His health, however, deteriorated, then showed signs of improvement for weeks before suddenly turning “extremely critical” on Thursday night. SPB breathed his last at 1.04pm on Friday, according to the hospital. He is survived by his wife Savithri, daughter Pallavi and son Charan, a singer and film director. Announcing SPB’s death, Charan told reporters that his father’s songs would live forever in the hearts of his fans. MGM Healthcare said in a statement: “In a further setback this morning, despite maximal life support measures and the best efforts of the clinical team, his condition deteriorated further and he suffered a cardio-respiratory arrest. With profound grief, we regret to inform that he passed away at 13.04 hours.” Born in an orthodox Telugu Brahmin family in a village near Nellore in Andhra Pradesh on June 4, 1946, Sripathi Panditharadhyula Balasubrahmanyam was the second son in a family of three sons and five daughters who included S.P. Sailaja, a famed Telugu movie star and singer. His father S.P. Sambamurthy was an exponent of Harikatha, an art form composed of storytelling, poetry, music, drama, dance and philosophy. After completing school and graduation, SPB had enrolled for an engineering course in Anantapur in keeping with his father’s wishes. A typhoid attack, however, changed the course of SPB’s life. He dropped out and in 1964 travelled to Chennai to join an Associate Member of the Institution of Engineers course. But his heart was set on singing from an early age and he kept winning many competitions. SPB’s melodious voice caught the attention of composer S.P. Kodandapani at a music competition organised by the Telugu Cultural Organisation in Chennai, then Madras, in 1964. Kodandapani gave SPB his first break two years later in the 1966 Telugu film Sri Sri Sri Maryada Ramana. SPB followed it up with a song in the Tamil film Shanthi Nilayam. Thus began a musical journey that spanned over 50 years during which SPB recorded  41,000-plus songs in 16 languages, including Tamil, Telugu, Malayalam, Kannada, Hindi, Bengali, Marathi and Tulu. The evergreen song Ayiram Nilave Vaa (Come, thousand moons), in which SPB lent his voice to superstar M.G. Ramachandran in the 1969 Tamil film Adimai Penn, catapulted the singer to fame and there was no looking back since then. The song also launched a new genre in Tamil film music and SPB became a household name. “It was never my desire to enter the film industry. I wanted to become a gazetted-rank engineer which could fetch a salary of Rs 250 and a jeep with a chauffeur in the 1960s,” he said in interviews later. During his long and illustrious career, SPB won six National Film Awards, including for Telugu filmmaker K. Vishwanath’s Sankarabharanam in 1979. SPB was also conferred the Padma Shri in 2001 and the Padma Bhushan in 2011, besides the Tamil Nadu government’s Kalaimamani Award in 1981. An ardent admirer of Mohammad Rafi and K.J. Yesudas, SPB could also whistle, mimic any sound or voice and had the uncanny ability to seamlessly blend stammer, laughter, cough or give a voice form to any emotion in songs. A gifted singer with a soft timbre who could straddle the high notes with consummate ease, SPB composed music for films and acted in over 50 movies. He was a regular dubbing artiste, too, for top actors like Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth when their movies were dubbed in Telugu. “I am proud of him,” Kamal said in a moving condolence message on Friday. “I have had the privilege of having been the image on screen to several songs that he has sung. In several languages, he has been the voice of four generations of heroes.” Kamal, for whom SPB sang many songs including Tere mere beech mein from Ek Duje Ke Liye and O Maria and Sach mere yaar hain from Sagar, had visited MGM Hospital late on Thursday night. SPB, who was known for self-ridicule, loved ice creams and was a self-proclaimed smoker for 35 years, had recently gifted his ancestral house in Nellore to the Kanchi Kamakoti Mutt. Shortly before testing positive, SPB had composed and recorded a song to raise awareness about the coronavirus. Singer Lata Mangeshkar said: “I am extremely saddened by the passing of SP Balasubrahmanyam ji, who was a talented singer, sweet-speaker and a very good human being….” Salman, for whom SPB had sung many hit numbers, tweeted: “Heartbroken to hear about S.P. Balasubrahmanyam sir... you will forever live on in your undisputed legacy of music! Condolence to the family.” “Devastated,” said music composer A.R. Rahman. Musician-author T.M. Krishna said: “SPB is a music titan, a natural singer; nobody has rendered such a variety of songs in Indian cinema like him, accommodative of all musical genres, a natural actor in films and above all a good man with a good heart.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweeted: “With the unfortunate demise of Shri S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, our cultural world is a lot poorer.” Thousands of people thronged Paadum Nila (Singing Moon), SPB’s residence at Nungambakkam in Chennai, to pay their last respects. The last rites will be conducted at his farmhouse near Chennai on Saturday. “I love my life. If possible I don’t want to die. I have a passion for life,” SPB had once said. Additional reporting by PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-646
26-09-2020||India||Sahitya Akademi award winning lecturer turns farm labourer||Till March, Navnath Gore was a lecturer in a college in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra, but the lockdown took away his contract job and reduced him to a farm labourer. Gore, 32, a resident of Nigdi, a village in Sangli district, had received the Sahitya Akademi’s Yuva Puraskar for young writers in 2018, but that is hardly a consolation for a man who has fallen on hard times due to the outbreak of coronavirus. Coming to terms with the reality of losing job, a situation faced by millions worldwide, he decided to work as a farm labourer in his home district to support his family. A postgraduate in Marathi from the Shivaji University in Kolhapur district, Gore started writing his maiden novel Fesati during his postgraduation days. The book got published in 2017 and he won the award. “After I won the award, I received an offer from a college in Ahmednagar district where I started working as a lecturer on a clock hour basis and used to get Rs 10,000 per month. In February this year, my father passed away and the responsibility of my mother and a 50 year old brother, who is physically challenged, came on my shoulders,” said Gore, a postgraduate in Marathi. With the lockdown, this stopped. He now does odd jobs and works as a farm labourer, earning Rs 400 a day. After the death of his father, Gore went home in February, but could not go back to his teaching job as the lockdown was imposed in March end to curb the spread of Covid19. “I came back to my village in February. Since my job was contractual, the income from the college also stopped. With no income, it was difficult for us to make the ends meet. I then started taking up odd jobs and also started working as a farm labourer in the region,” he added. Gore, who travels long distances in the region for work, said he earns around Rs 400 if he works full day. Gore recalled his student days in Kolhapur, where, while pursuing his postgraduation, he used to work as a security guard at an ATM centre to support his family. Fesati is a story of a youth, who against all odds, completes his education. The book also depicts the plight of farmers. “I had completed the first draft of the novel in 2014. I drew from personal experience, from the time I still lived in my village. It took me almost 18 months to complete the draft. I am happy that the novel got a good response,” Gore said. Meanwhile, moved by Gore’s plight, Maharashtra minister Vishwajeet Kadam, who also manages Bharti Vidyapeeth, said he has offered a job to him with the Pune based group of educational institutes. The minister said he spoke to Gore and also assured the author that a conducive atmosphere would be provided to encourage his literary talent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
26-09-2020||India||Apex regulatory authority succeeds Medical Council of India||The Centre on Friday established the National Medical Commission (NMC), an apex regulatory authority for medical practice and education, promising transparency, accountability and quality and abolishing the 87-year-old Medical Council of India. A Union health ministry notification late on Thursday night established the NMC and four autonomous boards for undergraduate and postgraduate education, medical assessment and rating, and ethics and medical registrations and professional conduct of doctors, naming top doctors in key positions. “This historic reform will steer medical education towards a transparent, qualitative and accountable system,” the health ministry said in a statement on Friday. “The basic change… is that the regulator is now selected on merits, as opposed to an elected regulator.” Men and women with impeccable integrity, professionalism, experience and stature have been now placed at the helm to steer the medical education reforms further, the health ministry said. S.C. Sharma, former professor of ear-nose-throat surgery at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, is the NMC chairperson for three years, the ministry said. Besides the chairperson, the NMC will have 10 ex-officio members. Other members are Jagat Ram, director of the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh; Rajendra Badwe, director of the Tata Memorial Centre, Mumbai; and Surekha Kishore, the executive director at AIIMS, Gorakhpur. The NMC has been tasked with streamlining regulations, rating of educational institutions, human resource assessment, enhancing focus on research and giving shape to the proposed common final year exam (National Exit Test) after the MBBS course. The number of medical college seats in India has increased over the past six years from 54,000 in 2014 to around 80,000 in 2020, a 48 per cent rise. The number of postgraduate seats has increased from 24,000 to 54,000 during this period. The NMC will also prepare guidelines for fee regulations by private medical colleges and develop standards for community health providers to serve in primary healthcare centres with limited practicing licences. Parliament had passed the NMC Act in August 2019. A parliamentary panel had over four years ago urged the government to dismantle the MCI — an elected body — saying the organisation had failed to regulate medical education and the profession. An ophthalmologist in Kerala who had questioned practices by the MCI said although the tainted organisation was gone, no one was punished. “Although the primary concerns relating to the MCI was corruption, none of the officials against whom allegations had been raised was punished,” said K.V. Babu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
26-09-2020||India||Antigen test without next step linked to Covid spread||Health authorities in some states may themselves be fuelling the spread of the new coronavirus disease by not directing all symptomatic patients found negative on the so-called antigen tests to take the superior RT-PCR test, experts have said. India’s Covid-19 testing guidelines require all symptomatic patients found negative on the easier and faster antigen test to take the more reliable RT-PCR test, but experts are worried that amid large-scale expansion of the antigen tests, adherence to the rule is not 100 per cent. Both antigen and RT-PCR tests are conducted on swab samples. The 30-minute antigen tests come with lower reliability than RT-PCR tests, which means some patients infected with Covid-19 may be labelled by the antigen tests as “false negatives”. The guidelines thus make it mandatory for all symptomatic patients to be tested with an RT-PCR to confirm the diagnosis. “We know that this retesting rule is not scrupulously adhered to everywhere,” a senior infectious disease expert tracking India’s Covid-19 epidemic told The Telegraph. If symptomatic Covid-19 patients are missed because of poor adherence to this retesting rule, they can further spread the infection. The RT-PCR diagnostic test is viewed as the gold standard and looks for viral genetic material but requires a sophisticated lab and skilled personnel. The antigen test has gained popularity because of its ease of use and has been deployed for mass screening such as looking for infections within large residential societies. Sources in the Union health ministry said antigen tests now make up significant proportions of daily samples tested. In Maharashtra, for instance, the state with the largest number of Covid-19 cases, antigen tests made up 41 per cent of tests last week while 59 per cent samples were tested through RT-PCR. In Karnataka, 39 per cent samples were subjected to antigen tests, and in Andhra Pradesh, 40 per cent. In Delhi, 73 per cent were antigen tests and 27 per cent were RT-PCRs. Only in Tamil Nadu, all samples are tested through the RT-PCR mode, officials have said. Public health specialists believe more local data are required to understand the reasons for poor adherence to the retesting rule. “One possibility is logistical — there appears to be a significant lag in the test-result-reconcile cycle,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “We need robust mechanisms in place to identify those who definitely need an RT-PCR confirmatory test,” John said. The public as well as health authorities implementing the antigen tests need to be aware of the need for the reconfirmation and follow up, he said. The expansion of antigen tests without mandatory testing of symptomatic negatives could contribute to temporary false declines in new cases, one expert said. Experts attribute the decline in new cases in Delhi during July-August and a fresh resurgence this month as the likely outcome of false negatives spreading the infection. Delhi had recorded 3,947 new cases on June 23. New cases then fell to 613 on July 27 only to rise again to reach 4,473 on September 16. “This is not a second wave — Delhi is still in the first wave artificially suppressed through the rapid expansion of antigen tests,” the infectious disease expert said. India’s active cases of Covid-19 increased to around 970,000 on Friday from 966,000 on Thursday, a slight rise after six successive days of decline. Health authorities on Friday detected 86,052 new Covid-19 cases, raising the number of lab-confirmed infections to over 5.81 million patients, of whom 4.75 million have recovered and 92,290 have died.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-647
