27-09-2020||India||President Kovind gives his assent to 3 contentious farm bills||President Ram Nath Kovind gave his assent on Sunday to three contentious farm bills that have triggered protests by farmers, especially in Punjab and Haryana, and prompted an ally of the ruling BJP-led coalition to quit the government. According to a gazette notification, the President gave assent to three bills: The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020. The Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020 aims to permit the sale of agricultural produce outside the mandis regulated by the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committees (APMC) constituted by different state legislations. The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, provides for contract farming. The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill 2020 deregulates the production, supply, distribution of food items like cereals, pulses, potatoes, onion and edible oilseeds. The President's assent to these bills comes amid the Opposition criticising the manner in which they were passed in Parliament. Even NDA's oldest ally Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has parted ways on the issue of these farm bills as farmers in Punjab and Haryana intensify protest. The Opposition had requested the President not to sign the bills -- which would have sent them back to Parliament for reconsideration -- after two of the bills were passed in the Rajya Sabha last week amid uproar, reported ndtv.com. The Opposition has alleged that the bills were pushed through voice vote in violation of the rules. The government, it said, lacked the numbers, which would have become clear if a physical voting was held. They also accused Deputy Chairman Harivansh Singh, who was presiding over the proceedings, of colluding with the government. Harivansh and the government have said the Opposition demands for physical voting were negated as the members were not in their seats while making the demand. But television footage of the Rajya proceedings of September 20, however, showed something else. The footage reviewed by some sections of the media, including The Indian Express and NDTV, shows that at least two of the three MPs – K.K. Ragesh and Trichy Siva -- who moved the motion to send the controversial bills to a select committee, were in their seats when they demanded a division of votes. The government has claimed that the bills, which will replace the ordinances issued by the government in June, will help farmers increase their income and free them from the interference of middlemen. Bypassing wholesale markers, the new laws enable farmers to deal directly with big corporations for the sale of produce and even allow pre-harvest contracts. Farmers, however, are apprehensive about dealing directly with corporates. They fear that they will not be paid even the minimum support price (MSP) fixed by the government and be exploited. Calling the new system "anti-farmer", they have demanded that the laws be repealed. Over the last weeks, huge farmers' protests have been held over the laws, especially in Punjab and Haryana, states that are dubbed the grain bowl of the country. On Friday, massive protests were held across the two states. Farmers from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and even the southern state of Karnataka had also joined in. The Shiromani Akali Dal, which first quit the government and then the NDA over the new laws, said they plan to hit the roads with a tractor rally on October 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
27-09-2020||India||Monsoon to withdraw from north India in 2 days||The southwest monsoon is set to retreat from parts of north India in the next two days, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday, with data suggesting that the rainy season is most likely to end on an above-normal note.

Overall, the country has received 9 per cent more rainfall than normal until September 26, according to data.

"Conditions are becoming favourable for withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan and adjoining areas from September 28," the weather department said.

Mahesh Palawat, the vice president of private forecaster Skymet Weather, said rainfall has reduced considerably.

"The withdrawal of monsoon from west Rajasthan is likely to start from tomorrow (Monday). It looks like monsoon will withdraw on an above-normal note," Palawat said.

Rainfall in the range of 96 to 104 per cent of the Long Period Average (LPA) is considered as 'normal', while precipitation in the range of 104 to 110 per cent of the LPA is 'excess'.

Nine states have received excess rainfall, while 20 states have recorded normal precipitation, the data shows.

The official rainfall season in India is from June 1 to September 30. Monsoon arrived over Kerala on June 1, its normal onset date.

June recorded 17 per cent more rainfall, while July saw 10 per cent deficiency. However, there was an excess rainfall in August -- the month recorded 27 per cent more rainfall than normal.

Parts of north India -- Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir --- have recorded deficient rainfall. The Union Territory of Ladakh has recorded high deficiency of rainfall this year.

Large parts of the country in west and south India, including Gujarat, Goa, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka, have received excess rainfall. Sikkim is the only state to have received large excess rainfall.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
27-09-2020||India||Farmers playing major role in building Aatmanirbhar Bharat: PM||Lauding farmers for strengthening the country's agriculture sector, prime minister Narendra Modi on Sunday said the farm sector is playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India.

He also said if the essence of Mahatma Gandhi's economic philosophy was followed, there would not have been any need for the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' campaign as India would have become self-reliant much earlier.

Speaking on various issues during his monthly 'Mann Ki Baat' broadcast, Modi said many farmers benefitted after fruits, vegetables were brought out of APMC Act in some states a few years ago.

Our agriculture sector has shown its prowess during the COVID-19 pandemic and farmers are playing a major role in efforts to build a self-reliant India, he said.

Talking about various success stories of farmer groups across states, Modi also said the agriculture sector will benefit immensely with greater use of technology in farming.

The prime minister began his monthly broadcast by talking about storytelling, saying it has been a part of our nation for centuries.

"Storytelling is as old as civilisation...These days, stories relating to science are gaining popularity," Modi said.

He said many people are making storytelling popular across the country and underlined that India has a glorious tradition of storytelling.

He also interacted with members of the Bangalore Storytelling Society.

Modi also requested all families to set aside some time for storytelling and said it will be a wonderful experience for them.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Ex-Union minister Jaswant Singh dies at 82||Former Union minister Jaswant Singh, a close associate of ex-prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee, died here on Sunday following a long spell of illness. He was 82.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi and other top BJP leaders paid rich tributes to Singh.

Modi said that Singh served India diligently and will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society.

The prime minister later spoke to Singh's son Manvendra to convey his condolences.

True to his nature, Jaswant Ji fought his illness with immense courage for the last six years, Modi said. Singh, a former Army officer, had been ill after a fall at his home in August 2014 and was admitted to the Army Research and Referral Hospital. He had been in and out of the hospital since and was admitted again in June this year.

"It is with profound grief that we inform about the sad demise of Hon'ble Major Jaswant Singh (Retd), former Cabinet Minister of Government of India at 0655 hours on 27 September 2020. He was admitted on 25 Jun 2020 and being treated for Sepsis with Multiorgan Dysfunction Syndrome and effects of Severe Head Injury old (Optd) had a Cardiac arrest this morning," the hospital said in a statement. Despite the best efforts of the attending team of specialists to resuscitate him, he could not be revived and passed away, it added.
His funeral will take place later today at Jodhpur in Rajasthan, family sources said.
Condoling his death, "Modi said, "Jaswant Singh Ji served our nation diligently, first as a soldier and later during his long association with politics. During Atal Ji's Government, he handled crucial portfolios and left a strong mark in the worlds of finance, defence and external affairs. Saddened by his demise." Singh, considered close to Vajpayee and veteran leader L K Advani, held defence, finance and external affairs portfolios in the Vajpayee government.

He had fought the 2014 Lok Sabha election as an independent candidate after the BJP did not give him ticket, but lost.

In his message, Modi added, "Jaswant Singh Ji will be remembered for his unique perspective on matters of politics and society. He also contributed to the strengthening of the BJP. I will always remember our interactions. Condolences to his family and supporters. Om Shanti." Expressing his anguish, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said Jaswant Singh served the nation in several capacities and distinguished himself as an effective minister and parliamentarian.

"Jaswant Singh ji would be remembered for his intellectual capabilities and stellar record in service to the nation. He also played a key role in strengthening the BJP in Rajasthan. Condolences to his family and supporters in this sad hour. Om Shanti," Singh said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Cost of vaccinating entire India put at Rs 80,000 crore||An Indian vaccine maker on Saturday pegged his estimate of the cost it would take to immunise all of India’s 1.38 billion people with a coronavirus vaccine at Rs 80,000 crore, or about 23 per cent more than the Centre’s 2020-21 health budget. “Quick question: Will the government of India have 80,000 crore available over the next one year?” Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer of the Serum Institute of India, posted on Twitter. “Because that is what MoHFW (the Union health ministry) needs to buy and distribute the vaccine to everyone in India.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, articulating key guiding principles for the nationwide rollout of vaccines against Covid-19 during a review meeting in June, had said vaccines should be affordable and universal so that no one is left out. Public health experts have interpreted that principle as implying the government would support the immunisation of poor people while expecting the rich to buy Covid-19 vaccines for themselves — just as they already pay for other vaccines. The Serum Institute, the world’s largest vaccine maker, has signed a pact with AstraZeneca to produce a candidate vaccine against Covid-19 developed by Oxford University researchers. The company, which is conducting large-scale Phase 3 efficacy trials of the Oxford candidate vaccine in India, had signalled in August that it would make the vaccine available at Rs 225 ($3) per dose to low and middle-income countries. Poonawalla also tweeted: “I ask this question because we need to plan and guide vaccine manufacturers both in India and overseas to service the needs of our country in terms of procurement and distribution.” Clinical trials are also under way in India for two other candidate vaccines – both home-grown, one from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the other from the Ahmedabad-based Zydus Cadila. Medical experts tracking these clinical trials say the earliest they expect any vaccine to emerge for mass distribution is early 2021. Vaccine researchers not associated with the Serum Institute said the calculations underlying the Rs 80,000 crore figure are unclear but point to about Rs 590 per person for India’s estimated 1.38 billion people. Scientists assume the calculations take into account the required two doses of the vaccine and the costs of distributing it across the country. “It shows how even the costs of a relatively inexpensive vaccine can add up very quickly,” said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and head of the Wellcome Trust-DBT India Alliance, a UK-India research partnership. The Rs 80,000-crore bill appears a lot – it is 23 per cent higher than the Rs 65,000 crore allocated to the Union health ministry for 2020-21 or 35 per cent higher than the Rs 59,000-crore deal for the Rafale fighter jet. But Jameel and other public health researchers say it is unlikely that the government would pay for everyone. They have stressed that a large section of the Indian population can afford to pay, and would be willing to pay, for the vaccine. “Even now, the government does not pay for all the vaccines but only those under the immunisation programme and those in government hospitals,” Jameel said. Households across India have for years been paying for several of the childhood vaccines such as the inactivated polio vaccine or rotavirus vaccines that are also available through the national immunisation programme. “Similarly, we can be sure that many households across the country would be willing to pay for a coronavirus vaccine,” said Raju Khubchandani, a senior paediatrician at Jaslok Hospital, Mumbai. “There is no other disease that has advertised itself the way Covid-19 has,” Khubchandani told this newspaper. “Many people are looking forward to the vaccine as a way to return to their jobs or whatever they were doing. We can all hope an effective vaccine comes along soon.” A panel of medical experts tasked by the Union health ministry is in dialogue with domestic vaccine manufacturers to assess the country’s production and distribution capacities and the likely costs the government would need to bear. The panel is also expected to outline priority populations that will be the first to receive the earliest vaccines that emerge from the race. Experts have indicated that healthcare workers, essential personnel such as police and security staff and those considered vulnerable could be high on the priority list. However, vaccine researchers caution that nationwide distribution could take time. India has significant experience with mass vaccination campaigns – the national oral polio immunisation campaigns have vaccinated millions of children over a single day, said Gagandeep Kang, a senior clinician-researcher and professor of microbiology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. But the pace of distribution would also depend on supplies. Experts have stressed that it is unclear yet how many of the three candidates under trial in India would even be available for mass immunisation. “Any speculation about how long it might take to immunise everyone is premature,” said a senior public health specialist tracking India’s response to Covid-19. Modi, in his address to the UN on Saturday, assured the global community that India would be a major source of coronavirus vaccines. “India’s vaccine production and delivery capacity will help the entire humanity to come out of this (Covid-19) crisis,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Badals vow to quit BJP alliance||The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday evening announced it would quit the ruling National Democratic Alliance, a decision that reflects the success of the protests on the ground against the Narendra Modi government’s farm bills. The pullout by its oldest ally, within months of the Shiv Sena’s exit, will be a blow to the BJP even though it does not pose any threat to the government — the Akalis have a total of five MPs. Harsimrat Badal, the lone Akali minister in the Modi cabinet, had earlier resigned in protest against the “anti-farmer” bills being steamrollered through Parliament. Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal said on Saturday “they tried to convince the BJP” to withdraw the bills but were “ignored”. Reports from the ground suggested the Akalis had no option but to quit to show they were with the farmers, their core support base. The Centre has so far played down the protests.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Manmohan Singh’s birthday: Mr Modi, thank you for the gift||History will be kinder to me, Manmohan Singh had said in the last leg of his prime ministership in 2014. His successor Narendra Modi has now fast-tracked history to pull off what was once inconceivable: make Manmohan Singh trend on his birthday. #HappyBirthdayDrMMSingh trended on Twitter for about 15 hours on Saturday, with over 150,000 tweets. The hashtag even topped the chart for some time on the day the economist turned 88. The credit must surely go to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, many feel, with some putting it across in an unkind manner that would not find favour with the courteous Singh. “The tragedy is you don’t know the value of a Dr Manmohan Singh until you get a Narendra Modi,” one Twitter user posted. Not that the name-callers were inactive. Rashtriya Maun Diwas, a hashtag playing on the discourteous word with which Modi had described Manmohan, surfaced during the day but it drew less than 10,000 tweets. Manmohan himself spent the day mourning the passing of Isher Judge Ahluwalia, the distinguished economist, author and wife of Montek Singh Ahluwalia who had helped the former finance minister with the reforms that changed India. The sudden outpouring of support for Manmohan cannot be dismissed as a storm in a Twitter cup. It came at a time there appears to be a national yearning for an antidote to the propaganda overkill, nostalgia for grace in power and escape from the overdose of bluff. Manmohan’s birthday rarely generated any curiosity when he was Prime Minister, partly because of his personality, which values quiet efficiency. Pilloried during the anti-corruption campaign that no longer looks as spontaneous or lily-white as it was projected by a large section of the media in the run-up to the 2014 general election, Manmohan had told a wrap-up media conference in January that year: “I honestly believe that history will be kinder to me than the contemporary media, or for that matter, the Opposition parties in Parliament.” Although stirrings of a reappraisal of the much underrated leader were evident soon after Modi took over in 2014, rarely before had Manmohan stood vindicated in such an emphatic manner as he did on Saturday. Many citizens warmly recalled the virtues he was condemned for when he was in office: quietness, decency, grace and simplicity. While focusing on his unimpeachable honesty and economic vision, most people stressed the importance of dignified behaviour by those in power. Ironically, the man who was condemned as weak and docile because of his humility and grace was hailed for the same virtues on Saturday by common men and women from all age groups. The Manmohan government’s failure to advertise the good work done during the 10 years of UPA was largely blamed on his quiet persona, and Modi’s skills for loud propaganda and event management were hailed as political attributes. If the mood is tilting, a clue was available last week. Modi’s birthday on September 17 was observed as “National Unemployment Day”, something that trended on Twitter the whole day. On Saturday, the subtext of thousands of tweets was a comparison between the two Prime Ministers. One tweet said: “Those were the days when the Prime Minister focused on work, not on camera.” Another listed statistics: “Happy birthday to a Prime Minister who gave 10.8% GDP growth, faced press conferences and knew the spelling of strength.” A Twitter user put brevity to devastating effect: “He spoke less but not lies.” Another supplemented: “He showed us the difference between talk and work.” If some cited Manmohan’s dire prediction on the demonetisation that came true, others dwelt on his humble background which he never tried to exploit for political gains. Many others mentioned his degrees, spoke of the respect he commanded among global leaders and recalled his scholarly achievements. Rahul Gandhi could not resist the temptation of making a loaded remark, either. “India feels the absence of a PM with the depth of Dr Manmohan Singh. His honesty, decency and dedication are a source of inspiration for us all. Wishing him a very happy birthday and a lovely year ahead,” Rahul tweeted. Former finance minister and close friend P. Chidambaram advocated the Bharat Ratna for Manmohan. “The story of Dr Singh’s life is a story of the rise of a young boy from a humble background to the heights of public service armed only with one tool — his education and scholarship. The whole nation is proud of the life and service of Dr Singh and holds him as an example for every young boy or girl. If anyone in public life alive today is deserving of Bharat Ratna, it is undoubtedly Dr Manmohan Singh.” A few contrarian voices were heard as well. Some BJP supporters criticised Manmohan for not being a mass leader and for becoming Prime Minister without getting elected by the people. They also accused him of dancing to Sonia Gandhi’s tune and tolerating corruption. None of them, however, presented a substantive critique of his performance as Prime Minister and his conduct as a public figure. Prime Minister Modi, who has effusively praised Congress leaders such as Pranab Mukherjee, wished a “long and healthy” life for his predecessor.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||‘Friends’ of Krishna ask for mosque land ||Seven people identifying themselves as “friends” of Lord Krishna have filed a civil suit in a Mathura court on behalf of “Bhagwan Sri Krishna Virajman” seeking the handover of land on which a temple and a mosque stand to them. Ranjana Agnihotri, an advocate in Lucknow, and six others on Friday approached the court of the civil judge, senior division, in Mathura demanding that the 13.37 acres be transferred to them, identifying the precise location of Shahi Idgah Masjid as the birthplace of Lord Krishna (Krishna Janmabhoomi). The petitioners have sought the removal of the mosque, claiming it had been constructed by the Mughals by destroying structures of the adjoining temple. Last Sunday, 22 members of the Hindu Army had been arrested after the fringe group announced a “Krishna Janmabhoomi movement” — a longstanding Sangh parivar demand to remove the Shahi Idgah adjacent to the Krishna temple in Mathura. Such a movement is expected to help the BJP in the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly elections. The petitioners in the Mathura court have mentioned the address of the birthplace of the Lord as “Bhagwan Sri Krishna, Katra Keshav Dev Khewat, Mauja Mathura Bazaar Sheher”. The case bears an uneasy resemblance with the one filed on behalf of Ram Lalla Virajman in the 1980s in connection with the Ayodhya land dispute. The Babri Masjid, whose area was identified as the birthplace of Lord Ram, was demolished in 1992 by a Vishwa Hindu Parishad and BJP mob in one of the most infamous chapters of Indian history, with the decades-old case culminating in the Supreme Court’s handover of the disputed land in Ayodhya last year for the construction of a Ram temple. In Mathura, the Krishna temple is looked after by the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Sewa Sansthan trust. The trust had entered into an agreement with the Shahi Idgah Trust in 1968 to coexist peacefully. However, Vishnu Shankar Jain, the counsel for the seven petitioners, said: “The agreement between the Sewa Sansthan and the management of the Idgah is illegal as it was done with wrong intentions.” The petitioners have alleged that the Krishna temple trust had usurped the shrine’s properties. A member of the Sewa Sansthan said on condition of anonymity that the temple and the mosque had coexisted for the past six decades. “The two trusts had entered into an agreement that they wouldn’t make this a religious issue and would allow people of other religions to visit the mosque and the temple. A local court had accepted the agreement in 1973. Some people associated with the VHP are trying to raise this issue before the 2022 Assembly elections to help the BJP claim that the Idgah was built at the birthplace of Lord Krishna during the Mughal period. We have done substantial research and didn’t find any evidence in favour of this claim,” he said. “Further, the Places of Worship Act, 1991, provides for freezing the status of religious places as they were on August 15, 1947. The act had excluded the Ayodhya case from its purview,” the trustee added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Ambulance lapse kills  new moms||Two pregnant women in Uttar Pradesh have died over the past 48 hours after failing to get an ambulance, with one case linked to the government’s strained coffers while in the other the husband made a last-ditch but futile attempt to carry his wife gasping for oxygen on a pushcart. Sone Kunwari, 32, of Sonbhadra district died of excessive bleeding during childbirth on Friday night after a futile wait for five hours for an ambulance. Government source said later that many contract workers, among them ambulance drivers and helpers, have stopped work as the government had not paid them salary for three months owing to a cash crunch aggravated by the pandemic. In Barabanki district, Puja Sharma, 30, died of post-delivery complications on Thursday while being taken to a hospital from a community health centre by her husband in a pushcart that he had hired after waiting for an ambulance for two hours. A doctor said both ambulances of the community health centre had already left with other patients. Sone’s husband Rama Shankar told reporters at Parani village in Sonbhadra, 370km east of state capital Lucknow, on Saturday: “After my wife went into labour, I had dialled 102 (the emergency number to call an ambulance), but none picked up the phone for two hours. When someone finally received the call, he said an ambulance would be sent in 20 minutes. None came, and when I called up the number again, I was told to wait another two hours. No ambulance arrived and my wife died after giving birth.” Rama, a Dalit, said local Asha worker Reena Devi had been with the distressed couple throughout but could not save Sone. “We are supposed to call the emergency health service number for immediate assistance. But nobody responded properly to our calls. Sone Kunwari died of excessive bleeding but her baby is fine,” Reena said. Village panchayat chief Manoj Yadav said he had sent a jeep as soon as he came to know about the crisis. “But she could not be saved. She was declared dead on arrival at the Myorpur community health centre (CHC). It is a sad incident. She would have lived had she received timely medical assistance. It is a damning statement on the poor health services in Uttar Pradesh, where the government thinks there is no health issue left to be addressed in the state except Covid-19,” he said. Dr Shishir Srivastava, the superintendent of the Myorpur CHC, said: “The woman was brought dead to the hospital. The emergency ambulance service provided through 102 is monitored from a control room in Lucknow. We have come to know that the ambulance didn’t reach the village. I will write to the government about this lapse.” A senior health department official in Lucknow said on the condition of anonymity: “Many ambulance drivers and paramedical staff have not got their salaries for the past three months. Recently, they had organised protests at several places. Many contract workers have stopped working out of anger.” The government sources said payment of salaries of contract workers had become irregular because of a cash crunch that had worsened because of the economic slowdown caused by the pandemic. In Barabanki, 28km east of Lucknow, Devraj Sharma of Surajpurva village said his wife Puja had been admitted to the CHC in Mathuranagar village nearby where she gave birth at 9.05am on Thursday. “Soon, the doctor referred her to the district women’s hospital as there were some complications and she required oxygen. We kept calling the emergency ambulance number (102) as none was available at the health centre. But no ambulance came for two hours. Then I rented a pushcart to carry her to the hospital 5km away but she died on the way, gasping for breath and bleeding profusely,” Devraj said. A doctor at the Mathuranagar CHC said on condition of anonymity that there was no oxygen cylinder at the health centre and both ambulances of the facility had already left with other patients.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Drop in IIM entrance test applicants||The number of students applying this year for the Common Admission Test (CAT), the entrance exam for the IIMs and many other management institutes, has witnessed a drop of more than 5 per cent over last year’s figure, at a time there has been a sharp increase in job losses among white-collar professionals. CAT 2020 has registered 2.3 lakh candidates after the last date of registration was extended by a week. Last year 2.44 lakh students had applied. The figure was 2.41 lakh in 2018, 2.31 lakh in 2017, and 2.32 lakh applied in 2016. This year’s registration number is the lowest since 2015 when 2.18 lakh candidates had applied for the admission test. There are nearly 5,000 MBA seats in the country’s 20 IIMs. IIM Indore is in charge of holding CAT this year on November 29 in 155 cities. The last date for registration initially was September 16 but was extended to September 23 without any reason being cited. The IIMs charge between Rs 12 lakh and Rs 23 lakh for the two-year MBA programme. Most students pursue the course by taking education loans, which they repay after getting jobs. “This year the job situation is gradually worsening due to the economic downturn mainly caused by the Covid-19 pandemic. The spread is yet to peak. There is no clarity on how long it would take for the economy to return to the pre-Covid levels. “That could be the reason influencing the students’ choice of courses this year,” said an IIM Ahmedabad faculty member. According to a recent report of the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), the country lost close to one-third of its white-collar jobs between May and August. An estimated 5.9 million (32.6 per cent) of the 18.1 million white-collar jobs in the country were lost in these four months. The recently held Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main, for admission to engineering courses, witnessed 25 per cent absenteeism. The IITs have declared that 1.6 lakh top scorers will be eligible to take the JEE Advanced on Sunday. Till Thursday, 1.55 lakh candidates had downloaded admit cards.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||RSS favourite Ram Madhav not in Team BJP||BJP president J.P. Nadda announced a new team of party office-bearers on Saturday, dropping the high-profile Ram Madhav as general secretary and giving Mukul Roy a place at the national level ahead of next summer’s Bengal polls. Bangalore South MP Tejasvi Surya has been appointed chief of youth wing Yuva Morcha, suggesting the party wants to groom the young  politician known for some outrageous tweets as it looks to build a new leadership in Karnataka. The axing of the media-savvy, RSS favourite Madhav — who was party minder for the entire Northeast apart from Jammu and Kashmir and Ladakh — triggered speculation he might be given a Rajya Sabha berth and even a Union ministry. But party insiders termed this unlikely, indicating he was out of favour with the current leadership, particularly Amit Shah, and that his style of functioning had caused resentment in the Northeast. Madhav tweeted: “Congratulations to the newly appointed office-bearers of d BJP. Grateful to d party leadership for providing me d opportunity to serve for one term as Gen Sec.” Three other prominent general secretaries — Murlidhar Rao, Anil Jain and Saroj Pandey — have also been dropped. Mukul, sulking and out of sync with the party’s Bengal leadership, has been appointed a vice-president, signalling his shift to the central organisation. The 12 new vice-presidents also include former chief ministers Vasundhara Raje Scindia, Raman Singh and Raghubar Das and former Union minister Radha Mohan Singh. Among the vice-presidents dropped are Vinay Sahasrabudhhe, known to be close to the RSS, and Prabhat Jha from Madhya Pradesh. While the shuffle comes more than eight months after Nadda’s appointment as party chief, it bears the signature of his predecessor Shah, now home minister. From Madhav’s removal to the retention of Bhupendra Yadav, Kailash Vijayvargiya and Arun Singh as general secretaries — all testify to Shah’s continued grip on party affairs. Also visible in the rejig is the influence of B.L. Santosh, the general secretary (organisation) from Karnataka, party insiders said. Santosh, who acts as a bridge between the RSS and the BJP, is said to have had a hand in Tejasvi’s elevation and in the appointments of D. Purandeshwari (N.T. Rama Rao’s daughter) and C.T. Ravi (an MLA from Karnataka) as general secretaries. Amit Malviya, spearhead of the BJP’s social media campaign and a man accused of unleashing abusive trolls against opponents and critics, has been retained as the party’s IT head, a post he has held since Shah became party president in 2014. It’s a vote of confidence for Malviya at a time party Rajya Sabha member Subramanian Swamy has been demanding his ouster, accusing him of launching “personal attacks” through fake Twitter accounts. Malviya tweeted his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shah, Nadda and Santosh for “trusting” him. Sources said Madhav had got involved in a feud with Himanta Biswa Sarma, the high-profile Assam minister who calls the shots across the Northeast and is known to be very close to Shah. Madhav and Sarma are learnt to have collided over party affairs in Manipur after the state’s BJP-led government faced a crisis. “There were a lot of complaints against Ram Madhavji from almost all the northeastern states,” a BJP politician said. Insiders said that Shah resented Madhav’s high-profile image and his style of functioning in the Northeast as well as in Jammu and Kashmir. Madhav had been a popular RSS spokesperson before joining the BJP. After the switch, he quickly acquired a high profile and influence, not just nationally but also internationally with his India Foundation, a strategic and policy think tank that has many eminent personalities from various fields as mentors. Known to be highly ambitious, Madhav remains close to the RSS. Many in the BJP believe that the parent body could intervene to ensure he gets an important position outside the party.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Classical status plea for  Odishi music||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Friday urged Union minister of state culture and tourism Prahlad Singh Patel to consider to confer classical status to Odishi music (vocal and instrumental). Citing the richness of the Odishi music, Naveen said, “It has been recognised as one of the classical forms and stands eminent because of its characteristic bhangi, thani, lalitya, mudra etc., but ironically, Odishi music is yet to be recognised as a classical form of music at national level.” He told Patel that the Heritage cabinet of Odisha in its meeting on September 2 decided to draw the Centre’s attention towards according classical status to the Odishi music. “Kindly appreciate our heritage, the elegant and classical ments of Odishi music and to consider to confer classical status to Odishi music ( Vocal and Instrumental) to fulfil the long cherished dream of the music lover of Odisha and that of India,” Naveen said. Naveen also reminded the minister that the Odishan music has, at least a tradition of 2000 years  and is based on written Sastra and its own core Raga. It has a distinctive rendition style based on codified grammar, the characteristic giti system of classical texts and having its own tala, different from Hindustani and Karnatak music. No doubt Odishi music has all the requisite and exclusive characteristics to be recognized as a classical music.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
27-09-2020||India||Floods revisit Bihar, crops damaged||Incessant rains in northern parts of Bihar and neighbouring Nepal for the past three days have revived the floods in the state just when the floodwaters were receding. This has happened at a time when dates for the Assembly polls in the state have been announced. Voting will be held in three phases on October 28, November 3 and 7. Heavy discharge of water from the Valmikinagar barrage over Gandak river on the Indo-Nepal border combined with torrential rains led to breach in an embankment in Gopalganj district. Floodwaters gushing out of the breach are set to make life miserable in several blocks in the district, which are already underwater, and further endangering the lives of several thousand people. East Champaran, West Champaran, Siwan, Saran, Sheohar and Sitamarhi districts are also facing further flood threats. The Noon river in Araria has suddenly swollen and changed its course, sweeping away dwellings and submerging agricultural fields. As per disaster management department (DMD) figures, 16 out of 38 districts of the state are already suffering from deluge for over last two months in which 84 lakh people have been affected, including 5.5 lakh who have been displaced due to the high level of water. Altogether 27 people have lost their lives in the ongoing floods. “The current heavy rainfall in north Bihar and Nepal will further swell the rivers dashing the hopes of full relief in the flood affected districts. The situation will also lead to a rise in the water level of the Ganga also,” a senior DMD official told The Telegraph on the condition of anonymity. “Though the elections are still more than a month away, the fresh floods could cause problems in preparations and even voting. Right now the situation is such that vast stretches in the affected districts are still inundated and a majority of people, mostly farmers and those engaged in farming activities, have lost their crops and work,” the officer added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
27-09-2020||India||‘Scapegoats are required as a diversion when there is a failure in governance…||I shall now discuss a major moment of dissent that helped to establish a free and democratic India. I have chosen this because it draws on some of the earlier strands of the Self and the Other in the creation of dissent discussed in previous pages. It also questions the essentials of Syndicated Hinduism or Hindutva. We are all familiar with this form of dissent. It has been present in the cusp of our own times and has been much discussed over the past century. It is in some ways a partial coming together of elements of the earlier forms of dissent recognisable from the Indian past. These touch on the previous examples that I have presented. Nevertheless, it created its own contemporary form from these elements. Unlike my other examples, this one was aware of its ancestry in the thought and activities of past times as were those who responded to it. To that extent, it is somewhat different. I am referring to what Gandhi called satyagraha. Since satyagraha was so integral to Indian nationalism, let me say a few words about nationalism. In India, its initial and overwhelming form was anti-colonial nationalism, a common experience to most erstwhile colonies. This implied the assertion of the free citizen ready to challenge political orthodoxies of various kinds that were inhibiting the freedom of the citizen. The construction of this identity recognises that it is new. Nevertheless, it has links from the past from which there is an implied legitimacy. So history becomes crucial. The experience of colonialism is in itself the experience of a historical change that alters the understanding that the individual has of himself or herself in the society that forms the context. Nationalism, we must remember, is part of the historical change of considerable magnitude that has, in the last three centuries, altered the way the world sees itself. Together with industrialisation, it belongs to the period that introduced radical new technologies whose functioning in many social activities was facilitated by the emergence of capitalism. Both these encouraged the evolving of the new middle class that controlled the change and consequently looked afresh at the society it had thereby constructed. At the level of knowledge, there were innovations in sciences, philosophies, religions, literatures, and in the patterns of living. One of the ways in which this change was articulated was through ideas of nationalism. Feudatory kingdoms or colonies that had framed the previous systems of governance belonged to another history and would have to be replaced by independent nation-states. Governance of the praja/subjects by the rajas of old or by the British Raj had to give way to the governance of a new category, the citizen. This was encapsulated in the interface between citizen and state through a government that was neither authoritarian nor alien but was representative of the citizens. That governance means representing the vision of the citizens was a departure from its earlier definition. Not only was it to be a relationship between the citizen and the state that marked a departure from the past but it was also to be a relationship based on the citizen having rights, which rights were to be protected by the state. This new relationship was a contract between the citizen and the state and was recorded in the Constitution. Nationalism therefore was the coming together of all citizens who claimed equal status and rights to establish an independent nation-state. Since every citizen was involved, the nation could not discriminate between citizens on grounds of religion, ethnicity, language or any such identities. Therefore, nationalism based on the identity of religion that discriminated in favour of one religion lacked legitimacy as nationalism. We may well ask why religious nationalism had a presence, although less significant, a century ago. It was in essence the response to colonial rule by those Indians who saw it as facilitating the making of a nation-state. In ascertaining the roots of Partition in 1947 and subsequent events, we quite correctly blame communal politics for the creation of the two nations; but in the process, we forget the deep imprint of colonial ideas. As was common to most colonies, the colonial reading of the colony’s earlier history that contributed to formulating its identity happened from the perspective of the coloniser. Some of this history was accepted by Indian anti-colonial nationalism but some of it was contested. The contestation contributed in part to the emergence of a legitimate anti-colonial nationalism. However, the colonial interpretation of this history resulted in two less legitimate forms, those of religious nationalisms. These were less legitimate because nationalism endorses a single all-inclusive identity, whereas religious nationalism endorses a deliberately selected identity that is not all-inclusive and excludes all but the one. One may well ask why colonial thinking was at the root of religious nationalism. The colonial comprehension of India was founded on the two-nation theory. James Mill argued in 1817 that Indian history was essentially that of two nations — the Hindu and the Muslim — and that the two had been permanently hostile to each other. Colonial scholarship based itself on this idea and its implications and applied it to its studies of Indian history and society. History was periodised into three periods, the Hindu, the Muslim and the British. This periodisation, essentially unhistorical, was given up half a century ago when the colonial view of history was questioned and much was discarded. However, this colonial theory was loyally followed by both religious nationalisms — Muslim and Hindu. The concept of the Islamic state and of the Hindu Rashtra, the latter based on the Hindutva version of history, are each rooted in the colonial understanding of Indian history. Each of the two excluded the other and each distanced itself from anti-colonial nationalism. The colonial propagation of the Muslim and Hindu nations provided the impetus for religious nationalism. The sectarian differences among sects claiming Islamic affiliation was easier to recognise, given that there were historical markers that gave it a structure. Dissident views were systematically suppressed, as they are to this day, in the attacks on Shias in places that have Sunni majorities, and such like. Mahmud of Ghazni’s raid on the Shia mosque in Multan at the same time as his raid on Hindu temples should not come as a surprise, given the sectarian conflicts within Islam. To project a Hindu nation required more planning since the historical markers to make a framework for it were obscure. This was done by re-interpreting the past and providing it with the teleology that its end purpose was the creation of a Hindu Rashtra/Hindu nation-state. This needed remoulding the religion into what was called Hindutva in such a manner that it would make the political mobilisation of Hindus feasible and would simultaneously exclude the large number of minority communities. Parallel trends were emerging in the Muslim community that was the largest of the minority communities. The reconfiguration encouraged a duality in nationalism: those that thought of nationalism as a secular, inclusive philosophy nurturing anti-colonial nationalism, as against those that thought of it as religious nationalism with its exclusive Hindu and Islamic components, each the counterpart of the other. The broad-based anti-colonial nationalism obviously had a different agenda. It saw India as a nation of citizens who, irrespective of origins and with a substantially similar identity, were all of equal status and were coming together in the demand for an independent, secular, democratic nation-state. This was different from envisaging a primary or exclusive citizenship, as in the case of the two religious nationalisms. Nationalism, if defined by a single identity from among more, ceases to be nationalism and takes the form of majoritarianism, a form that is opposed to secular democracy and brings with it the threat of fascism. This seeks success by identifying a scapegoat, preferably a minority community, differentiated by religion or language, and which can be projected as the enemy within. In the last few years, attempts have been made by some to make the minority communities into scapegoats, attempts that have had some degree of success. Scapegoats are also required as a diversion when there is a failure in governance. We should keep in mind, however, that civilised societies do not treat any community as a scapegoat.Excerpted with permission from Voices of Dissent: An Essay by Romila Thapar; Published by Seagull Books||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-645
