28-09-2020||India||Congress, Opposition parties step up the heat against govt on farm laws||Stepping up pressure, the Congress along with other Opposition parties held demonstrations against the new farm laws in several states on Monday with some protesters torching a tractor at the India Gate in the heart of Lutyens' Delhi. The Congress invoked Bhagat Singh, whose birth anniversary was being celebrated on Monday, during the protests and Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh took part in a sit-in at the ancestral village of the freedom fighter. The chief minister said his government would approach the Supreme Court over the farm laws and warned that Pakistan's ISI could exploit the anger over the new legislations to foment trouble in the border state. Protests were also held in Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Telangana, Gujarat, Goa, Odisha and Tamil Nadu, where the DMK and its allies, including the Congress, hit the streets. DMK chief M.K. Stalin said his party was ready to challenge the new laws in court. “Kerala was readying to approach the Supreme Court against the laws and the Tamil Nadu government should follow suit and if this does not happen, we (DMK) as an opposition party are ready to go to court on behalf of farmers and the people," Stalin said, while addressing protesters in Kancheepuram district. Congress MP from Thrissur (Kerala) T.N. Prathapan moved the Supreme Court on Monday challenging the constitutional validity of various provisions of the Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, one of the three contentious farm laws notified by the government. MDMK chief Vaiko, Tamil Nadu Congress committee president K. S. Alagiri, DMK leaders T. R. Baalu and Dayanidhi Maran were among those who took part in the protests held at separate locations. Demonstrations were held in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli and Tirunelveli among other places across the state. Early morning start Five persons claiming to be members of the Punjab Youth Congress were detained after they unloaded a tractor from a truck in the high-security area at Rajpath, a few hundred metres from the President House and the Parliament, in the national capital and set it on fire at around 7 AM.  "On #BhagatSingh's birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt's anti farmer bills," the Indian Youth Congress tweeted.  The BJP lashed out at the Congress over the incident, saying it has "shamed" the country with its "drama" aimed at garnering publicity and "misleading" farmers. BJP general secretary Bhupender Yadav dubbed the Congress as "anti-farmer", saying farmers venerate their farm equipment and would not set tractors on fire. Nearly 100 Gujarat Congress workers, including state party president Amit Chavda and MLAs Baldevji Thakor and C. J. Chavda, were detained in Gandhinagar during protests. In Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) president Ajay Kumar Lallu and other party workers were held during the protest.  The arguments The Opposition led by the Congress has alleged that the laws will make the farmers vulnerable to exploitation and will lead to the scrapping of the Minimum Support Price (MSP) system. They are also critical of the manner in which these bills were passed in Parliament. The Centre has maintained that the laws would prove beneficial to farmers as they would have the freedom to choose buyers for their produce and get remunerative price. Also. it has stressed that the MSP system will stay. Information and Broadcasting Minister Prakash Javadekar said the Congress had been trying to do politics in the name of farmers, and it has been unmasked. ‘We will move SC’ Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh said he would fight the Centre's malicious new agriculture Acts constitutionally and legally, asserting that he will do whatever it takes to protect the farmers.  "I have said we will take this matter forward. The President has passed these bills and now we will take this matter to the Supreme Court," Singh said after paying tributes to Bhagat Singh on his 113th birth anniversary at his ancestral place Khatkar Kalan in SBS Nagar district.  "There has been peace in Punjab but when you try to take away someone's food, then won't he be angry. He becomes the target for ISI. That is why I am saying whatever they have done is anti-national, he later told reporters.  The AICC general secretary in charge of Punjab affairs, Harish Rawat, announced a signature campaign beginning October 2 to collect two crore signatures of farmers against the new farm laws and these will be submitted to the President of India on November 14.  In Lucknow, police stopped members of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party's students wing as they tried to march towards the chief minister's residence.  Selja leads delegation Haryana Congress held a protest outside the party's state headquarters in Chandigarh, alleging the laws will make farmers "dependent" and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.  A delegation comprising Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, party's state affairs in charge Vivek Bansal, other senior leaders submitted a memorandum to Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya which was addressed to the President.  Telangana Congress leaders and the new AICC in-charge for party affairs in Telangana Manickam Tagore were taken into custody when they tried to proceed to the Raj Bhavan from an adjacent government guest house. They were released by police later.  President Ram Nath Kovind has given assent to the three farm bills -- The Farmers'' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020 and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Karnataka protests Meanwhile, farmer organisations backed by a number of other social and political outfits on Monday staged protests across Karnataka against amendments to the Karnataka Land Reforms Act and the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee Act passed by the Karnataka Assembly.  The call for a bandh given by the Karnataka Raitha Sangha (Karnataka Farmers' Association) and other farmer organisations was supported by the Congress, JD(S), Karnataka Rakshana Vedike (KRV) and the Left parties.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
28-09-2020||India||No conclusion reached in Sushant's death, all angles being probed: CBI||The CBI has not reached any conclusion in the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput and all aspects are under investigation, the agency said on Monday. "The Central Bureau of Investigation is conducting professional investigation related to death of Shri Sushant Singh Rajput in which all aspects are being looked at and no aspect has been ruled out as of date," a CBI spokesperson said in statement. Rajput, 34, who made his silver screen debut in the critically acclaimed "Kai Po Che" seven years ago, was found dead in his apartment in suburban Bandra in Mumbai on June 14 this year. The CBI had taken over the probe from Bihar Police into the alleged abetment to suicide case filed by the actor's father K K Singh in Patna against Rajput's girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty and her family. Singh in his complaint to Bihar Police had alleged that Chakraborty along with her family members had misappropriated Rajput's wealth, which was denied by Chakraborty in TV interviews. Last week Singh's lawyer Vikas Singh had expressed "helplessness" over the slow pace of the CBI probe into Rajput's death. The pace of the CBI probe into Sushant Singh Rajput's death has suddenly slowed down and all attention is being diverted to drugs-related issues with the NCB conducting "fashion parade" of Bollywood stars, the late actor's family lawyer Vikas Singh had alleged on Friday. "Today, we are helpless as we don't know which direction the case is going in. Normally, a press briefing is done by CBI. But in this case, till today, CBI has not done a press briefing on what they have found out. This is a very serious issue," Singh had alleged at a press conference. The probe agency had earlier also issued a statement calling media reports attributed to it as speculative. "Certain media reports attributed to CBI investigation are speculative and not based on facts. It is reiterated that as a matter of policy, CBI does not share details of ongoing investigation," the agency had said on September 3. "CBI spokesperson or any team member has not shared any details of investigation with media. The details being reported and attributed to CBI are not credible," it had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||DMK, allies to take the streets to protest farm laws||DMK and its allies hit the streets across Tamil Nadu on Monday, protesting the three farm sector legislations with its chief M. K. Stalin saying that his party was ready to challenge the Centre's contentious move in court. Addressing a demonstration at a village in neighbouring Kancheepuram district as part of the state-wide protest, he alleged the new laws would drive farmers away from their land. "Take back farm laws", "We will not rest until the farmers interests are protected", "Farmers betrayed," and "Farm laws lead to hoarding," were among the slogans raised during the demonstrations. The DMK-led alliance, which includes the Congress and Left parties among others, on last Monday decided to hold the state-wide agitation against the bills, passed in the recent Parliament session. Kerala was readying to approach the Supreme Court against the laws and Tamil Nadu government should follow suit and if this does not happen, "we (DMK) as an opposition party are ready to go to court on behalf of farmers and the people," he said. The DMK chief took a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi by saying "this son of a poor mother is now making a large number of Indians poor", referring to the PM's claim that he was the son of a poor mother. Attacking Chief Minister K Palaniswami, he said though the AIADMK leader took pride in calling himself a farmer, their lives have "taken a hit" only after he assumed power. Stalin, also the leader of Opposition in the Assembly, alleged farmers would be driven out of their own land and their lives would go backward. After consultations with allies, the next course of action, like further protests against the farm laws, would be decided, he said. MDMK chief Vaiko, Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president K S Alagiri, DMK leaders T R Baalu, Dayanidhi Maran were among those who took part in the protests held at separate locations. The protest demonstrations were held in Chennai, Coimbatore, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli and Tirunelveli among other places across the state. Similar protests against the farm bills are being witnessed in several other places in the country, especially in Punjab and Haryana, with Congress and other parties alleging it was against farmers. The Centre has maintained that the legislations, which have since received Presidential assent, would be beneficial to the farmers as they would have freedom to choose the buyers for their produce and get remunerative price.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Punjab government to move SC against farm laws||Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh said on Monday that his government would approach the Supreme Court over the issue of new farm laws, adding that the  BJP-led central government was out to snatch the rights of states. Amarinder Singh, along with AICC general secretary and Punjab affairs in-charge Harish Rawat, Punjab Congress chief Sunil Jakhar and others, paid tributes to Shaheed Bhagat Singh on his 113th birth anniversary at Khatkar Kalan village. Amarinder Singh, Rawat and others held a sit-in protest against the new farm laws. Addressing the gathering, the Amarinder slammed the Centre for bringing the farm laws, saying they would "destroy" the farming community. "I have said we will take this matter forward. The President has passed these bills and now we will take this matter to the Supreme Court," Singh said. Stating that his government would take every possible step to protect the interest of the farming community, he said, two advocates from Delhi are coming here tomorrow (Tuesday) and we will discuss this matter with them. President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday gave assent to three contentious farm bills that have triggered protests by farmers, especially in Punjab. According to a gazette notification, the President gave assent to three bills -- the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Bill, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Defending farmers for holding protests over the farm laws, the chief minister said they had the right to do so as you are taking away their livelihood. He accused the central government of snatching the rights of states. "Now you have taken away (right over) the farm sector. Which thing will you leave with states? Will you leave it or not? You have taken away everything (from states). How will we run our states?" he added. Talking to the media later, Amarinder expressed hope that Congress leader Rahul Gandhi would join the protests against the new farm laws. "We are going to request him to join us. Daily he is tweeting and making statements, saying whatever they (government) have done with farmers is a fraud. He will certainly join us," he said. To another question, Amarinder stated that Pakistan's spy agency ISI always tried to foment trouble in the border state of Punjab."The ISI always looks to whom and where it can give guns, bombs and grenades. They have been following it since the beginning. During the last three and half years of our regime, we have arrested around 150 terrorists and seized around 700 weapons," he said. "There has been peace in Punjab but when you try to take away someone's food, then won't he be angry. He becomes the target for ISI. That is why I am saying whatever they have done is anti-national," he added. 'Akali Dal in lose-lose situation' Slamming the Shiromani Akali Dal, which has exited the NDA, the CM said, "Akali Dal is now in a total lose-lose situation. You will find they will lose all over. They will try to use some other tactic that is not going to work because once you have let people down, once you have told them what sort of people you are nobody will trust you again." Earlier addressing the gathering, former Uttarakhand chief minister Rawat said the Congress would fight farmers' battle. He accused the BJP-led central government of "demolishing" the minimum support price, mandi system and PDS (public distribution system) with these farm laws. "Their motive is to demolish everything which farmers have got after a long struggle. From the green and white revolution to till now, rights which farmers acquired, one by one all of them are being demolished with these farm laws," Singh said. "MSP and mandi system will be dismantled with these farm laws and their next target is FCI," he said, claiming that they also want to demolish the Public Distribution System.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Youth Congress activists set tractor ablaze at India Gate ||Youth Congress activists on Monday morning set a tractor on fire at India Gate in the heart of Lutyens Delhi to voice their protest against the contentious farm laws. Five people claiming to be members of the Punjab Youth Congress have been detained, police said. According to the police, around 15-20 people carried a tractor on a truck to Rajpath, Man Singh Crossing. They unloaded the tractor from the truck and set it on fire. Fire officials said they were informed about the incident at 7.42 am and two fire tenders were rushed to the spot. The blaze has been doused and the tractor was removed, police said. IYC media incharge Rao said activists of its Punjab unit demonstrated at the India Gate on the occasion of the birth anniversary of revolutionary freedom fighter Bhagat Singh. "Our country thrives on the blood and sweat of our farmers. From fighting the British to feeding the entire nation, our farmers are the nation's backbone," the IYC tweeted. "On #BhagatSingh's birth anniversary Youth Congress set ablaze a tractor in protest against the govt's anti farmer bills," it added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal said five people had been detained and an Innova car that was used has also been taken into police custody. The detained persons have been identified as Manjot Singh (36), Ramandeep Singh Sindhu (28), Rahul (23), Sahib (28) and Sumit (28), all residents of Punjab, police said. They claimed to be members of Youth Congress Punjab. Their affiliation is being verified, according to the police. Reacting to the incident, Delhi BJP media relations head Neelkant Bakshi tweeted that he would file a case against the "dangerous conspiracy to foment violence by spreading rumours". The incident comes amid protests by farmers and the Opposition across the country over the three contentious farm legislations, which were passed by the Parliament last week and got presidential assent on Sunday. Farmers have expressed apprehension that the laws would pave a way for the dismantling of the minimum support price system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big companies. Delhi Congress leaders and workers, including its president Anil Kumar, were detained by police on Monday during a protest against farm bills at Rajghat. Kumar said a protest march from Rajghat to Raj Niwas was also scheduled but police detained party leaders and workers before it could begin. "We wanted to submit a memorandum to the Lt governor against the farm bills passed by Parliament but we were detained by the police. The Congress will not rest till the Modi government withdraws its anti-farmer bills," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Unlock: Odisha to open all tourist sites||The Odisha government has decided to re-open all its tourist sites to the people in a phased manner from the first week of October. The closure of these destinations for tourists has not only meant loss of revenue for the government but also loss of livelihood for a large number of people dependent on the tourism industry. Chief minister Naveen Patnaik highlighted the state’s tourism potential in a tweet on the World Tourism Day: “Odiha’s treasure of timeless monuments, heritage, idyllic natural beauty, cultivating landscapes, diverse flora and fauna are a traveller’s delight. On World Tourism Day, reiterate commitment to unlock its vast potential in a post pandemic world.” Tourism minister Jyoti Prakash Panigrahy said: “We have decided to open the 358 tourist destinations in a phased manner from October.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Former Bihar DGP now in Nitish Kumar parlour||Before the ink on his VRS application and its approval had dried, Gupteshwar Pandey was chaperoned into the Janata Dal United by chief minister Nitish Kumar on Sunday. Till Tuesday night, Pandey was the director-general of police in Bihar, discharging his responsibilities with such zeal that he played a key role in transforming the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput into television opium that sought to distract attention from multiple national crises. Soon after Nitish ushered Pandey into the party, the Opposition alleged that the retired officer had been “rewarded” for aiding the politicisation of the Sushant tragedy. Pandey had taken voluntary retirement from the Indian Police Service on September 22. The mandatory notice period had been waived by the central and state governments amid suggestions that he would take the plunge into politics and could contest the Bihar Assembly elections in October-November. Pandey, who was to retire in February 2021, had aggressively pursued Sushant’s case and questioned the aukaat (a derogatory word for stature) of the actor’s girlfriend, Rhea Chakraborty, to comment on the Bihar chief minister. Pandey had also frequently appeared on TV to take pot shots at Mumbai police — a practice that undermined not only the division of powers under which police is a subject of each state but also the professionalism of the premier police service. While still in service, Pandey had featured in a music album titled Robin Hood Bihar Ke that eulogised him for his work as a police officer. He had shared the video on social media platforms on the day he took VRS. The Indian Police Foundation, a think tank, had said: “A state DGP circulating such a video is in poor taste, demeaning his office and uniform. It sets a bad example for his juniors. It is also a violation of the conduct rules.” On Sunday, Nitish himself welcomed Pandey into the JDU at the chief minister’s official residence — 1 Aney Marg — in Patna by making him a member and garlanding him with party signs. Legislative Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, Lok Sabha member Rajiv Ranjan alias Lalan Singh and building construction department minister Ashok Choudhary, just appointed executive president of the state unit of the JDU, were present. Pandey later visited the JDU state headquarters in the Bihar capital to formally announce his entry into politics. “I was called by the chief minister and asked to join the party. I will abide by the order of my party and follow the directions of our leader (Nitish). The party will decide whether I have to contest the elections. I’m a simple person who doesn’t understand politics. I have spent my life working for the downtrodden,” Pandey said. A spokesperson for the Opposition RJD, Mritunjay Tiwary, said: “This is the reward for the way Pandey was involved in whipping up people’s sentiments in Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. He looked less like a DGP and more like a JDU spokesperson while speaking aggressively about the case in public and on television channels.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||PMO official behind fake ID tweets, says Subramanian Swamy||In the season of rewards, use-and-throw stories too pop up. Subramanian Swamy, who once specialised in tormenting the UPA and was nominated to the Rajya Sabha after Narendra Modi came to power, on Sunday accused an official in the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) of steering a Twitter campaign against him and suggested that he had furnished documentary proof to the Prime Minister. The timing of Swamy’s charge was not without significance — it came a day after the BJP ignored his ultimatum and retained Amit Malviya as the party’s social media chief. Swamy had initially levelled the charge against Malviya. On Sunday, Swamy tweeted: “Now that Malviya has been reappointed, I have this to say: My earlier tweet was to test whether Malviya financed fake ID tweets on his own or not. Now it is clear. PMO Haren Joshi was behind it. I have written to PM two weeks or so ago bringing this to his notice with documents.” One Hiren Joshi, not Haren, is officer on special duty, communications and information technology, in the PMO. Calls this newspaper made to Joshi’s number, listed on the PMO website, went unanswered. There was no reply, either, to an email seeking his response to Swamy’s allegation. The issue offered Swamy — who has been variously described as a maverick, loose cannon and self-propelled missile and whose nuisance value is well-known — a fresh chance to articulate his bitterness. Replying to a Twitter user’s question if “Modiji ever listens to you”, Swamy said: “If he (did), then he would not have been in a mess in the economy which is about to collapse after a long tailspin.” Swamy, an economist, had been extremely critical of the government’s handling of the economy and had said in January that the Prime Minister “has to make me finance minister because he (Modi) does not understand economics”. Sunday’s dust-up also occasioned a very public washing of saffron linen. Delhi BJP spokesperson Tejinder Pal Bagga suggested Swamy was bitter because he “didn’t get anything” and accused him of ditching the Atal Bihari Vajpayee government in favour of Sonia Gandhi in the late 1990s. “Is this true u met Women Journalist in Oct 2014 and told her I will start Exposing PM @naredramodi after 6 Months,” Bagga tweeted. “U didn’t get the time to implement ur agenda u r doing it now. We know ur History, u ditched Atal ji for Sonia, whn u didn’t get anything you become Virat Hindu,” Bagga tweeted. Swamy, who has a follower base of over 10 million on Twitter, responded by blocking Bagga. The BJP spokesperson hit back: “Dear @Swamy39, instead of accepting/denying the fact, you blocked me. Virat Swamy is running from truth, O My God.” Bagga soon faced the wrath of Swamy’s followers who chastised the spokesperson and appealed to Modi to look into the Rajya Sabha MP’s complaint. Early this month, Swamy had accused Malviya of masterminding a social media trolling campaign against him through fake IDs and warned the BJP of a Mahabharat-like situation if the party’s social media head was not sacked. “The BJP IT cell has gone rogue. Some of its members are putting out fake ID tweets to make personal attacks on me,” Swamy had tweeted. “By tomorrow if Malviya is not removed from BJP IT cell (which is my five villages compromise proposal to Nadda) it means the party doesn’t want to defend me,” he had tweeted a couple of days later. In the Mahabharat, Krishna had proposed that Duryodhan give five villages to the Pandavas as a compromise to avert a disastrous war. Swamy has been sniping at the Modi government. He had strongly opposed the government’s move to hold the JEE and NEET exams amid the pandemic. He had supported the students’ agitation against the exams, which had crystallised into an online campaign against the Prime Minister.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Winter beef-up on Ladakh frontline||India’s army is ramping up its military posts at 14,000ft and above in eastern Ladakh and has deployed T-90 and T-72 tanks along with infantry combat vehicles amid the border tensions with China. It is also setting up winter shelters for the nearly 40,000 troops near the Line of Actual Control. Defence ministry sources said the army was increasing its military readiness at high altitudes to deal with any provocation from the Chinese who are “adamant” about not pulling back from India-claimed territory. “The army is gearing for a harsh winter, mobilising resources and creating habitats on a war footing at the multiple friction points along the LAC to counter any further Chinese move to alter the status quo,” a ministry official said. He said the deployment of additional men and machines was being done after analysing the Chinese deployments. T-90 and T-72 tanks, he said, can operate below -40 degrees Celsius, which is how cold the mountains of Ladakh can become in winter. The army recently procured high-altitude gear at a huge expense and has been stocking up on food, fuel and ammunition to sustain the six-month winter deployment, the official added. Winter has already arrived at some high-altitude zones, with the onset of snowing. A security official said that such heavy deployment in high-altitude forward posts, often in isolated areas, was unusual in winter. “New posts and shelters are being set up to keep a close watch on Chinese troops,” he said. “The Indian side has put up barbed wires at some friction points, drawing a line and sending a message to the aggressive Chinese troops not to cross it. These areas can turn into flashpoints anytime considering the escalating build-up from both sides.” Security agencies estimate the Chinese have occupied close to 1,000sqkm of India-claimed territory in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Jaswant Singh: BJP founder member who was an outsider ||It’s often said about Atal Bihari Vajpayee that he was “the right man in the wrong party”. This would be equally, if not more, true of his trusted lieutenant and trouble-shooter — his own “Hanuman” —Jaswant Singh who, despite being a founder member of the BJP and holding several positions in the party and its government at the Centre in the Vajpayee era, always remained a bit of an outsider in the Right-wing camp. Never a card-carrying member of what he called the “Jai Shri Ram Brigade”, Singh — who died on Sunday after being in a coma for six years — forswore even some of the social mores of Indian politics. Few Indian politicians drink in public — and cover their glasses with napkins on the rare occasions they do — but Singh penned in his memoir, A Call to Honour, that he had a glass of champagne with the external affairs ministry team after returning from Kandahar with the passengers and crew of the hijacked IC-814. The day marked, by his own account, one of the most painful chapters of his life, bearing as he did the burden of escorting three terrorists to Kandahar to secure the release of the passengers. It was not his decision alone, but he became the face of that bargain. Singh, born into a “Mallani jagirdar” family in present-day Barmer nine years before the Partition, died unaffiliated much the same way his political career had begun — as an Independent in the 1967 elections. Offered an opportunity to join the Bharatiya Jana Sangh by his political mentor Bhairon Singh Shekhawat, he had steered clear of it owing to the outfit’s position on minorities. However, he seemed to make his peace with the Jana Sangh’s new incarnate, the BJP, when it was formed 13 years later — primarily under Vajpayee’s influence. That was a friendship that endured, so much so that, according to Singh’s son Manvendra who switched to the Congress from the BJP in October 2018, “father found a fit” in the six-decade-long bond that Vajpayee shared with L.K. Advani. Vajpayee was the only person Singh had called on after being expelled from the BJP for the first time in 2009 over his book Jinnah: India, Partition, Independence. The book had upended Right-wing wisdom with a favourable account of Pakistan’s Quaid-e-Azam, blaming not just Jawaharlal Nehru but also Sardar Patel — the Sangh’s most favoured freedom fighter — for the Partition. Singh was so devastated by the expulsion that he broke down in public when the axe fell, his Rajput genes and military training notwithstanding. What hurt most of all, he told some journalists then, was that Advani had not come to his defence, even for the sake of returning a favour. When Advani had been in a similar position in 2005 after praising Jinnah during a Karachi visit, Singh had stood up for him in the face of demands that Advani step down as BJP president. Some amends were made 10 months after Singh’s expulsion when Advani reached out to him and the party took him back. Singh was the NDA choice in 2012 for the vice-presidential election though defeat was a foregone conclusion. With some reluctance, Singh — often ridiculed for his gravelly voice, clipped accent and patrician demeanour — agreed since he was no stranger to new battlegrounds. He had earlier shifted Lok Sabha constituencies in Rajasthan and even gone eastwards to represent Darjeeling during his 34-year career as a parliamentarian, spanning both Houses of Parliament. But then he was from Barmer, known for its shifting sand dunes. Critics in the BJP, though, maintained that Singh had been forced to change constituencies because he would not nurse them as expected of a Lok Sabha member. Life came full circle for Singh when he decided to contest as an Independent from Barmer in 2014 after the BJP denied him a ticket and, worse, fielded a recent Congress import, resulting in his second expulsion and final break from the party. Even if he had not rebelled then, he would in all likelihood have done so eventually as the new BJP under the Modi-Shah duopoly would have had little patience with his ways. Singh, eminently capable of mocking himself, has in his memoir described Mayo College — his alma mater — as a school “to ‘civilise’, educate and transform the sons of rough nobility of the region into some kind of caricatures of ‘an English gentleman’”. That education, the very British military training and love of English literature contributed to his persona. But ironically, he found the “linguistic pirouettes” of external affairs ministry officials cumbersome when he was made foreign minister in the third Vajpayee administration. Those were challenging times. After the Kargil conflict, relations with Pakistan were particularly strained, and had been made worse by frequent terror attacks, including the attack on Parliament. Then there were the US sanctions triggered by Pokhran-II. If Vajpayee is credited with opening a new chapter in India-US relations after the sanctions, Singh did much of the heavy lifting, ironing out the rough spots through a series of meetings with President Bill Clinton’s deputy secretary of state, Strobe Talbott. During the Vajpayee years, Singh was often the Prime Minister’s go-to guy, not just in matters of governance but also in dealing with difficult political allies such as the mercurial Jayalalithaa and Mamata Banerjee. About his responsibilities in the NDA government, Singh had often said that it spanned the “D, E and F of the governance of India” — defence, external affairs and finance. In the Vajpayee era, he held all three portfolios — defence and external affairs simultaneously for a while. In 2002 he was moved back to finance — which had been his first ministerial assignment in the 13-day Vajpayee government of 1996 — to fight the criticism attracted by the RSS choice for the post, Yashwant Sinha, who had by then been nicknamed “rollback minister”. Sinha had pipped Singh to the post in 1998 in a crack-of-dawn move engineered by the RSS, which found the “Englishman in the BJP” too pro-reform, influenced as he was by the free market politics of C. Rajagopalachari’s Swatantra Party. But by the time Singh had returned to North Block in 2002 in a swap with Sinha, his heart was across the road in South Block. Luck — many economists said — favoured him at the finance ministry. Still, he can claim credit for rewriting India’s foreign exchange conservatism, a move triggered by the need to do “something different” and the “native wisdom” gathered from his “range-fed” desert upbringing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Ajay Lallu, Congress president in Uttar Pradesh, sees a revival||Ajay Kumar Lallu, the humble and proactive Uttar Pradesh Congress chief who has marked himself out as a leader who works among the people, believes his state is yearning for a radical change. Lallu, whose work on the ground has drawn attention on social media, spoke to The Telegraph about his vision for the Congress’s revival in a state that had once been the party’s stronghold but where it has been out of power for over three decades now. Assembly elections are due in Uttar Pradesh in 2022. Excerpts: Q: We have been hearing about a Congress revival in the key state of Uttar Pradesh for almost two decades now; every new state president claims the tide is turning. The same is being repeated in your tenure. How is it different now? Lallu: The difference this time is Priyanka Gandhi. She is totally committed and we are all working under her guidance. People are looking up to Priyankaji with hope. The organisation is being expanded with strong teams in every district. We intend to reach every village. There is constant monitoring. Our strategy is sampark-samvad-sangharsh (contact-communication-struggle). You can see the churning in the society. The Congress is visible everywhere in the state and it has already become the most talked about party. The reason is that Uttar Pradesh has been misled and fooled by politics of religion and caste. Both Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati did caste politics. They were caste leaders. The BJP is purely a communal party; it won power by creating a religious divide in society. People have now realised that these parties did politics for grabbing power, not for giving good governance in the biggest state of the country (in terms of population). The Congress doesn’t do politics based on caste and religion. That’s not our DNA. While all the three parties — the SP, BSP and the BJP — are suffering an acute crisis of credibility, people want the Congress now in the hope of development and justice. Q: But the Congress has always talked about development and opposed politics based on caste and religion. And the people have rejected it. What’s new? You rely only on Priyanka? Lallu: The leadership of Priyankaji is definitely a factor. People know the Gandhi family has no lust for the trappings of power; they have seen it all for decades. People can trust them for their own welfare and safety. The critical difference this time is that people’s sufferings have reached an abnormal point. Pet khaali hai (stomachs are empty). Injustice and coercion have peaked. Industries are in ruin, farmers are distressed, youths have no jobs, women are insecure. Betrayal by these three parties, coupled with the fatigue factor, has compelled people to look at the Congress. And the Congress is everywhere — in their struggles, in their miseries… giving voice to their concerns. While the BJP is only creating problems and trying to suppress discontent by force, the SP and the BSP are nowhere to be seen. Congress workers were in the field during the lockdown and the migrant crisis, fought against the CAA-NRC and stood by farmers. Q: But the SP and the BSP have a much stronger organisational machinery. The Congress doesn’t have the muscle to beat them. Will Priyanka’s charisma alone suffice? Lallu: We have strengthened our organisation. Large numbers of people are joining daily. The Youth Congress brought out impressive rallies against unemployment in over 20 districts. The SP and the BSP are facing a severe image crisis. Everybody in the state knows they have been silenced by the CBI, ED and the income tax department. Only the Congress is not frightened by such coercive measures. The CBI-ED can fetter them, not us. Tota bana diya unko (the SP and the BSP have been reduced to parrots). Mulayam, Akhilesh (Yadav, SP leader and former chief minister) or Mayawati have abandoned the people. The Congress is the only party standing by the people in their miseries. Have the SP-BSP uttered a word on the Chinese intrusions and the shocking mismanagement of the corona (pandemic) and the lockdown? Only Rahul Gandhi is fighting Narendra Modi. People are watching everything. Q: Still, Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati, or chief minister Yogi Adityanath, are state leaders. The Congress doesn’t have an effective local leader. Lallu: Which leader has greater credibility and appeal than Priyankaji? And leaders should be judged by action and outreach, not reputation. All our leaders are constantly among the people. Not only me, every leader is reaching out to the people. I come from a small family, I don’t have the reputation of Akhilesh Yadav or Mayawati but I am always amidst the people. I don’t have the financial clout of those leaders but I can share the pain and struggle of the people with greater intensity. I am a man of struggle; both my legs were broken — I stand up because there are iron rods in both my legs. There are even now 38 cases against me and all because of my struggle for the people. After becoming the UP Congress chief (in 2019), I have been arrested 21 times. I am telling you these things only to explain how the Congress is doing pro-people politics in the state. Q: So you will improve your tally or be in a position to win power? Lallu: I can’t say anything about it now. Everything is possible in politics. We are not done yet. But we are working hard. If we manage to convince the people that you have been cheated and fooled for three decades, there will be change. People have to be explained how they were denied development and prosperity in the name of caste and religion. The moment people realise this, the Congress will be back in power.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-643
28-09-2020||India||Nepal builds barracks near Kalapani in Uttarakhand||Nepal is building permanent quarters and barracks within its territory for soldiers deployed near Kalapani in Uttarakhand district in an unprecedented move after the Himalayan nation claimed the area as its own in a map. The constructions are being made at Changru, 13km from Kalapani. Earlier this year, soldiers were deployed at Changru after Nepal’s parliament ratified a map and coat of arms that included Kalapani, Lipulekh and Limpiyadhura within its territory. India says all three areas are part of Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district. Nepal home minister Ram Bahadur Thapa on Friday laid the foundation stone for the project at Changru. The barracks will house personnel of Nepal’s Armed Police Force (APF), which performs the dual role of military and law enforcement. “Thapa said during an interaction with villagers of Sitapul near Changru that it was a great opportunity for Nepali youths to join the APF, which has plans for expansion,” a source in the Uttarakhand government said. APF spokesperson Raju Aryal was quoted by the Nepali media as saying: “We are going to construct barracks in Changru to keep a watch on the India-Nepal border.” The Uttarakhand government source said: “There had never been any security personnel in this area to monitor civilian activities near the border. The people of the two countries used to freely cross the border. Now the APF doesn’t allow our citizens to enter their land. We too are preventing the entry of Nepali people.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
28-09-2020||India||Family suicide bid, finger at moneylender in Agra||A shoemaker-cum-cobbler attempted suicide with his wife and two children in an Agra village on Sunday morning after uploading a video accusing a moneylender of tormenting the family. Deepak Kumar, 30, who forwarded the video to friends and relatives before drinking insecticide with wife Anuradha and their children, aged 5 and 7, said he had failed to repay the loan because the lockdown had hit his business. All four were critically ill on Sunday evening at the S.N. Medical College, where relatives had taken them from their home in Gyaspur village. “I had borrowed Rs 1.5 lakh from a local moneylender last year at 10 per cent annual interest. But my work suffered because of the lockdown and I couldn’t repay him,” Deepak, who makes shoes and sells them from a pushcart, says in the video. “The moneylender and his henchmen began visiting my home and threatening me every day. The police didn’t accept my complaints.” Deepak, who has named the accused in the video, adds: “I sold my house for Rs 1.5 lakh to a local businessman on September 23 and told the moneylender to come and take the principal. I promised to repay the interest in a few months. “He called me to his bungalow. There, he locked me in, thrashed me and forced me to sign on a blank stamp paper. He then called and asked my wife to come over with a blank cheque if she wanted me alive. “They attacked her when she arrived and forced her to make a thumb impression on a blank cheque. They forced me to say I had borrowed Rs 3 lakh at 10 per cent interest and would repay it by October 28, and made a video of my statement. We have returned home but are distressed and are ending our lives.” Rajesh Kumar, a relative of Deepak, said: “All four are unconscious. The doctors are trying to save them.” Satyendra Singh, station house officer at the local Shahganj police station, said: “A case will be registered against the accused. We are waiting for Deepak and his wife to give their statements.” Referring to Deepak’s allegation that the local police had refused to accept his complaints, he promised to probe “any lapse on the part of the police”.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
28-09-2020||India||Farm bills: Congress appeals to all parties ||The Congress on Sunday appealed to all the non-BJP parties to rise above partisan considerations and political alignments to protect the interest of farmers. Sunil Jakhar and Kumari Selja, Congress chiefs of Punjab and Haryana, the two most affected states, said at a news conference: “It is not the time for politics. Every political party must think about the future of farmers. They should decide whether they stand by the farmers or the corporates. “The bills brought by the Narendra Modi government will help the corporate and big traders while completely destroying the farmers.” “The Akali Dal which supported the bills finally bowed to the pressure mounted by the farmers. They walked out of the NDA as the farmers were not allowing their leaders to enter villages. The JJP of Dushyant Chautala which has propped up a minority BJP government in Haryana should also respond to the demands of the farmers and withdraw. They will not be forgiven otherwise,” they said. The Congress chiefs added: “Parties like Nitish Kumar’s JDU and Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP also need to think. These allies should draw lessons from the treatment the BJP gave to the Akali Dal. “The Prime Minister not only refused to pay heed to their demands, they were not even called for a discussion. The arrogance of the Modi government will target others as well. The parties which extend support to the BJP indirectly — the BJD, AIADMK, TRS and the YSRCP should also think and stand honestly with the farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
28-09-2020||India||Farm bill fire-fight: Facing protests, Modi sells stories||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday stressed the importance of storytelling and narrated success stories of farmers as he tried to fire-fight the farmers’ agitation and its initial political fallout. The stories he told during his monthly radio broadcast Mann Ki Baat were those of farmers led to prosperity by the freedom to sell their produce wherever and to whoever they wanted — a freedom he claimed his new farm laws guaranteed them. The farmers agitating in several states say the new laws, once notified, would end the government’s MSP (minimum support price) regime and leave them to be exploited by big companies. Modi’s efforts to counter the argument came a day after ally Shiromani Akali Dal decided to snap ties with the BJP, its hand forced by the farmers’ intensifying anger against the new laws. The Prime Minister cited examples from states that had allowed vegetables and fruits to be sold outside the regulated wholesale markets, or mandis, saying these anecdotes were based on feedback received through letters and his interactions. “One such farmer brother lives in Sonipat district of Haryana; his name is Kanwar Chauhan,” Modi said. “He told us how there was a time when he used to face great difficulties in marketing his fruits and vegetables outside the mandi, the marketplace. If he sold his fruits and vegetables outside the mandi, his produce and carts would often get confiscated.” Under the APMC Act, which the new farm laws will override, farmers could sell their produce only at the local mandis. However, over the years, many states had for practical purposes allowed farmers to sell their produce anywhere. “In 2014, fruits and vegetables were excluded from the APMC Act (in Haryana), which greatly benefited him (Chauhan) and fellow farmers in the neighbourhood. Four years ago, he, along with fellow farmers from his village, formed a ‘farmer producer’s organisation’,” the Prime Minister said. “Today, farmers in the village cultivate sweet corn and baby corn. Their produce is supplied directly to the Azadpur Mandi, Delhi, big retail chains and five-star hotels. Today, the farmers of the village are earning Rs 2.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh per acre annually.” Modi added that more than 60 other farmers from the same village were growing “tomato, cucumber and capsicum” and “earning from 10 to 12 lakh per acre every year”. He narrated similar stories about the “Sri Swami Samarth Farm Producer Company” from Maharashtra, the “Tamil Nadu Banani farmer produce company”, “Iraada” (a farmer-producer company from Lucknow) and Ismail Bhai, a farmer from the Prime Minister’s home state of Gujarat. Ismail Bhai, Modi said, had resolved to dispel the notion that farming was unprofitable. “He started farming by using new methods and innovative techniques. Using drip irrigation he cultivated potatoes... and today his potatoes are his hallmark,” the Prime Minister said, according to an English translation of his speech by his office. He said Ismail Bhai was earning “handsome profits” by selling high-quality potatoes directly to “big companies”. Modi went on to hail the benefits of storytelling, regretting the decline of an art that was part of India’s rich heritage. In this context, he recalled an incident from his past life as a “parivrajak” (wandering ascetic). “I spent a major part of my life as a parivrajak, an ascetic. Wayfaring was my life. Every day it used to be a new place and people, new families,” he said. While meeting families he would speak to the children and ask them to tell stories. “No, uncle, not a story, we’ll tell you a joke,” the children would often say to him, he recalled. “They would ask me too to tell them a joke; evidently they had no clue (about) stories. It was jokes that had pervaded their lives, in a major way,” he said. Modi introduced a group of professionals from Bangalore who pursue storytelling in their spare time and lauded their efforts. He urged families to take some time out every week for storytelling, particularly in these pandemic-hit times. “You will see what a huge treasure gets accrued (for) the family, how great (the) research (will be) and how much delight it will bring to everyone!” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-644
