29-09-2020||India||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu tests Covid-19 positive||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu has tested positive for Covid-19, during a routine test, his office said in a tweet this evening. He is asymptomatic and in good health. "The Vice President of India who underwent a routine Covid-19 test today morning has been tested positive. He is however, asymptomatic and in good health. He has been advised home quarantine. His wife Smt. Usha Naidu has been tested negative and is in self-isolation," the tweet read. Mr Naidu, who is also the Chairman of the Rajya Sabha, recently attended the monsoon session of parliament, which was cut short after more than 25 members tested positive for the virus.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
29-09-2020||India||Gang-rape victim of UP dies in Delhi||A 19-year-old Dalit woman from Uttar Pradesh's Hathras died at Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Tuesday morning, days after she was raped by four men here. The family of the woman said she died around 3 am, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir said. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh. She was referred to the Delhi hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement. The accused had also tried to strangulate her to death as she resisted their attempt and in the process, she had also ended up biting her tongue and suffering a severe cut on it. A spokesman of the Aligarh hospital had said that the woman's legs were completely paralysed and arms partially paralysed. The four accused who have already been arrested will now also face charges under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, according to the Hathras SP. Opposition leaders Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, Mayawati and Akhilesh Yadav have condemned the incident and demanded strict punishment for the culprits of the heinous crime. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, in a tweet, said, "A Dalit girl who was victim of demoniac behavior in Hathras has passed away at Safdarjung Hospital. For two weeks she kept struggling between life and death in hospitals." She said incidents of rape one after another, in Hathras, Shahjahanpur and Gorakhpur have shaken the state. "Law and order in UP has deteriorated to a great extent. There is no semblance of safety for women. The criminals are committing crimes in the open," Priyanka Gandhi said. The killers of this girl should be punished severely, she demanded. BSP president Mayawati also demanded stringent punishment by prosecuting the accused in a fast track court. In a tweet in Hindi, she said, "The news of the death of Dalit victim after gangrape in Hathras, UP is very saddening. The government should provide all possible help to the victim's family and ensure fast punishment to the culprits by prosecuting them in a fast track court. This is the demand of the BSP."  Samajwadi Party supremo Akhilesh Yadav on Tuesday condoled the death of the Hathras gangrape victim, and said "no hope" is left from the "insensitive government". "A dalit daughter, who was victim of gangrape and brutality ultimately died. I condole her death. No hope is left with present insensitive government," Yadav said in a tweet in Hindi. On September 14, the woman had gone to the fields with her mother and had gone missing soon after. She was later found brutally injured, with her tongue having a serious cut as she bit it while the accused attempted to strangulate her, the SP had said while giving details of the incident. The Hathras SP said initially they came to know that Sandip, 20, had tried to kill her following which he was arrested the same day. Later in her statement to the magistrate, the woman had said that besides Sandip, Ramu, Lavkush and Ravi had raped her and when she resisted their attempts, they tried to strangulate her, leading to the cut in the tongue. The next day the woman was admitted to J N Medical College hospital in Aligarh where she was put on a ventilator, the Hathras SP had said. Members of the Delhi Mahila Congress staged a protest at Vijay Chowk in New Delhi on Tuesday demanding justice for the Hathras gang-rape victim, following which they were detained by police. Congress Rajya Sabha member P L Punia and former MP Udit Raj also joined the protest which was led by Delhi Mahila Congress president Amrita Dhawan. The protesters were taken to Mandir Marg police station, a senior police officer said. The Delhi Mahila Congress members demanded that the culprits in the Hathras gang rape case be hanged. Dhawan said the Mahila Congress members were trying to march towards the Rashtrapati Bhavan to demand justice for the victim when the police detained them. Punia and Raj were also detained by the police, she said. A total of 25 men and 11 women protesters were detained and taken to Mandir Marg police station, said Deepak Yadav, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
29-09-2020||India||China opposed to development of Indian infrastructure at LAC||China on Tuesday voiced its opposition to India undertaking infrastructure development for military purposes in the border areas of Ladakh, and maintained that both countries should avoid any activities that might complicate the situation upsetting the consensus reached between them to ease the situation. China has not recognised Ladakh Union Territory illegally set up by the Indian side , Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin told a press briefing here while replying to a question by a western media journalist that India was prioritising construction of high altitude road network on its border with China in the Ladakh region. It may be recalled that when China first expressed its opposition to India's move to create a separate Union Territory of Ladakh, a day after the state of Jammu and Kashmir was bifurcated into two union territories on August 5, 2019, the then External Affairs Ministry spokesperson had said India does not comment on the internal affairs of other countries and similarly expects other countries to do likewise. We are opposed to conducting infrastructure development for military purposes in the border area. Based on the two sides' consensus no side should engage in the border areas in any activities that might complicate the situation to avoid undermining efforts by the two sides to ease the situation , Wang said. To another question on reports that China has carried out massive development of border infrastructure, Wang said reports released by some institutions stating that China has built new military bases on its side is completely false . First some institutions once released the so-called information on new military bases or facilities China has built on its side. Such reports are completely false. They are driven by ulterior motives , he said. Second China consistently and strictly abides by the agreements signed with the Indian side. We are committed to maintaining peace and stability along the border with India and at the same time we firmly safeguard our sovereignty, territorial integrity and security , he added. Wang said that for a long time China has been conducting activities on its side of the Line of Actual Control(LAC) and they have always complied with relevant agreements. We hope the Indian side to work for the same purpose, together with China to achieve the cooling of temperature on the ground and to prevent adding complex factors to the concerted efforts by the two sides to ease the situation , he said. India and China are locked in a nearly five-month-long border standoff in eastern Ladakh. After marathon 14-hour talks between India and China at the Corps Commander level on September 21, both sides released a joint statement saying the two countries had decided to stop sending more troops to the frontline in eastern Ladakh. The joint statement had also stated that both sides will enhance communication to avoid misunderstandings and also implement the five-point consensus reached by their foreign ministers S Jaishankar and Wang Yi on the sidelines of the SCO meet in Moscow on September 10.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
29-09-2020||India||Farm laws must be opposed for country's future, says Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday said the new farm laws will have to be opposed not just for farmers but for the future of the country, as he alleged that they were like a "stab in the farmers' hearts". Interacting with a group of farmers from across the country, he said the GST and the noteban were also attacks on farmers, but these three laws will prove to be more detrimental. Gandhi also claimed that the new farm laws will foster an East India company-like culture and this time, a "West India company" has come in. "There is no difference between GST, noteban and these three laws. The only difference is that this is directly stabbing your heart with a knife," he said during the virtual meeting with the group of farmers. "But I have clarity that this has to be opposed. Not for farmers, but for the future of India," he told the farmers in a nearly 11-minute long video shared on social media. The Congress has opposed the new farm laws and party leaders and workers are protesting across the country, even as farmers' unions have launched a stir in Punjab and Haryana. "The voice of farmers has a lot of strength. It is with the help of this voice that India attained independence and once again India will become independent through the farmers' voice," Gandhi said. The former Congress chief said he had seen in Uttar Pradesh's Bhatta Parsaul village during his padyatra in 2011 that big businessmen wanted the farmers' land as well as their farm produce. "The first fight I fought was of land acquisition and the entire media attacked me," he said. "They said this is a fight against black money but it was not true. The purpose was to weaken our unorganised sector and the poor, farmers and labourers," Gandhi alleged. Talking to him, Dhirender Kumar, a farmer from Champaran in Bihar, said farmers are being exploited in the name of these laws and they will be forced to commit suicide due to hunger. He said the 2006 bill abolishing the APMC Act in Bihar should be brought back and be implemented in the state once again. Ashok Bootra from Yavatmal in Maharashtra feared that no one would buy the farm produce at minimum support price (MSP). "I feel any farmer who protests will be put in jail. In 1840, the East India company used to put out the price of cotton from England and the entire world would buy at that rate. But the businessmen would know of the price in advance," he said. "The way East India Company used to do business, I feel the same pattern is being followed again. Farmers and small businessmen will be looted. When farmers will not get the rates for their produce, suicide rate will increase," Bootra said. Replying to this, Gandhi said, "You want to say earlier it was East India Company, now a West India company has come in." The Congress leader alleged that during the Covid-19 pandemic, money is being given to big businessmen instead of the poor. A farmer from Jhajjar said the farmers would not get anything in any case and they were just being "harassed". "The government is trying to finish farmers, labourers and small businessmen," he claimed. When Gandhi asked them about their future plans, Om Parkash Dhankar said, "We will sell everything and handover the entire system to big businessmen like Adani and Ambani, and we will have to do labour." "They will bring back the British rule and will destroy the country as they are privatising everything," he alleged. A farmer from Vashim in Maharashtra told the Congress leader that today if Mahatma Gandhi was alive, he would have opposed these laws. On being asked by Rahul Gandhi about the government's claims that the MSP system will not be discontinued, Sunil Singh, a farmer from Pathankot in Punjab said, "This is all 'jumlebaazi' and they are doing fraud with farmers." "This party has been for the rich and it will never think about the poor or small farmers," he alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
29-09-2020||India||Modi attacks Opposition for insulting farmers ||In a scathing attack on those opposing the new farm laws, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said they wanted only the middlemen to thrive and referred to the burning of a tractor in Delhi by Congress workers as an insult to farmers. "They are opposing the freedom of farmers and want their problems to continue forever. By torching farming equipment, which the agriculturists worship, these people are now insulting farmers," he said without naming the Congress. The Congress' youth wing activists on Monday morning set a tractor ablaze near India Gate, a few hundred metres from the Rashtrapati Bhavan and Parliament, to protest the contentious farm laws. Modi said the opposition has only one way of doing politics in the country and that is by opposing things. Terming it "opposition for the sake of opposition", the prime minister said that by opposing big reformative steps by the Centre such as the farm laws, these forces were making themselves irrelevant in the society and in the country. He accused the opposition of opposing everything from GST, One Rank One Pension, Rafale deal, Statue of Unity, 10 per cent reservation for the poor and celebration of November 26 as Samvidhan Diwas. He said that this politics of the opposition for opposition's sake was the root of the frustration of a party which had ruled for four generations. "Frustration of a party which has ended up riding the shoulders of others despite wielding power for four generations is behind this politics of the opposition for opposition's sake, Modi said. He said none of the leaders of the political party had till date visited the Statue of Unity, built to honour the memory of Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel whose contribution to unifying the country is well known. "Why? Because they had to oppose," he said. He said people had seen for themselves the role Jan Dhan accounts played in direct benefit transfer schemes during the coronavirus pandemic and they could also remember how it was opposed while being introduced by the Centre. He said after opposing the Ram Mandir in the Supreme Court for decades, they even began opposing its foundation stone laying in Ayodhya. Without naming the Congress, he accused it of being neither with the farmers nor with the youth nor the soldiers and recalled that the the party had demanded proof of surgical strikes instead of praising the bravehearts who carried out the exercise. He also recalled how it opposed the purchase of Rafale fighter jets. "They did not do anything for years to strengthen the Air Force, ignoring its pleas for being better equipped and modernised. I am pleased to see that Rafale fighter jets are strengthening our Air Force today. He said the farm laws were meant to set farmers free from restrictions which they had suffered for decades. "They will have both MSP and the freedom to sell their produce anywhere in the open market but there are people who are spreading lies about the bills. "They only want middlemen to thrive and want the problems of farmers to be perpetuated. The real reason behind the ongoing protests is that yet another source of black money has been closed for them," the prime minister said. Modi was inaugurating six ambitious sewage treatment plants in Haridwar, Rishikesh, Muni-ki-Reti town and Badrinath under Namami Gange through video conference. He said the process of empowering people, farmers and the youth, and making the country self-reliant through big reforms will continue relentlessly. Modi also attacked the previous governments for wasting too much money over Ganga rejuvenation, drinking water and irrigations schemes without any results, claiming there was no coordination between the government departments involved. "This led to further aggravation of the problems instead of resolving them. But today the work culture has changed and every penny is going into the implementation of the projects," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
29-09-2020||India||Present border situation at 'no war no peace', says IAF chief||The present security scenario along our northern frontiers is at an uneasy "no war no peace" status, Chief of Air Staff Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said on Tuesday, referring to the prolonged border row with China in eastern Ladakh. In an address at a conference, Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the Indian Air Force has responded to the situation with rapidity and is fully resolved to counter any "misadventure" in the region. "The present security scenario along our northern frontiers is at an uneasy no war no peace status. Our defence forces are prepared for any eventuality as you are aware," the Chief of Air Staff said. Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria said the recent induction of Rafale jets along with previous acquisitions of C-17 Globemaster aircraft as well as Chinook and Apache helicopters have provided the IAF with substantial tactical and strategic capability enhancement. "Air power will be a crucial enabler in our victory in any future conflict. It is, therefore, imperative that IAF obtains and maintains technological edge over our adversaries," he said at the conference on energising the Indian aerospace industry. Five French-made multi-role Rafale fighter jets were inducted into the IAF on September 10. The fleet has been carrying out sorties in eastern Ladakh in the last couple of weeks. The IAF chief also said that the raising of two squadrons of light combat aircraft Tejas and integration of some indigenous weapons on Su-30 MKI combat jets in a very reduced time frame have been the "most promising" development, reflecting the country's capabilities to develop indigenous military hardware.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
29-09-2020||India||Defence ministry scraps offset clause for military equipment deals||The defence ministry has scrapped the offset clause in government-to-government deals and single-vendor contracts for military equipment, a senior official said on Monday, explaining that the provision had failed in its objective of bringing advanced technology to the country. Many in India had become familiar with the term “offset contract” because of the Rafale controversy. The existing offset policy requires foreign defence vendors to invest at least 30 per cent of the total contract in India to boost indigenous capabilities. From October 1, under a new Defence Acquisition Procedure (DAP), this will cease to apply to inter-government and single-vendor deals, director-general (acquisition) Apurva Chandra told reporters. Multi-vendor contracts will continue to have the offset clause, a ministry official later clarified. The defence ministry’s official statement on the DAP only said that “the offset guidelines have been revised”. A week ago, government auditor CAG had pulled up French firm Dassault Aviation for failing to meet its offset obligations in the Rs 59,000-crore Rafale aircraft deal that included the transfer of high-end technology to the Defence Research and Development Organisation. During the Rafale controversy ahead of the 2019 general election, the term “offset contract” had hogged headlines because of the one with Anil Ambani’s Reliance — a rookie in defence manufacture — at the cost of public-sector Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. The Congress had accused Prime Minister Narendra Modi of bypassing due process to strike a deal with France that involved fewer jets at a higher price per aircraft than the one negotiated by the previous UPA government, and a bonanza for Anil Ambani. Several military veterans expressed support for the abolition of the offset policy, introduced in 2005, saying it had never worked and that it paved the way for corruption. A veteran said: “It was introduced for the benefit of the domestic defence industry, but Indian manufacturers lacked the capability or technological prowess to gain from it.” Besides, he said, bureaucratic and operational delays in India were a “stumbling block”. A former lieutenant general said the removal of the offset clause could lead to savings, since foreign firms tended to jack up prices by about 10 per cent to cater to their offset commitments. “The offset business in government-to-government deals was also a big money racket. No foreign firms transfer technology, anyway, and so it never worked. We have seen this now in the Rafale deal as well,” he said. Chandra said the new DAP was cleared by defence minister Rajnath Singh on Monday. “No offset contract has led to transfer of technology into the country as pointed out by the CAG in a recent report. We have made changes in offset guidelines… There will be no offsets clause in inter-governmental agreements, government-to-government deals and single-vendor cases,” he said. Chandra said the offset guidelines had been revised to align defence procurement with the government’s vision of Atmanirbhar Bharat (Self-reliant India) and to empower domestic industry through the Make-in-India initiative, with the goal of turning the country into a global manufacturing hub. But a retired general said that at least in the defence sector, talk of Atmanirbhar Bharat and Make-in-India was a “sham”. “The government talks about turning India into a defence manufacturing hub – does India have enough indigenous capability?” he asked. “The answer is a big ‘no’. We haven’t got the capability to even manufacture artillery guns.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Sonia Gandhi asks Congress-ruled states to circumvent farm bills||Sonia Gandhi has asked states ruled by the Congress to explore the possibility of bringing in legislation to circumvent the contentious farm bills forced through Parliament by the Narendra Modi government, setting the stage for a confrontation on an issue that has brought farmers on the streets and forced the BJP’s oldest ally to snap ties with it. The party general secretary in charge of organisation, K.C. Venugopal, said in a statement: “Congress president has advised the Congress-ruled states to explore the possibilities to pass laws in their respective states under Article 254(2) of the Constitution which allows the state legislatures to pass a law to negate the anti-agriculture central laws encroaching upon state’s jurisdiction under the Constitution. “This would enable the states to bypass the unacceptable anti-farmers’ provisions in the three draconian agricultural laws, including the abolition of MSP (minimum support price) and disruption of APMCs in Congress-ruled states. This would also alleviate the farmers from the grave injustice done by the Modi government and BJP.” Congress chief ministers promptly declared they were ready to take up the challenge. Article 254(2) of the Constitution says: “Where a law made by the legislature of a state with respect to one of the matters enumerated in the concurrent list contains any provision repugnant to the provisions of an earlier law made by Parliament or an existing law with respect to that matter, then, the law so made by the legislature of such state shall, if it has been reserved for the consideration of the President and has received his assent, prevail in that state: provided that nothing in this clause shall prevent Parliament from enacting at any time any law with respect to the same matter including a law adding to, amending, varying or repealing the law so made by the legislature of the state.” The Centre clearly enjoys an upper hand, but laws made in Assemblies have been saved through presidential assent in several cases in the past. Because agriculture and trade are state subjects, the Congress hopes this could be a valid option. Even if it does not succeed, by making the attempt the Congress will have sent out a clear message of its intent, which would help it politically. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh led a protest against the farm bills at Bhagat Singh’s village Khatkar Kalan — Monday was the birth anniversary of the freedom fighter hanged by the British — and described the Centre’s move as an attack on federal principles. States and farmers’ unions were not consulted, he said, and declared his willingness to take the path suggested by Sonia. “Our legal team is working on it. We will decide soon whether to move the Supreme Court or take some legislative measures in the Assembly. But we are not going to leave the farmers at the mercy of these draconian laws. We will fight this menace of the government of India,” he said. Protests against the farm bills have been the loudest in the agrarian states of Punjab and Haryana, but farmers are raising their voice on the streets across the country, prompting even parties friendly to the Modi government, such as the TRS in Telangana and the AIADMK in Tamil Nadu, to speak up for them. The Akali Dal, the BJP’s oldest ally, quit the ruling National Democratic Alliance over the issue. After the daylong dharna, Amarinder said at a news conference in Chandigarh: “This is not the time for politics. Every party should come together to save the farmers. We don’t want trouble; Punjab has seen enough bloodshed and conflicts. But we will fight this constitutionally and legally. This is not a fight for Punjab. This is a fight for the country’s farmers. India is made of small farmers. This government has no understanding of agriculture. Why are they doing this nonsense – only to make Adani happy?” He continued: “Farmers will be destroyed as the Centre wants to open the field for the corporate (sector). What will happen to the public distribution system? Grains purchased by Food Corporation of India are given to the poor at a subsidised rate. Will Adani subsidise? You are giving verbal assurances to farmers. Who will trust you when you don’t honour constitutional guarantees? You are not giving GST dues. And what will be left with the states? Where will the revenues come from? How do we run?” Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel too declared his intent to challenge the laws in the Supreme Court and to pass a resolution in the Assembly opposing the Centre’s move. Top lawyers of the Congress are working out the legal responses and will guide the states on future action. The Congress held protest marches in every state and submitted memorandums to the governors demanding scrapping of the new farm laws, which Rahul Gandhi had described as a “death warrant” on farmers. In Uttar Pradesh and Delhi, Congress workers were not allowed to organise rallies and hundreds were arrested. Youth Congress activists from Punjab created a ripple when they burnt a tractor near India Gate in Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Supreme Court glare on land acquisition act ruling||The Supreme Court on Monday stressed the need for clarity on a question left unanswered by a five-judge constitution bench: whether land acquisition proceedings should lapse where possession has been taken but compensation left unpaid for a long time. While a 2013 law had said land acquisition proceedings would lapse if physical possession had not been taken or the compensation not been paid, the five-judge bench said the proceedings would lapse only if the authorities have neither taken possession nor paid the compensation. “The judgment had given the government certain laxity, which Parliament did not want to give the government,” Chief Justice S.A. Bobde, who headed a three-judge bench, observed orally on Monday while adjourning the matter by two weeks. The bench, which included Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said the March 6 verdict by the five-judge bench had not clarified what the fate of the acquisition proceedings would be if the government had taken possession but not paid the compensation for several years. It wondered whether those who gave up the land should wait indefinitely for compensation. “If possession is taken by the government but compensation is not paid, the acquisition does not lapse. But we need to know for how long... will it not lapse? Forever?” Justice Bobde asked solicitor-general Tushar Mehta during the hearing. His words suggested the apex court might revisit the March 6, 2020, judgment to clarify the matter. If so, the three-judge bench will have to refer the matter to a five-judge or seven-judge bench, since a smaller bench cannot overrule a larger bench. The five-judge bench that gave the Indore Development Authority vs Manoharlal and Others ruling was made up of Justices Arun Mishra (now retired), Indira Banerjee, Vineet Saran, M.R. Shah and Ravindra Bhat. It had passed the judgment while interpreting Section 24 of the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013, after two three-judge benches had delivered conflicting verdicts. Mehta, whose assistance was sought in the matter on Monday, said 600-odd cases relating to land acquisition proceedings were under adjudication in various high courts, hanging on the interpretation of Section 24.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Bhim Army enters Bihar Assembly election fray||The Bhim Army, an Uttar Pradesh-based Dalit rights organisation, is all set to enter the electoral fray in the Bihar Assembly polls after tying up with Rajesh Ranjan aka Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party on Monday to form the Progressive Democratic Alliance. Social Democratic Front of India, the political outfit of Popular Front of India, and Bahujan Mukti Party are also part of the new alliance. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad said the organisation will contest the polls through its political front Azad Samaj Party, which he heads. “We will go wherever there is a fight for justice and equality. This alliance has been formed to check communal forces and caste violence....They live in air-conditioned rooms, and fail to come out to agitate against atrocities,” he said. Pappu said: “Its time to end the sin of 30 years of the RJD and the NDA. They destroyed a progressive state like Bihar. Nitish did not help the migrant workers trapped in various parts of the country during the lockdown...”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Impossible to put off exams: Union Public Service Commission||The Union Public Service Commission on Monday said it would be “impossible” to postpone the preliminary civil service exam, scheduled on October 4, as sought by a group of petitioners who have cited the pandemic. The bench of Justices A.M. Khanwilkar, B.R. Gavai and Krishna Murari asked the UPSC counsel, Naresh Kaushik, to file an affidavit in support of his oral submission and posted the next hearing to October 1. Some 20-odd civil service aspirants have petitioned the court to postpone the exam – being held offline — by at least two to three months lest thousands of candidates get infected by the coronavirus. Kaushik told the court orally that the UPSC had already deferred the exam once, from September 30, and there could not be any further postponements. “My lords, it is impossible to agree to the petitioners’ plea — deferment will nullify the very objective…” he said. An estimated six lakh students have registered to take the exam at 70-odd centres across the country. The petitioners —Vasireddy Govardhana Sai Prakash and others — have described the authorities’ decision to proceed with the exams as “arbitrary” and “whimsical”, saying it reflects utter disregard for the safety of the candidates. They have said this is a violation of the examinees’ fundamental right to life and liberty under Article 21. Besides, they have argued that in many parts of the country, floods will make it difficult for the candidates to take the exams.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Kerala Cong MP urges SC to quash farm laws||A Congress MP from Kerala on Monday urged the Supreme Court to quash the Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and related notifications as “unconstitutional, illegal and thereby void”. T.N. Prathapan, whose petition is expected to be heard this week, said the law had been passed without adequate discussion, and would hurt farmers’ livelihood by leading to their exploitation by big companies. “This act is violative of Article 14 (equality), 15 (non-discrimination) and 21 (life and liberty) of the Constitution of India and accordingly, liable to be struck down as unconstitutional, illegal and void,” the petition, filed through advocate James P. Thomas, said. It said the act had put farmers in a position where, if any dispute arose, they would have to run to an already overburdened bureaucracy for a remedy instead of securing a permanent solution in a court of law. “The present act also fails to establish farmer-centric courts where the farmers can raise their grievances, similar to the ones created under the labour act, consumer act, family courts act, etc. Instead, the act gives the responsibility to sub-divisional magistrate who already has multiple other duties and functions to perform,” the petition said. “Implementation of the act in its current form will spell disaster for the farming community by opening a parallel market which is unregulated and gives enough room for exploitation of the farmers’ community by concentration of power in the hands of a few corporate/individuals, multinationals and moneylenders thus working against the very object it was seemingly created for.”The new law, passed by voice vote last week, overrides the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act, which restricts farmers to selling their produce at regulated wholesale markets. While the government claims this will lead farmers to prosperity, protesting farmers are saying it will deprive them of a guaranteed minimum support price (MSP) and lead to their exploitation by big companies. Prathapan’s petition asserted that without the APMC acting as a protective shield around the farmers, they would fall prey to the greed of multinational companies. “The APMC deterred the exploitation of the farmers by providing minimum support price which would guarantee that the farmer who comes to the APMC would not leave empty-handed,” the petition said. It argued that the new law had violated the rights of the 14.5 crore citizens engaged in farming and sought its quashing “before serious financial damage is caused to them and the families of such persons”. “Unchecked hoarding will give exporters, processors and traders the power to regulate the prices of the produce as and when they need, creating artificial demand thus controlling price in the market at will,” the petition said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||India’s Covid toll set to cross 1 lakh||India’s death toll from the new coronavirus disease is set to surpass 100,000 this week if daily mortality trends observed through September persist despite a 50 per cent fall in the country’s case fatality rate over the past three months. The number of Covid-19 deaths climbed to 95,542 on Monday with health authorities recording 1,039 deaths over the previous 24 hours. The daily nationwide mortality figure has always been greater than 1,000 through September after 819 deaths on August 31. The Union health ministry said on Monday that 10 states accounted for 84 per cent of the deaths recorded over the previous 24 hours with Maharashtra alone making up 360 (36 per cent) of the deaths. The others are Tamil Nadu (80), Karnataka (79), Uttar Pradesh (77), Bengal (60), Punjab (50), Andhra Pradesh (45), Delhi (42), Chhattisgarh (31), and Madhya Pradesh (26). Health experts expect the country’s Covid-19 deaths to exceed 100,000 by Friday this week if the September trend persists. Although the average numbers of daily new infections have shown a declining trend since mid-September, experts say any impact on daily deaths will show up after a lag period. The country’s Covid-19 case fatality rate — the proportion of deaths among Covid-19 patients — has dropped from around 3.3 per cent in mid-June to 1.57 per cent on Monday. The seven-day average of new cases has fallen from around 93,000 on September 16 to 83,000 on September 27. But public health specialists say they do not have adequate data to determine what factors might have contributed to this fall in new cases. “We still have a very large epidemic,” said Oommen John, a physician and senior researcher at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. “The patterns of infections and deaths we’re seeing appear to reflect the local capacity of health systems to respond to the pandemic.” Health authorities recorded 82,170 new Covid-19 cases on Monday with the same 10 states accounting for 79 per cent of those cases — Maharashtra accounting for the largest addition (18,056 cases) followed by Karnataka (9,543), Kerala (7,445), Andhra Pradesh (6,923), Tamil Nadu (5,791), Uttar Pradesh (4,250), Odisha (3,922), Delhi (3,292), Bengal (3,185) and Madhya Pradesh (2,310). “It is surprising to see 7,445 cases in Kerala and less than 5,000 in Uttar Pradesh despite its much larger population,” said John. Although the two states might be in different states of the epidemic, John said, the differences in numbers are more likely the outcome of health-seeking behaviour and the capacity of local health systems to respond to demand for testing.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Lookout alert for ex-DIG in Assam paper leak case ||Assam police have arrested 19 people till Monday in connection with the question paper leak case that led to the cancellation of the recruitment test for posts of 597 sub-inspectors on September 20. The leak of the question paper on WhatsApp just 12 minutes before the exam led to the cancellation of the statewide recruitment test, affecting over 66,000 candidates. Police have issued a lookout circular for former deputy inspector-general P.K. Dutta, suspected to be a key player in the case along with BJP youth leader Diban Deka, who are both at large. Deka is now holed up outside the state, according to a Facebook post, because he feared for his life since several influential people, including police officials, were involved in the paper leak case The investigation being carried out by the CID and Guwahati police’s crime branch has revealed that around 50 candidates were “coached” about various aspects of the test on the eve of the exam at a city lodge. A police statement on Monday evening said items recovered from a Guwahati hotel point towards the “involvement” of Dutta and his associates in “running” an office and conducting training, said to be a pretext for approaching candidates and demanding money for illegal appointment as sub-inspectors in Assam police. Apart from the lookout circular to ensure that Dutta cannot leave the country, the police brass have also decided to announce a cash award of Rs 1 lakh for any information regarding his whereabouts and register a case of disproportionate assets against the former cop. The Enforcement Directorate, income tax department and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence are likely to be involved in the probe at some stage since Dutta is said to own or is linked to four hotels in Guwahati besides residential premises here and in Mumbai and over 1,400-bighas plot in Cachar district and an upcoming residential complex in Dibrugarh. Raids at his residence have led to the recovery of over 1.5kg gold and a pistol, whose licence has expired. All these steps and seizures were announced at a press meet addressed jointly by Assam director-general of police Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta, additional DGP G.P. Singh, inspector-general of police (CID), Surender Kumar, and Guwahati police commissioner M.P. Gupta. Chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal has asserted nobody will be spared, irrespective of party affiliation or status, referring to his government’s zero-tolerance attitude against corruption. On Sunday, Pradeep Kumar, chairman of the State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) that conducted the examination, resigned owning moral responsibility for the question paper leak. The cancelled exam will now be held on November 15, according to Sonowal. A statement from the chief minister’s office said the board has been reconstituted with the DGP as the new chairman, ADGP Harmeet Singh as member secretary and ADGP L.R. Bishnoi and IGP Hiren Nath as members. Sonowal also directed the board to complete the written examination within November 20. The case has given the Opposition Congress an issue to attack the ruling BJP-led government with Congress legislature party leader Debabrata Saikia on Monday saying the chief minister has “disheartened” the people of Assam, especially the youths, by his lame statements and insipid role in connection with the police recruitment scam. “The need of the hour is to institute an enquiry by a sitting judge of Hon’ble Gauhati High Court to get to the bottom of the matter, but one gets the impression that Mr Sonowal, who is charge of the home department, is influencing the police into diverting the investigation into a maze,” Saikia alleged. Saikia said that each and every recruitment test conducted by various departments during the tenure of the present government has been marred by severe irregularities and several deprived candidates have been forced to knock on the doors of the high court. “It has been already revealed that some police officials and BJP leaders were offering jobs to numerous candidates in lieu of cash. There may be another aspect to this issue, namely, that some jobs were earmarked for sale to anyone willing to pay hard cash while the remaining jobs were reserved for candidates who believe in a certain ideology,” Saikia alleged.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Akali Dal, Shiv Sena exit boost to Nitish Kumar||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar could emerge a coveted partner for the BJP after the exit of two oldest allies, Shiv Sena and Akali Dal, from the National Democratic Alliance, party insiders feel. The Nitish Kumar-led Janata Dal United now is the only credible BJP ally left in the NDA. The party is not part of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre but is the largest partner in the alliance after the BJP with 15 members in the Lok Sabha and five in the Rajya Sabha. The exit of the Akali Dal, after the Sena snapped ties with the BJP late last year, comes as Bihar is headed for polls and seat sharing with the JDU and the LJP (Lok Janshakti Party) is still to be ironed out. Party leaders said it is not that the BJP would get into surrender mode and let Nitish corner a large share of seats but it would certainly be more accommodative. “We would not like to annoy Nitish for some seats. But he too is aware that he needs the BJP and this will get things sorted out,” one BJP leader said. Although the exit of the two oldest and trusted allies is being seen as a big blow to the BJP, internally, the party feels the Akalis had turned into a baggage. “Alliances are formed on the basis of give and take. The Akali Dal had ceased to be of any benefit to the BJP, electorally,” a BJP leader said. This leader said the Akali Dal had turned unpopular and was not able to transfer its votes to the BJP. On this count, Nitish still continues to be a credible face and a vote catcher, despite 15 years of anti-incumbency, BJP managers feel. “The BJP still doesn’t have a leader in Bihar to match Nitish,” another BJP leader said. Despite acknowledging Nitish’s importance, most Bihar leaders of the party feel his popularity was on the wane and that comes as an opportunity for the BJP to dominate and spread wings in Bihar. “At a meeting almost all Bihar leaders advocated that the BJP and the JDU should contest an equal number of seats,” a BJP leader said. The BJP has always been a junior ally to Nitish in Bihar. After the exit of the Akali Dal and the intensifying farmers’ agitation, the central leadership may not take a rigid stand and allow Nitish to dominate, BJP insiders said. “We need to win handsomely in Bihar to shatter the negative perception due to the farmers’ protest and exit of the Akalis,” one BJP MP said, stressing the importance of Nitish. The JDU could also be invited to join the Modi government with some key portfolios, according to some BJP leaders. Nitish had earlier rebuffed the BJP’s offer of just one minister as a “symbolic” representation. BJP leaders said the growth of the party under the leadership of Narendra Modi had naturally made their allies jittery about their survival. “Why did the Shiv Sena leave? Because they saw that the BJP was usurping its vote base,” one leader said. The BJP, party leaders said, had emerged out of the dependence on allies phase under the leadership of Modi, particularly after the massive 2019 Lok Sabha mandate. “In state polls, however, we still need to tread carefully and wait for an opportune time,” a newly appointed BJP general secretary said, indicating a churn in Bihar politics post the October-November polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||Mathura: Petition in court eyes removal of Shahi Idgah||Till last weekend, just about a half-dozen policemen idled around the gates of Mathura’s Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi temple. Now there are two dozen, many carrying sophisticated firearms. The change is the result of a petition moved on Friday in a Mathura civil court by Ranjana Agnihotri, a Lucknow lawyer close to the Vishwa Hindu Parishad, and six others. Calling themselves “friends of Sri Krishna Virajman”, the petitioners have sought — on the god’s behalf — ownership of the entire 13.37 acres where the temple and the Shahi Idgah mosque have stood side by side for centuries. The subtext: the mosque should be removed. It’s a template borrowed from the Ram Janmabhoomi movement in Ayodhya that resulted in the Babri Masjid being demolished by a mob in 1992 and the Supreme Court handing over the disputed plot to the Hindu side last November. However, there’s one difference. Unlike the custodians of the makeshift Ram temple in Ayodhya who were in the forefront of the movement, the trust that runs the Krishna temple in Mathura wants nothing to do with the call for the Shahi Idgah mosque’s removal. “It’s a BJP ploy to try and win the 2022 Assembly elections. The BJP governments in Uttar Pradesh and at the Centre want to create a stir around the subject in the state and the country,” said a member of the Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sansthan, who didn’t want to be named. Sansthan secretary Kapil Sharma said: “Certain unscrupulous people are trying to create a controversy out of nothing. They will vitiate the atmosphere in the country. The Sansthan pays tax for the (part of the) land (on which the temple stands) and has no problem with the mosque.” In Ayodhya, the Hindu side had claimed the Babri Masjid was built after demolishing a temple that stood at the site of Ram’s birth. But both the Sansthan and the mosque trust in Mathura — respondents in the Krishna Janmabhoomi case — say the temple and the mosque have stood side by side for centuries. Both were built sometime in the “Mughal era”, they say, with no clarity on — or concern over — which was built first. They agree they each own a part of the land — the part on which their place of worship stands. “We have enjoyed cordial relations with the Sansthan for decades,” said Tanveer Ahmad, secretary of the Committee of Management Trust of Shahi Idgah Masjid. “Those who have petitioned the court haven’t done anything for the temple ever. Devotees of Lord Krishna visit the temple and Muslims offer namaz in the mosque every day.” There was never any issue except a minor one that was sorted out easily over a half-century ago. “We entered into an agreement with the temple trust in the 1960s that none of the nullahs (drains) originating from the mosque would open towards the temple,” Ahmad said. He added: “As for ownership of the land on which the mosque stands, we are ready with documents to submit in the court after the hearing starts on September 30.” Agnihotri had told reporters after filing the petition that the mosque stood on the exact site where Krishna was born. “It (the birthplace) was forcibly encroached upon during the Mughal period.” The Krishna Janmabhoomi demand was voiced in the 1980s when the BJP-VHP stepped up the Ayodhya movement. It never gained much momentum, with the handful of guards posted outside the complex its only visible effect. But some Hindutva groups began making a noise about Krishna Janmabhoomi after last November’s Ayodhya verdict. Twenty-two members of the little-known Hindu Army were arrested this month after plastering Mathura with posters announcing a temple movement. On Sunday, former BJP national vice-president Vinay Katiyar, a key accused in the Babri demolition case whose verdict is expected this week, said: “We have won the Ayodhya case; now it’s the turn of Mathura.” Narendra Giri, president of the Akhara Parishad — a union of all 13 akharas in the country — has suggested that “Muslims should by themselves leave the site where the mosque is standing in Mathura”. “Otherwise, we’ll take it from them with the help of the court,” he said in Allahabad on Monday. While Sharma is unhappy with the turn of events, he sounded a little amused as he said the filing of the petition had raised the footfall at the temple threefold. “The daily count of devotees has increased in the last three days from 5,000 to 15,000,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-641
29-09-2020||India||‘Neutral’ Naveen Patnaik tries to reassure farmers||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday spoke on the new farm laws for the first time, expressing neither support nor opposition but assuring farmers that their interests were paramount to his party. He mentioned how, in Parliament, the BJD had wanted two bills to go to a standing committee but added that the party would support any initiative that brought prosperity to farmers. “We will continue our fight for implementation of the M.S. Swaminathan recommendation for formulating the minimum support price (MSP),” Naveen said, addressing the BJD legislature party ahead of the Assembly’s monsoon session, which begins on Tuesday. Adopting the Swaminathan formula would raise the MSP, a longstanding demand of the farmers who fear that the new farm laws would end the MSP regime altogether and put them at the mercy of big companies. Naveen’s comments came four days after Congress politician Digvijay Singh had, during an Odisha visit, accused the BJD of supporting the BJP which, he said, was working against farmers’ interests. “The BJD opposed the farm bills but continues to support most of the BJP-led Centre’s decisions. There seems to be some kind of understanding between the two parties. They have joined hands to finish the farmers,” Singh had said. Naveen, also the BJD president, said: “In both Houses of Parliament, the BJD had raised its concerns about protection of farmers’ interest in the farmers’ bill and suggested close scrutiny by a parliamentary committee. The party will form a committee of MLAs, MPs and leading farmer leaders to study the provisions. I assure the farmers that their welfare would be paramount to us.” Naveen also highlighted Odisha’s battle against Covid-19, stressing the state’s high recovery rate and low fatality rate. “We are the only state providing... universal free coverage of all Covid-related expenses,” he said. Odisha has arranged for free Covid-19 testing and treatment at government hospitals and designated private hospitals for people who contact the official helpline.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||MLAs’ absence to hit Odisha session ||The monsoon session of Odisha Assembly that kicks off on Tuesday is likely to be affected by the absence of a large number of MLAs who have tested positive for coronavirus. Apart from Covid-19 management, issues like hike in power tariff and the controversial farm bills recently passed by Parliament are likely to be discussed during the session. More than 50 MLAs, more than one-third of the total strength of the House comprising 145 members, have been found Covid-19 positive. Around six ministers and even deputy Speaker Rajanikant Singh have been diagnosed with Covid-19 during the tests conducted ahead of the commencement of the session. The members who have tested positive will not be allowed to enter the Assembly premises. So far 2.12 lakh people in the state have been infected with Covid-19, while 813 have succumbed to the disease. There will be no Question Hour in the Assembly because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Seating arrangements have been made in the House in tune with social distancing norms. The distance between two MLAs will be at least 4 feet with a 2ft-high glass ceiling separating them. While the ruling BJD has made it clear that it is ready to face any issues raised by the Congress and the BJP, the two Opposition parties have decided to corner the government on issues such as alleged poor pandemic management, hike in power tariff at the time of coronavirus crisis and the controversial farm laws brought by the Centre. Senior Congress leader and former law minister Narasingha Mishra said, “The state government has completely failed in Covid-19 management. Complaints are pouring in from different parts of the state. We will also expose the government on the issue of neglecting the cause of farmers.” On Monday, a delegation of Congress leaders met governor Ganeshi Lal and handed over a memorandum against the farm bills describing them as anti-farmer and pro-rich. Leader of the Opposition and senior BJP legislator Pradipta Nayak said, “We will highlight Covid-19 mismanagement of the government, which has been admitted by even ruling party MLAs. Besides when the state is passing through a tough time, the decision to hike power tariff has left the common man fuming. We will protest against it on the floor of the House.” Senior BJD lawmaker and former minister Pratap Keshari Deb said, “The ruling party will discuss all the issues raised by the Opposition. We will also inform the members in the Assembly about our opposition to the Centre’s new farm bills.” Meanwhile, director-general of police Abhay visited the state Assembly on Monday to review the security measures taken by the Directorate of Intelligence and the commissionerate of police for the monsoon session. The session will conclude on October 7.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
29-09-2020||India||Bullet-hit elephant dies in Odisha ||A female elephant succumbed to a bullet injury at Dalijoda forest range near Choudwar in Cuttack district on Monday, about 65km from here. Forest official sources revealed the pachyderm was shot on the right leg by a poacher four days ago in the forest. Getting a tip off about the injured elephant, the forest officials reached the spot and began the treatment of the elephant with support of veterinary doctors. However, the elephant passed away on Monday morning while undergoing treatment. On Sunday, the forest officials had found a carcass of an elephant on the outskirts of Ratakhandi village under Sadar block in Bolangir district, about 340km from here.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-642
