30-09-2020||India||Babri: How Supreme Court set wheels of justice moving again||The Babri Masjid case against 32 senior politicians and Ram Janmabhoomi movement leaders might never have come to a conclusion had it not been for a Supreme Court bench led by Justice Rohinton Nariman which ordered that the case should be revived and heard within a fixed time-frame. The court stepped in twice to speed up the wheels of justice which had ground to a halt back in 2001 after the Uttar Pradesh government declined to cure a technical defect in the charge-sheet and the CBI pushed it onto the backburner. The Supreme Court bench in 2017 transferred the case against the 32 senior leaders from Rae Bareli to the Lucknow CBI Special Court and ordered that it should be heard along with the second case against “lakhs of unknown kar sevaks” who were accused of bringing down the masjid. The case before the Supreme Court had been filed by a person who lived in Ayodhya but was not otherwise connected with the case. More crucially, the Supreme Court also laid down tough conditions including daily hearings to prevent delays and ensure that the two cases which together had a total of around 900 witnesses were concluded as promptly as possible. Besides that, it gave the lower court two years to complete the hearings and ordered that the judge should not, under any circumstances, be transferred till he had finished the case and also laid down that no adjournments should be allowed except under extraordinary circumstances. Any other major issues should be referred to it, the judges laid down. On July 19, 2019 the court stepped in once again and gave the CBI judge nine months to conclude the case. Since he was scheduled to retire last year, he was also given an extension till he delivered the judgement. Today (Wednesday) was the CBI Special Court judge S. K. Yadav’s last day in office. The court passed its orders invoking Article 142 of the Constitution which gives it extraordinary powers and says that, “in the exercise of its jurisdiction may pass such decree or make such order as is necessary for doing complete justice in any cause or matter pending before it”. The judges justified using Article 142 on the grounds of the seriousness of the crime. Said the judges: “In the present case, crimes which shake the secular fabric of the Constitution of India have allegedly been committed almost 25 years ago (this was in 2017).” The court also sternly ticked off senior leaders like L. K. Advani who argued that their fundamental rights would be impacted by the court using Article 142. Besides that, the court also threw in the charge of criminal conspiracy against several of the 32 leaders who had not been indicted under the section earlier and which can be punished with a five to six-year jail sentence||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||India successfully test fires cruise missile from Odisha||India on Wednesday successfully test-fired BrahMos supersonic cruise missile with several indigenous features from a test range in Odisha, in a major step towards achieving "Atmanirbhar Bharat" pledge, defence sources said. The surface-to-surface cruise missile, featuring indigenous booster and airframe section along with other Made in India sub-systems, blasted off from the launching complex-III of the Integrated Test Range (ITR) near here, a defence statement said. Describing the trial conducted at 10.30 am as "successful", Defence Research and Development (DRDO) officials said, all parameters were met during the flight test of the missile which has a strike range of more than 400 km. The BrahMos Land-Attack Cruise Missile (LACM) was cruising at a top speed of Mach 2.8. The successful trial of the state-of-the-art cruise missile is one more major step in enhancing the indigenous content, the statement said. "Todays successful launch has paved the way for the serial production of the indigenous booster and other indigenous components of the powerful BrahMos Weapon System realising Atma Nirbhar Bharat pledge," it said. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and DRDO chairman congratulated DRDO personnel, team BrahMos and the industry for the spectacular mission. The BrahMos missile can be launched from land, sea platforms as well as fighter jets, defence sources said. Jointly developed by the DRDO and NPOM, a leading aerospace enterprise of Russia, the BrahMos missile is a medium-range ramjet supersonic cruise missile capable of being launched from submarines, warships, fighter jets or land. The first extended version of the missile, which had a strike range of 450 km, was successfully tested on March 11, 2017. On September 30, 2019 a shorter range land version of BrahMos was successfully test fired from Chandipur ITR. The sophisticated missile, already operational with the Army, Navy and Air Force, is regarded as the fastest supersonic cruise missile in the world, the sources said. PTI COR SKN MM||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||Hathras rape victim cremated at 2.30am, family kept out   ||The 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was gang-raped in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras, was cremated here in the early hours of Wednesday, with her family alleging the local police forced them to conduct the last rites in the dead of the night. Local police officers, however, said the cremation was carried out "as per the wishes of the family", even as the incident triggered protests in Hathras with several people coming out on roads. Leaders of Opposition parties hit out at the BJP government in the state over the manner in which the cremation was conducted, with the Congress demanding Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's resignation. As criticism mounted, Adityanath constituted a three-member SIT to probe the gang-rape and ordered a fast-tracked trial. A senior government official said the SIT, to be headed by UP home secretary Bhagwan Swarup with DIG Chandraprakash and commandant PAC Agra Poonam as members, would have to submit its report in a week.The Dalit woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. As news of her death spread, protests broke out in Delhi as well as in Hathras with all sections of society, including politicians, sports and cine stars and activists, expressing their anguish and demanding justice for her. The family left Safdarjung hospital in Delhi on Tuesday night amid heavy police deployment. The body was taken by the Uttar Pradesh police, which reached Hathras earlier than the family members, claimed a kin of the victim. "The cremation was done around 2.30am-3am," the father of the deceased woman told PTI on Wednesday morning. In the moments preceding the cremation, a brother of the woman told PTI: "Police have forcibly taken the body, and my father along with them for cremation. When my father reached Hathras, he was immediately taken (to the crematorium) by the police." Another kin said the woman's father was accompanied by 30 to 40 people, mainly relatives and others from their neighbourhood, to the crematorium near Bool Garhi village, under Chandpa police station limits, in the district of western Uttar Pradesh. Senior police and administration officials were also present at the crematorium in the middle of the night, an official said. According to purported visuals from the site that surfaced on social media some of the policemen were in anti-riot gear donning body vests and helmets. "We are unable to understand what they want... What kind of politics is this? They are giving random statements like the woman has not been raped! We don't know what they want," said the relative who was at home with the grieving family. "They are doing all this to hush up the case," he alleged. When contacted, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir told PTI in a text message: "All procedures as per wish of family (sic)." Later in the day, the Hathras Police issued a statement, refuting the reports that the body was cremated without the permission of the family. "Hathras Police denies these reports. The truth is that family members carried out the last rites of the body as per their rituals in presence of police and administration officials," it stated. Around 12 pm, locals from Bool Garhi village came out on roads to protest the developments, while many demonstrated near the local Chandpa Police station and some in Hathras city. The manner in which the last rites of the gang-rape victim was carried out led to Opposition parties hitting out at the state government. Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati, in a tweet, said, "The cremation of Hathras gang-rape victim by the Uttar Pradesh Police without handing over the body to the family or without their consent and in their absence in the dead of the night is raising doubts and resentment. The BSP strongly condemns such a wrong attitude of the police." It would be better if the Supreme Court takes cognizance of the serious case on its own and initiates appropriate action, otherwise from the attitude of the UP government and the police it does not seem that even after the death the gang-rape victim and her family will get justice, she said in another tweet. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi said, "I was on the phone with the Hathras victim's father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair." "He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night the victim's father was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites," she said in a series of tweets. Tagging Adityanath in a tweet, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said, "RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as chief minister." Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tweeted: "In the rape-murder of Hathras daughter, conducting her last rites by police in the middle of the night without the consent of the family is against the rituals. It is the most condemnable act to erase evidence. The BJP government has committed a sin and crime by doing so."||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||Babri mosque verdict runs counter to constitutional spirit:Congress||The Congress on Wednesday said a special CBI court's decision to acquit all the accused in the Babri Masjid case runs counter to constitutional spirit and the 2019 Supreme Court judgement that described the demolition of the structure as an "egregious violation of the rule of law". Congress' chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said every Indian who has innate faith in the Constitution and in the spirit of communal amity and brotherhood expects and urges the Central and state governments to file an appeal against the verdict delivered Wednesday. The governments must follow the letter of the law and the Constitution without any "partiality and pre-meditated prejudice" Surjewala said, adding this is the true calling of rule of law and Constitution. "The decision of the Special Court to acquit all the accused in Babri Masjid demolition case runs counter to Supreme Court judgement as also the constitutional spirit," he said. The Supreme Court in its judgement on November 9 last year, pronounced by five judges, had clearly held that the demolition of Babri Masjid was a clear illegality and an "egregious violation of the rule of law", Surjewala told reporters. "But the Special Court exonerated all the accused. It is clear that the decision of the Special Court runs counter to the decision of the Supreme Court of India," he said. "The entire country witnessed a deep-rooted political conspiracy by BJP-RSS and its leaders to destroy the country's communal amity and brotherhood for usurping power at any cost," he alleged. The then BJP government of Uttar Pradesh was a "co-conspirator in the designed attack" on India's Constitutional ethos, Surjewala claimed. "So much so that the Supreme Court was misled by filing a wrong affidavit on oath. It is only after detailed examination of all these aspects, facts and evidence that the Supreme Court held the demolition of Masjid to be an egregious violation of the rule of law," he said. Reacting to the judgement by the special court, senior Congress leader Ahmed Patel tweeted, "The Babri verdict is shocking, it goes contrary to principles of natural justice and even the SC's observation" All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and MM Joshi, were on Wednesday acquitted by the special CBI court in Lucknow which said there was no conclusive proof against them. Delivering the much-awaited verdict in the 28-year-old case, CBI judge S K Yadav did not accept newspapers and video cassettes as evidence. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, which triggered riots for several months leaving nearly 2,000 people dead across the country.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||Advani welcomes Babri verdict with 'Jai Shri Ram' ||Veteran BJP leader LK Advani, who was acquitted by a special CBI court on Wednesday in the Babri mosque demolition case, welcomed the court verdict by chanting 'Jai Shri Ram', and said it vindicates his personal and BJP's belief and commitment towards the 'Ram Janmabhoomi Movement'. Advani, who was the face of the Ram Janambhoomi Movement in 1992, was acquitted along with all other 31 accused in the case. "It is a very important decision and a matter of happiness for us. When we heard the news of the court's order, we welcomed it by chanting Jai Shri Ram, Advani said in a video message. Later in a statement, he said, "the judgement vindicates my personal and the Bharatiya Janata Party's belief and commitment towards the Ram Janmabhoomi Movement. "I also feel blessed that this judgement has come in the footsteps of another landmark verdict of the Supreme Court given in November 2019,which paved the way for my long cherished dream of seeing a grand Shri Ram Mandir at Ayodhya, the foundation laying ceremony of which was held on 5th August, 2020." After the court verdict, the 92-year-old BJP leader came out and greeted the media, gathered outside his house here, by chanting the slogan of Jai Shri Ram . He was seen watching the news in his residence while sitting with his family members and his daughter Pratibha Advani, who was holding his hands. Former Shiv Sena MP Satish Pradhan, who was an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, on Wednesday welcomed a CBI special court's verdict acquitting all the 32 accused in the case. "Truth has prevailed," the 80-year-old former mayor of Thane told news agency PTI, after attending the hearing through video conference. The court said there is no conclusive proof against the accused. Pradhan had earlier been granted bail in the case. The first mayor of Thane near Mumbai while he was with the Sena, Pradhan is now with the BJP. "Truth always prevails. We have full faith in the judiciary," he said. Pradhan was once a trusted associate of Shiv Sena supremo late Bal Thackeray and helped the party grow in the Konkan region and Maharashtra. Local BJP leader Om Prakash Sharma, who was among the 'karsevaks' from Thane to Ayodhya in December 1992, also welcomed the court verdict, adding he was happy that all the accused have been acquitted. The RSS on Wednesday expressed joy over the special CBI court's verdict.  "Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh welcomes the special CBI court's decision to acquit all the accused in the demolition of the controversial structure. "After this decision, all sections of the society should come together in unity and harmony and work successfully to face the challenges before the country, and work towards the progress of this country," RSS general secretary Suresh 'Bhaiyyaji' Joshi tweeted. The court in Lucknow said there was no conclusive proof against the accused. The other accused include Uma Bharti and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||Babri Masjid demolition: all, including Advani, acquitted ||All the 32 accused in the Babri mosque demolition case, including BJP veterans L K Advani and MM Joshi, were on Wednesday acquitted by a special CBI court here which said there was no conclusive proof against them. Delivering the much-awaited verdict in the 28-year-old case, CBI judge S K Yadav did not accept newspapers and video cassettes as evidence. The court also observed that late Vishwa Hindu Parishad leader Ashok Singhal wanted to save the structure because Ram idols were inside. The case relates to the razing of the disputed structure in Ayodhya on December 6, 1992, which triggered riots for several months leaving nearly 2,000 people dead across the country. The structure was demolished by 'kar sevaks' who claimed that the mosque in Ayodhya was built on the site of an ancient Ram temple. The 32 accused, include former deputy prime minister Advani, former Union minister Joshi and Uma Bharti, former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Kalyan Singh, during whose tenure the structure was pulled down, besides Vinay Katiyar and Sadhvi Rithambara. Champat Rai, the general secretary of the trust in charge of constructing the temple, was among the accused. Yadav had on September 16 directed all the 32 surviving accused to remain present in the court on the day of the judgment. Today was the last working day of Yadav. However, Bharti (61) and Singh (88) are convalescing in separate hospitals after coronavirus infection and were not present in the court at the time of pronouncement of order. Advani (92), Joshi (86), Nritya Gopal Das and Satish Pradhan were also not present in court. Singh, during whose tenure as chief minister of Uttar Pradesh the disputed structure was demolished, was put on trial in September last year after his tenure as governor (of Rajasthan) came to an end. With the Supreme Court setting August 31 as the deadline and later extending it by a month for the CBI court to give its verdict, the trial court started day-to-day hearing to complete the task on time. The central agency produced 351 witnesses and 600 documents as evidence before the court. Charges were framed against 48 people, but 16 have died during the course of trial. The trial under the serious criminal conspiracy charges commenced against them after having been dropped by the trial court in 2001. The verdict was upheld by the Allahabad High Court in 2010, but the apex court ordered restoration of the conspiracy charge against them on April 19, 2017. The top court ordered daily hearing in the high profile case and directed the special judge to conclude it in two years. The charge of conspiracy was in addition to the existing charges against them for promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion. The accused were also facing charges of having made assertions "prejudicial to national integration and injuring or defiling a place of worship". The other charges against them included indulging in "deliberate and malicious" acts intended to outrage religious feelings, uttering statements leading to public mischief, rioting and unlawful assembly. The CBI had argued that the accused conspired and instigated 'kar sevaks' to demolish the 16th century mosque. However, the accused had pleaded innocence maintaining that there is no evidence to prove their guilt and claimed they were implicated by the then Congress government at the Centre as a political vendetta. In a significant judgment last year, the Supreme Court allotted the disputed site in Ayodhya for construction of a Ram temple, while calling the demolition of the mosque a violation of the rule of law. An alternative five-acre site was marked in the city for building a mosque. Before the 2017 verdict of the apex court, two sets of cases were being heard in Lucknow and Raebareli. The trial of the first case involving unnamed 'kar sevaks' was going on in a Lucknow court, while the second set of cases relating to the eight VVIPs, including Advani, Joshi, Vishnu Hari Dalmiya, Singhal, Katiyar, Bharti, Giriraj Kishore and Sadhvi Ritambhara, were going on in a Raebareli court. The apex court, had while restoring the charge of criminal conspiracy, directed clubbing of two cases relating to the demolition and had also ordered that the trial be concluded in two years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||SIT to probe Hathras gang-rape case ||Amidst call from the Congress to resign, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday constituted a three-member SIT to probe the Hathras gang-rape incident which has sparked outrage. A senior government official said the chief minister has also asked for conducting the trial of the case in a fast track court. A 19-year-old woman was brutally gang-raped in a village in Hathras district two weeks ago. She died of her grievous injuries at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday, prompting outrage, protests and calls for justice. The Congress has been holding protests in the national capital and various parts of Uttar Pradesh demanding justice for the gang-rape victim. Party leader Rahul Gandhi, in a tweet, said, "A daughter of India is raped-murdered, facts are suppressed and in the end, the right to perform the last rites is also taken away from the victim's family." "It is insulting and unjust," he said in the tweet in Hindi using the hashtag 'Hathras Horror Shocks India'. Along with the tweet, Rahul Gandhi also tagged a video purportedly of the cremation site showing a police officer not answering to queries as to whether the body of the victim was being cremated there. Congress General Secretary Priyanka Gandhi said, "I was on the phone with the Hathras victim's father when he was informed that his daughter had passed away. I heard him cry out in despair." "He had just been telling me that all he wanted was justice for his child. Last night the victim's father was robbed of the chance to take his daughter home for the last time and perform her last rites," she said in a series of tweets. Tagging Adityanath, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi said, "RESIGN. Instead of protecting the victim and her family, your government became complicit in depriving her of every single human right, even in death. You have no moral right to continue as chief minister." The official said Secretary home, Bhagwan Swarup, will lead the SIT and DIG, Chandraprakash, and commandant PAC Agra, Poonam, will be its members. The SIT has been asked to submit its report in seven days time, the official said. The woman was gang-raped on September 14 following which she was admitted to the J N Medical College Hospital in Aligarh with serious injuries. She was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital on Monday after her condition showed no signs of improvement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-638
30-09-2020||India||Rape victim cremated, family kept out||Some family members of a 19-year-old Dalit woman, who died in a Delhi hospital a fortnight after she was gang-raped here, alleged on Wednesday that police had confined them to their home while they cremated her body late last night. Local police officers, however, told PTI that the cremation was carried out as per the wishes of the family. The woman was raped in a village in Hathras by four men on September 14. After her condition deteriorated, she was referred to Delhi's Safdarjung hospital where she breathed her last on Tuesday. As news of her death spread, protests broke out in Delhi as well as in Hathras with all sections of society, including politicians, sports and cine stars and activists, expressing their anguish and demanding justice for her. The family left from Safdarjung Hospital in Delhi on Tuesday night amid heavy police deployment. The body was taken by the Uttar Pradesh police, which reached Hathras earlier than the family members, claimed a kin of the victim. According to ndtv.com, the woman's body was taken to her village in Hathras, about 200 km from Delhi, after midnight. As her family and villagers suspected the UP police wanted to complete the last rites right then, in the middle of the night, they insisted that it was "against their tradition"; the woman's father pleaded with the police to be allowed to take her home and cremate her in the morning. At the village, female relatives tried to block the vehicle by hugging the bonnet. A woman, believed to be the mother of the 20-year-old, sat on the road sobbing and beating her chest. The police vehicle was stopped at multiple points before the cops allegedly pushed the protesters away and drove towards the funeral ground. Appeals were also made to District Magistrate Praveen Kumar Laxkar to take her body to her home for last rites after daybreak. At 2:30 AM, while most of her family was home, the police cremated the body. “Humein ye samajh nahi aa raha kyun, kya chahiye... kaisi rajneeti kar rahe hain ye log, saare ulte seedhe bayaan de rahe hain ke ladki ka rape nahi hua hai... pata nahi kya chahiye inko (We are unable to understand, what they want... what kind of politics is this, they are giving random statements like the woman has not been raped! We don't know what they want),” said a relative who was home with the grieving family, PTI reported.
“Ye sab is maamle ko thanda karne ke liye bol rahe hain... (They are doing all this to hush up the case),” he alleged.
When contacted, Hathras SP Vikrant Vir told PTI in a text message: All procedures as per wish of family .. (sic). All four attackers, upper caste men from the woman's village, are in jail. They will now also be charged with murder.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Felicitation for Shaheen Bagh protester||Several women’s and human rights groups felicitated Bilkis, 82-year old protester from Shaheen Bagh who is among Time’s 100 most influential people in the world. At the event in the Press Club of India on Tuesday, Bilkis, who was among the “dabanng dadis”, expressed solidarity with farmers protesting against the new farm laws, and also demanded the release of students, currently in jail. Bilkis said: “All the children must be released. If they don’t study, how will they progress. Can they make any progress in jail?” “First we will fight against corona, then we will take forward the debate on the CAA and NRC. The government should listen to farmers as well as us. Farmers are facing many atrocities....Give them some respite… We will raise our voice until the government withdraws the laws. If we don’t raise our voice, don’t leave our homes, then what do you expect the government to do?||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Amnesty International announces closure of its India offices||Amnesty International, the Nobel Peace Prize-winning human rights organisation, on Tuesday announced the closure of its offices in India after all its accounts here were frozen — a step the non-profit has described as “the latest in the incessant witch-hunt” by the Narendra Modi government — but vowed not to be silenced. The freezing of Amnesty’s accounts on September 10 by the Enforcement Directorate had brought all its work across the country to a halt, forcing the organisation to let go of staff and press the pause button on ongoing campaign and research work. A month before the accounts were frozen, Amnesty had come out with two reports — one to mark the first anniversary of the change in status of the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir and another coinciding with six months of the Delhi riots. Both were critical of the Modi government, with the report on the riots also alleging human rights violations by Delhi police that report to the Union home ministry. “The continuing crackdown on Amnesty International India over the last two years and the complete freezing of bank accounts is not accidental. The constant harassment by government agencies including ED is a result of our unequivocal calls for transparency in the government, more recently for accountability of the Delhi police and the Government of India regarding the grave human rights violations in Delhi riots and Jammu & Kashmir. For a movement that has done nothing but raise its voice against injustice, this latest attack is akin to freezing dissent,” Amnesty International India’s executive director, Avinash Kumar, said in the statement announcing the closure. The Union home ministry, in a statement, dismissed the allegation of witch-hunt and said that successive governments had rejected Amnesty’s repeated applications for permission to receive foreign funds. “This bipartisan and purely legal approach towards Amnesty, under different governments, makes it clear that the entire fault lies in the dubious processes adopted by Amnesty to secure funds for its operations,’’ the ministry said. The organisation is free to continue humanitarian work in India provided it does not interfere in domestic political debates “by entities funded by foreign donations”, it added. The Amnesty statement said the closure of its offices was “not the end of Amnesty India’s commitment to human rights, we will not be silenced by the attacks of the government”. Expressing solidarity, Greenpeace India — another NGO that came under fire from the Modi government — said: “Disagreement and criticism of the policies of the state are the basic ethos of a functioning democracy. We won’t be better off by shutting individuals and organisations that differ with the government views. It is unfortunate to learn that Amnesty has to halt its India operations and let go of all their staff.’’ The home ministry statement said Amnesty International had received permission under the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) only once, in 2000. The home ministry statement said: “Since then Amnesty International, despite its repeated applications, has been denied FCRA approval by successive governments since as per law it is not eligible to get such an approval. However, in order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty UK remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by classifying it as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI). A significant amount of foreign money was also remitted to Amnesty (India) without MHA’s approval under FCRA. “This mala fide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions. Owing to these illegal practices of Amnesty, the previous government had also rejected the repeated applications of Amnesty to receive funds from overseas.” In November last year, the CBI had registered a case on a home ministry complaint against Amnesty International India Pvt Ltd (AIIPL), Indians For Amnesty International Trust, Amnesty International India Foundation Trust, the Amnesty International South Asia Foundation and unknown others. The CBI had alleged that these entities had violated the FCRA and the Indian Penal Code by receiving foreign contributions from Amnesty International UK through AIIPL even though prior registration or permissions were denied to Amnesty International India Foundation Trust and other trusts under the FCRA. Amnesty said it was in full compliance with all applicable Indian and international laws, insisting that for human rights work in India it operated through a distinct model of raising funds domestically. More than four million Indians have supported Amnesty International India’s work in the last eight years and around 100,000 Indians have made financial contributions. “These contributions evidently cannot have any relation with the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010. The fact that the government is now portraying this lawful fundraising model as money-laundering is evidence that the overbroad legal framework is maliciously activated when human rights activists and groups challenge the government’s grave inactions and excesses,’’ Amnesty said in its statement. The donation link on Amnesty International India states: “We only depend on supporters like you — powered 100% by Indians! We don’t accept money from corporate, governments, or political organisations to ensure we can fight for the rights of all — freely and fairly.” According to Amnesty, it has been in the line of fire since 2018 when it was first raided by the ED, following which the income tax department began sending “investigative letters” to its small regular donors, creating a chilling effect and affecting funding campaigns. It described the freezing of accounts as “the latest in the incessant witch-hunt of human rights organisations by the Government of India over unfounded and motivated allegations”. The Modi government has been cracking down on NGOs from its first year in office. Among the earliest prominent organisations to feel the heat was the Ford Foundation, which subsequently had to register its India office under the FEMA Act. Greenpeace also had its accounts frozen for alleged violation of the FCRA following which it shut down two of its offices in India and laid off staff.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Tractor, not China, can move Modi to anger||What makes Prime Minister Narendra Modi angry? Not China, at least not in public, which rubbed another fistful of salt into the wound by saying on Tuesday that it does not “recognise the so-called Ladakh Union Territory illegally set up by India”. Not the Babri Masjid demolition, but a chance to display his feelings might come up on Wednesday when a special court delivers the verdict 28 years after the destruction took place. Not the Gujarat riots, although the massacre made him sad just as he would have been had “a puppy come under the wheel of a car” in which he was sitting. Not the economic crisis that has made India the second-worst performer among the major economies in the first quarter. Now, the question has been answered: the sight of a burning tractor does leave Modi gutted. “Jin saamaano ki, upkarano ki kisan puja karta hai, unhe aag lagakar ye log ab kisano ko apmanit kar rahe hain (The things, the equipment that the farmer worships, by setting them on fire, these people are insulting the farmers),” the Prime Minister said on Tuesday. Modi was referring to an incident at India Gate on Monday during a protest against the new farm laws. He was speaking after inaugurating through videoconference development projects for Uttarakhand, a hill state that has also witnessed farm protests. There was another way to look at the tractor burning. “If it’s my tractor and I want to burn it, what is your problem?” Punjab chief minister and veteran Congress leader Amarinder Singh had said on Monday while making it clear he does not support such forms of protest. “It shows what people are feeling... their anger. Farmers don’t know who is going to buy (their produce) from them,” the chief minister had added. Modi signalled on Tuesday that there would be no rethink on the decisions although his repeated references to the farm protests are being read as a sign that the government is no longer viewing them as a reaction limited to a few states. Modi appeared to hold the Gandhi family responsible for the farmers’ agitation, claiming that their “despondency” was at the root of the politics of “opposing for the sake of opposing”. The Prime Minister struck a defiant note by asserting that despite the opposition for “selfish reasons”, the government would continue to bring in “big reforms” in “national interest”. Without taking any names, Modi targeted “ek aisa dal jiski ek parivar ki chaar-chaar pidhiyan jisne desh par raaj kiya (a particular party where four generations of one family have lorded over the country)”. “Virodh ke liye virodh karne wale yeh log desh ke liye, samaj ke liye aprasangik hote jaa rahe hain (These people who oppose for the sake of opposing are becoming irrelevant for the country and the society),” the Prime Minister said. He diagnosed this “irrelevance” as the cause of the “chhatpatahat (restlessness)”, “bechaini (anxiety)” and “nirasha (despondency)”, himself appearing angry at the intensifying protests that his and his government’s assurances have failed to mollify. “A particular party where four generations of one family have lorded over the country, they are riding on the shoulders of others to get them to oppose every work done in national interest, to fulfill their own selfish interests,” Modi said, without naming the Nehru-Gandhis or the Congress, which has been intensely opposing the farm decisions and has lent its full support to the farmers’ agitation. Modi suggested that the Congress could not bear being in the Opposition although the party had been out of power for only a few years. He added that there were many smaller parties that had never got the opportunity to rule but had always remained loyal to national interest. Modi, however, didn’t name these parties. The Prime Minister listed his government’s major projects — the Jan Dhan bank accounts, GST rollout, one-rank-one-pension, purchase of Rafale jets, 10 per cent reservation for the economically weak among the upper castes, surgical strikes on Pakistan, construction of the Sardar Patel statue and the “bhoomi pujan” for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. Modi stressed that all these decisions were in national interest but pointed out that “in logon ne (these people)” had opposed the steps. “The continuous efforts for big reforms for Aatmanirbhar Bharat are in national interest to make the country strong, and these will be sustained,” the Prime Minister said. Since the farm bills were steamrollered through Parliament, disregarding objections raised by the Opposition and protests by farmers, Modi has in almost every public appearance slammed his rivals for “misleading” the farmers. Initially, the government had hoped that the farm protests would be confined to Punjab and Haryana, the two states where fears of being deprived of the minimum support price are more due to big land holdings, but they have now spread to several states. The Prime Minister said the new laws would “liberate” the farmers from middlemen. “These people (political opponents) are unable to tolerate this freedom. One more source of earning black money is gone,” he said, adding that the farm laws would give cultivators the liberty to sell their produce in the open market. Referring to the Congress’s opposition to other steps of the government, Modi said: “They objected when Sardar Patel’s statue was being inaugurated. None of their leaders has so far visited the Statue of Unity.” “They even opposed the bhoomi pujan of the Ram temple,” Modi said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Economic crisis tells on universities||The economic crisis has compelled the government to ask central universities and IITs to refrain from creating teaching posts and filling posts put in place after July this year. The directive is expected to deepen the problems plaguing higher education and research after institutions were asked to enrol more students to implement the 10 per cent quota for the economically weaker sections. Such institutions were already struggling to cope with 30 to 40 per cent vacancies. Last week, following instructions from the finance ministry and the higher education department under the education ministry earlier this month, the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued the advisory to all central universities. The UGC has attached the copy of a letter issued by T.V. Somanathan, secretary of the expenditure department under the finance ministry. In the letter, Somanathan has prescribed a set of guidelines to be followed. “There will be a ban on creation of new posts, except with approval of the department of expenditure, in ministries/departments, attached offices, subordinate offices, statutory bodies and autonomous bodies,” said the letter from Somanathan. If any organisation feels filling a newly created post is absolutely essential, they will have to seek the advice of the expenditure department. “In the context of the present fiscal situation, and the consequent pressure on government resources, there is a need for further economy and rationalisation of non-priority expenditure while protecting and preserving the priority expenditure,” the letter added. Sources said the IITs had also been sent similar letters by the respective authorities. In January 2019, the education ministry had directed higher education institutions to increase their intake capacity by 25 per cent, staggered over 2019-20 and 2020-21. The order followed the passage of a constitutional amendment providing for 10 per cent economic quotas. However, no new posts have been sanctioned in spite of universities placing such a demand. Delhi University executive council member Rajesh Jha cited the example of DU, which has increased its intake capacity at the undergraduate level from 54,000 in 2018 to around 66,000 this year because of the economic quota. But there has been no commensurate enhancement in the sanctioned strength of teachers. “The government is increasing the number of students without commensurate teaching posts. This is already affecting the quality of teaching. In my class of undergraduate students, there are 80 students. It is difficult to conduct academic activities,” Jha, who teaches at Rajdhani College, said. The finance ministry has also asked the institutions not to print any document or books on imported paper. Expenditure on events such as foundation day should be discouraged or curtailed. Travel for such functions, and provision of bags and mementos should be avoided, the letter by Somanathan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Blood of troops on faulty ammunition||Purported shoddy implementation of what has now come to be known as Atmanirbhar defence production has killed Indian soldiers. The Indian Army has said in an internal report to the defence ministry that Rs 960 crore was spent on “poor quality” ammunition and mines manufactured by the State-owned Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) in the past six years. This resulted in over 400 accidents in which 27 troopers were killed between 2014 and 2019. As many as 159 were grievously injured and some suffered permanent disabilities and loss of limbs. A fire in an ammo depot in 2016 appears to be the driving factor behind the rise in casualties. Citing the deficiencies, the army has thrown its weight behind the government’s plan to corporatise the OFB to “wake it up from its slumber” and make it more efficient. Contacted, OFB public relations officer Uddipan Mukherjee said on Tuesday night: “We are not aware of any such report by the army.” The army’s internal report said while calculating the “loss to exchequer due to poor quality production”: “Rs 960 crore loss roughly means 100 155mm medium artillery guns could have been bought for this amount.” It added: “Rs 658.58 crore worth of disposed of within shelf life between April 2014 and April 2019. Rs 303.23 crore worth of mines disposed of within shelf life post-Pulgaon accident in May 2016.” As many as 16 persons, including two army officers, were killed in the fire at the Central Ammunition Depot at Pulgaon in Maharashtra while disposing of explosives. The depot houses the largest weapons stockpile in the country. All the ordnance produced in different factories arrives at this facility before being sent to the forward bases. The faulty ammunition mentioned in the army’s report includes 23-mm air defence shells, artillery shells, 125-mm tank rounds and different calibres of bullets used in assault rifles. The OFB functions under the defence ministry’s department of defence production and is one of the oldest State-owned production entities. “Lack of accountability and poor quality of production result in frequent accidents. This results in injuries and deaths of soldiers. On an average, one accident takes place per week,” said the report. The report said the OFB “is expected to be a national strategic asset”. “The sub-optimal efficiency of this potential strategic asset is one of the major contributing factors to the hollowness threatening the ammunition and armament holdings of the Indian Army,” the report said. It expressed concern that certain countries have refused to accept ammunition and equipment made by the ordnance factory. “Corporatisation of OFB is likely to wake it from its slumber and transform ordnance factories into a modernised, state-of-the-art facility with flexible and better decision-making in its functioning…,” the report added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Paralysed Dalit rape victim dies||A 19-year-old girl who had been gang-raped and assaulted so brutally that she had got paralysed waist down due to injuries to her spinal cord and her tormentors had chopped off her tongue, died at a Delhi hospital on Tuesday after battling for life for 14 days. The brutalisation of the Dalit girl, who had been gang-raped in an agriculture field in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district on September 14 by four men from an upper caste, had initially been dismissed as “fake news” by sections of the BJP and chief minister Adityanath’s media adviser. Her death at Delhi’s Safdarjung Hospital at 3am triggered protests in the capital and in Hathras, 180km away, and an outpouring of outrage on social media by politicians, film stars and cricketers, among others. Her torment, compared with the 2012 Delhi bus gang rape and murder, had largely gone unreported. A spokesperson at Jawaharlal Nehru Medical College and Hospital in Aligarh where she had first been admitted said her legs had got completely paralysed and arms partially paralysed. The Hathras girl’s mother told local reporters on Tuesday: “We had gone to our agricultural field. My daughter and I were working on two edges of the field. After around half an hour, I heard my daughter crying out in pain. I saw that four persons from our village had overpowered her. They were sexually assaulting her and battering her with stones. They also had knives pointed at her. They ran away when I cried out for help.” The accused — Sandeep Singh, Lavkush Kumar, Ramu Singh and Ravi Kumar — were arrested over the next five days but booked only for attempt to murder. They were charged with gang rape only on Sunday after local media highlighted the issue. Vikrant Vir, the superintendent of police of Hathras, said the department had withdrawn the local station house officer from active duty after an inquiry pointed to lapses. “All the accused are behind bars. They will be tried in court for murder and gang rape. We have deployed a force in front of the victim’s house as her family members fear that the criminals would harm them,” the SP said. Leading a protest outside Safdarjung Hospital, Bhim Army chief and Dalit leader Chandrashekhar Azad appealed to community members to take to the streets and demand the death penalty for the guilty. “The government should not test our patience. We won’t rest until the culprits are hanged,” he said. Azad, a lawyer, said he would personally fight the case. Manoj Singh Kaka, a Samajwadi Party leader, said: “The Adityanath government is pampering a particular caste. The same caste men are responsible for the incident in Hathras.” The Congress said the unspeakable torture had exposed the insensitivity of the Adityanath regime. Delhi police foiled an attempt by the Youth Congress to hold a flash demonstration at India Gate. Congress workers later took out a candle march near Safdarjung Hospital. The Congress also staged protests in several parts of Uttar Pradesh. A large number of party workers were taken into custody as gatherings are not allowed due to the pandemic. Congress MP Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “The jungle raj of Uttar Pradesh has killed another girl. The government said it was fake news and left the victim to die. Neither was this unfortunate incident fake, nor were the death of the victim and the cruelty of the government.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, the Congress general secretary in charge of Uttar Pradesh, tweeted: “…Rape incidents, one after another — in Hathras, Shahjahanpur, Gorakhpur — have shaken the state. The law and order situation in Uttar Pradesh has worsened beyond comprehension. There is nothing left of women’s safety. Criminals are running amok. The killers of this child must be given the strictest punishment.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Rahul draws DeMo, farm law parallel||Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday compared the disastrous demonetisation with the new farm laws, arguing that their purpose is the same — to help big corporates capture India’s wealth. The former Congress chief said in a video message, “Demonetisation was not a fight against black money. The purpose was to weaken the informal sector. Kisan-Mazdoor (farmers and labourers) are the backbone of India. They want to break India’s backbone. The intention is to capture India’s wealth. These three laws aren’t delinked — demonetisation, GST and farm laws — the purpose is the same.” Conversing with a group of farmers through videoconferencing, he said, “They hit your feet with axe thrice. Now they have stabbed you in the heart. Media won’t tell you this. But I have clarity in my mind. We have to oppose it. They haven’t built this nation. They were standing with the British. They have no understanding. And this is not about farmers. Farmers’ strength is not limited to farming. They send their sons to army, police… their strength gave India freedom.” While he listed notebandi (demonetisation) and GST as two axe-attacks, he had earlier said lockdown too was a planned attack on the informal sector to facilitate the big corporates to capture that wealth. He repeated on Tuesday that the Narendra Modi government chose help the corporates during the coronavirus-induced lockdown when the need was to help the poor. He said, “The wealth of a few industrialists grew during the lockdown but your incomes dipped.” The Congress leader who has ruthlessly attacked the Modi government since the very beginning for pursuing pro-rich policies and working to help crony capitalists, saw a pattern in their policies — from the brazen attempts to dilute the Land Acquisition Act to the introduction of farm bills without consulting the stakeholders. He even complained that the media started attacking him only after he adopted an uncompromising position on the Land Acquisition Act. Some farmers he talked to also described this government as pro-rich and even pointed to the labour code that diluted the rights of the workers. Arguing that it had become difficult to trust the Prime Minister, they rejected his assurances on the new farm bills. They said the corporates will capture the farming sector and the farmers will be reduced to daily-wage earners. One even hailed Rahul’s role in saving the Land Acquisition Act and entreated him to fight again. While the farmers across the country haven’t paid any heed to the Prime Minister’s argument that the Congress was misleading them while the farm laws were going to be extremely beneficial to them, the Congress too reacted angrily to Modi’s charge that they were opposing because another source of black money had dried up. The Prime Minister had strongly rejected the perception that demonetisation would harm the economy and repeatedly claimed that only the corrupt and black-money holders were opposing the great decision. He doesn’t debate those issues after the consequences became clear over the last few years, the Congress said. Reacting to the Prime Minister’s charge, many Congress leaders wondered if the 250 farmers’ associations and agriculture workers were also agitating because their source of black money was being closed. Punjab chief minister Amrinder Singh on Tuesday held an exhaustive discussion with farmer groups who unanimously said the laws were destructive and pro-corporate. He again vowed to fight with them and protect the farmers from these laws come what may. Former Union minister Jairam Ramesh reacted to the Prime Minister’s barb with a series of tweets. “The new farm laws will in effect move agricultural trade from APMCs to markets controlled by private companies. Minimum Support Price will not be applicable when private companies buy farm produce as there’s no such provision in the two laws. The Prime Minister is being true to himself and lying. Jagadguru of Jhoot!” Ramesh added, “Demonetisation was sold by Jagadguru of Jhoot (JoJ) as a way of recovering black money. That turned out to be wholly bogus. Now JoJ is proclaiming farm laws are an attack on black money! This is BIZARRE by even his standards. He will say anything to sell himself.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||Infections jump, but herd immunity far away||The share of adults in India infected by the new coronavirus has ballooned nearly 10-fold over the past three months, the country’s second nationwide survey has revealed, also estimating over 90 million infections among those aged 10 years or older. The second survey has found an infection prevalence rate of 7.1 per cent in people aged 18 years or older in August-September compared with 0.73 per cent during the first survey in May, the Indian Council of Medical Research said on Tuesday. The August-September exercise has also revealed prevalence differences across urban and rural areas — 15.6 per cent sampled populations infected in urban slum areas, 8.2 per cent in urban non-slum areas and 4.4 per cent in rural areas. Both surveys had covered 700 sites in the same 70 districts. Medical experts say the findings point to a growing number of infections and the majority of the population still susceptible, implying that more people could get infected in the coming months whenever the virus gets opportunities to spread. “Seven per cent infections mean 93 per cent still susceptible — what this means is that we cannot wish away the virus over the next month or two,” said D.C.S. Reddy, a senior community medicine specialist and member of an ICMR research group on surveillance for the coronavirus disease. Infectious disease specialists expect that when a large enough proportion of a population is infected — estimated at around 60 per cent for the coronavirus — each infected person becomes a barrier to more transmission and the epidemic nearly vanishes through a phenomenon called “herd immunity”. “The second survey tells us we are still a great distance from herd immunity,” Reddy said. Senior health officials said the findings underscore the need for health authorities to continue testing, tracing and treating and for people to continue adopting personal protection measures such as face masks, hand and respiratory hygiene and physical distancing. “Since a large proportion of the population is yet susceptible, prevention fatigue has to be avoided,” Balram Bhargava, ICMR’s director-general said. “We have to adhere to our strategy of test, track, trace, and treat. Non-pharmaceutical interventions such as masks, hand hygiene, and cough etiquette will continue to be essential.” The survey coordinated by researchers at the ICMR’s National Institute of Epidemiology, Chennai, sampled populations in the same 70 districts as the first survey in May to determine how infection prevalence levels changed over three months. The results, Bhargava said, indicate that a combination of the lockdown, containment efforts, and behaviour change has checked the spread of the infection. Without such measures, experts believe, India’s coronavirus counts — and deaths — would have been higher than their current counts. “Such measures help slow down the speed of spread of the virus — a slower spread means fewer daily cases. Uncontrolled spread would overwhelm hospitals,” said Oomen John, a physician and senior research fellow at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi. But health officials and physicians guiding the government’s response to the Covid-19 epidemic are concerned at how the upcoming festival season and winter might influence its trajectory. The seven-day average number of daily Covid-19 cases detected has fallen since mid-September — from around an average 93,000 daily cases on September 16 to 83,000 cases on Tuesday. Some experts view this as a positive sign, but also caution that the epidemic could yet flare up.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||SC asks of Mehbooba detention: How long?  ||The Supreme Court told the government on Tuesday that a person could not be kept in preventive detention “forever” and asked the Centre and Jammu and Kashmir administration how much longer would former chief minister Mehbooba Mufti be confined. Hearing a challenge to Mehbooba’s detention from her daughter Iltija, Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul on Tuesday told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta: “Find some via media out. Detention can’t be forever…. Detention for how long and under what order? You’ll have to address us on the ground of detention and what is the maximum period and whether you can extend it beyond it one year?” Mehbooba was detained under the stringent Public Safety Act on August 4 last year as part of the unprecedented clampdown that accompanied the cancellation of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status. As the PSA allows for detention without trial for up to three months, the government has kept her confined by extending the imposition of the law on the People’s Democratic Party leader thrice now — on February 5, May 5 and July 31. Mehbooba had first been held in a government guesthouse and later shifted to her home in Srinagar that has been converted into a sub-jail. Thousands of Valley politicians had been detained during the clampdown but most have since been released. Iltija has also sought permission for the family and others to meet Mehbooba, besides permission to the jailed leader to hold party meetings. “We also want to know the proposal of the government and how long do you propose to extend it (detention)?” the bench, also having Justice Hrishikesh Roy, asked Mehta.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-639
30-09-2020||India||SC: Give ration to sex workers ||The Supreme Court on Tuesday directed states and Union Territories to provide dry ration to all sex workers on the basis of the data available with the National AIDS Control Organisation (Naco) and district legal authorities, without insisting on ration card or any other identity proof in view of the unprecedented pandemic situation. A bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and Ajay Rastogi passed the directions after an NGO, Durbar Mahila Samanwaya Committee, brought to the court’s notice the hardship faced by sex workers rendered almost destitute because of no work during pandemic and sought monetary assistance and dry rations for them without insistence on identity proof. The bench also asked the states and Union Territories to file an affidavit in four weeks detailing the modalities worked out to provide succour to sex workers during the present crisis.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Artistes starving, finger at govt||A panel comprising some of India’s best known names from the performing arts on Tuesday addressed a virtual meeting where they discussed the devastating effect the pandemic has had on the lives of artistes and the government’s purported indifference to the art and cultural sector. Performances have come to a standstill, artistes are starving and no one is concerned, least of all the government, they pointed out. The meet was attended by violin player L. Subramaniam, playback singer Kavita Krishnamurthy, theatre actor Lillete Dubey, Kathak artiste Aditi Mangaldas, composer Shekhar Ravjiani, William Richmond from the multi-genre vocal ensemble Shillong Chamber Choir, Ficci secretary-general Dilip Chenoy and the COO (live entertainment) at BookMyShow, Albert Almeida. Sanjoy K. Roy, managing director, Teamwork Arts, who is also the moving force behind the Jaipur Literature Festival, spoke about “I Believe #ArtMatters”, a fundraising concert that will be held to help  artistes and artisans affected by the pandemic. To be held on October 4 and broadcast online, it will feature about 70 performances by over 450 artistes, including most of the names on Tuesday’s panel and also composer A.R. Rahman. The concert will be broadcast on Teamwork Arts’ Facebook and YouTube pages and BookMyShow. The panel spoke sharply about the predicament of the artiste community in India. Does the community even exist, asked Mangaldas. The government does not even recognise the community, she said, adding: “It is only artistes who help each other.” The Covid crisis has created an unprecedented situation. Income has evaporated, but the disease is still rampant. “If the classical arts are not supported, what chance is there for theatre?” asked Dubey. “It’s at the bottom of the rung.” The artistes go on only because of their own passion, in the face of great indifference, especially from the authorities. She said she was on a government committee once and at the end of its term, crores of rupees were just disbursed in the most callous manner. Subramaniam, too, brought attention to the fact that the matter of money is just wished away in the context of the arts. “There is no concept of royalty,” he stressed again and again, adding that artistes should get paid according to their contribution. “Artistes should pay their accompanists,” he said. There is no system in place, he pointed out, in the art and performance world that ensures fair payment. Ravjiani, one half of the composer duo Vishal-Shekhar, agreed strongly on the absence of government initiatives to help artistes and mentioned efforts to which he contributed that would contribute to artistes. Chenoy pointed at Ficci’s effort to help art. He said that one positive outcome of the Covid crisis could be the enormous output of Indians on social media. This could be used to nudge India towards turning into a “creative economy” from an economy of consumption, Chenoy suggested. Almeida felt that after the pandemic, a platform like BookMyShow could help to give birth to a kind of “hybrid model” for an event, combining auditorium and digital experience. Krishnamurthy spoke in an emotional tone. “The artistes’ community doesn’t ask if it isn’t desperate,” she said. But no one thinks that artistes need money either, the veteran singer added. Dubey, with others, pointed at an irony during the pandemic. “We have all turned to art” — literature, cinema, music. She hailed private initiatives to help artistes. “But what is the government doing?” she asked again. The panel also appealed for donation for artistes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||No Durga Puja in UP, Ram Leela to be held||The Yogi Adityanath government has decided not to permit public celebration of Durga Puja this year in view of the pandemic but allowed Ram Leela shows to go ahead with restrictions. Allahabad High Court on Tuesday rejected a local Bengali welfare association’s plea against the government’s order to ban public celebration of Durga Puja. Chief minister Adityanath was quoted as saying during a meeting with officials on Monday night where the decisions were taken: “There will not be any public celebration of Durga Puja in the wake of Covid-19. No pandals will be installed. People can celebrate Durga Puja privately in their homes. Ram Leela shows will, however, happen because it is an ancient tradition of India.” Bengali community members later pointed out that publicly celebrating Durga Puja in pandals was also a centuries-old tradition. Lord Ram is an emotive issue for the BJP, especially in the heartland state. This has also been the launch pad for the party’s rise, with the Ram temple movement that began in the early 90s culminating in the Supreme Court last year handing over the disputed land in Ayodhya for the construction of a Ram temple and the BJP, led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Adityanath, laying the foundation for a grand shrine in a ceremony held amid the pandemic on August 5. Durga Puja will be celebrated from October 23 to 26. Shows of Ram Leela, the traditional dramatic reenactment of the life of Lord Ram, are staged over several days during the same time on Dussehra, which falls on October 25. According to an estimate, over 15,000 big and small Durga Pujas are organised in Uttar Pradesh. Around 80 per cent of the big pujas are organised by Bengalis. Over one lakh families in the state are involved in making idols, and they run their families the whole year with their earnings during the festive season. Bhojpuri actors turned BJP parliamentarians Manoj Tiwari and Ravi Kishan have already announced that they will organise and participate in Ram Leela this year too. The government has said that not more than 100 people will be allowed at each Ram Leela show to ensure physical distancing. These shows are usually attended by over 1,000 people. Those attending will have to wear masks and sit 2 metres apart. Shows will be live-streamed online, too. The government’s decision has dismayed the Bengali community in Uttar Pradesh. P.K. Roy, the secretary of the Bengali Welfare Association in Allahabad who had moved the high court against the decision of the Adityanath government, said: “The people of Uttar Pradesh, particularly the Bengali community, who organise the Puja are disillusioned. We are educated people and know how to follow physical distancing rules and other Covid protocol. Whatever the state government has done is unfortunate.” “Governments went ahead with entrance exams for medical and engineering courses. Many public celebrations have been held in the state, but the many centuries-old tradition of setting up pandals to celebrate Durga Puja has been banned. The state government has disrespected our devotion for Goddess Dugra, who is our mother,” Roy added. Vijay Chandra Srivastava, counsel for the association, said: “The division bench of Allahabad High Court where the case was heard has refused to interfere and suggested that the association discuss the issue with the state government. We will move the Supreme Court seeking permission to organise Durga Puja in pandals at public places as usual.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
30-09-2020||India||Tourist ban widens in Sikkim||The proposed reopening of tourism in Sikkim from October 10 increasingly appears to being a non-starter with more and more tourist hotspots unilaterally deciding against allowing visitors to their areas in view of the raging Covid-19 pandemic. Following the recent decision of the Lachung dzomsa in North Sikkim to extend the bar on the entry of tourists till November 31, the panchayats of Yuksum-Dubdi and Ribdi-Bhareng in West Sikkim and Assam-Lingzey in East Sikkim, too, followed suit and extended the ban on visitors for various lengths of time. “All tourism stakeholders of Yuksom-Dubdi have unanimously decided against allowing the entry of tourists till October 30 because of the pandemic. We are aware that the government has come out with a notification to reopen tourism from October 10, but all stakeholders of Yuksom-Dubdi were of the view since we managed to survive without any tourism for six months, we should be able to bear the loss for some more days to ensure the safety of our people,” said Buddhhang Subba, a member of Yuksom-Dubdi Panchayat. Yuksom is the first capital of Sikkim established in 1642. It has numerous places of tourist interest, including the Dubdi monastery, Khecheopalri Lake, Kanchenjungha Falls and Norbugang coronation throne. It is also the base camp for trekking expeditions to the Kanchenjungha mountain range. The Ribdi-Bhareng and Assam-Lingzey have also cited the fear of the pandemic to extend the bar. While Ribdi-Bhareng has banned the entry of tourists till November 30, Assam-Linzey has extended the bar till December 31. “We request our people to cooperate with us as it has been done to protect our people from the spreading disease,” said a notice issued by the Ribdi-Bhareng panchayat. Some of the tourist hotspots in Ribdi-Bhareng are the scenic villages of Hilley and Pattharey and Barsey Rhododendron Sanctuary, which is located at an altitude of about 10,000ft and is sandwiched between the Singalila National Park in the south and Khangchendzonga Biosphere Reserve in the north.Assam-Lingzey, on the other hand, is a picturesque village located at an altitude of a little over 4,500ft and tourists in their thousands throng the place which is dotted with a number of homestays. Sources in the government said they would try and convince those opposing the reopening of tourism from October 10, failing which, the possibility of postponing the date could be thought of. “As things stand today, we are gearing up for the reopening on October 10. There is little possibility of a rethink on reopening per se, but yes the reopening date could be postponed,” said a source.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-640
