16-06-2021||The present times are so true to the words of a 15-year-old Winston Churchill written during the influenza of 1890||You won’t see me fall...||Pandemic and lockdown have become dreaded synonyms. It's been over a year since we first experienced such a drudgery of life, a collective misery. Sadness and helplessness are writ large, and worse, scare seems to have overtaken many. It is with apprehension that one opens a WhatsApp message. Hope the tidings are good and not about another relative, a friend, an associate, or even a distantly known face having departed.We learnt of human follies in a very difficult way, we refused to see beyond ourselves, misplaced celebrations of having defeated a deadly virus when it was still lurking around. Then, it resurfaced and struck with an unmatched vengeance, it took its heavy toll, healthy bodies just degenerated, lying alone, life slipped by, no one to bid farewell, only wishes and prayers to rest in peace.Our much-talked-of medical support, multi-specialisation hospitals and pharmaceutical capacity were soon overburdened, their weaknesses stood starkly exposed. They would have long collapsed had it not been for the human will and perseverance to fight back. Our doctors, nursing staff and other health workers, true to the ‘Hippocratic Oath’, toiled day in, day out. As always, the men in green, white and blue responded, true to their call; yes, they have one more enemy to battle, they will join hands to pull their people through.Amidst the pandemic, lessons have risen which we need to engage with. Most painful has been to see that in our society, there live many who are making money during this time of human misery by the black marketeering of every medical aid. We seem to have become a decadent society, as Thomas Carlyle wrote, ‘Does it ever give thee pause that men used to have a soul… verily it was another world… we shall have to go in search of them again, or worse in all ways shall befall us.’We have to create a society which genuinely ‘shares and cares’; the corrupt fiends must be thrown out. Our health system has to be sans commercialisation and create a healthy hygienic environment, an atmosphere worth living, which boosts the morale of every citizen so each can utter the words of Joyce Alcantara, ‘You may see me struggle, but you won’t see me fall; Regardless if I’m weak or not, I’m going to stand tall; I’m going to wear the biggest smile even though I want to cry. I’m going to fight to live…’ I’m sure we can still do it!||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/you-wont-see-me-fall-269099
