28-06-2021||HE had been my schoolmate. Later||A lesson in humility||Rescheduling my routine in the new setting, I gave priority to regular morning walks and chose a long and lonely track. After some days, I noticed that a lookalike of my schoolmate was walking on the same track. I saw him a number of times in a blue tracksuit, holding the leash of a dog, a golf cap and an Army officer’s baton in hand. I was sure he was none other than my old schoolmate, Chuni Lal.When our first encounter occurred one morning, I smiled to greet him, but he avoided eye contact. I turned my head only to see him walk with a swagger. I decided to demolish the fort of his hubris in my own style. One morning, I exclaimed: ‘Havildar saheb, kindly hold the leash tightly. Your ferocious dog looks ready to pounce upon me.’ He retorted angrily, ‘I am not a havildar, I am a retired Colonel, do you hear that?’I pleaded ignorance. ‘Sir, I am a simple civilian, how can I know the difference?’ He walked past me in a huff.A few days later, we again came face to face. Waving my hands, I shouted, ‘Subedar saheb, please control your dog.’ The Colonel became livid. ‘I am a Co…lo…nel. Mind what you say in future.’It appeared to me then that the time was ripe for denouement. On our next encounter, I greeted him with a winsome smile: ‘Good morning Major…er, no, Colonel saheb.’That fort of hubris was no more. ‘If my memory is correct, aren't you Chuni Lal? Weren’t we schoolmates and later colleagues in PWD?’ I asked.His countenance lit up. He nodded, unleashed his dog and commanded him to go home. ‘Gaudy is a sensible creature, trained in an Army training centre.’ What a name for a dog, I thought! Then we walked leisurely. He narrated his myriad exploits in the Army in detail and I told mine. ‘But you are very humble, very brief,’ he pointed out.We gifted each other what we had. He gave me a bagful of disciplined swagger and high morale, and I gave him a pinch of humility.||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/a-lesson-in-humility-274983
