30-06-2021||At a time when ministers and Opposition leaders are unhappy at their Twitter accounts being shut even for an hour||Lost for signal in Big Apple||Surprising as this may be, cell phone signals were notoriously poor in Manhattan as towers were not allowed and tall buildings eclipsed microwave signals. At the Permanent Mission of India (PMI), we were told not to bother with boosters as signals could only be boosted if there were any to boost.India served on the UN Security Council a decade back and held its presidency (which rotates every month in alphabetical order) in November 2012. This coincided with the 2012 US elections which saw President Obama re-elected. In New York, expectation was that US Permanent Representative Susan Rice would be the next Secretary of State.A UNSC tradition is for its President to host a luncheon in honour of the UN Secretary General at which all UNSC members are invited. On November 15, 2012, we hosted a grand lunch at the PMI with catering from Tulsi, a Michelin-starred Indian restaurant run by celebrity chef Hemant Mathur.Ambassador Rice arrived late and remained held up for a long time on the pavement outside the PMI taking a call on a cell phone as there was no signal in our building. I couldn’t help noticing that it was a disconcerted Ambassador Rice who took her place on the table. Soon afterwards, she stepped out for another call and once again was not in the best of moods. Indeed, I heard an irritated Ambassador Rice telling an aide, “The Indians have jammers in their building?” I just had to smile, at least to myself.Obviously, at that time, I had no idea of what transpired in the two calls, but just days later, a group of Congressmen wrote to President Obama not to consider her for the Secretary of State. And, in December, Ambassador Rice herself wrote to President Obama requesting him to leave her out of any consideration for Secretary of State.Ambassador Rice had been in the lead on military action in Libya in 2011 that brought about regime change and saw the ghastly killing of President Gaddafi. Her undoing was her strong defence of the Administration’s actions on a mob attack in Libya in September 2012 that saw the killing of the US Ambassador. For many in the Congress, her defence was an attempted cover-up.We were ending our term on the UNSC and hosted a farewell party on December 19, 2012. Ambassador Rice attended and was in a jovial mood, even staying on for a group photograph taken towards the end of the reception. Soon, thereafter, her appointment as the National Security Advisor, a post that does not require Senate confirmation, became public. Signal mil gaya...||https://www.tribuneindia.com/news/musings/lost-for-signal-in-big-apple-276075
