01-04-2021||India||Protests over Modi visit an excuse. Hefazat-e-Islam’s real aim to radicalise Bangladesh: Officials||The violent protests in Bangladesh over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit last week was the first major action by Islamist hardline group Hefazat-e-Islam after Junaid Babu Nagari took over the radical group in November last year and had been trying to make his mark, people familiar with the matter said. Babu Nagari, a Hadith scholar who studied in Pakistan’s Jamia Uloom-e-Islamia for four years, elevated himself as the group’s chief at the end of a bitter power struggle that peaked after the death of its amir Shah Ahmed Shafi in September last year.At least 13 people are confirmed to have died in the protests and scores are injured after security forces cracked down on demonstrators across Bangladesh over the past week. The protests had started on Friday from a prominent mosque in the capital city of Dhaka before spreading rapidly.Over the three days, supporters of Hefazat-e-Islam clashed with the police and later, pro-government protesters at multiple locations blocked highways, burnt vehicles and attacked a passenger train. Five people died on Friday, the day PM Modi landed in Dhaka, another six the following day and two more on Sunday during the nationwide general strike called by the group.The radical group has given a nationwide strike call on April 2 to protest the police crackdown in what, an Indian official said, was a continuing effort to radicalise Bangladeshi society by its potent mix of religion and power politics.To be sure, there were calls for protests against PM Modi’s trip well before he landed. The spread of violence, however, took the authorities by surprise.Indian officials who have been tracking activities of Hefazat-e-Islam, which translates as Protection of Islam and claims to be a non-political front, said the organisation first came to notice of the authorities for protesting the 2009 policy for equal inheritance rights to women. The organisation rose to prominence in 2013 when it sent students from its nationwide network of madrasas to Dhaka to counter the “Shahbagh movement” of students demanding the death penalty for all war criminals of 1971. The Hefazat-e-Islam placed a list of 13 demands including punishment for atheist bloggers and changes to textbooks.There, however, has been a marked difference after the change of guard in November. Unlike its founder Shah Ahmed Shafi who was often perceived to be soft on the ruling Awami League, Hefazat-e-Islam under Junaid Babu Nagari has the tacit support of the Khaleda Zia’s Bangladesh Nationalist Party and fundamentalist groups such as the Jamaat-e-Islami.For instance, the BNP did not formally extend support for the general strike called on Sunday but pointedly asserted that the call for the strike was logical.Diplomats in New Delhi and Dhaka suggest that the links between the Hefazat-e-Islam and the BNP could become more visible with Babu Nagari’s elevation as he seeks to turn the notorious group into a political force.Senior Bangladeshi journalist Mahfuz Anam seemed to agree. In a recent commentary, he said the real reason for the protests against PM Modi’s visit was to signal that Hefazat-e-Islam under its new leadership was not the same party that Shah Ahmed Shafi had led.Anam, the editor of Bangladesh’s largest English-language newspaper, The Daily Star, also blamed the Sheikh Hasina government for practising a policy of appeasement which, he said, had made the Hefazat-e-Islam stronger and more determined to challenge the fundamental character of the country.Indian officials said they had spotted efforts by Islamic fundamentalist forces to unite for further Islamisation of the society. The Hefazat, under its new leadership, is attempting to emerge as the leader of these fundamentalist groups.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/analysis/protests-over-modi-visit-an-excuse-hefazat-s-real-aim-to-radicalise-bangladesh-101617258298467.html
01-04-2021||Lucknow||Mohsin Khan: For now, it’s okay but it’s still a long way to go…||Born and brought up in Ayodhya, young actor Mohsin Khan feels it has been a tough journey from a background crowd to the main cast.“I was one of the faces in mob and was paid ₹300 for standing in the crowd. I remember as 17-year-old running to local PR office every day in search of some work as living condition back home was not as good. I knew this is the line I wish work in and earn for my family,” said the young actor. He recalls, “The first time I became part of the crowd was for ‘Aashram’ which shot in my hometown. I stood as a crowd for days that to for 24 hours but that’s how I knew my journey will start,” he said. Mohsin continued being the bystander for a number of projects. “After ‘Aashram’ I was again in the crowd for series like, ‘Cops’, ‘Cassette’ and ‘I984’ till the tables turned for me and I got to be in main cast for films ‘Mission Majnu’, ‘Satyamev Jayate-2’, ‘14-Phere’ and ‘Bhaukaal’ where I got a role to play that too with a name. So, finally I was in the main cast and was paid much better. And also, didn’t had to stand for the whole day in glaring sun.” Recently, Mohsin shot with some known names, “Shooting with John (Abraham) sir, Sharib (Hashmi) ji in the same frame, all of this was like a dream for me and how I wished someday to be where they are,” he said. The teenager thinks the reason for getting good work in a year or two was mainly due to multiple projects happening in the state. “UP has turned into a new shooting hub and the kind of projects that being shot here is the reason why local artistes like me are getting good work along with money. Besides, we don’t have to frequently run to Mumbai for work,” said the ‘Mere Sai’ and ‘Saavdhan India’ actor.Mohsin has managed to buy a home for his family and a two-wheeler for himself and feels happy to be finally getting credit on screen. “For now, it’s okay but it’s still a long way to go. And, I have to become a known face to get that sense of achievement.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/mohsin-khan-for-now-it-s-okay-but-it-s-still-a-long-way-to-go-101617301799309.html
01-04-2021||Noida||Noida teen ends life after getting scolded for playing online game||Noida: A 15-year-old boy allegedly took his own life by jumping from an under-construction building near his house after he was scolded by his parents for playing an online game on his mobile phone. Police said that the boy’s body was found on Thursday morning at the construction site in an area under the Phase 2 police jurisdiction. The body was sent for an autopsy, they said. “It seems that the boy had been scolded by his parents yesterday for constantly playing PubG on his phone,” said Harish Chander, deputy commissioner of police, zone 2. According to police, the parents, natives of UP’s Mahoba district, had apparently confiscated the class 7 student’s phone after which he had left the house in anger. “Our forensic team has also inspected the area and their findings are consistent with the boy’s jumping down from the third floor of the under-construction building. No suicide note was found at the spot,” said the DCP. Chander said that the family has not filed any complaint in the matter. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-teen-ends-life-after-getting-scolded-for-playing-online-game-101617301618498.html
01-04-2021||Noida||Phases 2, 4 of Delhi-Meerut Expressway open amid chaos and confusion||Ghaziabad: Roadblocks, jaywalking and traffic violations plagued phases 2 and 4 of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME), which were opened for the public on the first day on Thursday, a spot visit by an HT team revealed. The toll collection is yet to start at the six-lane dedicated access-controlled expressway till the rates finalised get the approval of the ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH). Many commuters, who had to take the left lane of the DME to go to Hapur, which falls on phase 3 of the expressway, took the wrong lane and inadvertently went towards Meerut expressway from Dasna. “The issue cropped up due to confusing signage. Many commuters drove straight thinking it was the way to Hapur but the lane took them towards Meerut expressway. Many returned to the DME by driving on the wrong side. There were also instances of wrong side driving on the Meerut expressway. Many vehicles were found speeding,” said Satendra Raghav, a resident of Govindpuram. According to officials, the speed limit for four-wheelers is 70kmph in Delhi while it is 100kmph in the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh. Several boulders were also spotted which were put up as road blockade at the DME’s interchange with the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) at Dasna. As a result, many commuters coming from Meerut and going towards EPE had to move down from the DME at Dasna and again take the EPE interchange at Dasna to continue their journey towards EPE. The interchange is designed to provide seamless connectivity between the two expressways at Dasna. The blockades, however, disrupted seamless traffic movement. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said the blockades were put up as toll collection is yet to start at the DME. Commuters without an entry at the DME toll booths would have faced issues while exiting the toll plazas at EPE. “The issue will be resolved as soon as the toll plazas become operational at DME. We are expecting the MoRTH to approve the toll rates, following which the NHAI will issue a notification. The process is expected to get clearance in a couple of days. We are also remove the current signage and install a new signage that will properly guide commuters travelling towards Hapur as well as Meerut,” said Mudit Garg, project director of the NHAI. He added that for overspeeding and wrong-side driving, he has spoken to the district administrations of Ghaziabad and Meerut. “The district will deploy its enforcement vehicles and details of erring vehicles detected by the automatic number plate reader (ANPR) will be sent to them for issuing challans. We have about 200 cameras installed in phases 1, 2 and 4 and 144 of these are functioning as ANPRs,” added Garg. Jaywalking was spotted at two places in Vijay Nagar. There is no foot overbridge here and an underpass constructed here is hardly used by locals. “The project for putting up additional fencing of 1.5km on each side will be completed soon to stop instances of jaywalking. We did not construct a foot overbridge as the area has high-tension electricity cables passing across the DME at Vijay Nagar. We are monitoring vehicular movement and all issues which crop up will be resolved once more people start using the DME,” said Garg. While the 19.2 kilometre-phase 2 connects the UP Gate to Dasna, the phase 4 of the DME, spanning for about 32 kilometres, connects Dasna to Meerut. The expressway will help bring down the travel time from Delhi to Meeut to about 50 minutes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/phases-2-4-of-delhi-meerut-expressway-open-amid-chaos-and-confusion-101617301558462.html
01-04-2021||Noida||Gzb admin draws ‘traffic management plan’ for Kaushambi||Ghaziabad: Days after the Supreme Court sought a ”comprehensive traffic management plan” for Kaushambi in connection with a petition, the Ghaziabad district administration prepared a draft plan on Thursday and sought a similar plan from the officials of Delhi-NCR. In its order on March 24, the apex court directed the officials of both the states to take up an “unified approach” for resolving the issues. The Kaushambi and Karwa resident welfare associations had filed a petition, seeking relief from the pollution across the region. About 20,000 residents dwell in Kaushambi high-rises, which is near Delhi’s Anand Vihar border, Anand Vihar ISBT, Kaushambi ISBT, and Sahibabad site IV industrial area. Kaushambi sees regular traffic jams, through the high-rises, besides encroachment, roadside parking of vehicles, and the operation of autos, buses and other vehicles without any designated parking space.Taking up the issue of traffic jam, the SC had directed the officials to prepare a traffic plan within three weeks, and form a committee comprising nine officers with the Ghaziabad district magistrate as the nodal officer. “We have chalked out the removal of encroachment, freeing up roadside parking and regulating the movement of vehicles in our draft plan, along with proposing parking facilities. We also held a virtual meeting with the officers and residents of Delhi-NCR. Our draft plan is complete, and the officials concerned, Delhi, said that they will prepare a similar plan soon. Both the plans will be combined once they are finalised. A meeting with the officials of Delhi is scheduled on April 6,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Under the plan, Ghaziabad officials have suggested parking of autos near Saur Ujra Marg and they will not be allowed to park outside Kaushambi ISBT. They have also suggested to regulate permits for autos/e-rickshaws and also suggested a multi-level parking at Kaushambi metro station to decongest Kaushambi roads from roadside parking. It has also suggested that all the UP Roadways buses operating from Kaushambi will use the Saur Urja Marg (through Sahibabad Site IV Industrial Area) for movement as they obstruct traffic coming to Ghaziabad from Delhi border. The plan has also suggested that private city buses operating from outside Kaushambi should operate from any other place and if need be, their permits can also be cancelled. “We have also suggested some infrastructure improvement on roads and also at borders with Delhi. This will help improve movement of traffic,” Pandey added. VK Mittal, president of Karwa said that he is yet to receive the draft plan through official channel. “We are waiting for the Ghaziabad district magistrate to submit the plan before the court. Once we receive the plan through official channel, we will submit our representation before the court. We do not wish to comment till the time plan gets submitted before the court,” he added. Karwa filed several petitions before the National Green Tribunal since 2015 and finally approached the Supreme Court in October 2020 for resolution of pollution issues. The committee directed by the court comprise the Ghaziabad’s district magistrate and police chief, Ghaziabad development authority chairperson, commissioners from the city’s municipality, the East Delhi municipal corporation and the commissioner of Meerut division, chairperson of the UP state road transport corporation, a nominee of the Delhi Police commissioner, and the Delhi government transport secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gzb-admin-draws-traffic-management-plan-for-kaushambi-101617301318491.html
01-04-2021||Noida||Two injured in scuffle over rent payment in Noida market, three detained||Noida: Two shopkeepers were injured on Wednesday evening in a scuffle over payment of rent at a market in Sector 12, police said. Three people were detained by police on Thursday in connection with the case.The injured were identified as Sanjay Kumar and Vishnu, shopkeepers renting grocery stores at Shiv Om market.A senior police official said that the issue has been going on for about seven years and the matter is in court. “A few years ago, the shopkeepers came to know that the market was constructed illegally, following which the tenants are paying the rent directly to the government authorities. Of late, the landlord started asking for the rent,” said the official.A scuffle had also broken out in the area on March 22 and a total of 23 people had been detained by police for disrupting public order as a preventive measure, the official said, seeking anonymity.“The matter escalated and there was a fight yesterday evening in which two of the shopkeepers sustained injuries. They alleged that they were assaulted for money by the landlord and his accomplices,” said Rajneesh Verma, assistant commissioner of police, zone 1.After the incident, a case was registered against five named suspects under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 24 police station. In the complaint, the shopkeepers alleged that they were attacked despite telling the men asking for rent that the matter is sub judice.Police detained three of the suspects for questioning while efforts are on to nab the others involved in the violence, Verma said, adding that a probe in the matter is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-injured-in-scuffle-over-rent-payment-in-noida-market-three-detained-101617301259287.html
01-04-2021||Noida||Noida to add features to city parks to attract visitors||NOIDA: Hoping to increase footfall, the Noida authority said Thursday it will develop additional features in parks across the city.Officials said the authority held a meeting Tuesday during which measures for the new fiscal to improve footfall in parks and gardens maintained by the authority were discussed. Features such as floor chess, canopy-covered walkways, designer benches, cave concepts, grass steps, slopes and other interesting designs within the gardens and parks are on the cards, said officials. “The details of facilities to be added in parks were discussed (during the meeting). City parks will witness a makeover beginning April,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer (CEO) of the Noida authority.The authority maintains a total of 730 parks across Noida. Fifty-seven of them are 5 acres or more in size. According to Maheshwari, two more parks – located in sectors 77 and 117 – will be opened to the public within the next few days.Residents welcomed the move. Amita Singh, who lives in Amrapali Silicon City in Sector 76, said: “We regularly visit the Meghdutam Park. Children enjoy their time at this park as it has good landscaping, huts, an amphitheatre and other facilities. If the authority is planning to add more such facilities in all city parks, it is a good idea as it will certainly help children, elders and other sections of the society”Moreover, the Shilphaat and Shivalik parks will soon be decked up to welcome small children, said officials. Rides and swings will be put up in these parks. Besides, on the lines of neighbouring Delhi, a waste-to-wonder park is being developed in Sector 114 where replicas of popular monuments made from recycled waste will be installedAdditionally, large pots will be put up along the Noida – Greater Noida Expressway. At present 300 pots are already placed along the expressway and other locations. This number will be increased to 2,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-to-add-features-to-city-parks-to-attract-visitors-101617301203350.html
01-04-2021||Noida||Greater Noida authority hikes water tariff by 10%||GREATER NOIDA: The Greater Noida authority on Thursday increased the water supply charges by 10% for about 80,000 consumers in the city, said officials. The new rates will be effective from April 1 for all categories, including residential and industrial, the officials said.“The hike is nominal. The new tariff will be effective for the financial year 2021-22. As per the rules, the authority increases 10% on water bills annually,” said Deep Chand, additional chief executive officer, Greater Noida authority.The authority charges for water supply as per the plot sizes on a monthly basis. As per the new tariff, a consumer owning a house on a plot of 60 square metres (sqm) will now have to pay ₹129.80 monthly, which is an increase of ₹12. Similarly, the owner of a plot size of 61 to 120 sqm will have to pay ₹214.50 monthly, against the earlier rate of ₹195. The owner of a plot size of 121 to 200 sqm need to pay ₹387.20 monthly. The authority will charge ₹642 monthly from an owner having a plot size of 201 to 350 sqm, ₹856 for 351 to 500 sqm, ₹1,287 for 501 to 1,000 sqm, and ₹1,501.50 for 1,001 to 1,100 sqm.As of now, the authority procures groundwater through tube wells to meet the water demand of the city. It supplies 210 million litres water per day to the residents. The authority will start supplying Ganga water to households by April 30 this year, the officials said. It is about to finish work on the Ganga water supply project that aims to deliver drinking water to all the households across the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-authority-hikes-water-tariff-by-10-101617301202012.html
01-04-2021||Noida||Summer migrants arrive at Okhla sanctuary||Noida: The Okhla Bird Sanctuary has started welcoming its summer passage migrants with some rare and stunning birds making a pit stop for a few days before flying further north. With a flock of rosy starlings among other winged delights like Asian paradise flycatcher, Eurasian golden oriole, common rosefinch, and common starling perching in the city’s only eco-sensitive zone, birders and foresters have rushed to spot them.Forest officials and birders said that the summer migrant birds arrive here between late March and early April, and while some stay here, most fly further towards north-west or towards the lower heights of Himalayas to breed. These birds may make a pit stop again during their return journey in August and September, they said.With the flock of starling here, the birders also expect to sight “murmuration” or “dance of starling” in which a large group of starlings fly together around sunset like a swarm with their twists, turns and swirls in the sky replicating shape shifting clouds. “It’s a beautiful sight, and whether a birder or not, one must go to explore them before they leave. There are some of the very beautiful phenomenon like murmuration, for which the Okhla sanctuary might not be the best place but it has been spotted earlier near India Gate,” said Prasanna Gautam, a Ghaziabad-based birder who spotted flock of starlings perching at the Okhla park earlier this week.According to the birders, though the birds fly north, some, in rare spotting, stay behind to breed. “Most of these birds are local summer migrants and most of them fly from south and move towards northern region. However, we have spotted nesting of golden oriole and paradise flycatchers at the Okhla sanctuary earlier. In 2006, there were four nesting of flycatchers in the sanctuary at the same area which was later used to make memorials,” said Anand Arya, a Noida-based birder.According to the forest department, a small flock of over hundred rosy starlings is being spotted at the sanctuary.“It’s the right time to visit the sanctuary as the summer migrants have started to arrive here. Rosy starlings are among the listed passage migrants which have arrived in numbers. They often come here to roost and feed from different parts of the country, including Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. The birds stay here for some days before they fly,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/summer-migrants-arrive-at-okhla-sanctuary-101617301201300.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal unhappy with Yamuna project progress, seeks fresh plan from DJB||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday expressed dissatisfaction with the progress of the city government’s project to clean the Yamuna and directed officials of the Delhi Jal Board (DJB) to prepare a revised project plan with specific goals and deadlines by next week.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal directed the officials to ensure that no untreated wastewater flows into the river. The DJB officials presented a detailed plan to clean four major drains (which flow into the Yamuna) and the CM expressed concerns and unhappiness over the delay in timelines of each sewage treatment plant (STP) project. He instructed the officials to have a detailed plan ready by next week, and every project will be scrutinised as per the revised time frames,” said a statement issued by the chief minister’s office (CMO).Cleaning the Yamuna has been a promise in the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) manifesto for the 2015 assembly polls as well as the 2020 assembly polls. The party won both elections by a huge majority. Last month, on completion of the AAP government’s first year of the second term, Kejriwal said the Delhi government has plans to clean the Yamuna within three years.After Thursday’s review meeting, Kejriwal said, “The Clean Yamuna project is one of the most ambitious projects of the Delhi government. We must ensure that there is no laxity at any phase of the project. We should work towards expediting the Yamuna cleaning process, and every sub-project should be completed within the stipulated time frame.”The statement issued by his office further said, “The DJB officials apprised the CM that various low-cost technological interventions are being done to expedite the work before scheduled deadlines… CM Kejriwal also reviewed the flagship project of septic tank cleaning in unauthorised colonies of Delhi. The project is expected to be completed within the next few months.”“Of the four drains, the work on interception of two major drains -- supplementary drain and Shahdara drain -- is almost complete. The untreated water from the supplementary drain will be completely tapped and treated by December 2021. The untreated water from the Shahdara drain will be completely tapped in the next few months. The remaining two major drains -- Najafgarh and Barapulla -- will be completed within the stipulated time frame,” the CMO statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-unhappy-with-yamuna-project-progress-seeks-fresh-plan-from-djb-101617301199059.html
01-04-2021||Other||To improve cleanliness rank, QR codes outside public toilets in East Delhi||In an effort to improve its ranking in the Swachh Survekshan 2021, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has started a QR code-based system to receive feedback on the condition of public toilets in its jurisdiction. The civic body has also taken the digital route to issue birth and death certificates to citizens.The east body ranked 46 out of 47 cities in the Central government’s cleanliness survey of cities with population of more than 10 lakh people. As part of the new feedback system, EDMC on Thursday said QR codes will be pasted outside public toilets, community toilets and dhalaos in its jurisdiction.EDMC mayor Nirmal Jain said that citizens will be able to register their feedback about the facilities, maintenance, cleaning system available in toilets through the QR code system.“QR codes will be placed on all public and community toilets and dhalaos of the area. People can scan the QR code and share their feedback about the availability of electricity, water and soap, cleanliness of toilet premises and toilet seat while using the facility. Concerned officials will act swiftly if any issue arises,” Jain said.Meanwhile, the civic body has moved the issuing of birth and death certificates to citizens.“Keeping in the mind the convenience of the local residents, the EDMC has taken an important initiative to simplify its civic services and start birth and death registration completely online. With this facility, the birth and death registrations are now simple and the citizen does not have to deposit any fee. Citizens will no longer have to go to the Citizen Service Bureau and stand in queue for the same,” said EDMC commissioner Vikas Anand.Officials said that in order to register, people have to fill in an online form on mcdonline.nic.in and upload the required documents. After the certificate is approval, the information will also be sent to the applicant on their mobile number. Further, Anand said applicants can also enter the name of a child in the birth certificate which will attract a fee of ₹10 online.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-improve-cleanliness-rank-qr-codes-outside-public-toilets-in-east-delhi-101617301142255.html
01-04-2021||Other||L-G for safe disposal of e-waste in city||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Thursday directed officials to develop a system of incentives and disincentives to encourage the safe disposal of e-waste and ensure effective enforcement of Extended Producers Responsibility (EPR) for better management of e-waste in the city, said officials in the know. The L-G also stressed the need to include traditional waste collectors (kabadiwalas) into the formal system for better collection and segregation of e-waste. Baijal issued the instructions in a meeting on e-waste management in Delhi on Thursday.“Chaired meeting on E-Waste Management in Delhi with Chief Secretary, Commissioners of DMCs and other senior officers including Director, IIITD,” Baijal tweeted after the meeting.The L-G also called for developing e-waste parks in a time-bound manner for better management.“With a view to promote organised segregation, dismantling and recycling of e-waste currently being generated in Delhi/ NCR area, stressed upon formulation of a time bound action plan for establishing integrated and economically viable e-waste park(s) in collaboration with industry stakeholders,” said Baijal. The L-G said he has also advised the officers to work in close coordination with the Central Pollution Control Board, the ministry of environment, forests & climate change and ministry of electronics and information technology to ensure effective implementation of the plan in a time-bound manner. Senior officials in the three civic bodies (north, south and east) said so far, there is no government mechanism for e-waste disposal and management in the city and the national capital has been struggling to handle e-waste. A study conducted by environment NGO Toxics Link in 2019 found at least 15 e-waste processing hot spots in the city that were operating without any health or environmental safeguards. Officials said according to a UN report, India is the third-largest producer of e-waste in the world. They admitted government agencies don’t have the exact data about the quantity of e-waste in Delhi and NCR.“We don’t even have the information about the quantum of e-waste being generated in the city. So first, we have to get that and then develop a framework for e-waste disposal and management. In the meeting, directions were also issued to develop an oversight mechanism to ensure compliance with e-waste management rules and form a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for better coordination among all the stakeholders,” said a senior municipal official requesting anonymity.Officials privy to the development said that in the meeting, it was stressed that the Delhi government will have to take care of the enforcement part of the mechanism and develop an e-waste park while civic bodies will have to ensure colle ction and segregation of e-waste (mainly electric appliances and e-vehicle batteries) in a better way.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lg-for-safe-disposal-of-e-waste-in-city-101617301139594.html
01-04-2021||Gurugram||Over 11,000 vaccinated in Gurugram||Over 11,000 people took the Covid-19 vaccine on Thursday, the day it was made eligible for all above 45 years of age. Over the last few days, the footfall at vaccination centres, especially private ones, had been low. The unexpected high footfall meant that many hospitals utilised all their stock of alloted vaccines within a few hours of opening their vaccination drive at 9am. Official data read that nearly 76.6% (8,480) people turned for their vaccination at multiple government facilities across the district, while private hospitals too confirmed a slight increase in the footfall compared to the last few days at 2,590. “Since vaccination is now open for everyone above 45 years of age, the data of 11,000 people has not been divided into those above 60 or aged between 45 and 59 as done earlier. The overall footfall was high in the 198 vaccination centres. It is likely to increase further as vaccination will now be held on all days,” said Dr Virender Yadav, Gurugram chief medical officer. At least 452 healthcare workers and 749 frontline workers also took the jab on Thursday. Jitender Yadav, a cab driver, who arrived at the Wazirabad urban primary health centre (UPHC) said, “After hearing in the news that no medical certificate is required to get vaccinated, I decided to get the shot. I simply showed by ID proof, waiting for a few minutes until registration was done and thereafter got vaccinated.” Dr Anjul Rao, medical officer at the UPHC, said, “The footfall has been high compared to last few days. Until noon, out of 58 people who got inoculated, nearly 43 were above the age of 45. In other centres too the turnout was good.” Likewise, various sub-centres under Chanderlok UPHC, which included condominiums like Ridgewood Estate, Central Park, Magnolia and Beverley Park, at least 343 people were vaccinated till 1:30pm. Dr Dipanshu, medical officer of the facility said, “Each site was given 150 doses. Even nearby private hospitals coordinated with us for vaccines. Since some were running were short, we immediately provided them with more than 500 doses.” The restocking forced a slight delay. Baljeet, who came along with his parents to get vaccinated at Chanderlok UPHC, said, “We waited for almost 30 minutes and got vaccinated once the fresh doses arrived.” In private hospitals, there was an improved turnout saw an improvement. “Until last week, only 80 people were being vaccinated in a day. But on Thursday it was almost 150. The numbers will increase as we are ready to cover a large group of working population by holding camps in offices,” said Arpita Mukherjee, vice president, operations, Max Hospital. Affirming it, representatives from Fortis, Narayana and Medanta hospitals said that pre-registration for Friday has crossed 500. According to CMO Yadav, in the last three days the cumulative target has been to cover 40,000 people. But they managed to exceed the target by administering doses to 41,595 people. Till now, over 1,38, 493 people in priortised age group and about 30, 317 healthcare and frontline workers have been inoculated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-11-000-vaccinated-in-gurugram-101617301078458.html
01-04-2021||Other||Rape law needs to be amended over false promise of marriage’: Orissa High Court||Orissa High Court has observed that there is a need to amend the law defining rape on the pretext of a false promise of marriage. The court observed this while rejecting the bail application of a man accused of rape.HC judge SK Panigrahi ruled that rape laws should not be used to regulate intimate relationships, especially in cases where women are entering a relationship by choice. The law on this matter lacks clarity for the conviction of the accused, the court said.Police had booked the accused last year under sections 376(1), 313, 294 and 506 of the Indian Penal Code and sections 66(E) and 67(A) of the Information Technology (Amendment) Act, 2008 on charges of raping a girl. The girl had alleged that the accused kept a physical relationship with her and promised to marry her. Due to their physical relationship, the girl got pregnant twice and alleged that the man got both her pregnancies aborted by giving her some medicines.In January last year, when the girl asked the man to marry her, he refused. In April, he allegedly posted their private photographs online using fake Facebook IDs created in her name. The man allegedly threatened to kill the girl and also said he would make her photographs go viral on Facebook, she alleged.Though justice Panigrahi rejected the accused’s bail petition, he observed that rape laws should not be used to regulate intimate relationships, especially in cases where women have agency and are entering a relationship by choice.“The law is well settled that consent obtained on a false promise to marry is not valid. Since the framers of the law have specifically provided the circumstances when ‘consent’ amounts to ‘no consent’ in terms of Section 375 of IPC, consent for the sexual act on the pretext of marriage is not one of the circumstances mentioned under Section 375 of IPC. Hence, the automatic extension of provisions of Section 90 of IPC to determine the effect of consent under Section 375 of IPC deserves a serious relook. The law holding that false promise to marriage amounts to rape appears to be erroneous,” justice Panigrahy said.He further said the judiciary has dealt with this clamour with the use of concepts such as “misconception of facts under Section 90 of IPC” and “intention of accused from the beginning” to provide justice to the parties. However, a certain viewpoint has not been reached and remains under the shroud of confusion.The court, however, said that many of the complaints come from socially disadvantaged and poor segments of the society and rural areas. Women from these sections are often lured into sex by men on false promises of marriage and then dumped as soon as they get pregnant. “The rape law often fails to capture their plight,” the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rape-law-needs-to-be-amended-over-false-promise-of-marriage-orissa-high-court-101617301022541.html
01-04-2021||Gurugram||Covid active case count crosses 2000, vaccine to be administered on all days||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Gurugram passed the grim mark of 2000 active cases once again to read 2,148 on Thursday, according to the state health bulletin. The last time it was so high was on December 14, 2020.To control the uptick, the district health department said Covid-19 vaccination camps will now be held everyday at government and private facilities throughout April following the union ministry of health and family welfare’s guidelines. The vaccinations will be held between 9am and 5pm.The rising active cases is in keeping with the trend of rising caseloads across the country. Currently, Gurugram is among the 46 districts reporting sharp surge in cases.The city had only 36 new cases and a total tally of 59,029 on March 1; but on April 1 there were 381 fresh cases and a total infection count of 63,394. One more death was reported from the city that took the toll count to 365.The positivity rate, the number of positive cases among 100 tests, too increased to 7.9% on Thursday. In the last seven days, the average rate was 5.9%. According to the World Health Organization, a positivity rate of 5% or below for two straight weeks signalled that the infection was under control in the region. Gurugram health department officials said they were conducting around 5000 tests a day.“As per the central government’s revised guidelines issued on Thursday, Covid-19 doses will be administered on all days, including gazette holidays in April. The decision has been taken to increase the pace and coverage of overall vaccination in order to control the spread of coronavirus infection,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer.Earlier this week, taking cognizance of surge in Covid-19 cases the union ministry of health and family welfare directed districts with high case load and fast growth of cases to ensure 100% vaccination of the prioritized population group who were at least 45 years old.Till now, doses were administered in government hospitals four times a week – Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday - at various urban primary health centres and sub-centres under it. Private hospitals committed to vaccinations from Monday to Saturday. In the last few days, the vaccination footfall remained low in private facilities compared to government set ups.“Vaccination will be scaled up, with everyday inoculation of people above 45 years of age. It will be held throughout the month since vaccination will act as a shield in controlling the spike. It will be held in more than 100 sites every day to expand the coverage,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.According to him, testing has been increased to almost 5504 on Thursday. In various urban primary health centres queues were seen at testing booths. Also, teams have been doing home visits to collect samples from people returning from United Kingdom to trace cases of new Sars-CoV-2 variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-active-case-count-crosses-2000-vaccine-to-be-administered-on-all-days-101617301019098.html
01-04-2021||Gurugram||80 get vaccine on first day of camp in offices||A day after the Gurugram health department allowed companies to tie up with private hospitals to vaccinate their staff against Covid-19, 80 people were vaccinated at a camp in sector 37.The camp was held at Industrial Development Association (IDA), the first time it was held outside a government or private health care facility, and the beneficiaries were at least 45 years of age. Representatives of some of the major private hospitals said many multinational and industrial and corporate offices had approached them to vaccinate their staff and more camps are likely to be held from Friday.“The response was good,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, head and director of the internal medicine department at Medanta Hospital, which conducted the camp at IDA. “Since it was the first day, a few registrations were delayed. From Friday onwards, the hospital will be setting up camps in at least one office every day and on April 5, centres will be set up in at least three offices. The schedule has been fixed till April 15 based on the requests from different corporates, especially in banking, telecom, oil and gas, and retail.”“Corporates approached the hospital even before getting the go ahead for vaccination in offices. We were already administering doses to employees of various companies in our hospital during specific slot from noon till 3pm, especially during the lunch hours. But now, we will be catering to larger section of employees in different offices for longer,” said Dr Vritti Lumba, medical superintendent, Fortis Memorial Research Institute. Lumba said they were in the process of finalising plans to set up camps in more companies. “All Covid-19 vaccination protocols will be followed to set up camp in offices to maintain social distancing,” said Lumba, without disclosing names of the companies. Other big private hospital of the city, Max super specialty hospital has also been coordinating with companies like Powergrid, Indian Oil, ICICI bank, Panasonic India, Maruti Suzuki, Eicher and Quattro. “At least 10 companies have approached us till now. Many of them were interested in sharing the names of all their employees for pre-registration, which will help in streamlining the vaccination process at the site. From Friday onwards, we will be starting with single camp in one of the offices. Since, Gurugram is hub of corporate offices, this move will help in expediting vaccination,” said Arpita Mukherjee, vice president, operations, Max hospital. Narayana Hospital, on the other hand, will hold the vaccination in a corporate from April 5 onwards. Dr Swadesh Kumar, consultant and head of emergency, Narayana Hospital, said, “On April 5, the hospital will be setting up a camp in one of the corporates near to the hospital. Based on the response, more vaccination centres will be set up simultaneously in other offices too.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/80-get-vaccine-on-first-day-of-camp-in-offices-101617301018415.html
01-04-2021||Other||Units employing migrant workers to get grants||Lucknow The UP government had decided to provide financial assistance to industries offering jobs to migrant workers who returned to the state amid the pandemic, said a state government statement on Thursday. The plan has been formulated with the objective to provide economic and social security to the migrants and relief and support to the industries which have offered job opportunities to migrant workers in their respective residential areas. Under this, the government will provide monetary aid of ₹1000 to ₹2000 per month per labourer. In this sequence, the MSME department had sent a proposed plan of ₹629 crore to the finance department, said the statement. The plan is being prepared on the lines of the handloom industry. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has issued directives to provide financial assistance in order to support all the industries that have been providing job opportunities to the migrant workers in the state, similar to the handloom industries where a grant of ₹1000 to ₹2000 per month is given per labourer. This will in turn generate ample job opportunities at the local level for all the migrant labourers. Under this scheme, all the migrant workers who had registered themselves on the migrants’ employment portal of the state government would also be linked to schemes like Vishwakarma Shram Samman Yojana and Mukhyamantri Pravasi Rozgar Yojana, said the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/units-employing-migrant-workers-to-get-grants-101617300958458.html
01-04-2021||Gurugram||MCG takes another shot at making Sadar Bazar pedestrian-friendly||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) on Thursday launched a second trial in an effort to pedestrianise Sadar Bazar. This time, the trial will last till April 15.The trial will continue to see a ban on four-wheelers inside the market and parking only at designated spots for shopkeepers. The MCG had installed streetlights, benches and placed plants across the market to invite walkers and dissuade motorists. Goods vehicles would continue to be allowed entry only till noon every day.Acceding to the demands from shopkeepers, the MCG has allowed them to bring their vehicles inside the market but not to park there. Two-wheeler customers will continue to be allowed in.The first such trial between March 20 and 27 had failed on the back of protests from shopkeepers who claimed they had not been consulted.On Thursday, MCG joint commissioner Jitender Garg met them at his office in Civil Lines.“Shopkeepers and various association members of the market were informed that the MCG has decided to extend the trial for another 15 days. They have been cautioned that this time around, sterner action will be taken against them for any violation or disorder,” said Garg.On March 20, the first day of the previous trial, shopkeepers surrounded all entry and exit points of the market and closed their shops in protest. They had demanded then too that two-wheelers be allowed, which the MCG had acceded.“We will be extending our support to the MCG for this trial. There were some grievances on our part which they have addressed and there some on their end as well that we have agreed to comply with. All shopkeepers have been informed about the MCG’s direction,” said Bablu Gupta, president Sadar Bazar traders association. “Today, we impounded vehicles found carrying goods into the market after 12 pm. We also removed a sizeable number of illegal banners and hoardings from the market. We are hoping that a sterner approach will pave the way for making the market a vehicle-free zone,” said Garg. He claimed the MCG had the support of 70% of shopkeepers.Garg said the number of designated parking areas for shopkeepers had been increased from five to seven and that the civic body was collaborating with around 100 civic defence volunteers who will be placed at all entry and exit points to keep vehicles off.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-takes-another-shot-at-making-sadar-bazar-pedestrianfriendly-101617300959095.html
01-04-2021||Other||MCF to focus on segregation of waste at source||htreporters@hindustantimes.com Gurugram: The municipal corporation of Faridabad (MCF) on Thursday started a project as part of which civic officials will conduct surprise inspections to ensure the practice of waste segregation at source is being followed. A fine of upto ₹500 will be slapped on those found defaulting source-based segregation.Inderjit Kularia, additional municipal commissioner of MCF, said, “Waste segregation at source has been a norm for quite some time now. We tried implementing it last year also, but now, we will specially focus on enforcement to check waste is actually segregated at source.” “Our teams will be conducting surprise inspections to check the ground reality and those who discard waste without segregating it will be fined anything between ₹250- ₹500, depending on the quantity of waste and other parameters (to be decided),” said Kularia. The officials are also working on making separate compartments in the garbage collection vehicles for easier segregation. Sanjeev Sharma, official spokesperson from EcoGreen, MCF’s concessionaire for waste management, said they have been spreading awareness about source-based segregation of dry and wet waste for almost two years now through various platforms. Currently, the waste collected from Faridabad and Gurugram is dumped at Bandhwari land, where legacy waste is being treated. Authorities are working on finding a new dumping site for the waste generated in Faridabad. Kularia said till the corporation finds a new dumping site, the waste will continue to be dumped at Bandhwari landfill itself. In March last year, a proposal to create a 30-acre dumping yard in Faridabad’s Pali Mohbtabad village to divert waste away from Bandhwari landfill was scrapped by the municipal corporations of Gurugram and Faridabad, as the site in question is a ‘forest’ land notified under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA), 1900. A second proposal to divert waste from the landfill to a site in Farrukhnagar was shelved after a stay order was imposed by a local court in December last year in response to a civil suit filed by a resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mcf-to-focus-on-segregation-of-waste-at-source-101617300899605.html
01-04-2021||Lucknow||22 Gomti tributaries have almost dried up, no flow left in four: Expert’s report||Twenty-two of the Gomti river’s 26 tributaries have almost dried up and there is no flow left in the remaining four, says a report by an expert, Venkatesh Dutta who is professor of environmental science at Babasaheb Bhimrao Ambedkar University, Lucknow.The report, published in the Indian Journal of Ecology, also says the Gomti’s flow is in “danger”. The river passing through 14 districts of Uttar Pradesh has reached this condition due to excessive use of ground water and less recharge of the underground water table, according to the report. The Gomti originates in Pilibhit district in western UP and merges with the Ganga near Ghazipur district in eastern Uttar Pradesh. According to Prof Dutta, underground water and Gomti are complementary to each other. “During the monsoon, the Gomti river basin recharges underground water table. While, before and after monsoon the underground water table helps the river maintain its flow,” Prof Dutta says. The report says that in Lucknow the Gomti gets 76% of the water from the underground water table, which is referred to as “base flow index”. “Underground water table has reached below the riverbed of the Gomti. Now, the problem is that the river is not able to get water from underground water sources,” Prof Dutta explains. This has led to a reduction in the river’s flow by around 60%, says Prof Dutta. Underground water table is important for the river’s flow, he adds. “The diaphragm wall of the Gomti riverfront in Lucknow has also damaged river’s ecosystem,” points out Dutta. For the revival of Gomti and its tributaries, Prof Dutta says: “There are around 2,000 water bodies in the Gomti river basin expanding from Pilibhit to Ghazipur before it merges in Ganga. All these water bodies must be revived.” He has also suggested a check on cultivation of Satha dhan, a variant of paddy, which “consumes too much underground water”. He has advocated complete stoppage of the discharge of industrial waste into the Gomti in Sitapur, Gola Gokaran Nath and in the upstream areas of the river. In order to prevent encroachment on the banks of the Gomti, he has proposed complete mapping of the river by the land revenue department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/22-gomti-tributaries-have-almost-dried-up-no-flow-left-in-four-expert-s-report-101617300898939.html
01-04-2021||Gurugram||Violations in construction, case filed against builder, plot owners||The department of town and country planning (DTCP) on Thursday complained against the owners of five plots in Palam Vihar, an architect and a builder for constructing multiple apartments in violation of building plan and rules, following which a case was registered by the police. Earlier on Wednesday, officials said that they had sealed eight units built on these plots and one under-construction property located in Palam Vihar.Four of the finished properties sealed by the department are located in C2 block of Palam Vihar and Occupation Certificates had already been issued to the property owners. “We have got a case registered against the owners of the plots, the architect and the contractor involved in construction of these properties in complete violation of rules. All sanctions granted to these properties, like the building plan and occupation certificate, have been revoked,” said R S Bhath, district town planner .A case was registered against the violators under section 10 of Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, said DTCP officials. DTCP officials said that they had received a complaint regarding construction of multiple flats on a single floor at a number of plots in Palam Vihar and an inspection was conducted on the directions of DTCP director Makrand Pandurang. Following the inspection by a team led by Bhath, who leads the enforcement department, eight residential units in four plots and an under-construction property in which violations were found were sealed.As per DTCP rules, development, sale and registration of more than one flat per floor is illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/violations-in-construction-case-filed-against-builder-plot-owners-101617300898402.html
01-04-2021||Gurugram||In Gurugram, underground bins with tracking system to segregate waste||For the first time in Haryana, GPS-enabled underground waste bins have been built at Gurugram’s Rajiv Chowk and opposite the PWD rest house at Civil Lines.There are two stainless steel bins at each location -- one for dry and the other for wet waste. They are nine feet in height, of which six feet is underground, and is three feet wide. Each bin has a storage capacity of 1.1 cubic meters. The GPS will help people find the trash bin, and a sensor in it will tell the civic body how much trash the bin carried.Similar systems are in place in Mumbai, Ghaziabad, Dharamsala and Surat.The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) built the system at a cost of around ₹3.5 lakh for each bin and will launch it next week.Ecogreen, the MCG concessionaire for door-to-door waste collection, was tasked with setting up the bins at various points across the city and will be responsible for managing it.“The biggest advantage of an underground bin is that it reduces stench considerably and also prevents animals from accessing it. The land near the bins has to be cleaned, and its perimeter fenced. Along with pasting awareness messages near the facility, the remaining work will take a few days to complete,” said Sanjeev Sharma, official spokesperson, Ecogreen.Ecogreen officials said the bin could be vacuum cleaned through an outlet. They said that they are exploring the possibility of introducing software that will send an alert on the mobile of their staff when the garbage level was above 70%.MCG officials said that the two facilities are being launched on a trial basis while they are also contemplating opening this facility at four more locations in the city within the next three months.“Any facility that is convenient or provides a solution to problems is always supported by the MCG. We initiate trials to check if they are making a difference on-ground and for identifying possible solutions or changes to make it even better. Depending on the success of the underground bins, we will target to introduce them in each of the four MCG zones and eventually ensure all municipal wards and residential sectors are covered across the city,” said Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/in-gurugram-underground-bins-with-tracking-system-to-segregate-waste-101617300838464.html
01-04-2021||Other||Man gets death sentence for minor’s rape||Agra The special court for POCSO cases on Thursday awarded death sentence to an accused who allegedly raped a 10-year old girl. The rape was committed on December 14 and death sentence was given within four months, setting an example. “The incident occurred in rural area of Firozabad under Jasrana police station. The accused raped a 10-year-old minor girl and was arrested by Jasrana police within 48 hours of the crime,” informed Ajay Kumar, senior superintendent of police, Firozabad. “Police took it as a challenge and all efforts were made for speedy disposal of the rape case. The investigating officer submitted charge sheet in court within a month and scientific evidence was produced, including matching of DNA,” said the SSP. “As an outcome, the case was decided in record time before lapse of 4 months from date of crime and accused Neeraj got death sentence,” the SSP said . “This speedy disposal of the case will act as a deterrent for criminals and would revive confidence of the common man in the system,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-gets-death-sentence-for-minor-s-rape-101617300538371.html
01-04-2021||Lucknow||Former LU exam controller dies after testing positive for Covid-19||Former exam controller of Lucknow University (LU) Prof AK Sharma, 64, succumbed to complications caused by the Covid-19 infection here on Thursday. Sharma was admitted in the ICU of a private hospital since March 27, after testing positive forCovid-19.He had reportedly got his first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine on March 10 and was scheduled to take the second dose on April 8, according to his family and his social media post at the time of his inoculation. Sharma is survived by his wife and two daughters. A family member said he had mild fever on March 22.“On March 23, we took my father for a Covid-19 test to a government approved testing centre. But his Covid-19 test came negative. After a few days, when his condition worsened, we took him to another hospital where he tested positive on March 27. Doctors put him on a ventilator there from which he could not recover,” his elder daughter said.Doctors at the private hospital declined to comment on the matter.Lucknow University’s zoology department, where Prof Sharma taught for decades, and the university administration condoled his death. On Wednesday night, the university officials issued a press release, stating that seven of its staff had tested positive. The list also included retired professor AK Sharma’s name because he reportedly visited the campus last week. The LU administration has asked people who met Sharma on the campus to get tested for Covid-19.Popular among students, Sharma was known for his energetic demeanour and calm approach. Several of his former students wrote condolence messages for Sharma on various social media platforms, where he was very active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/former-lu-exam-controller-dies-after-testing-positive-for-covid19-101617300478531.html
01-04-2021||Other||SHO allegedly advises warring couple to chant Gayatri mantra, denies claim||A man has claimed through his lawyer that a police station house officer (SHO) advised him and his wife, who were embroiled in a dispute, to chant the Gayatri mantra early every morning to solve their problems instead of lodging an FIR. It was on the insistence of the station house officer of Nauchandi police station in Meerut that the couple wrote a compromise note with the assurance that they would indeed chant the Gayatri mantra, the 58-year-old man Hemant Goel claimed through his lawyer Ram Kumar Sharma. For his part, station house officer Premchand Sharma denied the allegation against him and said, “I have nothing to do what they wrote in their compromise note.” He also denied giving any written advice to chant the Gayatri mantra. The police officer said, “I sent him (Goel) for medical examination and also registered his FIR against his wife Savita (Kaushik) and her son Hemant (Sharma) under Sections 504, 506 and 427 of the IPC.” The SHO said that Savita had also given a complaint of domestic violence and mental torture against Goel. On the other hand, Goel’s lawyer Ram Kumar Sharma said they had no information about the case registered against Savita and her son (from another marriage) on the complaint of Goel. He claimed that instead of registering the FIR against Goel’s wife and her son, SHO Premchand Sharma gave Goel written advice in Hindi, which reads, “Samasya ka sampurn samadhan, 03 din, Shantikunj Hardwar me pravas kare, Maa Gayatri mantra ki deeksha le aur 108 manka ki maala ka Brahmuhurt mein jaap kare” (Solution to the problem, three days: Visit Shantikunj in Haridwar, take spiritual initiation in the Gayatri mantra and repeat it 108 times while counting beads at the auspicious time of Brahmuhurt).” Ram Kumar Sharma said he, along with Goel, met inspector general (IG), Meerut range, Praveen Kumar on Thursday and briefed him about the SHO’s conduct. “The IG spoke to the SSP and directed him to look into the issue and ensure registration of the case on the victim’s complaint,” the lawyer said. He claimed the SHO was lying to protect himself, otherwise why would have they gone to meet the IG to direct the SHO to register an FIR. Giving details of the matter, the lawyer said Hemant Goel, a resident of Shastri Nagar, was unmarried at the time when a woman in his neighbourhood introduced him to Savita Kaushik in February. Savita claimed that she had obtained divorce from her first husband. Soon, Goel and Savita got married. He later came to know that Savita had a 19-year-old-son Hemant Sharma from a previous marriage, the lawyer said. All was well for a few days but then Savita and her son started demanding money and often beat Goel when he refused to accept their demand, the lawyer alleged. Meanwhile, he gave them over ₹22 lakh. On March 19, they again demanded ₹2 lakh and assaulted him when he refused to give it, the lawyer alleged. Goel then visited the Nauchandi police station to lodge his complaint, but instead of registering the FIR, the SHO advised him to chant the Gayatri mantra to solve his problem, the lawyer said. He thrice visited the police station and eventually was advised to go for a compromise, which he signed along with Savita and her son, according to the lawyer. The lawyer claimed the same SHO was recently in the news for sprinkling Ganga jal (Ganga water) on visitors at his police station and offering them “sandalwood powder” to apply on the forehead. Despite attempts to reach him, the IG (Meerut range) was not available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-allegedly-advises-warring-couple-to-chant-gayatri-mantra-denies-claim-101617300418550.html
01-04-2021||Other||Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi case: Plea seeks return of idols from Agra Fort to Mathura temple||An application has been filed in a Mathura court seeking the return of the idols which were supposedly removed by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb from the Sri Krishna Janambhoomi temple in Mathura and allegedly placed below the stairs of the Chhoti Masjid at Deewan-e-Khas in the Agra Fort. The Mathura court has fixed April 19 as the next date of hearing in the case. Petitioner Mahendra Pratap Singh said the application was moved on Thursday in the court of the civil judge (senior division) Mathura hearing the matter related to the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi.The present application is one of a number of cases filed in Mathura courts in connection with the Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi. In all these cases, different petitioners have sought removal of the Shahi Eidgah (mosque) adjacent to the Sri Krishna temple complex in Mathura, and transfer of 13.37-acre land to the deity, Bhagwan Sri Krishna Virajman.“A temple of Keshav Dev (Krishna) used to exist in a vast area of 13.37 acre in Mathura. The Mughal emperor Aurangzeb dismantled the temple and raised a structure at the same place, which is now known as the Eidgah mosque. Many of the stones having symbols of Hindu architecture were removed from the Janmabhoomi and placed in the Eidgah mosque,” Singh claimed.“We have moved an application in the court seeking the appointment of a court commissioner to inspect the Eidgah mosque in regard to such stones moved from Janmabhoomi and the application is pending for disposal,” Singh added.“Many historians and writers have mentioned that besides placing these stones in the mosque, the Mughal emperor Aurangzeb took along various idols, including that of Lord Krishna, and had them buried under the stairs of the Chhoti Masjid in the Deewan-e-Khas of Agra Fort,” Singh further said.“We have moved an application, asking the court to depute Archaeological Survey of India or any other competent authority to have these idols excavated from the stairs of the Chhoti Masjid in Agra Fort and brought back to Keshav Dev temple at Sri Krishna Janambhoomi so that they can be placed at the appropriate place in future,” he said.The petitioners in the cases pertaining to Sri Krishna Janmabhoomi have challenged the settlement dated 12.10.1968 between Sri Krishna Janmasthan Seva Sangh and Shahi Masjid Eidgah, which was part of suit No. 43 of 1967. The petitioners have alleged that the settlement had no legal validity because the Sri Krishna Janambhoomi trust, having ownership and title, was not party to the settlement.Thus, the court should order for transfer of the Eidgah mosque land to the deity, the petitioners have urged the courts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sri-krishna-janmabhoomi-case-plea-seeks-return-of-idols-from-agra-fort-to-mathura-temple-101617300358344.html
01-04-2021||Other||MNNIT to shut MTech course in software engineering||Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT)-Allahabad had initiated steps to close down its once popular MTech in software engineering programme and no fresh admissions in this post graduate course would take place now, officials said.The move was prompted by waning interest among top aspiring techies as well as firms taking part in placement exercise.The institute’s Senate approved a proposal in this regard at its recently held meeting. The proposal would now be put before the institute’s apex decision-making body, the Board of Governors (BoG), for a final approval, confirmed MNNIT director Prof Rajeev Tripathi. He said that the institute planned to instead double the seats of MTech computer science and engineering course from the existing 25 to 50. The step follows an in-depth study undertaken by the institute.“A scrutiny of past records showed that MTech in software engineering programme was low on the preference of top aspirants as compared to the MTech computer science and engineering course and, as a result, the MTech software engineering was attracting aspirants much lower in the merit. We also observed that even companies hiring our students preferred MTech computer science and engineering pass-outs over the MTech software engineering pass-outs, believing that the course in computer science and engineering to be more holistic and covering a wider spectrum of skills and knowledge as compared to software engineering which they perceived to focus on just software designing and testing,” he explained.Prof Tripathi said though the MTech in software engineering was a well-designed robust course, covering all essential topics of CSE but having specialised electives, the institute decided to go strictly as per the demand and close the post graduate programme in software engineering.“The 25 seats of MTech in software engineering would now be merged in MTech computer science and engineering course which remains the top choice of aspiring techies attracting top rankers from across the country, thereby allowing an intake of 50 students in it. We are confident that this would not only attract better students, but also ensure better placements,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mnnit-to-shut-mtech-course-in-software-engineering-101617300238477.html
01-04-2021||Kolkata||Bengal records highest 1-day spike of 2021, logs 1,274 new Covid-19 cases to tally||The Covid-19 caseload continued to rise in West Bengal, with this year's highest one-day spike of 1,274 fresh cases recorded on Thursday, which further pushed the tally to 5,88,189, the health department said.Two more fatalities - one in Kolkata and other in neighbouring North 24 Parganas -- raised the toll in the state to 10,331, the department said in its bulletin.Both the deaths occurred due to comorbidities, and Covid-19 was just incidental, it said.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageThe city accounted for 399 new cases, followed by North 24 Parganas at 344.At least 534 recoveries were reported in the state over the past 24 hours, taking the total number of people who have recuperated from the disease to 5,71,345.Accordingly, the number of active cases rose to 6,513.The discharge rate stood at 97.14 per cent, the department said.As many as 91,98,365 samples have been tested in West Bengal so far, including 25,766 since Wednesday, the bulletin stated.Meanwhile, 1,16,289 people were administered Covid-19 vaccine in Bengal on Thursday, a senior official of the department said.No case of 'adverse event following immunization' (AEFI) was reported from anywhere in the state, he said.The inoculation process will be underway all 30 days in April, including gazetted holidays, at the designated Covid vaccination centres, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-records-highest-1-day-spike-of-2021-logs-1-274-new-covid-19-cases-to-tally-101617299032060.html
01-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand HC reduces jail term of elderly woman with US citizenship||Uttarakhand High Court has reduced the four-year jail term of a 51-year-old woman to 11 months, said CK Sharma, the woman’s counsel. The woman, Farida Malik, is an American citizen of Pakistani origin. Malik had been arrested by immigration officials on the Indo-Nepal border in Champawat district on July 12, 2019, for entering the state without valid documents. She was later sentenced to a four-year jail term in March 2020 by a lower court. Sharma said Malik had challenged the lower court’s judgment of sentencing her to a four-year jail term. “During the hearing, I argued that she is an elderly woman and has not committed any heinous crime here and has already served 11 months in jail. After hearing the matter, the HC reduced her four-year jail term to 11 months, which has been already served by her,” he said. Sharma said the HC also asked the officials concerned to allow her to get back to her country. In April last year, the United States embassy in Delhi had also written a letter to the chief minister of Uttarakhand to deport Malik who was sentenced to four-year imprisonment by the local court for violating the Passport Act and the Foreigners Act.The letter was written by then US ambassador to India Kenneth I Juster to the then Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat. “Unfortunately she (Malik) had left her passport in a hotel in Nepal. However, rather than sending her back to secure the proper documents to enter India, Indian authorities arrested and jailed her,” the letter stated. The letter further read, “It is Malik’s first offence... she has already served 8-months in judicial custody at Almora jail. As per her medical record, Malik suffers from acute bipolar disorder - a mental health condition that compromises her ability to make sound decisions. She also suffers from diabetes and other severe health problems related to her back and spine...” Farida Malik, daughter of Sultan Akhtar, was nabbed by the immigration officials at Banbasa check post on July 12, 2019, while she was trying to enter India. She was coming from Kathmandu and posed as a Nepalese citizen but was caught at the border.Since she could not produce her passport and visa, she was arrested for violating Section 3 of the Passport Act (person entering India shall be in possession of valid passport) and section 14 of the Foreigners Act (remaining in any area in India without a visa), an official said.After her arrest, she was produced in the local court from where she was sent to Lohaghat Jail in Champawat. Later, she was moved to Almora jail. The High Court had granted her bail in December 2019 with a condition that she will not leave Almora without the court’s permission till the case is settled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-hc-reduces-jail-term-of-elderly-woman-with-us-citizenship-101617299701879.html
01-04-2021||Other||Sudden spurt: 935 fresh corona cases in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: The state capital witnessed a big surge in fresh Covid cases on Thursday, with 935 people testing positive, about 159% more than Wednesday when 361 had tested positive. Lucknow had reported over 900 cases on September 19, 2020 when 1160 fresh cases were reported. Doctors said that the spurt in cases needed the same attention as if a second wave was there. “The nature of virus to multiply geometrically instead of mathematically calls for attention as if a second wave was there. All three aspects of testing, tracing and treating should be worked upon as if we are dealing with a second wave,” said Prof Kauser Usman, HoD, geriatric medicine at the King George’s Medical University. Over 150 fresh cases were reported from Aliganj, 133 in Alambagh, 124 in Indira Nagar, 97 from Chinhat, 22 from Rae Bareli Road, 35 from Mahanagar, 42 from Hazratganj, 41 from Talkatora, 42 from Chowk, 29 from Jankipuram and 23 from Vikas Nagar. Lucknow has an overall case positivity rate of 4.13 with over 2096971 samples tested till now, including 13241 tested in the past 24 hours. The positivity rate for the month of March is 1.94%. The state capital has reported 86754 Covid cases of which 81629 patients have recovered and 1213 died. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 94.09%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. There are 3912 active cases in Lucknow and, the number of patients in home isolation as reached 2701 while the remaining are admitted to government and private hospitals. There are 20 hospitals facilitating admission of Covid patients in the city. Age-wise distribution of cases in Lucknow 0 to 9 years – 2897 10 to 19 years –5823 20 to 29 years – 18287 30 to 39 years – 19354 40 to 49 years – 14711 50 to 60 years – 15341 60-plus –10772||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sudden-spurt-935-fresh-corona-cases-in-lucknow-101617299698353.html
01-04-2021||Lucknow||Vibhuti Khand shootout case: Lack of coordination between authorities helped ex-MP come out of jail on bail||Lack of coordination between police authorities helped former MP Dhananjay Singh seek his release from Fatehpur central jail on bail despite being wanted in the shootout held in Lucknow’s Vibhuti Khand on January 6 earlier this year, said senior police official privy to the development.The shootout had claimed the life of mafioso-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari’s aide Ajit Singh.A senior police official said the former MP was released from Fatehpur central jail on Wednesday a few hours before the Lucknow police team reached there to serve the warrant in connection with his alleged involvement in the Vibhuti Khand case.On March 5, the former MP had surrendered before the MP and MLA court of Prayagraj in a separate case registered against him in Jaunpur’s Khuthan police station in 2017 after cancelling his bail bond in the matter. He surrendered two days after the Lucknow police announced reward of ₹25,000 on his arrest on March 3 in connection with the Vibhuti Khand case.A senior police official said the reward declared on his arrest was abolished after he had surrendered after which he again procured bail from the MP and MLA court in the old case and came out of the jail. He said the former MP had procured the bail on March 25 itself but the Prayagraj and Jaunpur police counterparts did not inform the Lucknow police about it.“The former MP is still wanted in the Vibhuti Khand shootout case as the Lucknow police failed to serve him the warrant in the matter. He will be arrested again,” senior police official of Lucknow Commissionerate emphasised.The former MP is made key accused in the alleged conspiracy behind the shootout and a non-bailable warrant (NBW) was issued against him by a Lucknow court on February 20. The former MP was booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 302 (for murder), 307 (for attempt to murder), 120-B (for criminal conspiracy), 201 (for concealment of evidence) and 212 (for harbouring an offender).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/vibhuti-khand-shootout-case-lack-of-coordination-between-authorities-helped-ex-mp-come-out-of-jail-on-bail-101617299578471.html
01-04-2021||Other||Massive fire engulfs Dudhwa’s Kishanpur sanctuary area||20-25 hectare of forest area affected, no loss of lives of protected wild animals; inquiry ordered A massive fire broke out in Mailani forest range in Kishanpur wildlife sanctuary, part of the Dudhwa Tiger Reserve (DTR), late on Wednesday evening. “Prima facie, the fire is suspected to have been caused by throwing of a lighted cigarette or a bidi into the dry foliage,” said Sanjay Kumar Pathak, field director, DTR, who visited the spot on Thursday.“The fire has damaged nearly 20-25 hectares of forests and grasslands. Fortunately, no loss of lives of big protected species of wild animals has been reported so far. However, loss of lives of reptiles, insects and such other small animals cannot be ruled out,” Pathak said.“An inquiry has been set up to probe the matter and a case has been lodged in this connection,” he added.Earlier on being informed, forest officials rushed to the spot. Fire tenders from neighbouring Pallia and Gola towns were also called in to contain the blaze which was controlled after nightlong efforts.The fire, which engulfed a large area of Mailani and Kishanpur forest ranges on either side of Bhira-Mailani road owing to the heavy wind blowing on the day, also affected traffic for a while. About Kishanpur wildlife sanctuaryKishanpur wildlife sanctuary area, which forms a part of Dudhwa Tiger Reserve, presents a majestic view of terai nature with its enriched flora and fauna. Located along the Sharda river in an area of around 200 square km, the sanctuary is an ideal habitat for herbivorous and carnivorous animals besides ungulates, reptiles and various avian species including tigers, leopards, wild boars, swamp deer, cheetals etc. As per the latest reports, nearly two dozen tigers dwell in the sanctuary.The numbers of animals sans tigers in Kishanpur sanctuary as per the last wild animal census report of 2019 Cheetal 6691Barasingha (swap deer) 1798Sambhar 99Leopard 3Monitoring Lizard 79Crocodile 25Gharial 2Wild boar 2712Otters 46Wild bear 18Langoor 1319||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/massive-fire-engulfs-dudhwa-s-kishanpur-sanctuary-area-101617299338359.html
01-04-2021||Other||Case registered against IFFCO occupier, manager||PRAYAGRAJ: A case has been registered at the chief judicial magistrate (CJM) court against the occupier and manager of the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited (IFFCO) by deputy director, factories, under the Factories Act in connection with the recent boiler explosion at the plant. Enquiry has revealed that the explosion took place due to lack of proper repair and maintenance of the boiler by the company. The Factories Act stipulates that every factory must have an ‘occupier’– defined under its Section 2(n) as the person who has ultimate control over the affairs of the factory. It is worth mentioning that three workers had died and 14 were injured following an explosion in a boiler at IFFCO on March 23. Offices of the UP chief inspector of boilers, Kanpur along with deputy director, factories had conducted an enquiry in this connection. District magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami had also written a letter to the department of fertilizers to audit security measures at IFFCO plant at Phulpur. After investigations at all levels, deputy director,factories, Abhay Chandra Gupta registered a case against IFFCO company’s occupier and manager at the CJM court. The boiler department team has also registered a case after an enquiry which suggested that lack of proper repair caused the explosion. A case was also registered in the earlier mishap on December 22, 2020 in which two officials had died and 16 were injured due to ammonia gas leakage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/case-registered-against-iffco-occupier-manager-101617299278363.html
01-04-2021||Lucknow||Alarmed over rising cases, UP adds 45 more Covid facilities||Adding to the existing strength of 83 hospitals in 75 districts, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday said it has added 45 more Covid facilities in the state for Covid-19 patients.Among 45 new Covid facilities, maximum 8 are in Lucknow where 1,835 beds will be added.“Covid cases are rising once again hence it is important to make adequate arrangement for treatment of patients,” said the order from the office of additional chief secretary, medical health Amit Mohan Prasad.In case the number of patients goes up, the district administration can add to the number of Covid facilities that had earlier been working as Level-3 facilities by serving a three-day notice to non-covid facilities, said the order. Till now, state had 17,235 beds in 83 facilities and now the bed strength will go up by 7,694.The hospitals have already been told to keep additional staff ready for Covid duty and prepare the list of such staff. New Covid facilities in Lucknow include Lok Bandhu hospital level-2 (250 beds), Ram Sagar Mishra Nagar hospital L-2 (100 beds), Mother and child wing Chinhut – L-2 (50 beds), Career Medical College L-2 (210 beds), Integral Medical institute L-2 (210 beds), Prasad Institute L-2 (200 beds), TSM Institute L-2 (185 beds), Era Medical College L-3 (320 beds).In Lucknow, over 1,500 beds have been added and there were 797 beds already functional at 12 hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/alarmed-over-rising-cases-up-adds-45-more-covid-facilities-101617299158259.html
01-04-2021||Lucknow||Nine hurt in two separate leopard attacks||: Nine persons got injured in two separate incidents of leopard attack in Khadda area of Kushinagar district.On Thursday, the leopard injured four villagers near Bhedi Jungle village. The villagers were working in the field when the leopard attacked Sukahi, a resident of Azadnagar village. When Sukhai raised alarm, the villagers rushed to his rescue forcing the leopard to escape to nearby sugarcane field.Angry villagers who had gathered on the spot set the sugarcane field afire. The leopard again attacked three villagers and escaped to the forest.On March 27, the leopard had injured five villagers in Lakhua Lukhai village in the Khadda area.BK Yadav, a forest department officer said, all the injured villagers had been rushed to the community health centre for medical aid.The forest department along with the district police and local villagers has launched an operation to trap the leopard. From Valmiki Tiger reserve area, the leopard has moved to wildlife sanctuary located across the border in Bihar, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/nine-hurt-in-two-separate-leopard-attacks-101617298978307.html
01-04-2021||Other||Hyderabad man hacked to death in broad daylight, police suspect old rivalry||A 40-year old man was hacked to death in broad daylight by some unidentified miscreants in the old city of Hyderabad on Thursday afternoon, the police said.The victim has been identified as Asad Khan, a leader of the Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen party, from Mailardevpally area in the old city.According to Mailardevpally police, Khan was going on his two-wheeler at around 1 pm, when a group of people waylaid him near the Indian Function Hall at Shastripuram road. They pushed him down from his vehicle and assaulted him with arms.“Preliminary inquiries revealed that Khan had a rivalry with some people in the area and was arrested in the past in connection with the murder of one Amjad Khan in Shastripuram. We suspect that the relatives or friends of Amjad Khan could be behind the murder of Asad Khan,” a police official from the Mailardevpally police station said.A 10-second video clip of a man attacking Khan repeatedly on his head with a sickle-like weapon went viral on social media. The attacker was seen throwing the weapon on the road before fleeing the spot. Though there was normal traffic on the road, nobody bothered to come to the rescue of the victim.On receiving the information, the police rushed to the spot and moved Khan to Osmania General Hospital, where he was declared brought dead.The Clues Team of the Hyderabad police was pressed into action to find out the evidence. “We are also examining CCTV cameras to identify the assailants,” the police said.The police have lodged a case of murder and have started the investigation. Unconfirmed reports said the police have picked up six suspects and are questioning them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hyderabad-man-hacked-to-death-in-broad-daylight-police-suspect-old-rivalry-101617297299547.html
01-04-2021||Other||KV students strengthening tradition of donating old textbooks to juniors||Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan’s (KVS) noble initiative-- Pustakopahar-- wherein students donate their used textbooks to their juniors is coming in handy for a number of needy students studying in the nine Kendriya Vidyalayas (KV) of Prayagraj district in this time of pandemic.Under the initiative, conceptualised in 2016, the KVS had asked principals of all 1,200-odd KVs of the country to motivate their students to donate their used textbooks. While doing this the juniors will save money, given the fact that prices of the books go up almost every year, a bid would also be made for environment conservation as printing less books would mean cutting less trees, the KVS had explained. “The project has received a great response not only in Prayagraj but also at KV-Kathmandu (Nepal) wherein almost half of the students of a respective class have been donating their books to juniors,” said principal of KV-Manauri, Shalini Dikshit. At KV-Manauri, the initiative has proven to be a boon for a lot of students, especially those who are not from well-off families, as around 10 sets of old books, for each class, have been donated by seniors, barring those of classes 10 and 12 who need them for board exams as well as preparation of competitive exams, she added.The principal and teachers of all the KVs are also engaged in sensitising the students of different classes to take good care of their textbooks so that these may be used by others as well. “These books may be either presented by the student to his or her junior of the next batch or can be donated to the school library,” said principal KV-Jhalwa, Vijeyesh Pandey. Besides, students are also being encouraged to donate other books like reference books, novels, non-fiction books etc from their personal possession which will not only save paper but also promote reading habit among students. “This aspect too has worked well as a lot of students have donated books to the school,” Pandey said. Although this is a voluntary decision on part of the schools and students but as more and more students are being made aware of the importance of donating their books to juniors, this concept has started yielding fruitful results every year, added the principal. K Sandeep Kumar 9415235145||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kv-students-strengthening-tradition-of-donating-old-textbooks-to-juniors-101617296038679.html
01-04-2021||Ranchi||Tusker electrocuted in Ranchi; Old man killed by jumbo in Simdega||A full-grown tusker was electrocuted in Ranchi’s Bedo block, while in another incident a septuagenarian was trampled to death by a jumbo in Jharkhand’s Simdega district on Thursday, an official said.Locals at Pani Nagri Toli village under Bedo police station found a tusker lying on a farm field near forest area on Thursday morning. They informed the forest department. In the autopsy report it was found that the elephant was electrocuted. Ranger at Bedo forest range Ramashish Singh said, “A herd of three elephants was passing through a farm field near the village on Wednesday night. One of the tuskers came in contact with 11,000 volt overhead high tension wire in the farm field and died on the spot. The high tension wire was turned loose and hanging dangerously.” The villagers alleged that they made several complaints to the forest and electricity departments to rectify the loose hanging wire which could cause accident. But no action was taken, due to which the elephant died, a villager said. The hanging wire is also posing life threat to humans in the village. Singh said, “They had requested the electricity department to rectify it but no action was taken. We will discuss with higher authority if legal action could be taken against the electricity department for the negligence.”In another incident, 70-year-old Thuiyan Baraik was trampled to death by a wild elephant in Bano block of Simdega district. The incident took place around 7am on Thursday at Hurla hill falling under Sikurna forest. Bano forest range officer Sushil Pandey said, “Baraik went to collect Mahua flower from the forest where he was attacked by the wild elephant.”Pandey said Baraik’s wife was given ₹10,000 as immediate relief to perform final rites. “The compensation amount of ₹4 lakh will soon be released to the family,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/tusker-electrocuted-in-ranchi-old-man-killed-by-jumbo-in-simdega-101617295918716.html
01-04-2021||Ranchi||Phase 3 of vaccination drive begins Over 24000 receive Covid jabs across state||Amid soaring cases of Covid-19, third phase of nationwide vaccination drive for people aged above 45, years irrespective of comorbidity, started with positive response of beneficiaries in Jharkhand Thursday. Long queues were witnessed at vaccination centres across the state. As many as 3,730 people were vaccinated by 12.30 pm on Thursday. As per the bulletin provided by the state health department, a total of 21,318 people were administered with first dose, while 3,667 persons with second dose on Thursday.Even though the drive started at a slow pace at Ranchi Sadar hospital, more people joined the queue for the vaccination by afternoon. As many as 70 people were inoculated between 9am and 10.30 am. However, more beneficiaries joined the queue around 11 am. Pradip Bose, a beneficiary and resident of Ranchi’s Tharpakna area, said, “Covid-19 cases are rising again in Ranchi. So, I thought to get the jab at the earliest to keep the virus at a distance.” The vaccination drive is going at 46 government centres across Ranchi district, an official at Ranchi civil surgeon office said. State nodal officer (vaccination) Dr Ajit Prasad said, “The number of beneficiaries was higher today as compared to previous days, according to the report I received by the afternoon.” He said that in a bid to speed up the vaccination shots, a special drive will be started from April 4 in every panchayat. “The drive will take place from April 4 and conclude on April 14. It has been divided into four phases. The first phase will take place on April 4,5, second on April 7,8, third on April 10,11 and fourth on April 13,14,” he said. Amid soaring cases of Covid-19 cases across Jharkhand, state health secretary KK Soan on Thursday directed all the deputy commissioners to work on 3T (test, track & treat) strategy to deal with the rising cases. He also directed to collect samples of people coming from other states such as Kerala, Maharashtra, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh. He asked to find other persons, who have come in contact with these people coming from outside the state, on basis of travel history, contact tracing and symptoms. About 700 Covid positive cases were reported on Wednesday, of which 351 cases were from Ranchi. Deputy commissioner (DC) Chhavi Ranjan held series of meetings with officials and private hospitals. Ranjan has decided for random inspection of containment zone to assess the situation on ground. He also directed the medical team to visit Covid patients in home isolation twice a week. The DC directed the private hospitals to ensure availability of beds, intensive care units and ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/phase-3-of-vaccination-drive-begins-over-24000-receive-covid-jabs-across-state-101617295918211.html
01-04-2021||Lucknow||LU physical classes to remain suspended||A Covid-19 testing centre of the health department will be set up at the pavilion ground at the Lucknow University on Friday, said LU spokesman Durgesh Srivastav.The decision comes a day after several faculty members of Lucknow University tested positive for Covid-19. Also, the university administration on Thursday asked the district authorities to conduct mass testing on the campus even as it decided to suspend physical classes and go for online mode of teaching till April 10. “Many teachers and hostel wardens of the university have tested corona positive. In view of this, kindly make arrangements for mass testing on the campus to curtail further spread of the infection,” reads a letter written by varsity registrar Vinod Kumar Singh to district magistrate and chief medical officer (CMO) on April 1. On Wednesday, the university had said seven of its staff members, including a retired examination controller, had tested Covid positive. On Thursday the retired examination controller AK Sharma succumbed to complications caused by Covid-19 infection. “We are taking all measures to prevent the spread of Covid-19 infection. Testing is a major part of ensuring this. So we have requested the district administration to arrange for mass testing on our campus,” he said. Earlier, the Lucknow University Teacher’s Association had also urged the varsity to extend closure and continue online mode of teaching.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lu-wants-mass-covid-testing-on-campus-physical-classes-to-remain-suspended-101617295858183.html
01-04-2021||Patna||Late Vashishtha Narayana’s kin preserves his legacy||Born as child prodigy who later emerged as veteran mathematics wizard, late Dr Vashishtha Narayan Singh wrote several books, however, stored in congested bookshelves in a rented house, the invaluable documents may perish if they are not digitalised.To preserve the mathematician’s legacy, his kin Mukesh Singh has turned one room of ‘Shukriya Vashishta’ organisation into a library by collecting his possessions to keep his memory alive.“Despite his achievements and exemplary contribution in the field of mathematics, the country and the state has failed to give him due recognition,” rued Singh.“After uncle’s demise, we had to vacate his rented flat located in Kulhariya Complex. Initially, we had planned to shift his possessions to our ancestral home in Bhojpur but later we went ahead with the idea of creating a library,” Singh said. “He has left a great treasure behind in the form of collection of voluminous foreign books, study materials, handwritten notes, thesis. We possess his document in which he challenged Einstein’s theory besides 50 other theses and precious documents,” he shared.“We want to make his possessions free for public so that students, researchers and scholars can use them. We have 12 boxes containing more than 5,000 books which he brought from abroad, but we don’t have enough space to display it. His handwritten notes on loose sheets are tied in bundles. I wish to laminate and digitalise them for preservation, but I don’t have required resources and financial support,” he added.“The motive of my life is to protect his legacy and fight for his due recognition,” said Singh, who quit his job as nodal officer with health department in 2015 to look after his family. Singh had founded the Dr Vashishtha Narayana Singh Education, Research and Social Development Trust in 2016 and runs ‘Shukriya Vashishtha’ coaching classes, free for engineering aspirants of underprivileged class.“Every year, we select 40 meritorious students based on a test and the students are given free classes. State’s prominent personalities like IPS Vikas Vaibhav, former DM Kumar Ravi, veteran mathematicians KC Sinha have also taken a few classes. A total of 18 students appeared in JEE exam held in February and March and all of them have qualified,” he shared.“I am appealing the state government and public to extend their support in preserving his heritage for the coming generations,” he said. Veteran mathematicianBorn in Bhojpur district on April 2,1942, Dr Vashishtha Narayan Singh completed his schooling from Netarhat School and joined Patna Science College for graduation. He earned PhD in mathematics from University of California, Berkeley by the age of 23. He is also said to have challenged Einstein’s theory of relativity. After suffering from schizophrenia for 40 years, he died in Patna in November 2019.He was posthumously awarded prestigious Padma Shri in 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/late-vashishtha-narayana-s-kin-preserves-his-legacy-101617295738198.html
01-04-2021||Other||A revenue clerk’s worth: ₹9.70 cr and counting||PATNAA revenue clerk posted as circle inspector (in-charge) at Hajipur in Vaishali, who was arrested in a graft case last month, was on Thursday booked for amassing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income, sources in the Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) said.A VIB official said Kumar Manish, who draws a salary of ₹40,000 a month, has amassed properties worth ₹9.70 crore, which include 25 plots in Vaishali district and a cold store at his ancestral village located at Manibhakurhar under Saray police station.“He even managed to get a loan of ₹2.9 crore for the cold store from PNB,” said a senior official at the VIB, adding that raids were still going on to unearth his other assets.Manish also ran a coaching institute, the official said.According to the VIB, Manish joined service on September 29, 1993, and earned ₹74 lakh from salary in his entire service period. On February 23, he was caught him red-handed from his coaching institute taking a bribe of ₹50,000 from one Shrawan Kumar for land mutation. VIB found he was posted in Hajipur since 2016 and discovered more than nine bank accounts belonging to him and his wife Munni Kumari. On Wednesday evening, VIB again searched their premises and found around 45 more land deeds worth ₹30 crore as per current market value.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-revenue-clerk-s-worth-rs-9-70-cr-and-counting-101617295678122.html
01-04-2021||Other||SC junks Bihar’s plea, asks to pay ₹20,000 for ‘utter wastage’ of judicial time||New DelhiThe Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal of the Bihar government and imposed a cost of ₹20,000 on the state for “utter wastage” of judicial time in a matter which was disposed of by the Patna High Court after both litigating parties had jointly agreed for it. A bench of Justices S K Kaul and R S Reddy noted that the state government had filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court against the September last year order of a division bench of the Patna High Court which had disposed of its plea on “agreed terms”.“... We find this a complete abuse of process of court and that too by a state government, apart from being a utter wastage of judicial time,” the SC bench said.“We thus, dismiss the SLP with costs of ₹20,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Group ‘C’ (Non-Clerical) Employees Welfare Association within four weeks,” the bench said in its March 22 order.The apex court said it is open to the state to recover the cost from officers who were responsible for this “misadventure.” A single-judge bench of HC had, in December 2018, delivered a verdict on a plea filed by the public servant who had challenged a June 2016 memo by which he was served the punishment of major penalty of dismissal from service under the Bihar Government Servant (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rule 2005. An FIR was lodged against him for alleged illegal acquisition of property which was disproportionate to his known sources of income and later, he was put under suspension and departmental proceedings were initiated against him.The single-judge bench set aside the order of dismissal contained in the June 2016 memo and also quashed the enquiry report.It had remanded back the matter to the enquiry officer to conduct inquiry in accordance with law. Later, the division bench of the HC had dealt with an appeal filed by the state against the order.The apex court said that the HC had noted in its order that after the matter was heard for some time, the counsel appearing before it in the case had jointly prayed that the appeal be disposed of on agreed terms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sc-junks-bihar-s-plea-asks-to-pay-rs-20-000-for-utter-wastage-of-judicial-time-101617295618921.html
01-04-2021||Patna||Tejashwi may campaign in WB polls||RJD leader Tejashwi Prasasd Yadav could be canvassing for Trinamool Congress candidates in a few pockets in the neighbouring state of West Bengal in the remaining rounds of the eight-phase assembly polls ending on April 29, it’s reliably learnt. On Wednesday, Trinamool Congress chief and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had written to 15 top Opposition leaders in the country, urging them to unite against the BJP.Sources said the 31-year-old RJD scion, who has already extended his party’s support to Trinamool in the West Bengal polls by not fielding any candidate, could be scheduled to campaign before fifth and seventh phase on April 17 and April 26 when constituencies like Burdaman, Asansol, Durgapur, which have a sizeable number of Bihar natives, go to vote. “We have received requests from Trinamool leaders and other candidates, but we have not drawn up a schedule so far. We are taking feedback from our party’s West Bengal unit on the canvassing schedule,” said Sanjay Yadav, a close aide of Tejashwi Yadav. Party’s national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj Jha said, “It is likely that Tejashwi will be campaigning in Bengal.” Jha had earlier said that Mamata Banerjee’s letter to 15 opposition leaders to unite against BJP was “very timely”. Incidentally, state BJP leaders have questioned Tejashwi Yadav’s “silence” over the Trinamool chief’s recent remarks wherein she accused the BJP of bringing in anti-social elements from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar at Nandigram to intimidate voters. Banerjee is locked in a keen contest with BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram, where polling took place on Thursday. “We condemn the statement by Banerjee about people from UP and Bihar. Why isTejashwi not giving a clarification?” said Bihar BJP spokesperson Nikhil Anand. RJD’s state spokesperson Chittraranjan Gagan said BJP was in the habit of twisting facts for deriving political mileage. Meanwhile, HAM(S) chief and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, whose party is a constituent of the ruling NDA in Bihar, is also scheduled to campaign in a few areas of Kolkata from April 5 onwards. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, whose party JD(U) is contesting 40 seats in West Bengal, is unlikely to campaign there.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-may-campaign-in-wb-polls-101617295618219.html
01-04-2021||Other||38% young beneficiaries take jabs on opening day in Bihar||PATNA: Around 38% of the total beneficiaries vaccinated against coronavirus during the day in Bihar belonged to the age cohort of 45-59 years , as the government opened the vaccination window for them on Thursday. A total 68,911 out of the total 1,81,799 people who took the jab on Thursday belonged to the 45-59 years of age as there was enthusiasm in this age group to take the shot. Bihar had on Wednesday vaccinated 91,339 people of which 13% (12,116) belonged to those in the 45-59 years of age group with co-morbidity. The increase in the number of beneficiaries in this age group on Thursday helped Bihar achieve total vaccination of 30.16 lakh beneficiaries so far of which people in the 45-59 years age group contributed to 3 lakh, according to government data released on Thursday. There was heavy rush of middle-aged beneficiaries at the Gardiner Road hospital around income-tax roundabout, in the heart of the state capital. Many younger beneficiaries complained that it took a long time to take the shot and they had to wait in long queues especially at the Gardiner Road Hospital. The vaccinators, on the other hand, claimed that the CoWIN portal was slow as a result of which uploading document and verification took time. “I had registered for vaccination online 15 days back, but authorities at the hospital took no note of it. I was handed a slip and made to wait for a long duration when I came to the Gardiner Road hospital to take the jab today,” said Sunil Sinha. Health authorities said they would look into the issue and issue specific instructions to the centre in-charge to accord priority to those who pre-book online. “We will look into it. Those who pre-book online should be accorded priority in vaccination,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director of the State Health Society, Bihar, also the state nodal officer for vaccination. On the rush at the Gardiner Road hospital, Kumar said, “We will have to mobilise other nearby facilities like the Loknayak Jaya Prakash Narayan Hospital and the Shastrinagar urban primary health centre for vaccination to prevent crowding at one place.” Bihar aims to achieve at least 2 lakh vaccinations in a day with the opening of vaccination for the 45-59 year age group. It achieved 1.81 lakh on the opening day Thursday. The state was now left with 6 lakh doses of vaccine. It expects to receive an additional 8 lakh doses on Friday after having received 33 lakh doses of the vaccine since the commencement of the COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16. The state has a target group of 1.80 crore people in the 45-59 years age group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/38-young-beneficiaries-take-jabs-on-opening-day-in-bihar-101617295558137.html
01-04-2021||Patna||‘25 plots, crores in bank’: Revenue employee lands in net of vigilance sleuths||When the Vigilance Investigation Bureau (VIB) raided the house of Kumar Manish, a revenue employee-cum-circle inspector (in-charge), in Hajipur, Vaishali, they found that Manish, who earns a monthly salary of ₹40,000, owns 25 plots in Vaishali district, cold storage and crores in the bank, VIB officials said, adding that a disproportionate assets case worth ₹9.70 crore has been lodged against Manish.As per the officials, the preliminary probe suggests that Manish and his wife bought the properties with ill-gotten money.“When people are finding it difficult to buy even a single plot, this revenue employee managed to buy 25 plots and has a bank loan of ₹2.9 crore from PNB,” said a senior officer, adding that he earned money by misusing his official position.Apart from the plots, Manish, who turned out to be a crorepati, has a multipurpose cold storage in his ancestral village located at Manibhakurhar under Saray police station area. He also runs a coaching institute as a franchisee of a noted brand.VIB officials revealed that the revenue employee managed to get a bank loan worth ₹2.9 crore for the construction of cold storage.According to the officials, Manish joined service on September 29, 1993, on a compensate ground and earned ₹74 lakh as salary during his entire service period. The matter came to light when VIB sleuths caught him taking a bribe of ₹50,000 from one Shrawan Kumar in name of land mutation.After searching his premises, the VIB found that he was posted in Hajipur since 2016 and his per day income was said to be around ₹1 lakh. The Bureau also discovered more than nine bank passbooks in his name and his wife Munni Kumari. After the scrutiny of the passbooks, it was found that the couple was earning ₹5.44 crore since 1993 while their estimated expenditure was around ₹8.44 crore. Their estimated income said to be ₹4.19 crore including ₹2.9 crore loan.Late on Wednesday evening, the VIB again searched his premises and found around 45 more deeds worth ₹30 crore in current market value. The VIB suspects the couple has hidden a huge amount of cash outside the state.“We had received several complaints about him. Based on the information, our officials raided his house and found properties disproportionate to his known source of income,” said a VIB official, adding that investigation is on and more details will be available soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/25-plots-crores-in-bank-revenue-employee-lands-in-net-of-vigilance-sleuths-101617294599034.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Engine of India's first passenger train to be installed in Maharashtra's Thane||The steam engine of the first passenger train that plied between Mumbai and Thane in 1853 will be installed at Thane railway station premises, an official said on Thursday.Speaking to reporters, Thane MLA Sanjay Kelkar said it was apt to install the engine at Thane, where history was created several years ago.Similarly, all historical monuments in the city and district would be preserved in the coming days, Kelkar said.The first train in the country carried around 400 passengers and the journey itself then took one hour and 15 minutes, he said.The first passenger train in India ran from Mumbai (Bori Bunder) to Thane on April 16, 1853 and covered a distance of 34 km. PTI COR ARU ARU||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/engine-of-india-s-first-passenger-train-to-be-installed-in-maharashtra-s-thane-101617293451183.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Cricket betting ring: Four more in Pimpri-Chinchwad police net||PUNE The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested four more bookies on Thursday, including a software developer, for allegedly running a cricket betting operation during the India-England cricket match. On March 27, at least 33 were arrested and later remanded to judicial custody in a cricket betting case.The four arrested have been identified as Chetan Jagdish Dawar (27), a resident of Hivrenagar in Nagpur; Bipinkumar Manilal Tanna (52), a resident of Andheri (West) in Mumbai; Rahul Ajay Sakhla (27), a resident of Andheri, Mumbai; and Ajay Vasant Shah (44), a resident of Goregaon (West) in Mumbai.The four were remanded to police custody until April 6 by a court in Vagaon Maval.“We cannot deny their link with international betting rackets. They were found in various locations as due to Covid rules, they could not enter the location as rightful viewers. The participants are generally people from the middle and upper-middle class,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.Five among the total 37 people arrested in the case have also tested positive for Covid, according to Prakash.The investigation is led by assistant commissioner of police Prashant Amrutkar of crime-1 of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.“Besides these people, we have identified 25 others who dealt with login IDs and passwords of 13 applications that were used by the accused. We are also investigating local aspects of the ring,” said Prakash.Of the total 37 people arrested, eight have previous betting-related cases, including Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA), in various parts of the country.During the arrest of the four, the officials of unit four of the Pimpri-Chinchwad crime branch team recovered four mobile phones with data related to betting and a computer with the source code of the application used for accepting bets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cricket-betting-ring-four-more-in-pimpri-chinchwad-police-net-101617294238768.html
01-04-2021||Other||8,025 fresh Covid positive cases, 18 deaths in Pune district||PUNE Pune district reported a major spike, with 8,025 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours as per the state health department. Eighteen deaths were reported in the district on Thursday, with 10 in rural Pune, six in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits and two in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), in the last 24 hours.In Pune district, there are a total of 5,44,287 Covid cases. Of this, 4,71,296 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,392 deaths in the district. At present, there are 64,599 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 2,81,418 Covid cases and 4,734 deaths, till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,37,732 cases so far, and a total of 1378 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 1,25,137 total cases so far and 2,231 deaths due to Covid. As per the state, 32,641 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 24,33,368 in the State. The recovery rate in the state is 85.2%.Across Maharashtra, 43,183 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 249 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.92%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8025-fresh-covid-positive-cases-18-deaths-in-pune-district-101617293758096.html
01-04-2021||West||Suvendu Adhikari accuses Mamata Banerjee of rigging Lok Sabha polls, says ‘16 EVMs not counted’||Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP’s) Suvendu Adhikari trained guns at West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee hours after she levelled allegations against his party over violence reported from the Nandigram assembly constituency where voting in the second phase of assembly elections took place on Thursday. The BJP leader alleged that Banerjee influenced officials during the Lok Sabha elections held two years ago and replaced votes for BJP with TMC in two district councils.“Mamata pressurized DM and SDO during last general polls. In Arambag, the BJP candidate lost by 2,500 votes because the votes of 16 EVMs were not counted. The BJP had won Jhargram and Purulia Zilla Parishads but votes for lotus symbol were replaced with TMC symbol overnight,” Adhikari told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on West Bengal, Assam voting hereThe claim comes amid poll rigging allegations against the BJP as well as the Election Commission by the ruling TMC. On witnessing ‘Jai Shree Ram’ sloganeering as she visited a polling booth in Nandigram, Banerjee alleged that “goons from other states” were creating a ruckus and that the poll body was acting on instructions from Union home minister Amit Shah. She also said that many local voters in Nandigram were not being allowed to vote.The West Bengal chief minister has filed a complaint with the EC, which has directed two poll observers to submit a report by Friday evening. While the poll body, in a statement, took note of reports of alleged “gherao of the chief minister” in Nandigram, a poll observer told EC that polling wasn’t disrupted at any moment.Adhikari also countered Banerjee’s claim that no matter what EC tries, BJP would lose and 90% of votes in Nandigram would be in favour of TMC. He expressed confidence and stated that 90% of the votes have gone to BJP, according to ANI.Meanwhile, Yashwant Sinha, former BJP leader who recently joined the TMC, told ANI, “As per our information, Mamata Banerjee is winning with a huge margin (in Nandigram) and the opposition candidate is nowhere near her.”The heated battle comes as Banerjee and Adhikari, who was previously a close aide of the CM, are pitted against each other from the Nandigram constituency. While the TMC supremo is seeking a third term as the chief minister of Bengal, the BJP leaders had earlier said he would quit politics if he fails to defeat Banerjee.Voting in the eastern state is taking place in eight phases that conclude on April 29, while the results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/west-bengal-elections-2021-suvendu-adhikari-counters-mamata-banerjee-s-claim-says-bjp-has-won-90-votes-in-nandigram-101617293168946.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Never said Sharad Pawar should replace Sonia Gandhi as UPA chairperson: Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday claimed he never said that Congress chief Sonia Gandhi should be replaced by NCP president Sharad Pawar as the UPA chairperson, and added that he had only underscored the need to strengthen the alliance.He said that all the opposition parties need to come together to form a strong alliance at the national level.His remarks come in the wake of Maharashtra Congress leaders criticising him for his suggestion that Pawar should take over as United Progressive Alliance (UPA) chairperson."I have never said Sonia Gandhi should be replaced by Sharad Pawar as UPA chairperson. There is a need to strengthen the UPA for the sake of the country. I just said there is a need to strengthen the opposition alliance. I haven't criticised Sonia Gandhi or Rahul Gandhi," Raut said."I fact, I have stood up for them whenever they were targeted by the political rivals," he told a television channel, when asked about the Congress leaders' criticism over his recent remarks.On being asked about his "accidental home minister" comment against Anil Deshmukh, Raut said, "Something happening by accident is a phrase. One always sees an opportunity in an accident."To a question on Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar's remarks that nobody should play spoilsport in a coalition government, the Rajya Sabha member said, "People have played spoilsport by taking oath early morning."He was referring to Ajit Pawar's early morning swearing-in with Devendra Fadnavis before the formation of the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government after the 2019 Assembly polls. Fadnavis and Pawar had taken oath as the chief minister and deputy chief minister respectively. However, their government had lasted for only 80 hours.Replying to a question whether the Shiv Sena would join the UPA or go back to the National Democratic Alliance (NDA), Raut said his party does not play politics of convenience."Our alliance with Congress and NCP here was need of the hour since we felt we were cheated by the BJP," he said.Raut hit out at Maharashtra Governor B S Koshyari for taking no decision on nominating 12 members from his quota to the state legislative council."The governor doesn't want the MVA to increase its strength in the Legislative Council. He feels the government will not last. But the MVA is strong and will last its full term," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/never-said-sharad-pawar-should-replace-sonia-gandhi-as-upa-chairperson-raut-101617292326860.html
01-04-2021||Pune||3 held for misusing customers’ documents to secure vehicle loans in their names||PUNE Pimpri-Chinchwad police, on Thursday, arrested three finance company executives for misusing documents of customers at a two-wheeler showroom and cheating at least five people.The number of people cheated might rise as the three have allegedly confessed to have defrauded over ten people in the past three years, said police officials.The arrested accused have been identified as Rajkumar Dagdu Khedkar (28), a native of Osmanabad; Manoj Rajendra Badhe (33), a resident of Moshi Pradhikaran; and Ganesh Sarjerao Gholap (39), a resident of Bhosari in Pune.All three work for separate finance companies as executives and were deployed at a two-wheeler showroom that sells vehicles of various brands.“We have arrested and taken custody of these people. Right now, there is one complainant, but we have recovered five vehicles. More people may have been duped. We will investigate the case further,” said Krishna Prakash, commissioner of Pimpri-Chinchwad police.The five recovered vehicles are collectively worth ₹3,40,000, according to the police.The three were remanded to police custody of the Pimpri-Chinchwad police crime branch’s anti-dacoity cell till April 5 by a court in Vadgaon Maval.“They took a person’s document under the guise of getting him a loan and processed the loan in their name while telling them that their loan was not approved. They would make a minimal down payment using their own money and get the vehicle on-road with the loan money unbeknownst to the victim. This cycle continued and multiple people must have ended up with loans they do not even know they have,” said police sub-inspector Mangesh Bhange of Bhosari police stationA case is registered at Bhosari police station under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/3-held-for-misusing-customers-documents-to-secure-vehicle-loans-in-their-names-101617291718027.html
01-04-2021||Pune||PMPML bus stand at Shivajinagar turns into autorickshaw stand||PUNE The commuters are left with less space to wait for public transport buses at Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) bus stand at Shivajinagar, as most of the space near the bus stand is illegally encroached upon by autorickshaw drivers.Out of the two bus stands at Shivajinagar- one stand is usually seen occupied by autorickshaws drivers. The situation is getting worse ever since the metro work has started near the bus stand.“Earlier traffic police used to take action against them (auto drivers), but now since last one month, the nuisance has increased. The number of autorickshaws keeps on increasing especially after 3 pm every day,” said Nirmala Patil, who works at a private office in Shivajinagar.The spot visit from HT confirmed that drivers occupy more space than commuters and most of the drivers were seen flouting social distancing norms.“I have noticed many times that the auto drivers don’t even wear a face mask and keep spitting near the bus stand and no one takes action against them,” said Rini Patel, who travels from Shivajinagar to Aundh every day.Asif Shaikh, an autorickshaw driver, said, “We don’t have an autorickshaw stand like one at the Deccan Gymkhana bus stand at Shivajinagar. Due to the metro work undertaken in the area, there is no space available for us, we park our autos here to get the customers.”Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic), said, “Our team keeps on patrolling in morning and evening. Since last one week, more autos are parked here which is creating problem for commuters. We will solve the issue on priority.”Auto drivers charge extraAs the night curfew is imposed in the city autorickshaw drivers are not charging fare as per metre after 6pm, but negotiating the fare to be paid by passengers. Night curfew is imposed in the city from 8pm to 7am.“Traffic police should take action against such autorickshaw drivers,” said Ajit Marne.“Such complaints have increased not only at Shivajinagar, but also at places like Baner. Action will be taken against them,” said Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmpml-bus-stand-at-shivajinagar-turns-into-autorickshaw-stand-101617291537822.html
01-04-2021||Other||Covid review meet: Admin to push for more strict restrictions||PUNE Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, on Thursday, said more strict restrictions are necessary in the district to slow down the rate of the Covid infection, currently very high. Rao asserted that while curbs are necessary, the Pune district administration has also been focusing on increasing the number of beds, and 600 more beds in private hospitals will be made available by April 6. His remarks assume significance ahead of the Covid review meeting scheduled on Friday, when deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar will be present. Last week, Pawar had warned citizens to follow rules to avoid lockdown, saying he would take call on Friday. The meeting is likely to discuss whether to impose a complete lockdown or to bring in more curbs in Pune district, which reported 8,600 cases on Wednesday. “More restrictions are absolutely necessary to slow down the rate of infection. It will be discussed at Friday’s Covid review meeting. We are constantly trying to increase bed capacity. We had the highest numbers of Covid beds in private hospitals on Oct 13, 2020. We want to get those many beds before April 6,” said Rao. On Thursday, Rao and the PMC officials had a meeting with private hospitals and asked private hospitals to make more beds available. On October 13, 2020, there were 2,134 beds allotted for Covid patients in private hospitals. Whereas on April 1, 2021, 1,423 beds are available in private hospitals. “Six hundred more beds will be available before April 6. I have spoken with officials from the Southern Command. They have agreed to give us a dedicated Covid hospital,” Rao said. Even after a month of imposing partial restrictions, Covid cases in Pune have been surging. After the Covid review meeting held last week, Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar had warned to impose lockdown after April 2nd if the number of Covid cases doesn’t come down. The cases have been surging throughout the week and the availability of beds in hospitals has become an issue. There has been widespread opposition to a lockdown. “Lockdown is not the solution. Cases are rising but the mortality rate is low. The focus should be on increasing health infrastructure. The economy will collapse again. People are not in a mental state to accept a lockdown. Increasing the number of beds is the solution. Pros and cons of the lockdown have to be weighed,” said Sidharth Shirole, elected representative from Shivajinagar assembly constituency. On Friday, the Covid review meeting will be conducted at the divisional commissioner’s office in the presence of district and municipal corporation officials, elected representatives and the Pune’s guardian minister, Ajit Pawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-review-meet-admin-to-push-for-more-strict-restrictions-101617290277831.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi registers sharp spike in daily Covid-19 tally, reports 2,790 new cases in last 24 hours||Delhi entered April with a huge spike in the number of new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, with the national Capital reporting 2,790 fresh infections and nine deaths in the last 24 hours. This is the highest single-day spike this year as the last time, the daily spike crossed the 2,500-mark was in December 2020.The number of recoveries reported in the last 24 hours is 1,121, as per the Delhi health bulletin. The capital is among the top 10 states that have been reporting an upward trajectory in the number of fresh cases reported in 24 hours.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Amid the rise in the number of cases, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has scheduled an urgent meeting on Friday with health minister Satyendar Jain and other officials concerned to assess the Covid-19 situation and enhance public health measures to contain the spread of the virus.The target of the number of daily Covid-19 tests for identification of the virus has been increased to as many as 80,000, news agency PTI reported, quoting a statement from the chief minister' office.A total of 78,073 tests were conducted in Delhi in the last 24 hours. Out of which more than 47,000 were RT-PCR, CBNAAT and TrueNat tests and over 31,000 were rapid antigen tests.The positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in the Union territory has increased to 3.57 per cent with an active caseload in the city amounting to 10,498. The year began for Delhi with a positivity rate of less than 1 per cent.The total number of containment zones in the capital stands at 2,183, with more than 5,600 people getting treatment in home isolation, the health bulletin data showed.India on Thursday reported a huge jump in the number of new Covid-19 cases as it logged more than 72,000 cases in the past 24 hours, which is the highest spike of this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-registers-sharp-spike-in-daily-covid-19-tally-reports-2-790-new-cases-in-last-24-hours-101617287061498.html
01-04-2021||Other||60-year-old farmer kills drunk nephew in Mohali’s Mullanpur||Angered by his alcoholism, a 60-year-old farmer allegedly murdered his nephew with a floor scraper in Ferozepur Bangar village near Mullanpur on Wednesday.Following the attack, the accused, Surjit Singh, fled the scene.The victim, Randhir Singh, 45, worked with the PEPSU Road Transport Corporation (PRTC) on contractual basis. He regularly had quarrels with his uncle, Surjit, over his drinking habit, the police said.On Wednesday, Surjit had just beaten up his daughter, when he saw Randhir come home in an inebriated condition. Infuriated, he picked up a floor scraper used to clear cow dung and attacked Randhir on the head, said sub-inspector Harpal Singh, the investigating officer (IO) in the case.Randhir was rushed to PGIMER, Chandigarh, where he died during treatment. “The autopsy was conducted on Thursday, following which the body was handed over to the family members. The accused is on the run,” said the IO said.Police have lodged an FIR under Section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of the Indian Penal Code on the statement of Randhir’s mother, Satwinder Kaur. The victim is survived by his wife and three children.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/60yearold-farmer-kills-drunk-nephew-in-mohali-s-mullanpur-101617289558478.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Ashish Lele is new director at NCL Pune||Pune: Ashish Lele, former chief scientist at Pune’s Council of Scientific and Industrial Research-National Chemical Laboratory (CSIR-NCL), has taken charge as the director of the organisation Thursday morning. He took the office from Srivari Chandrasekhar, director, Council Of Scientific And Industrial Research–Indian Institute Of Chemical Technology (CSIR-IICT), Hyderabad, who held the additional charge for last few months. Lele was senior vice-president and head, Advanced Materials and Alternative Energy Group, Reliance Industries Limited prior to take the charge at NCL. Lele completed his Chemical Engineering graduation from the Department of Chemical Technology (ICT), University of Bombay, in 1988. He obtained his doctorate (PhD) in Chemical Engineering from the University of Delaware, USA in 1993. He joined CSIR-NCL in 1993 as a scientist and set up a research group on the rheology of complex fluids, polymer dynamics, and polymer processing. He led many industry-sponsored research projects at the laboratory and carried out several product development activities. He led the efforts for developing PEM fuel cell technology in a consortium of three other CSIR laboratories and three Indian industries. Lele was the recipient of the Shanti Swaroop Bhatnagar Award in Engineering Sciences in 2006, Infosys prize in Engineering and Computer Science in 2012 and, the ICT Distinguished Alumnus award in 2013. Lele and Chandrasekhar signed a change of the guard document in the presence of Shekhar Mande, DG-CSIR; RA Mashelkar, former DG-CSIR; S Sivaram, former director, CSIR-NCL, and many former directors, including Prof Ashwini Kumar Nangia, K Vijayamohanan Pillai and Paul Ratnasamy at a virtual programme held on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ashish-lele-is-new-director-at-ncl-pune-101617289438365.html
01-04-2021||West||‘Polling wasn’t disrupted’, poll observer to EC on chaos at Nandigram voting booth||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Thursday asked two poll observers to submit a report on complaints by West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee regarding the alleged Nandigram poll violence as the state witnessed the second phase of voting across 30 assembly seats in the assembly elections.“A separate hand written complaint was received from Hon’ble Chief Minister via CEO West Bengal today in the late afternoon. The same has been forwarded to Special General Observer Shri Ajay Nayak and Special Police Observer Shri Vivek Dube under intimation to CEO. They have been asked to send a report by tomorrow 6pm,” the poll body said in a statement.Follow latest updates on West Bengal, Assam voting here Banerjee’s complaint was filed as violence was reported from the Nandigram constituency where the chief minister visited one of the polling stations to oversee voting. As the CM sat inside the booth, loud slogans with iterations of BJP's 'Jai Shree Ram' were heard, according to ANI.The Election Commission took note of the “alleged gherao of Banerjee” and crowding at polling station No. 7 at Nandigram that resulted in disruption of poll process.The general observer, however, told the poll body that the chief minister left the place at about 3.35 pm after staying there for nearly one and half hour and that “polling was not disrupted at any moment.”Earlier in the day, the TMC supremo alleged, “We have lodged 63 complaints since morning. But no action has been taken... This is unacceptable." She also threatened to move the court over the issue, Banerjee said while sitting in a wheelchair outside booth 7 in Boyal in Nandigram, according to PTI. The chief minister alleged, "The EC is working on the instructions of Amit Shah," and added that “goons from other states” were creating a ruckus.While Banerjee said her discussion with the poll observer and governor was “confidential,” Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Derek O Brien said that the chief minister referred to some specific incidents in her statement about the polling booths. “We'll consider taking next step because we want to do this not for just winning Nandigram or West Bengal but we need to do it for keeping democracy in place,” the TMC MP was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He said that though the party was confident of winning the Nandigram assembly seat as well as the overall assembly polls, they may approach the poll body. “Even though we may win, we may still consider going to the Election Commission. We are considering it for a few booths,” he told ANI.West Bengal is holding an eight-phased election that concludes on April 29 while the results will be announced on May 2. The Nandigram assembly constituency is witnessing a fierce battle between Banerjee, who is contesting from this seat for the first time, and BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari, who was once the chief minister’s close aide but jumped the boat in December last year. While Banerjee aims to retain the chief minister’s post for the third term, Adhikari has vowed to leave politics if he fails to defeat her by 50,000 votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/west-bengal-elections-2021-ec-orders-2-election-observers-to-send-report-on-mamata-banerjee-s-complaints-on-nandigram-polling-by-tomorrow-101617287780617.html
01-04-2021||Other||8pm curfew sparks huge crowds of last-minute shoppers at cost of Covid-safety norms||PUNE The Punekar evening schedule has been clearly marked by the 8pm curfew time, especially with the shutting of all stores and shops.For most, while returning from work, there is a rush at vegetable vendors, street vendors, and household and grocery shops. At the Mandai market, one of the major vegetable markets in Pune, after 6pm there is a heavy rush of people buying vegetables. It’s the same at Appa Balwant chowk and Laxmi road.On Sinhagad road, from the Rajaram bridge chowk footpath till Hingne chowk, there is a daily traffic jams caused by shoppers patronising roadside vendors.“We have appealed to all our shop owners in the Sinhgad road area to close by 7.30pm and avoid crowding. Public starts coming only after 6pm and throughout the day there is no rush. It is necessary to increase the time by one hour, till 9 pm,” said Prakash Salunkhe, secretary, Sinhagad road shop owners association.Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “To break the chain of the virus, social distancing and wearing a face mask is most important. Our squads are taking action and penalising violators, but there should be self-discipline and everyone should take safety precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8pm-curfew-sparks-huge-crowds-of-last-minute-shoppers-at-cost-of-covid-safety-norms-101617287637762.html
01-04-2021||Other||PMC plans to target super-spreaders with vaccinations at public sites||PUNE With Covid cases continuing to rise exponentially in Pune, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) now plans to vaccinate super-spreaders by setting up centres at public places, following permission from the state government. Most super-spreader spots, according to PMC officials, where the infection is seen spreading fast, are at ST stands, bus depots and at the railway station. During peak hours of morning and evening, no social distancing is maintained and most of the passengers are without face masks.“There are strict restrictions imposed in Pune to stop the spread of Covid and at the same time our focus is now on increasing vaccination. We are planning to give jabs to people above the age of 45 at public places, where super-spreaders are present. This is also to increase the speed of vaccinations, and cover as many people getting the vaccine,” said Vikram Kumar, PMC commissioner. “During the morning and evening rush hours, a major crowd is seen at all the major bus stands in city. There should be some monitoring done about this crowd, so that infection spread can be controlled,” said Atul Namekar, secretary, Sinhagadroad- Warje residents association. Similarly, at the Pune railway station. Renu Sharma, Pune Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) said, “Covid safety norms will be tightened at the Pune railway station. We are going to deploy extra staff to monitor passengers and appeal to passengers to follow Covid safety measures while traveling, and when at the station premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-plans-to-target-super-spreaders-with-vaccinations-at-public-sites-101617287037757.html
01-04-2021||Other||Costs of Covid tests reduced by state govt; RAT test at centre: Rs150||PUNE The rates for the Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) and the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (Elisa) test for Sars antibodies, have both been reduced by the government. A RAT test at a centre will now cost Rs150. If the sample is collected from home, the test will cost ₹300.At least 26,000 samples are tested every day for Covid-19 in Pune district, as per the district administration. Till date, 28,00,000 samples have been tested for Covid in the district.The Elisa test for antibodies test if done at the lab will cost ₹250. The charges for the Elisa test at a testing centre are ₹300 and if the sample is collected from home, the charges will be Rs400. Whereas, the charged for the CLIA antibodies test, conducted at respective labs, will be ₹350. For the CLIA antibodies test, if the sample is collected at a centre, the cost of the test will be ₹450; and if the sample is collected at home, the test will cost Rs550.The new charges for CBNAT/TRUNAT, which are highly sensitive tests, are ₹1,200. These tests are considered the gold standard frontline test for Covid-19.Dr Sanjeev Wavare, senior official at the health department of the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that the labs have to adhere to the said prices.“If any patient is overcharged, the patient can file a complaint with the PMC and the matter will be looked into. So far there has been no overcharging by labs while testing for Covid,” said Dr Wavare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/costs-of-covid-tests-reduced-by-state-govt-rat-test-at-centre-rs150-101617286557699.html
01-04-2021||Other||Rs19,000 for 19 km: RTO serves showcause notice to ambulance owner for overcharging patient||PUNE The Regional Transport Office (RTO) has served a notice to an ambulance service provider for charging Rs19,000 for a distance of 16km, officials said on Thursday. The ambulance service operator claimed that his service has not charged this amount. He claimed that the receipt book was stolen from his vehicle and someone must have forged the bill. “After the incident came to our attention, we served a notice to the registered owner of the ambulance. Concrete action will be taken in next three days. Ambulance operators should not overcharge patients. They should abide by the rates decided by administration,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer, Pune RTO. A 45-year-old Covid patient had to be shifted from Naidu hospital to another hospital on March 28 at 2am. The kin of the patient alleged that the ambulance they had booked demanded Rs19,000 for just for 19km, despite of the fact the there is a cap on rates. “The claim of the owner that his receipt book was stolen is preposterous. We didn’t see any other option, but to book the ambulance. The charges were paid through UPI mode,” said Mayur Bolade, a friend of the patient who was present at the time.According to officials, the showcause notice has been issued to Green Park ILF, which owns the ambulance. Babasaheb Kand, owner of the ambulance, claimed that one Morya Ambulance service borrows this particular cardiac ambulance, and his company owns the ambulance, but doesn’t run the service. On the other hand, Sachin Bhagat, owner of Morya ambulance service, claimed that his receipt book was stolen and someone must have forged the bill. The overcharging incident is a reminder of last year, when many service providers faced action after they overcharged patients, as ambulances were in short supply during the peak of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rs19000-for-19-km-rto-serves-showcause-notice-to-ambulance-owner-for-overcharging-patient-101617285897626.html
01-04-2021||Other||Hoteliers begin to cut support staff due to loss of revenue||PUNE Hoteliers in the city are contemplating axing 10 per cent of support staff, following the loss of business due to the new curfew restrictions. All hotels, bars and restaurants currently close at 8pm.Already, notices have been given to support staff, especially helpers, that their services will no longer be required.Maaaz Shaikh, owner of hotel Mughlai in Undri, said, “I have given an intimation to my waiters that they will have to look for options as business has gone down by 90 per cent. How do I pay them?” Haris Meethal, owner of the Agra hotel in Camp said, “Business is next to nil and there is no money to pay rent, so the only option is to remove employees as we have no money to pay them.”Hoteliers claim that the state government’s decision to implement a curfew from 8 pm to 7 am till April 15 is causing severe losses to business.Ikram Khan, who runs Sohos in Kalyaninagar, said, “The Covid-19 lockdown ruined the industry and broke its back. The excise department must partner with the industry as it brings in revenue for the government.” Ganesh Shetty, president, Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association, said, “The government order states that the hotels and business establishments must be closed after 8 pm. This is resulting in huge losses. Citizens are freely moving on the roads while the hotels are closed. The government must carry out limited restrictions from 3 pm till 5 pm and instead give us permission to operate till 11am. Eighty per cent of business starts late in the evening. The current restrictions will cause huge losses and jobs cuts as we don’t have money to pay for salaries, rents, loans and other expenses which require heavy investment. Moreover, the government has not released any funds for revival of the industry.” Shetty pointed out that several hoteliers had put their staff on notice saying that in case of further lockdown or restrictions, they might lose their jobs.According to PRAHA, 8,500 restaurants which shut down had sustained huge economic losses and the total lockdown losses have been pegged at around ₹300 crore, with more 0.2 million hotel staffers losing their jobs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hoteliers-begin-to-cut-support-staff-due-to-loss-of-revenue-101617284997526.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Riverfront development project: PMC starts work on 4km Bund Garden to Sangamwadi bridge stretch||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has kick-started the design and estimate work of a four-kilometre pilot stretch from Bund Garden to Sangamwadi bridge of riverfront development project. The land estate and management department of PMC has initiated the process to send notices to private and government bodies to acquire land for the same.On the line of the Sabarmati riverfront development project of Gujarat, PMC had given a green signal to develop the Mula-Mutha river in 2015. PMC has set a target of ten years to complete the project with an estimated cost of ₹2,619 crore. The project includes creating a network of gardens, open spaces, public promenades that will preserve the natural environment and turn Pune rivers into important assets of the city.Mangesh Dighe, environment officer of PMC, said, “We are working on three different stretches such as Kharadi, Aundh and Bund Garden to Sangamwadi bridge. In the Bund Garden to Sangamwadi stretch, we will have to acquire the least amount of land from private and government bodies and the riverbed is wide.”He further said, “We have started design and estimate work of the pilot stretch of four kilometres. We will make sure to design the pilot stretch in such a way that we will have to acquire the least amount of land for the project. It will take more than one month to complete the process.”Rajendra Muthe, deputy municipal commissioner of the land and management department, said, “The corporation has completed a survey of the project. We have also started land demarcation. We have written a letter to the district collector to hand over government land to PMC for the riverfront development project. We have also sent notices to private landowners to acquire land for the project.”In November 2019, Maharashtra state Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) has given a no-objection certificate (NOC) for the project. Now, PMC is awaiting approval from the state government to form a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to operate the project like metro and smart city. It has pending for the last year.In the 2021-22 annual budget, PMC commissioner has allocated ₹150 crore for the project. PMC has started work of demarcation of land, design, and find out possible stretches to complete with minimum acquisition of land and hurdles, estimate cost of stretches, list of government and private lands and send notices to them.PMC has divided the project into six stretches of the Mula-Mutha river and priorities stretch as per availability land. The first three stretches are Mundhwa bridge to Mundhwa jack well, Kharad (approximately three kilometres), Bund garden bridge to Sangamwadi bridge– (approximately 4 kilometres) and Aundh-Baner-Balewadi smart city area.Design and estimate workEstimate cost ₹20 crore per kilometreAccording to civic officials, the Mula-Mutha river flows in PMC, PCMC, Khadki and Pune Cantonment areas for 44 kilometres. PMC will have to spend ₹20 crore per kilometre for the development of the riverfront. It will take more than five years to complete the project. There are 650 hectares of land available for the development green belt of the river which will be given to development to private players to get funds for the project. Out of 650 hectares, only 75 hectares belongs to the government and the remaining is private. Hence, the PMC will get money from development charges from the development of land along the riverfront.About special purpose vehicle (SPV)Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporations (PCMC) will have to raise a seed fund of ₹500 crore. The remaining amount of the project will have to raise from private parties. However, it will happen after the approval of the state government to form an SPV for the project.Pune mayor, the standing committee chairman, leader of the house, opposition leader, PMC commissioner, PCMC commissioner, chief executive officer of cantonment, divisional commissioner, PMC city engineer, experts in the field of river development and conservation are members of SPV.Project includes• Build embankments for floor protection• Reduce the impact of man-made obstruction to the flow of water in the river• Create a public realm along the river• Curb pollution by drainage and sewage treatment works• Enhance connectivity• Build embankments for floor protection• Integrated river in the life of the cityPriority stretchesMundhwa bridge to Mundhwa jack well (Kharadi) - Approximately three kilometresBund Garden bridge to Sangamwadi bridge – Approximately four kilometres||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/riverfront-development-project-pmc-starts-work-on-4km-bund-garden-to-sangamwadi-bridge-stretch-101617283317523.html
01-04-2021||West||‘BJP won’t win, TMC will get 90% votes in Nandigram’, claims Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee sharpened her stance against the Election Commission of India alleging that the poll body was siding with the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and also accused it of inaction over several complaints filed by the Trinamool Congress (TMC) on Thursday.“Whatever you (Election Commission) try, BJP will not win. In Nandigram, 90% of the votes will go to TMC,” Banerjee was quoted as saying by news agency ANI, after she visited one of the polling stations in the Nandigram constituency and alleged that many voters were not being allowed to vote. She also lodged a complaint regarding the same with governor Jagdeep Dhankar over the same.Follow latest updates on voting in West Bengal, Assam hereThe West Bengal chief minister’s comments come after chaos for nearly two hours when she reached the polling booth to oversee the voting process. Intense sloganeering could be heard as Banerjee sat inside the booth, with loud iterations of BJP's 'Jai Shree Ram', ANI reported.The TMC supremo also trained guns at Union home minister Amit Shah saying he was instructing central forces to assist “BJP goons.” “Home Minister himself is instructing CRPF, BSF, and other jawans to help only BJP and its goons. I apologise to my Election Commission for their silence. We have given so many letters but they are one-sidedly supporting BJP candidates,” she was quoted as saying.Banerjee claimed that 63 complaints regarding booth capturing have been sent to the EC and slammed the poll body for “inaction.”Click here for full assembly election 2021 coverageThe EC, meanwhile, sought a detailed report from the administration in connection with an incident of violence in Boyal area in Nandigram, news agency PTI reported.Her opponent from the Nandigram seat, Suvendu Adhikari, who was once known to be Banerjee’s close aide, accused her of disrupting polling for nearly two hours and said that she was indulging in “drama”. “Mamata stalled voting for 2 hours here. Around 90% of voting has happened in Nandigram but it is only 78% at this booth. Voting is going on peacefully here. There is no issue. There is no worker of TMC in this area. She is doing drama,” the BJP leader told ANI.Voting is being held across 30 constituencies of the eastern state in the second phase of assembly elections. West Bengal is witnessing polls in eight phases ending April 29. The results of the assembly elections will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/west-bengal-elections-2021-mamata-banerjee-sharpens-attack-on-ec-says-whatever-you-try-bjp-will-not-win-101617282247357.html
01-04-2021||Patna||Tejashwi Yadav likely to campaign in West Bengal polls in coming weeks||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav could be canvassing for Trinamool Congress (TMC) candidates at few pockets in West Bengal in the remaining rounds of the eight phased assembly polls ending April 29, party leaders claimed. This comes amid the TMC and West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s call to opposition leaders to unite against the BJP. Banerjee had written to 15 top opposition leaders on Wednesday to have them unite against the BJP.As per some top RJD leaders, the 31-year old Yadav scion, who has already extended his party’s support to the TMC in the West Bengal polls by not fielding any candidates to strengthen secular forces, has received requests from several TMC candidates and leaders to campaign in various constituencies in the next few weeks before the conclusion of the eight-phased polls. “We have received requests from the TMC leaders and other candidates asking Tejashwi to visit Bengal to campaign but we have not drawn up a schedule so far. There are chances Tejashwi would campaign in few areas in the coming weeks. Right now, we are taking feedback from the state party unit on how the canvassing schedule could be prepared in a consolidated manner,” said Sanjay Yadav, a close aide of Tejashwi. Sources said Tejashwi’s campaign programme could be scheduled before the fifth and the seventh phase of polls on April 17 and April 26 when constituencies like Burdaman, Asansol, Durgapur, having a sizeable Bihari population, will go to polls. Party’s Rajya Sabha MP and national spokesperson Manoj Jha expressed the same and said, “it is likely Tejashwi will be campaigning in Bengal”. The RJD MP had described the TMC chief’s letter to 15 top opposition leaders as “very timely”. “The letter by TMC chief Mamata Banerjee to opposition leaders to unite against the BJP is precisely very timely. The BJP is virtually berserk in destroying institutions and established democratic norms,” said Jha. Bengal BJP leaders have attacked Tejashwi for his silence over Banerjee’s recent remarks where she had accused the BJP of bringing in anti-social elements from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar to Nandigram to allegedly intimidate voters. Banerjee is locked in a keen contest with BJP’s Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram where polling took place on Thursday. “We condemn the statement by Banerjee about people from UP and Bihar. Why is Tejashwi not giving a clarification? The TMC chief’s statement is an attempt to stoke feelings of regionalism,” said Nikhil Anand, state BJP spokesperson. However, RJD’s state spokesperson Chittraranjan Gagan averred that the BJP was in the habit of twisting facts and giving a different angle to the TMC chief’s statement for deriving political mileage. Meanwhile, Hindustani Awam Morcha (HAM-S) chief and former chief minister Jitan Ram Manjhi, an ally of the NDA, is also scheduled to campaign in few areas of Kolkata from April 5. The participation of top NDA leaders in the West Bengal polls this time has been low with Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar unlikely to campaign, although the Janata Dal(United) is contesting 40 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/tejashwi-yadav-likely-to-campaign-in-west-bengal-polls-in-coming-weeks-101617282238220.html
01-04-2021||Other||MCCIA survey #12: Slight dip reported in production levels for March||PUNE A 12th survey conducted by the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), has found that on one hand 48% of companies surveyed have managed to take their production to pre-Covid levels, at the same time, the average level of production of those surveyed has come down by 2 %. In a previous survey conducted in February, 51% of the companies had said their production was already at pre-Covid levels.According to the survey, on an average, companies said that current levels of production decreased to 83% in March, from 85% in February. Companies also said that the number of employees working has stayed at 86% in March. Prashant Girbane, director general, MCCIA, said, “From April 2020 till February 2021, the survey indicated month-on-month recovery, but for this first time, there is a small dent in this recovery in March. Once again, the smaller the size of the firm, the slower has been the recovery, indicating a need for the government to pay even more attention to micro and small-sized firms.” A total of 100 firms participated in the survey, with 67% of organisations surveyed from the manufacturing sector, 14% from the services sector and the rest from both manufacturing and services. Sudhir Mehta, president, MCCIA, said “Increased levels of vaccination would boost confidence and along with manufacturing, even contact-based services will start contributing more to national economic recovery. Through the Pune Platform for Covid Response (PPCR) promoted by the MCCIA, we are taking all possible steps to promote Covid-appropriate behaviour, as well as gathering momentum for one lakh vaccines per day.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mccia-survey-12-slight-dip-reported-in-production-levels-for-march-101617281577463.html
01-04-2021||Other||UP clerics launch drive to counter myths over Covid vaccine||LUCKNOW Cutting across ideological lines, clerics in UP have launched an exercise to bust myths about the Covid vaccine and motivate Muslims to go in for inoculation. During the Friday ‘namaz’, they will put across the message – ‘Vaccination is the only way to fight back against the deadly virus’. “In Islam, nothing is bigger than saving us and the family from a disease. Hence it’s a humble appeal to our Muslim brethren not to fall prey to any myths about Covid vaccine and to come forward for the vaccination. This is the only way we can check the spread of virus,” said Maulana Khalid Rasheed Farangi Mahali, senior member of All-India Muslim Personal Law Board (AIMPLB) and Imam, Eidgah, Lucknow. The Sunni cleric said he would be making an announcement to motivate people for the vaccination during ‘namaz’ on Friday and address ‘Khutba-e-Juma’ (a sermon by the cleric after Friday prayers) to make people understand the importance of vaccine. On Thursday when vaccination for people above 45 years started, Farangi Mahali was not the lone cleric to launch the motivational exercise. Other clerics too launched a drive to fight back against Covid in different ways. Prominent Shia cleric Maulana Kalbe Jawad Naqvi termed vaccination a moral responsibility, saying all Muslims should get themselves inoculated. “I think this is the best possible way we can help the administration in containing the coronavirus. We should come forward for the vaccination,” said Jawad. He also said that he would be addressing all vaccine related queries with the gathering during the Friday prayers at Asafi mosque, Bada Imambada in Lucknow. Another Shia cleric Maulana Yasoob Abbas, who is also general secretary of All India Shia Personal Law Board (AISPLB), claimed to have launched a drive to motivate eligible people to come forward for vaccination. “It is our duty to get ourselves vaccinated. All Indians should get it done. I am creating awareness on the issue in all my religious meetings and making an appeal to people to get themselves vaccinated,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-clerics-launch-drive-to-counter-myths-over-covid-vaccine-101617280797370.html
01-04-2021||Bangalore||Congress demands resignation of Karnataka CM Yediyurappa||On Thursday, the Congress demanded the resignation of Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa. The demand came after the state’s rural development and panchayat raj minister KS Eshwarappa’s wrote to the governor stating that the CM had indiscriminately sanctioned funds to various MLAs and other persons in violation of rules.The Congress also demanded an inquiry against Yediyurappa.Addressing a press conference, senior Congress leader Rajeev Shukla said that in order to have a fair and transparent investigation, it is very important that the chief minister resigns. He also urged the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to solicit his resignation and stand true to their claims of transparency and morality in politics.Shukla said, “The order given by the high court and the accusation made against the chief minister for interfering and corruption are very serious matters. If BJP doesn’t take action against Yediyurappa, then it would not be in their moral right to talk against the issue of corruption”.Also Read | CM running ‘authoritarian’ govt: Karnataka minister in letter to GuvShukla was referring to the Karnataka high court’s Wednesday order removing the stay on the probe against Yediyurappa for his alleged role in Operation Kamal, a name given to the plan devised by the BJP to lure Janata Dal (Secular) MLA Naganagouda Kandkur to the party by offering him money and a ministerial position.On Wednesday, Eshwarappa submitted a letter to the Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala and BJP national general secretary in-charge of Karnataka Arun Singh. In his letter, the minister accused the chief minister of “authoritarian interference” in his ministry, which he further pointed out is a violation of Karnataka (Transaction of Business) Rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/congress-demands-resignation-of-karnataka-cm-yediyurappa-101617280558115.html
01-04-2021||Other||Mall, bar in Lucknow sealed for violating Covid protocols||LUCKNOW The district administration on Thursday sealed a mall in Gomti Nagar and a bar near Shaheed Path for flouting Covid protocols and directed them to submit an explanation within two days. These establishments will remain closed till further orders, said officials. Action was initiated in the morning, when a team of officials found that no Covid safety measures were in place at Fun Mall. “No one was maintaining register to keep a record of visitors. There were no restrictions on the entry of people not wearing masks,” said an official. The team also found that there were no proper arrangements for Covid help desk, which is a mandate as per Covid-19 protocols. The team also sealed ‘My Bar’ at the Summit Building near Shaheed Path. Abhishek Prakash, district magistrate said both the establishments were sealed for violating Covid-19 protocols. He said a similar drive would continue to ensure strict implementation of Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mall-bar-in-lucknow-sealed-for-violating-covid-protocols-101617280497294.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi man gets friends to fire at him for gaining sympathy, cops arrest 2||Two people were arrested for allegedly firing at their friend here on his instructions for gaining sympathy of people he had taken money from for providing them government jobs, police said on Thursday.Mohammad Abbas had hatched a conspiracy of the attack on himself as he did not want to return the money, police said.According to the plan, Juber Ahmad (42) and Rashid (36) reached the spot in east Delhi's Kalyanpuri where Abbas met them. Juber fired a bullet at Abbas' waist and then fled to Meerut, Deepak Yadav, Deputy Commissioner of Police (East), said.One Italy-made pistol, a live cartridge and a scooter were recovered from Meerut-residents Juber and Rashid, police said.Around 1.20 am on March 17, police got information that Abbas, a resident of Kalyanvas, has been admitted in a hospital with gunshot injury, they added.During investigation, Abbas allegedly tried to mislead police by saying two unknown people had fired at him, and that one Hasan Mohammad was behind the attack, a senior police officer said.Abbas works at the Patiala House Court as a multi-tasking staff and had taken ₹6 lakh from Shah Alam, nephew of Hasan Mohammad. He had also taken money from other people, he said.“On the basis of technical surveillance, Abbas' friend Juber was apprehended. He revealed that he was contacted regarding the plan to which he agreed as Abbas lured him with ₹50,000,” the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-gets-friends-to-fire-at-him-for-gaining-sympathy-cops-arrest-2-101617279795275.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||NIA searches hotel, club in Mumbai in Ambani bomb scare case||The NIA conducted searches at a hotel and a club in south Mumbai on Thursday in connection with its probe into the case of an explosives-laden SUV found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence and the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, an official said.A team of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) reached the Soni building, where the hotel and the club are situated, around 12.45 pm.Customers and staff members of the hotel were asked to vacate the premises, located near the Babulnath temple.During the search, the NIA sleuths also made enquiries with a few people at the club and the hotel, the official said.The probe team left the place after over three hours.Some officials of the Gamdevi police station, under whose jurisdiction the area falls, were also present at the spot.Suspended Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze, whom the NIA arrested last month in connection with the security scare outside Ambani's residence, was recently brought by the probe agency to the Babulnath area as part of its probe into the case, he said.The gelatin sticks found in the vehicle near Ambani's house last month were procured by Vaze, NIA sources claimed on Wednesday.The NIA on Sunday recovered a laptop, a printer, two hard disks, two vehicle number plates, two digital video recorders (DVRs) and two CPUs from the Mithi river here with the help of divers.The agency is probing the alleged role of Vaze in parking the explosives-laden SUV near Ambani's residence on February 25 and in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran.The body of Hiran, who was in possession of the SUV, was found in a creek in Mumbra town of neighbouring Thane district on March 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-searches-hotel-club-in-mumbai-in-ambani-bomb-scare-case-101617278843343.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Judge of local court in Pune held for taking bribe on pretext of favourable decision, sent to police custody till April 5||PUNE Wadgaon Maval judicial magistrate (first class) Archana Jatkar, whose role was under scanner by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) for allegedly taking bribe on the pretext of favourable decision was arrested at 11 am on Thursday, and has been remanded to police custody till April 5.Jatkar whose bail application was rejected by the Supreme Court surrendered at the ACB office after which she was taken into custody and placed under arrest.Assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Seema Mehendale, the investigating officer in the case produced Jatkar before special judge SR Navander at Shivajinagar district court and sought six days of police custody. The court rejected her bail application and remanded her to police custody till April 5.Three people have been earlier arrested in the same case.The order stated, “This court while deciding the bail application of the present accused vide order dated February 23, 2021, in criminal bail application has specifically observed that there is strong prima facie case against the accused, there appears serious conspiracy which needs to be excavated. It is also observed that there is a hidden network that is working and it needs to be traced out and hence custodial interrogation of the accused is necessary. For that reason only, the anticipatory bail application came to be rejected. Similar are the observations of the Hon High Court in the order dated March 3, 2021.”Advocate SS Nikam, who represented Jatkar, argued that the other accused in the case have been interrogated in police custody, entire evidence has already been collected and therefore her custodial interrogation is not necessary. She is ready to co-operate with the investigating officer and make herself available for inquiry.Public prosecutor Vilas Ghogare-Patil demanded her police custody on the ground that there is a big network that needs to be busted. “We have witnesses who have stated that there are seven to eight more land-related matters in which earlier arrested accused Shubhavari Gaikwad (private person) had approached them on behalf of Jatkar to settle the cases and get a judgement in their favour.”“ACB has to seize the mobile phone of Jatkar. She had spoken to Gaikwad 147 times, with another arrested accused police inspector (dismissed) Jadhav 18 times. During the conversation, Jatkar has taken names of judge Deshmukh and Ajay Gopinathan and ACB has to investigate about it,” the public prosecutor said.On hearing both sides, Judge Navander stated, “At this juncture, it is necessary to note that the present accused is the key person of the crime. The actions of the other accused were depending upon her moves and directions. The investigating officer has specifically stated that she has to interrogate the accused not only regarding the incident mentioned in the present crime but some other instances also, the mobile found with the accused has to be seized, her connections with the other accused have to be searched and for that purpose inquiry of accused is necessary while in custody. Ongoing through the case diary, what can be noted is that it is not a single transaction in which there is the involvement of the present accused. It is not a single instance that can be just inquired and closed. Considering the scope of the investigation, custodial interrogation of the accused is absolutely necessary, it cannot be dispensed with only because the accused is a Judicial Officer. The status of a particular person cannot become a hurdle for the investigation.”The first information report (FIR) in the bribery case was lodged at Dehu road police station for offences under section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act.Earlier arrestsACB has already arrested Shubhavari Bhalchandra Gaikwad (29), a resident of Talegaon, Sushant Baban Kenjale (35) of Ravet and dismissed the police inspector Bhanudas alias Anil Jadhav of Mumbai. They are currently lodged in jail under magisterial custody remand while Ajay Gopinathan, a resident of Kharghar, Navi Mumbai, is wanted in the case.On January 13, 2021, a trap was laid and Gaikwad was arrested for accepting a bribe amount, which consisted of real cash of ₹50,000 and duplicate notes of ₹2,50,000. Her hands were checked under the ultraviolet lamp, those were found shining with the anthracene powder. Accordingly, a trap panchanama was prepared.Gaikwad impersonated herself as a court staffer and promised to manage the court’s decision in favour of the complainant identified as Swapnil Madhukar Shevkar, a resident of Induri in Maval taluka.Gaikwad, approached him on January 4- 5 falsely pretending herself to be “Mhatre Madam” and told him that there is a criminal case filed against him in the court of the applicant judicial officer. She also showed him a copy of a criminal complaint and pointed out that it was posted for hearing on January 6 and gave him an assurance that the case will be dismissed by managing the presiding officer if he made a payment of ₹5 lakh.Shevkar showed displeasure after which she reduced the amount of bribe to ₹3 lakh. The complainant, therefore, approached the office of ACB on January 6 and filed a complaint of demand for bribe after which a trap was laid leading to her arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/judge-of-local-court-in-pune-held-for-taking-bribe-on-pretext-of-favourable-decision-sent-to-police-custody-till-april-5-101617279357382.html
01-04-2021||Dehradun||23 Kumbh police stations come into effect in Haridwar with notification||With the Uttarakhand government’s notification of Mahakumbh 2021 coming into effect from Friday, Kumbh-specific police stations have also started operating in Haridwar’s Mahakumbh area. A total of 23 Kumbh police stations have been established for the ongoing fair where pilgrims, saints, tourists, even locals, can register their complaints, police said. These Kumbh police stations will operate round the clock till the conclusion of the Mahakumbh fair by the end of this month and will have Kumbh station house officers (SHO), in charge, sub-inspectors and constables, Kumbh circle officers as higher authorities. First Information Reports (FIRs) can also be filed at these Kumbh police stations for effective policing and working. Located in the districts of Haridwar, Pauri Garhwal, Tehri Garhwal and Dehradun, these Kumbh police stations have been brought in place to make sure that pilgrims and tourists are able to easily approach these police stations regarding any complaint or crime. From the filing of FIRs to helping complainants look for their missing children or elderly family members during the Kumbh fair, these police stations have been temporarily set up to aid grievance redressal of those attending the fair. “Locals, as well as pilgrims and tourists, can avail of the Kumbh police station facility during the mela tenure. Requisite directives have been given to Kumbh police station duty personnel to take prompt action on complaints as well as behave in a cordial and friendly manner with the complainants. Now, for Kumbh, apart from regular district police stations, additional Kumbh police stations will ensure better law-order and redressal of pilgrims’ woes,“ said Inspector General, Kumbh Force, Sanjay Gunjiyal. For better security management, the whole Kumbh zone has been divided into three super zones including the core Har-Ki-Pauri mela zone, besides nine zones and 25 sectors. According to the Superintendent of Kumbh Force, Surjeet Singh Pawar, around 12,000 police personnel, home guards and 4,000 personnel (40 companies) of central paramilitary forces have been deployed for the grand event while more will be arriving by April 8 for the two back-to-back Shahi Snan (royal bath) that will fall on Somwati Amavasya (April 12) and Baisakhi (April 14).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/23-kumbh-police-stations-come-into-effect-in-haridwar-with-notification-101617277317938.html
01-04-2021||Pune||NHAI increases toll rate by 5 per cent at Khed Shivapur naka||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has increased the toll by five per cent at the Khed Shivapur toll naka starting from April 1 and the toll rates are going to be hiked. From the last 10.5 years, various works on the highway are pending and in spite of that the toll rates have been increased making passengers furious. The NHAI Pune division has given a public notice in the local newspapers according to which, “From April 1, 2021 onwards the rates of the light motor vehicles, minibuses and trucks (two axle), goods transport vehicles, heavy transport vehicles (three to six axle), huge vehicles with seven axles are going to be increased by 5 per cent.” While the activists have opposed this toll hike, Vivek Velankar president of Sajag Nagrik Manch said, “The decision of increasing the toll rates at Khed Shivapur toll naka on the Pune Satara highway is not right. As the works are still pending and not done properly in the last ten years several fatal and serious accidents have taken place on this highway. Traffic jams, fuel wastage and mental harassment is also faced by travellers. Due to Fastag, the toll collection has increased then why has this unnecessary toll hike being done?” From April 1 onwards, common passengers travelling by car will have to pay ₹100 one way and ₹150 for return travelling within 24 hours. Similarly, the rates have been increased for other heavy vehicles, trucks, buses and huge transport vehicles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nhai-increases-toll-rate-by-5-per-cent-at-khed-shivapur-toll-naka-101617277138058.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Farmer unions say protests will continue, reject SC panel report||Rejecting the Supreme Court-appointed committee’s report even before it has been made public, Samyukta Kisan Morcha and BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) leaders said they will not wait for any decision of the top court as expected on April 5. They said they will intensify their agitation against the three farm laws by holding protests in Delhi and Punjab on the harvest festival of Baisakhi on April 13 and the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar, the architect of the Constitution, on April 14 besides marching to Parliament in May. Farmers also plan to block the KMP Expressway in Haryana for 24 hours on April 10. The Supreme Court panel, comprising farm economists Anil Ghanwat, Ashok Gulati and Pramod Kumar Joshi, submitted its report to the top court recently. Bhupinder Singh Mann, a Bhartiya Kisan Union leader, who was also initially a part of the committee, resigned from the panel. No hope from committee: Rajewal “We have already rejected this committee and are not aware about its report. Farmers have no hope from the members of this committee as the three laws have been made on their recommendations. They have expressed their point of view by writing articles in newspapers in favour of these laws,” said Balbir Singh Rajewal, the chief of the BKU’s Rajewal faction. He is a senior leader of the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 32 farmers groups. “We are not concerned about the report of the SC panel and its hearing. We will continue our agitation,” he said. Will continue protests for repeal: Ugrahan BKU (Ekta-Ugrahan) state chief Joginder Singh Ugrahan said that the farmers had rejected the committee and the government could not impose its report or any court verdict on farmer unions. “I have no faith in this committee. When we didn’t accept it, why should we consider its recommendations?” he said. The chief of one of the biggest farmer outfits in Punjab that is leading the protest at Delhi’s Tikri border, toll plazas and outside houses of BJP leaders in the state, Ugrahan said, “We will continue protests until the anti-farmer laws are repealed.” Ugrahan, who is recovering from Covid-19, said that he will address farmers at Tikri border on April 5 and also take part in the KMP Expressway dharna on April 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/farmer-unions-say-protests-will-continue-reject-sc-panel-report-101617276542763.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Pune police arrest man from Amravati for allegedly killing woman who refused to marry him||PUNE A man from Amravati district was remanded to custody of Pune city police by a local court on Wednesday after he was found to have allegedly killed a woman who had refused to marry him. The crime came to light when he was arrested by the police for harassing the woman’s family in Amravati.The arrested accused has been identified as a 32-year-old resident of Amravati.The woman, also a native of Amravati, believed to have been murdered used to reside with another girl in Pune. Her remains were found near Bhatghar dam.“She (the victim) had left with the accused and he had taken her to the dam area where he allegedly killed her and then left for Amravati. Our team visited the spot near the dam four times before we got the man’s custody. However, we found it only later,” said Pankaj Deshmukh, deputy commissioner of police, zone-4 of Pune police.“The Amravati police brought the accused to Pune on March 30 and we arrested him on March 31. He was produced in court on March 31 and remanded to custody till April 5. He told us that they had been in a relationship in the past, but were having disputes. He asked her to give him one day’s time to meet and solve their issues. He took her to Bhatghar dam and hit her head with a stone at a secluded spot. We found a desiccated body at the spot that he described,” said senior inspector Sunil Jadhav of Chandannagar police station.A missing person’s complaint was registered by her roommate over two weeks ago when she failed to return home from work for days.The accused had started harassing members of the woman’s family in Amravati and was arrested by the Amravati police in a case registered against him under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The case against him was registered after a complaint lodged by the woman’s family for coming to their house and harassing them.The man had vandalised the woman’s house once in 2018 and then on February 14, according to the police. However, she decided to severe ties with the man after the February 14 incident.A case under Sections 302 (murder) and 364 (kidnapping for murder) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Chandannagar police station against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-police-arrest-man-from-amravati-for-murder-of-woman-101617275217009.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccination drive picks up in Himachal||The Covid-19 vaccination drive, which had got off to a slow start in Himachal Pradesh, gathered pace on Thursday with the launch of the third phase for those aged 45 years and above. The enthusiasm is higher among the younger population and the state government has set up 2,700 inoculation centres to cater to the demand. “I got myself registered for the vaccination as soon as the government announced opening the vaccination for us. I have lost many near and dear ones to this pandemic,” said Vikas Singha, 46, an apple orchadist from Kotgarh. National Rural Health Mission state director Dr Nipun Jindal, who is in-charge of the vaccination drive in Himachal Pradesh, said 3.11 lakh doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been received. “We are geared up to cover all those above 45. We are targeting 14-18 lakh people in this phase. A total of 2,500 vaccination centres have been set up across the state and the doses have been delivered. We aim to vaccinate more than 20,000 people daily,” Dr Jindal said. Shimla chief medical officer Dr Surekha Chopra said: “We had been holding 80 vaccination sessions a day in Shimla district but have increased them from today.” Behind target in earlier phases The health department aimed to inoculate 96,000 health workers in the first phase of vaccination but has been able to cover 77,000 so far. District administrations have been asked to complete the coverage of health workers by April 10. “The vaccination drive is being accelerated and we are running a publicity campaign urging all those eligible to take the vaccine,” Dr Jindal said. The department aimed to vaccinate 11 lakh senior citizens but has been able to inoculate only 3 lakh of them so far. Not many above 45 with co-morbidities came forward with only 12,537 of them getting vaccinated. However, the response from frontline workers, particularly those in the police, has been encouraging. Of the 59,000 frontline workers, 46,310 have got themselves vaccinated. Reaching out to remote regions Understaffing at sub centres and primary health centres in remote areas of Chamba and Sirmaur districts is hampering the vaccination drive. “We don’t deny that this is one of the reasons for the slow pace, but arrangements are being made to inoculate people in remote areas,” says Dr Gopal Berry, deputy director, NRHM. The vaccination drive is yet to reach Malana, a remote village in Kullu district that still lacks road connectivity. “So far, no health worker has visited us. Our village deity has been kind and not a single person has been infected during the pandemic,” says Raju Ram, the pradhan of the Malana panchayat. The vaccination drive is slow in Chopal assembly segment in Shimla district due to staff shortage at health centres and lack of transport facilities at some villages. Chamba shows the way to make drive a success In Chamba, the health authorities have started carrying out vaccination in a phased manner. “As far as the remote parts are concerned, we are carrying out vaccination at sub centres and primary health centres on alternate days,” says Chamba chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Guleri. “We have many sub-centres without staff, but our teams have been deputed there to carry out the inoculation,” he said. So far, more than 35,000 people have been inoculated in the district. Of them, about 20,000 are senior citizens with co-morbidities which is an achievement given the district’s topography.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccination-drive-picks-up-in-himachal-101617274437780.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Taste of life: Suez Canal channelling food stuff to Pune since 1869||On July 24, 1876, a letter written by one Mrs. H appeared in “The Statesman and New Friend of India”, a daily published from Calcutta. “Establishments in Mahabalesvar, without being nearly half so well supplied, are much dearer than those of Calcutta and Bombay. It is difficult to purchase good quality jams and other preserves and they bear a most preposterous price. One has to purchase a jar of pickle brought from England for two pounds”, she complained. She also presented a solution to her problem in the same letter. If “provisioners like Havell, Whitley (sic), Wyse and Cox who had shops in Calcutta, Madras and Patna opened their branches in Poona (or preferable Mahabalesvar)”, she would be “spared of the act of extravagance of purchasing jams, pickles, and cheese at exorbitant rates”.Mrs. H further posed an interesting question - with the opening of the Suez Canal, why was it difficult for her to procure fresher and cheaper provisions in Mahabalesvar and Poona? She was not completely off the mark. Worldwide trade surged in the second half of the nineteenth century, and the opening of the Suez Canal in 1869 had the effect of channelling much of the resultant shipping through the Middle East. Britain and India had become enclasped in an economic partnership, and the essential condition was an uninterrupted procession of steamships passing through the Canal.In the days of sail, the voyage from England to India via the Cape of Good Hope took four months at least. The commodities would further require up to two months to reach their destinations by road, or sometimes, rail. The invention of the compound steam engine dramatically reduced the cost of shipping goods by sea. Coupled with the inauguration of submarine cable links, the opening of the Suez Canal facilitated communication between India and Europe, and the trade on this route largely increased.This directly benefitted establishments like Havell (Patna), Whiteley (Madras), and Tulloh and Co. (Calcutta), who now had access to fresher and cheaper products. They earlier had to face stiff competition from the captains of East Indiamen, who filled the private space allotted to them in their ships with goods for resale in Calcutta, Madras and Bombay. As soon as his ship arrived, the captain would advertise his wares in local newspapers, listing such delicacies as tinned lobsters, oysters and reindeer tongues, liqueurs, hams and dried fruits. This illegal trade came to a halt after Britain gained control over the Suez Canal. The British reorganised the Egyptian Government and suppressed corruption, thereby facilitating increased traffic on the canal.Refrigeration had by then made it practicable to ship beef, lamb, butter, fish and fruit halfway around the globe. “Mahratta”, the English periodical edited by BG Tilak, in March 1883 reported that European shops in the Poona cantonment area had prospered after the Suez Canal became operational and that they had started stocking goods that were not available earlier. It wished that Maharashtrian youth would take cognisance of this opportunity and export spices to Europe.“Mahratta” did not seem to have pursued this matter again, but almost a decade later, on September 12, 1891, “Bombay Chronicle” wrote about a Parsi gentleman who had set up a small manufacturing unit in Indapur, near Pune. His name was Jamshedji Mehta and he intended to make “a variety of cooking and table sauces and pickles”. The Madras and Poona sauces and the cabbage and raw mango pickles made at Indapur were to be exported to the United Kingdom. Mehta had already applied for required permits and had employed native and European staff. The newspaper does not mention Mehta or his factory at Indapur again. My search for him and his enterprise has drawn no results. Maybe the factory never took off. Or it shut down after it failed to attract customers. But, this seems unlikely given the huge demand for European delicacies in British India. Mrs. H would definitely have been a loyal customer.She might have had to wait for a few years to buy cheaper and fresher European delicacies in Poona after she wrote the letter to the newspaper. Her wish was finally granted when Treacher and Company, Limited (who had their shops in Bombay, Byculla and Poona), proudly announced in January 1881 that, (their) “department was being continuously replenished with supplies purchased from the first English and Continental Houses and shipped weekly via the Suez Canal; the Company was thus placed in a position to guarantee both quality and freshness, advantages which should be specially noted by consumers”.Treacher and Company, established in the late 1860s, had their shop on Arsenal Road in Poona and sold hams, bacon, butter, cheese, tongues, brawn, ox cheek, soups (hare, mock-turtle, ox tail), fish, french pates, beef, lamb, veal, sausages, pies, shrimp, lobsters, vegetables, tart fruits, jams, jellies, pickles, biscuits, sauces, tea, coffee, and chocolates. It was in existence when Mrs. H complained about her plight, and hence, it is a mystery why she chose to ignore Treacher’s.Nevertheless, Poona got its share of fresh European meat and preserves thanks to the Suez Canal. I hope that made Mrs. H happy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-suez-canal-channelling-food-stuff-to-pune-since-1869-101617273598398.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||RN Dhoke to head Punjab’s first enforcement directorate for mining||The Punjab government on Thursday appointed additional director general of police (ADGP) RN Dhoke as the first head of the enforcement directorate (ED), mining. ED, mining, is the new enforcement wing set up by the state government to look into complaints of illegal mining. It will also help in ramping up the state’s revenues by curbing illegal mining. The cabinet had cleared the setting up of this wing on Wednesday. The ED, mining, will stop the unauthorised movement of minor minerals within Punjab and at inter-state borders in connivance with mining officials. It will facilitate prosecution of those indulging in illegal mining under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act, 1957. Will check overcharging in sand, gravel business Working closely with the mining wing of the water resources department, the ED, mining, will check that those involved in the sand and gravel business do not overcharge on the sale price ceiling prescribed in the mining policy. It will have the mandate to develop strategies in coordination with the director, mining, chief engineers dealing with mining and district-level illegal mining enforcement committees under the deputy commissioners. It will develop intelligence for the purpose and coordinate with agencies of neighbouring states. The ED will be headed by a police officer not below the rank of a DIG at the state level and will be assisted by three superintendents of police (SP) at the head office. Each of the seven mining blocks will be headed by an officer not below the rank of a deputy superintendent of police with 21 inspectors/sub inspectors at the district level and 175 head constables/constables. The police personnel in the ED will be provided salary, equipment and arms by the police department. Any special equipment, if required, will be provided from the district mineral foundation fund. Time-bound probe of every case In addition to the investigation of mining-related cases by district police chiefs as at present, the ED will register cases in coordination with XENs, SDOs, mining officers, orders of the Supreme Court and National Green Tribunal guidelines. It will present final reports (challans) to the respective courts. Investigation of every case will be done in a time-bound manner. Mohali, Ropar, Hoshiarpur, Pathankot, Gurdaspur, Amritsar, Ludhiana, Nawanshahr, Jalandhar, Ferozepur, Sangrur and Bathinda districts will be given more attention to ensure only legitimate mining operations. District-level illegal mining enforcement committees under the DCs will be constituted for coordination in operations against illegal mining.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rn-dhoke-to-head-punjab-s-first-enforcement-directorate-for-mining-101617267117149.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Free bus travel for women gets rolling in Punjab||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday virtually launched free travel for women in government buses running within the state. “With this, we have fulfilled another poll manifesto promise,” the chief minister said, adding that 85% of promises had been implemented. He said while everyone talks about women empowerment, his government had taken measures to achieve it. “While the promise of his government was to reduce the ticket price for women by 50%, it had gone ahead to make travel free,” he said, urging private bus operators to reduce tariff, too. 1.31 crore women to benefit from scheme Under the free travel scheme, which will benefit over 1.31 crore women/girls across the state, all women, irrespective of their financial status, will be able to travel free of cost in non-AC buses, intra-state, just by showing their Aadhar or voter card or valid identity proof. Expressing concern over crimes against women, the chief minister said his government was committed to their safety, and the transport department was installing GPS systems in all government and private buses, to enable easy tracking of the vehicle, in addition to panic button for emergency use. The process was nearly complete for government buses, and the private operators had been asked to complete it by August 31, he said. He announced 25 more bus stations to be built in the state to improve road connectivity. Will help women from needy families During the virtual launch, connected live to 30,000 people across 1,036 locations, Surinder Kaur, travelling from Baghapurana to Jalandhar to fetch her medicines, said she was pleasantly surprised this morning to discover about the scheme on boarding a bus. The scheme will be helpful to women from poor families. State transport minister Razia Sultana said her department would continue to work towards women’s safety in public and private transport, while social security, women and child development minister Aruna Chaudhary termed the scheme yet another key initiative by the state government for the welfare of women. Calling it a Women’s Day gift, Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar contrasted the state government’s mindset with that in Uttar Pradesh and some other states, which were becoming notorious for crimes against women. Punjab Youth Congress chief Barinder Dhillon mooted free travel for students, to and fro to their educational institutions, to promote education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/free-bus-travel-for-women-gets-rolling-in-punjab-101617262976882.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Jan 26 violence case: Delhi court to hear Deep Sidhu's bail plea on April 8||A Delhi court will hear the bail plea of Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu, accused of January 26 tractor rally violence, on April 8.On Wednesday, the Tis Hazari court had adjourned the hearing on the bail application filed by Sidhu after a jurisdictional issue arose.Sidhu, accused of allegedly inciting violence near the Red Fort on Republic Day, had moved his bail petition in the court on Tuesday.Police had arrested Sidhu on February 9.The names of Sidhu and others were included in the FIR registered in connection with the violence, Delhi Police had said earlier while adding that Sidhu was involved in the incident.Farmers have been protesting at the different borders of the national capital since November 26 against the three newly enacted farm laws: Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/jan-26-violence-case-delhi-court-to-hear-deep-sidhu-s-bail-plea-on-april-8-101617261489819.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi calls Uddhav Thackeray, enquires about wife’s health||Prime Minister Narendra Modi called Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday to enquire about the health of his wife Rashmi Thackeray. Uddhav Thackeray’s wife and chief editor of Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana tested positive for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on March 23 and was admitted to HN Reliance Foundation hospital on Tuesday. Party insiders said that Modi enquired about her symptoms and health. In his conversation with Uddhav Thackeray, the Prime Minister wished her an early recovery and prayed for her long life, they said.Also Read | Rashmi Thackeray, Maharashtra CM’s wife, admitted in hospital for Covid-19Modi and Uddhav Thackeray share a cordial rapport despite a split between the Sena-BJP alliance in November 2019. In April 2020, Uddhav Thackeray had dialled Modi seeking cooperation over his membership in the state legislature, failing which he would have had to resign as the chief minister. Following the phone call, the Election Commission announced the dates of legislative council elections, wherein Uddhav Thackeray was elected.Rashmi Thackeray was in home quarantine at Varsha, the chief minister’s official residence, after testing positive. She later complained of persistent cough and weakness, following which she was admitted to the hospital in Girgaon. Several tests and check-ups were conducted following her admission. Sources close to the Thackerays said that she is responding well to the treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-calls-uddhav-thackeray-enquires-about-wife-s-health-101617260399030.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi man kills wife, children; hangs himself||The bodies of a 31-year-old Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) bus driver, his 28-year-old wife and two children -- aged 6 and 3 -- were found at their flat near Rohini in outer Delhi early Thursday, police said.While the woman and the two children were found stabbed, the DTC employee was found hanging from a ceiling fan. Prime facie, it appears that the man first stabbed his wife and children and then killed himself. Police recovered a suicide note from the crime scene, said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal. Also Read | Truck runs over people at Kashmere Gate, two deadAlthough the exact reason behind the crime is still being ascertained, the police are suspecting that a dispute between the couple may have led to the deaths.The police said that the couple and their children lived on the second floor of a three-storey building. The DTC bus driver’s parents and grandmother live on the ground floor while the second floor is occupied by his brother and his wife. On Wednesday morning, when nobody left the second floor, the family members went to check on them and found the door locked from inside. As nobody was responding from inside, the family panicked and called the police. They broke open the door and found all four dead, said a police officer associated with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-man-kills-wife-children-hangs-himself-101617258296984.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid spike, doctors, chemists told to report patients in Himachal’s Una district||After a spike in Covid-19 cases, the Una district administration has issued fresh directions to prevent community spread of coronavirus. Issuing the directions on Wednesday evening, deputy commissioner Raghav Sharma said it has been seen that many patients suffering from Covid symptoms were not getting their tests done by informing the health department and were getting treatment from private practitioners. They go for test and inform the health authorities only when their condition worsens. Hence, an order under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act has been issued under which all patients suffering from Covid symptoms who come to a private doctor for treatment shall be reported to the health authorities by the doctor concerned. It is mandatory to give this information to the chief medical officer and block medical officers. Also read: Huge increase of 72,330 in India’s Covid-19 daily tally; 459 deaths in 24 hoursUna district has seen a total of 871 Covid infections in a fortnight and is among the three worst-hit districts in the second wave. The other two districts are Kangra and Solan. The total case tally in the state has gone up from 3,262 to 4,133 during this period. The toll in the district has also mounted to 58 from 47 in mid-March. Applicable to all private practitioners, chemists The orders will be applicable to all private practitioners in the district irrespective of the medical system such as allopathy, ayurveda, unani, siddha, homeopathy or any other traditional medicine system. All chemists in the district will ensure that patients who have Covid symptoms are given medicine only on prescription. The chief medical officer of Una, the block medical officer and health department staff will ensure that every Covid positive patient must compulsorily obtain the information whether he or she has undergone treatment before reporting it to the health department. “If it is found that a doctor has previously treated the patient but not informed the health department or and if a chemist has given medicines related to such a patient without consulting the doctor, it will be deemed a violation of the orders and legal action will be taken,” the order said. All panchayat heads in the rural areas and ward members in the urban areas have been asked to inform doctors, private practitioners of various treatment systems in their areas about the new restrictions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-spike-doctors-chemists-told-to-report-patients-in-himachal-s-una-district-101617256736664.html
01-04-2021||Jaipur||Former Rajasthan officer, others get 7yr jail for fraudulent property transfer||A Rajasthan court on Thursday sentenced a former state bureaucrat and three others to seven years in jail and slapped them with ₹21 lakh fine for fraudulent transfer of Kota Municipal Corporation’s (KMC) property using forged documents, said a district law officer.Former Kota Municipal Corporation (KMC) commissioner Kanhaiyalal Meena, junior clerks Jagannath and Babbu Gupta along with a Kota resident Hari Singh, were convicted and sentenced by Pramod Kumar Malik, the judge of the Prevention of Corruption Court in Kota.Assistant director, prosecution, Ashok Kumar Joshi said that the fraud first came to light in the year 2002 when the then additional superintendent of police (SP) of the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) Kota, Yashpal Sharma learnt that the Rajasthan administrative services (RAS) officer and KMC commissioner, Meena, and few other municipal employees had granted permission for construction and sale of a KMC property in Dadabari area of Kota city to Hari Singh through forged documents.The KMC property was earlier allocated to a journalist Kantichand Jain but his allotment later got cancelled and the property returned to KMC. Later, Hari Singh, through a false affidavit and forged documents of Mandi Committee Chambal Project Kota, grabbed the plot allegedly in connivance with Meena, Jagannath, Babbu Gupta, the then office superintendent of KMC Jagan Prasad and office assistant Lalit Singh. One Aslam Sher Khan and Satya Prakash Sharma alias Sattu were also alleged to be involved in the fraud.The Kota court today dropped the case against the deceased accused Aslam Sher Khan apart from Satya Prakash Sharma, Jagan Prasad and Lalit Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/former-rajasthan-officer-others-get-7yr-jail-for-fraudulent-property-transfer-101617256146292.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Cyber cell registers FIR after Maharashtra industrial body’s server hacked||Mumbai’s cyber police on Wednesday registered an FIR in connection with the hacking of the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC)’s server. Due to the cyber attack, the functioning of the MIDC’s head office in Mumbai and 16 other regional offices was disrupted. It is alleged that the hackers demanded ₹500 crore as ransom; however, neither the police nor MIDC officials have confirmed the exact amount. It is not yet clear whether the attackers are from India or abroad, the police said.According to the MIDC, the attack took place on March 21 at 2.30am and the attackers demanded a ransom through email. “Ransomware has attacked the local server system and the database which are hosted at the MIDC headquarters. This damaged the computers at the corporation’s (16) regional offices. The email sent by the attackers explained the kind of attack and their demand for ransom,” MIDC officials stated. Also Read | SolarWinds hack: US weighs ‘seen and unseen’ responses to major cyber attackSources said that the hackers demanded ₹500 crore in ransom, but the corporation didn’t bring this up in their complaint. “The FIR (given by the MIDC) in the cyber attack matter does not mention any ₹500 crore ransom,” said Milind Bharambhe, joint commissioner of police (crime), adding, “We are investigating the case further.”MIDC stated that to prevent the spread of the virus after the attack, all computers were disconnected from the server. The corporation also asked all its departments to shut their systems and not to switch on the computers until the issue is completely resolved. This caused a disruption of services across the state.Deputy commissioner of police (operation) Chaitanya Siriprolu, the spokesperson for Mumbai Police, stated that the MIDC on Wednesday complained to the Cyber police stating that on March 21, unidentified attackers used ransom malware to access the MIDC’s computer system and encrypted all its important data.All MIDC’s systems are hosted on the ESDS (a cloud service provider) and a local server . The corporation uses Trend Micro anti-virus software for security and maintenance. The corporation claimed that as backup files of its website, Single Window Clearance system, Building Plan Approval Management System (BPAMS), ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), computerised land distribution system, water bills, etc. are stored on different networks; they’re all safe. Some services have been restored while some will be restored in a day or two.Commenting on the extent of damage to the MIDC’s system due to the attack and restoring of service, Dr Anbalagan P, chief executive officer, MIDC, told HT, “The retrieval is complete. All customer interface such as single-window and other applications have been restored and made operational.”On MIDC’s complaint, the cyber police registered an FIR under sections 43 A (Compensation for failure to protect Data), F (denies or causes the denial of access to any person authorised to access any computer, computer system or computer network by any means) and 66 (computer related offences) of Information Technology Act.A team of cyber police officers also visited the MIDC office on Tuesday for inquiry. The investigators are now trying to track the digital footprints of the attacker to ascertain who is behind the ransom malware attack. Earlier an attempt at cyber sabotage, allegedly by a Chinese state-sponsored Cyber threat group, caused a massive power outage in Mumbai last October. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh had said that the Maharashtra Cyber police found evidence that suggests that the grid failure in Mumbai on October 12 last year, that resulted in the city plunging into darkness and disrupting train services, shutting down the stock market and generally hitting economic activities, was likely to be cyber sabotage.The New York Times citing a report by a US-based cyber security firm which claimed that Chinese-state sponsored groups had targeted the power sector in India with malware. This came months after the clash between troops of the two nations in Galwan valley in June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cyber-cell-registers-fir-after-maharashtra-industrial-body-s-server-hacked-101617252296248.html
01-04-2021||Education||Patna schools ready to start offline classes in new session from April 1st week||Following the Central Board of Secondary Education’s (CBSE) suggestion, most Patna schools are ready to start the new academic session in the first week of April, while some are waiting for the state education department’s call on resumption of regular classes owing to a fresh wave of Covid-19 cases in the state.Many prominent schools said they have conducted final exams and announced results and were ready to start the new session on time. St Karen’s Secondary School was set to commence the new session from April 6.“All students will attend regular classes in the new academic session. Earlier, we conducted online classes for students below Class 9 due to ongoing exams.As per Covid-19 guidelines, 50% students will attend classes on alternate days. Owing to a spike in Covid cases, school staff is prepared to effectively enforce preventative measures,” said Mary Kutty Thomas, Principal St Karen.Bishop Scott Group of Schools will see the new session begin from April 5.Ashfaque Iqbal, vice-principal of Bishop Scott Boys’ School, said, “We will timely start the new academic session. We hope to register good physical attendance in the new academic year as parents seem convinced to send their wards to school. Students have also adapted to the guidelines,” Iqbal said.DAV Public School (BSEB colony) has decided to commence the new academic session from April 6 and 7 for Classes LKG to 5 and 6 to 12 respectively.The state education department has asked all district magistrates (DMs) to inoculate government and private school teachers and staff above 45 years of age from April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/patna-schools-ready-to-start-offline-classes-in-new-session-from-april-1st-week-101617252036182.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Pune RTO issues notice to ambulance owner for overcharging patient’s kin||Pune’s Regional Transport Office has issued a notice to an ambulance service provider for charging a 45-year-old Covid-19 patient’s family ₹19,000 for shifting him from one hospital to another 16 kilometres away, officials said.“We have served notice to the registered owner of the ambulance. Concrete action will be taken in the next three days. Ambulance operators should not overcharge the patients. They should abide by the rates decided by administration,” said Sanjeev Bhor, deputy regional transport officer.The patient was shifted on March 28 around 2am and was allegedly overcharged despite a cap on the rates of ambulance services.Also Read | 8,553 new Covid cases, 31 deaths reported in Pune dist; over 23K inoculatedMayur Bolade, a friend of the patient, rejected the ambulance owner’s claim that his receipt book was stolen. “There was an urgency, and we did not have any other option but to book the ambulance. The charges were paid through...[an instant real-time payment system],” he said.Babasaheb Kand, the owner of the ambulance, claimed an ambulance service sometimes borrows his cardiac ambulance. He added his company just owns the ambulance but does not run the service.Sachin Bhagat, the service provider, insisted their receipt book was stolen and someone must have forged the bill.Many service providers were penalised last year for overcharging amid the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rto-issues-notice-to-ambulance-owner-for-overcharging-patient-s-kin-101617251936682.html
01-04-2021||Other||Class 9 boy shoots classmate dead outside school in UP’s Meerut||A class 9 student allegedly shot dead his classmate outside their school on Wednesday in Meerut’s Behsuma, police superintendent Keshav Mishra said. Mishra added a case has been registered and raids were being conducted to find him. “The accused and his family fled from their village after the incident.” The classmate collapsed outside the school principal’s office after he was shot. He was rushed to a primary health centre in Hastinapur, where doctors declared him dead. Also Read | Khar NYE murder: Janhvi Kukreja was assaulted, killed in just 20 minutes, say witnessesHis family staged a protest outside the Behsuma police station demanding immediate action against the accused.Elsewhere, a local court awarded death sentence to a man for killing his brother and two others over a property dispute in Mathura in 2018.On June 18, 2018, Chandan with the help of other convicts had shot dead his brother Satya Prakash and his friends Bhanwar Singh Fauji and Sundar Singh in Bharau village in the Raya police station area of the district. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/class-9-boy-shoots-classmate-dead-outside-school-in-up-s-meerut-101617251336521.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Several Delhi border routes remain closed||Two important border roads between Delhi and Haryana, Tikri and Singhu, remained completely closed on Wednesday as farmers continued with their agitation against the three farm laws. However, one carriageway at Ghazipur border is open for those travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway.The Delhi Traffic Police in its advisory asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for motorists.Also Read | Farmers’ body plans to hold march to Parliament in MaySome other entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, continue to remain closed fully or partially.Motorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad, the traffic police said in an advisory. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-several-delhi-border-routes-remain-closed-101617246896094.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi set for a warm day today; mercury to rise to 34°C: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a warm day on Thursday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be 18 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to be 34°C with strong surface winds during the daytime.The minimum temperature a day ago was 20°C -- two degrees above normal -- and the maximum temperature was 34.6°C -- one notch above normal.March this year has been the hottest in the past 11 years, IMD data on mean maximum temperature showed. IMD officials said Delhi recorded a mean maximum temperature of 33.°C during the month, making it the “hottest” March since 2010.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved to moderate category in the morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 159. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 203, which is in the poor category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.On Wednesday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “...An increase in coarse dust contribution in suspended particles is expected due to the dust raising high winds. Probability for significant long-range transport of dust from the arid region exists but only for a short periods. Hence, no extreme pollution event is forecast and AQI is likely to stay only in the very poor to poor range for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-set-for-a-warm-day-today-mercury-to-rise-to-34cimd-101617245816102.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Pawar undergoes endoscopy, likely to be discharged soon: Hospital||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar has undergone an endoscopic procedure for the removal of a stone from his gall bladder and his condition is improving, doctors at Breach Candy Hospital said on Wednesday. He is likely to be discharged in the next few days, they added.The 80-year-old was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday evening after he complained of abdominal pain. The NCP leader was diagnosed with gallstones on Monday.“He has multiple stones in his gall bladder and one of them had slipped into his bile duct. This caused blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas,” Dr Amit Maydeo, endoscopy expert, said. State health minister Rajesh Tope said doctors have decided to remove Pawar’s gall bladder to avoid a similar situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pawar-undergoes-endoscopy-likely-to-be-discharged-soon-hospital-101617237863867.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Panel probing charges against Deshmukh an eyewash, says BJP; NCP hits back||Calling it an “eyewash”, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Wednesday asserted that the appointment of a panel by the state government to probe the allegations by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh against home minister Anil Deshmukh was without any judicial powers and would not serve any purpose.The Maharashtra government on Tuesday set up the committee to be headed by retired high court judge Kailash Uttamchand Chandiwal and gave a timeline of six months to submit a report.“Neither it (Chandiwal committee) is constituted nor it has been given the powers under the Commission of Inquiry Act (1952) as was done in case of Justice Zoting Committee during our tenure,” Fadnavis said.Also read | You were duty-bound to file FIR against Deshmukh, HC tells Param Bir SinghThe Justice Zoting Committee is probing allegations of land grab against former BJP leader Eknath Khadse who resigned as a cabinet minister in the Fadnavis-led government in 2016 following the controversy.Pointing at Fadnavis’ “double standards”, Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and minority affairs minister Nawab Malik said: “The Zoting committee too was constituted under similar provisions to probe the allegations of the MIDC land case. What was valid during their tenure is now invalid according to Fadnavis. This is nothing but double standards.”IPS officer-turned-advocate Y P Singh said the committee is just an administrative arrangement and would not solve any purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/panel-probing-charges-against-deshmukh-an-eyewash-says-bjp-ncp-hits-back-101617237131413.html
01-04-2021||Dehradun||32 test +ve at Haridwar ashram||At least 32 people from an ashram in the Mahakumbh area in Haridwar tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.The 32 people include students of the ashram, staff members and few senior citizens, a health department official said on condition of anonymity.Also read | Mahakumbh begins, HC tells state to increase testing“It is suspected that all of them got the infection from a devotee who visited the ashram. As of now, all the infected people have been isolated in the school of ashram which has been sealed for sanitisation and other required steps,” the official said.Former secretary of the Uttarakhand chapter of the IMA, Dr DD Chowdhury, said that ahead of the Mahakumbh, the surge in the number of cases is a matter of concern.“The most important thing that should be followed is the wearing of masks by the devotees as studies have suggested that it reduces the chance of getting infected by almost 90%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/32-test-ve-at-haridwar-ashram-101617235523332.html
01-04-2021||Dehradun||Mahakumbh begins, HC tells state to increase testing||The Uttarakhand high court has directed the state government to increase daily Covid-19 testing in Haridwar from 5,000 to 50,000, as the city prepares for the Mahakumbh.Hearing a bunch of petitions on the Covid-19 pandemic, the HC also directed the state to release its Covid-19 numbers on the government website.Shiv Bhatt, counsel of one of the petitioners, said the HC has directed the government that vaccination centres and testing facilities be increased in Mahakumbh area. “Court today also clarified that those who have a certificate that they have received both doses of COVID vaccine can come to Mahakumbh,” Bhatt said.Also read | 2 days ahead of Mahakumbh, Rishikesh and Haridwar emerge as Covid-19 hotspotsAround 30 to 50 million pilgrims are expected to visit the Mahakumbh which is set to begin in the state on Thursday.The state recorded 293 new cases on Wednesday, taking the state’s tally to 100,411. A total of 15,743 samples were tested in the state on Wednesday.After experts raised concerns that the congregation could become a superspreader event, the HC on March 5 constituted a committee to inspect the preparations and infrastructure, and submit reports by March 23.“The reports pointed out that there is a need to make more hand sanitisers available in the Mahakumbh area and have proper drinking water arrangements. We also highlighted some shortcomings in many hospitals in Haridwar... The chief secretary will again inspect the Kumbh area on April 6 and the compliance report regarding inspections has to be filed before the court by April 13,” Bhatt said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/mahakumbh-begins-hc-tells-state-to-increase-testing-101617235221685.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Olive trees of Delhi||It might be dry, dusty and polluted, but Delhi is home to 252 species of trees, according to Pradip Krishen’s book ‘Trees of Delhi’. (New York has 130.) Right now, the bloom of the semal’s red flowers is ending. Soon, amaltas will glow with their golden yellow flowers. While every neighbourhood is rich with its neem, peepal or pilkhan.But you won’t find the olive tree in your nearest public park. It belongs to the soil of the Mediterranean. And yet, there’s a place in Delhi where it is flourishing. In the embassy of Italy, the land famous for its Da Vinci and Michelangelo, and its pizzas and... olive oil.This evening Paola Ferri de Luca, the ambassador’s wife, is strolling about the olives in the embassy garden. Her residence is part of the building complex, in Delhi’s Chanakyapuri.The sight of these trees is likely to shock a Delhiite, who may have had olive oil without ever seeing the tree the oil comes from. It is too short for a tree—probably no taller than film-star Amitabh Bachchan—but the foliage is disproportionately vast, and hangs upon the stumpy trunk like a motionless cloud.The garden has the same number of olives as there are figures in painter Leonardo da Vinci’s Last Supper — 13. They were planted in the 1990s under the supervision of the then ambassador, Gabriele Menegatti. The seeds were brought from Italy. Talking on WhatsApp from the municipality of Labro, in central Italy, where he lives in retirement, Mr Menegatti explains that “to Italians, the olive tree is a symbol of peace, of resilience, with widespread roots, growing on very poor soil, demanding little water.”Looking at the branches, Ms de Luca observes that the trees are trimmed once a year, the most recent was in August. A native of Naples, she confirms that these look similar to the trees growing in her country, though the Delhi ones don’t yield fruit because of different climate conditions.As the evening progresses, Ms de Luca invites the embassy’s gardeners to celebrate these trees— Kallu, Sharda Prasad, Sunil Kumar, Anuj Kumar, Lalu Ram, and Daya Ram. In their presence, the olives start to look as desi as the garden’s neem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-olive-trees-of-delhi-101617232293498.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Truck runs over people at Kashmere Gate, two dead||A 35-year-old homeless man and a civil defence volunteer were killed, and two other homeless men seriously injured, after a mini truck, which was allegedly speeding, first hit a scooter and then ran onto a pavement where the homeless people were sleeping at Kashmere Gate on Wednesday morning, the police said.The deceased civil defence volunteer, who was on the scooter, was identified as 34-year-old Vehram Khan. Police said the identity of the dead homeless man could not be ascertained till late evening.The errant mini truck driver, Atiq Ahmed, was caught by a police team on patrol duty. He was booked for rash and negligent driving causing death and injury, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said around 6.15am, the patrolling staff of Kashmere Gate police station spotted an accident on a loop road towards Nigambodh Ghat from Yudhister Setu. “A mini truck had ran onto the pavement and injured three homeless people sleeping there, after first hitting a man on a scooter. One of the homeless men died on the spot. The other three injured persons were rushed to Sushruta Trauma Centre, where the scooter rider was declared brought dead,” said Alphonse.Also read | Sizzler of a March turns out to be the hottest in 11 years, says IMDA police officer said the truck was carrying some plants and saplings to Sarai Kale Khan from north-east Delhi.The truck driver was alone in the vehicle and it was coming from the Shastri Park side. After crossing the Yamuna bridge (Yudhister Setu), the truck driver took a left turn on the loop towards Nigambodh Ghat. “The truck first hit the scooter before climbing onto the footpath outside a night shelter run by Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). It ran over three homeless men sleeping on the footpath before crashing through a concrete wall and into a drain alongside the road,” the officer said.Of the two injured men, one was identified as Ramesh, 52, from Ludhiana in Punjab, while the other person was yet to be identified.At the time of the mishap, civil defence volunteer Vehram Khan was returning home on the scooter after dropping his mother at a bus stop in Jafarabad, his family members told the police.DUSIB member Bipin Rai said there are 30 shelter homes in a two-kilometre radius between Geeta Ghat and Gandhi Park for the homeless. “Despite the caretakers of these homes asking people to sleep inside, some sleep on the pavements to escape the heat. It was an unfortunate incident, and we will try to rope in more NGOs to ensure the homeless sleep inside the shelters only,” said Rai.Sunil Kumar Aledia, member, Centre for Holistic Development, however, said a large number of homeless around Kashmere Gate sleep on footpaths because there is not enough space in shelter homes. “Twenty temporary winter homes where nearly 600 homeless people slept were recently removed from the area. The existing homes are already overcrowded. So these people have no choice but to sleep on pavements. There have been similar deaths in the past, but the Delhi government still does not have a homeless policy to ensure their safety and security,” added Aledia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/truck-runs-over-people-at-kashmere-gate-two-dead-101617232116242.html
01-04-2021||Gurugram||Firms in Gurugram can tie up with pvt hospitals, vaccinate staff on premises||Gurugram’s health department on Wednesday gave permission to private companies to tie up with city-based private hospitals to get their employees vaccinated for the coronavirus, a move that officials believe will help significantly accelerate the campaign.The health department said many private companies approached it in recent days, seeking permission to inoculate employees at a large scale and in one go.With this decision, private hospitals can set up session sites on premises to provide doses, said health department officials.“Private hospitals can enter into tie-ups with private companies for vaccinating their employees provided they follow the standard operating procedures (SOP) stipulated by the government in this regard. All conditions related to space, infrastructure, manpower and cold chain mandated by rules will have to be followed,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram.Yadav said private hospitals in the city have large capacities and need to be utilised optimally, which was why they allowed private hospitals to tie up with companies in a captive manner. “Teams from private hospitals can set up session sites on the premises of these companies and conduct vaccination as happened in the case of RWAs. Also, with citizens above the age of 45 years being allowed to get vaccinated now, a large number of corporate executives can be covered,” he said.Also read | Drive widens, 50mn set for both shots by May 15As per data shared by the health department, government vaccination sites have inoculated almost double the number of people when compared to the private sector. “If the capacity of private hospitals is used to the maximum, we will be able to vaccinate far more people,” said Yadav.On Wednesday, the government hospitals vaccinated 12,382 beneficiaries while the number in private hospitals stood at merely 1,906 beneficiaries.“The introduction of vaccination in RWAs helped and I hope the vaccination improves with the proposed tie-ups with private companies,” he said.Vinod Sood, managing director, Hughes Systiqe, who also holds the chair of NASSCOM, Haryana, said that allowing hospitals to tie-up with companies for vaccination will greatly boost the numbers.“We were already planning to seek permission for vaccination at our premises and now we will try to take maximum benefit from this directive. We will bear the cost of inoculating not only our employees and their families but also third party workers. To beat Covid-19 we will have to accelerate vaccination,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/firms-in-gurugram-can-tie-up-with-pvt-hospitals-vaccinate-staff-on-premises-101617231161227.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Man gets ₹22,000 relief as matrimonial agency fails to find groom for daughter||A Panchkula man has been awarded a compensation of ₹22,000, along with partial refund, after the matrimonial agency he hired to find a suitable match for his daughter failed to provide the promised services.The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Chandigarh, directed New Delhi-based Sycoriaan Matrimonial Services Limited to refund ₹64,000, which is 80% of the fees paid, along with ₹15,000 as compensation for deficiency in services and ₹7,000 as cost of litigation. Pawan Kumar Sharma, of Sector 21, Panchkula, had hired the agency to find a match for his daughter, who works at a private bank in Delhi. For this, he paid ₹80,500 on May 12, 2017. Despite assurance of prompt services, the agency failed to set up meetings with the shortlisted matches, Sharma complained.The company also kept sharing profiles, which did not meet their requirements. He wrote to them thrice in 2018 to stop sending these profiles and issue a refund, but to no avail, following which he approached the consumer court.Sycoriaan Matrimonial Services Limited said they provided 112 suitable profiles over 20 months as per the plan chosen by Sharma. However, they changed their preferences and rejected the profiles, which they cannot be blamed for. ‘Harassment writ large’Dismissing the arguments, in its order on Tuesday, the consumer commission said, “No credible proofs of the complainant having received and reverting in rejection of all claimed 112 profiles have been produced. It seems that only with a view to dodge this commission, the matrimonial agency has coined this excuse. The harassment suffered by the complainant is also writ large.” Further, by not promptly refunding the amount paid and redressing the customer’s grievance, the agency certainly and definitely indulged in unfair trade practice, the commission held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/man-gets-22-000-relief-as-matrimonial-agency-fails-to-find-groom-for-daughter-101617224634422.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Uttar Pradesh man arrested for burglary at Chandigarh salon||Chandigarh Police on Wednesday claimed to have solved the case of burglary that took place in Sector 35 on March 1 with the arrest of an Uttar Pradesh man. The accused is Pawan Kumar, 29, a native of Amethi. He was declared a proclaimed offender (PO) in three cases and already has 17 FIRs registered against him at different police stations in the city. On March 1, Franky Barua, owner of De La Tierra Salon in Sector 35, had reported theft of a laptop and cash up to ₹7,000. The accused had entered the shop by breaking its bathroom window from the backside. The police said Pawan was arrested from Sector 35 and the stolen laptop has been recovered from him. As per the cops, Pawan is a habitual criminal and commits burglaries when he needs money for his daily needs. He used to stay at Sector-17 bus stand or in nearby markets. During sustained interrogation, he told the police that he had committed a burglary in a medical store of Sector 22 in 2017. After scrutinising his records, the police said, it came to the fore that Pawan was declared a PO in three cases — two cases registered at Sector-36 police station in 2008 and 2017 and one at Mauli Jagran in 2010.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/uttar-pradesh-man-arrested-for-burglary-at-chandigarh-salon-101617224394222.html
01-04-2021||Other||Mohali: 8 Aerocity allottees challaned for keeping construction material on roads||Acting tough, the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA) has started levying a challan of ₹2,500 each for keeping construction material on the roads, damaging them, and obstructing traffic.On Wednesday, eight allottees in Aerocity were challaned for the offence.GMADA chief engineer Davinder Singh said, “The orders for challaning violators were issued by the chief administrator of GMADA. Initially, we will give a warning to remove the material from the roads within four days, failing which challans of ₹2,500 each will be issued. GMADA will also be confiscating the material and entire transporting charges will be borne by the allottees.”He further said, “We issued several warnings in Aerocity, but they were not adhering to it. The violators have to pay the fine along with the water bill.”As per the norm, a truck should not carry more than 4,000 bricks and 250 cubic feet of construction material, lest the overloaded trucks should damage the roads.The chief coordinator of the Aerocity Resident Coordination Committee, Vinod Kumar, said, “We are receiving lots of complaints from residents of encroachments on the roads by allottees constructing houses or other commercial projects. They are damaging roads and even hindering traffic. It is a good move by GMADA and we urge them not to follow pick and choose policy.”Provide toilets before constructing building: GMADAIn an effort to stop open defecation, GMADA has made it mandatory to provide toilets for the labourers before the construction of a building in any urban area begins.The orders in this regard were issued after there were several complaints from residents of Aerocity of labourers defecating in the open. The orders stated that any plot owner, who wishes to construct a building, will get temporary sewer connection along with water connection. The owners have to give in writing that they are constructing toilets, failing which action will be taken against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mohali-8-aerocity-allottees-challaned-for-keeping-construction-material-on-roads-101617224274442.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panjab University engineering student lands ₹31-lakh job with Google||Nimish Khurana, 21, a student of computer science engineering at Panjab University’s University Institute of Engineering and Technology (UIET), has been recruited by Google with a package of ₹31 lakh per annum.This is the highest package offered to a UIET student this year. A native of Saharanpur in Uttar Pradesh, Nimish has been recruited by Google as a software engineer in an off-campus placement drive.Nimish said, “We can see every challenge as an opportunity. Even during the lockdown we got ample time to practise. I dedicate my achievement to my parents and family who have always supported me.”Last year, two UIET students were offered a package of ₹41 lakh by Microsoft during an off-campus placement drive.Five students get ₹30-lakh offer from AmazonDuring the campus placement drive, five students of UIET bagged a package of ₹30 lakh from Amazon. One of the students, Harsh Bhardwaj, 21, of Zirakpur said, “I thank the UIET and its placement cell for their support. It was good to be getting this package during the present situation.”As per the data shared by the training and placement cell (TPC), a total of 286 UIET students have been placed this year, which is slightly lower than 304 students placed last year.Faculty in-charge of TPC, Sarbjeet Singh, said, “Earlier we had apprehensions that we may get less number of job offers this time due to the pandemic. Because of the continuous efforts of the TPC team, our placements were least impacted.”Top recruitersThe training and placement cell of UIET hosted the entire placement drive virtually. Despite the pandemic, many new companies like Vedanta, Tata Power and Hindustan Unilever recruited students this year. Among the top recruiters were Amazon, American Express, Goldman and Samsung.The annual average package also witnessed a slight increase of ₹6.45 lakh this year as compared to ₹6.39 lakh last year. UIET director, professor JK Goswamy, said, “I feel pleased and proud to share the highly commendable performance of UIET students even during the pandemic. I am optimistic of a better performance in the coming years.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panjab-university-engineering-student-lands-31-lakh-job-with-google-101617224154333.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Major fire at Dadumajra dumping ground leaves many breathless||A major fire broke out around 2pm on Wednesday at the dumping ground in Dadumajra , fumes of which triggered breathing problems among many people living in the areas nearby. Thick smoke engulfed the area, leading to poor visibility that caused inconvenience not only to commuters but also to residents staying in close vicinity — Dadumajra , Sector 38 (West), Sector 25 and Dhanas. Residents complained of irritation in throat and burning sensation in the eyes. Eight fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the fire. The cause of the blaze remained unknown so far, but officials on the ground said some waste material caught fire, which was spread further with the winds and soon engulfed a significant portion of the dumping ground. Anil Kumar Garg, chief fire officer, said, “The operation to bring the fire under control is on. The methane gas emitted from the garbage is highly inflammable, which led to a fire at the dumping ground. The waste material, including plastic, is still burning that is why it is taking so much time.” Similar incidents were reported at the same spot in October 2020, 2017 and 2016 as well. ‘No corrective measure taken despite repeated plaints’“The repeated incidents of fire at the dumping ground make it more difficult for us to reside here. Our houses get filled with smoke and stench. The government has failed us time and again and no corrective measure has been taken despite repeated requests and complaints to the authorities,” Dyal Krishan, president, Dadumajra Dumping Site Joint Action Committee, said. “We have submitted complaints to the authorities repeatedly, but no action has been taken. The smoke billowing from the dumping ground brought down visibility, making it difficult to drive,” said Nitin, a resident of Dhanas. Activist takes to Twitter, questions governance A green warrior, Paveela Bali, took to Twitter after the fire was reported at the dumping ground. In a tweet tagging the Prime Minister and his office, Bali wrote, “Honourable @narendramodi @PMOIndia we demand the resignation of @KirronKherBJP and dissolution of @ChandigarhAdmin and @MCChandigarh ,I have never tagged you before but I hope you will understand that this orphan called #chandigarh needs Better governance.if u care for chd RT. (sic)”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/major-fire-at-dadumajra-dumping-ground-leaves-many-breathless-101617224094510.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||PGIMER doctor alleges ragging by colleague, resigns||A 29-year-old senior resident doctor pursuing a super-specialty course in the neurosurgery department at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has resigned after complaining of “toxic working environment” and “ragging” by one particular senior resident of the same department.Dr Sandeep Yadav, who had joined the institute in January this year, resigned within a month. He was relieved from the institute on March 13.In his complaint to the health ministry dated March 25, Yadav stated that one particular resident, who was a senior to him, used to pass derogatory remarks at him and his family and would not even permit him to have meals or rest hours.“I am traumatised and haunted by the ill-treatment I received during my tenure….I have not crumbled under workload, but due to hatred against me along with torture and ragging...He would force me to visit the department and the wards even after my working hours and would humiliate me throughout the day, always threatening me to leave the course mid-way. He maligned my image in the department and I was portrayed as someone who was inefficient or unwilling to work,” Yadav wrote in his complaint.Issue not brought to our notice: RDAPGIMER Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) said that the concerned doctor had not brought any such issue to their notice. However, the Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association, a national-level body, has demanded an inquiry into the matter.“I am not aware of any such issue and the doctor concerned should have brought it to my knowledge so that we would have acted on it. He should have approached us before resigning,” said Dr Uttam Thakur, president of RDA.PGIMER in its official response said that a committee will be constituted to conduct a detailed inquiry into the case.“Dr Satish Yadav tendered his unconditional resignation earlier and no such issue of harassment was flagged at the time. However, all these issues have surfaced only later on after his leaving the institute. The institute has taken a serious view on this and a committee will be constituted to conduct a detailed inquiry to bring the facts to light,” an official statement said.Dr Yadav on the other hand said, “I had cited personal problems and my mental condition in my resignation letter.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pgimer-doctor-alleges-ragging-by-colleague-resigns-101617224034336.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Renewed Indo-Pak truce raises Jammu farmers’ hopes for bumper wheat harvest||With India and Pakistan renewing the ceasefire pact, farmers with landholdings along the 200-km international border have reason to anticipate a bumper wheat crop this season. Over the years, large tracts of land between the zero line and border fence could not be cultivated to their full potential as India has had to put up anti-infiltration obstacle systems, comprising barbed fence, within its territory to check Pakistani infiltrators, including armed terrorists. A farmer, Amarjeet Singh of Mangral village, says, “The peace pact has given us reason to rejoice as we can now cultivate land beyond the fence. The Border Security Force (BSF) been allowing us to till our land beyond the fence with the help of bulletproof tractors.” “The BSF has granted us access to our fields through gates. Even women are allowed to go to the fields. The land had been lying unused for years together,” said Mukesh Kumar, another farmer.BSF, Jammu frontier, inspector general NS Jamwal said, “We encourage farmers to cultivate their farm lands beyond border the fence and till zero line. Initially, we selected farm land in RS Pura sector of Jammu district and in Kathua district. We were successful in both places and are therefore, hoping to extend it to other sectors.” “We are getting support from the civil administration and farmers as well. The BSF director general wants that our land should be cultivated to the fullest,” he said, adding that the BSF also provides bullet proof tractors wherever needed and security is also provided to workers. “Wherever they (farmers) feel scared or uncomfortable we provide them with security. We have women constables as well on the IB,” said the IG.Notably, the BSF and the civil administration had taken a joint initiative to use the ‘fenced out’ land for farming as the wild grass and bushes that came up on the farm fields over the years has helped Pakistan push infiltrators and dig trans-border tunnels. India and Pakistan on February 24 and 25 mutually agreed on a ceasefire agreement. The director generals of military operations of India and Pakistan reviewed the situation along the Line of Control (Loc) and all other sectors and agreed upon achieving mutually beneficial and sustainable peace along the borders since then not a single shot has been fired along the IB and 744-km LoC thereby bringing relief to the hapless villagers on either side of the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/renewed-indo-pak-truce-raises-jammu-farmers-hopes-for-bumper-wheat-harvest-101617223734068.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong releases vision document for Dharamshala MC; promises to set up funicular railway system||The Congress on Wednesday released its vision document for the Dharamshala municipal corporation which goes to polls on April 7.State Congress chief Kuldeep Singh Rathore released the vision document in presence of AICC secretary and former Dharamshala MLA Sudhir Sharma, state general secretary Kewal Singh Pathania, District Congress Committee President Ajay Mahajan, former MP Chander Kumar and MLA Pawan Kajal.In the 33-point document Congress promised to set up funicular railway system in Dharamshala town besides reviving the skyway project.It also promised to extend the Dharamshala Smart City project to all the 17 wards. Stress has been laid on easing the map approval system, and CCTV surveillance for security and safety of the residents. To promote the sports and health lifestyle, the Congress promised to implement public bicycle scheme and swimming pool complex. Twenty-four hour water supply, houses for homeless and a tourism schemes are the other key promises made by Congress.Earlier, addressing a press conference Rathore unleashed a scathing attack on BJP-led centre and state governments over rising inflation, unemployment and law and order situation.He said the Congress was contesting the MC elections on the slogan of ‘development and destruction’.Rathore said while the Congress government carried out development in the state, the BJP has ruined what was built over the years. He said in three years the BJP government done nothing which could be counted as a big achievement.“Chief Minister rues that the one year was wasted due to pandemic. It is just an excuse to hide failure of his government. The leadership quality is best reflected during crises. Sadly, the present chief minister doesn’t have such qualities,” he said.The Congress president said the BJP and the state government was nowhere to be seen during the pandemic. Instead, of providing relief, the state government increased the burden on the common public by increasing power and water tariffs and bus fares.He said the Congress workers in Dharamshala were enthusiastic and the party was also getting a huge support in the wards. He expressed confidence that Congress will win all the four municipal corporations in the state.Meanwhile, answering a question on BJP charges of corruption in underground dustbins installed in Dharamshala during Congress regime, former minister Sudhir Sharma said after coming to the power chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had inaugurated a scheme to install similar dustbins in Sunderngar town of his home district Mandi.“However, the project for Dharamshala town was closed and the payment of the German company which installed the bins was halted. The government released the payment only after German government stalled the visa application of chief minister over non-payment of dues,” he alleged.“If there were some irregularities the government should have probed it and punished the guilty, even if it was me,” he said.Congress president Kuleep Rathore said the party has decided to campaign in the elections without posters in the MC elections. The posters not only pollute the environment but also deface the town. Instead we have started “My Flag My Pride” campaign under which the party workers will install flags on their houses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-releases-vision-document-for-dharamshala-mc-promises-to-set-up-funicular-railway-system-101617223378358.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dry spell causes extensive crop loss in Himachal||At a time when the water level in rivers is receding at a rapid pace, the prevailing arid climatic conditions across Himachal Pradesh have caused extensive damage to crops. In March, the hill-state recorded a cumulative rain deficit of around 62% and the dry spell is expected to continue into the first week of April. This month all 12 districts of Himachal Pradesh recorded ‘deficit’ or ‘large deficit’ precipitation, officials said, adding that the average precipitation was 41.7mm. Thirteen spells of precipitation were recoded in March, of which only five gave ‘widespread’ to ‘fairly widespread’ precipitation. The weatherman has predicted a five-day dry spell in the state. “There were a lot of western disturbances but they only caused wet spells over northern parts of the country and regions of Ladakh and Jammu and Kashmir,” said Shimla Regional Meteorological Centre director Manmohan Singh. Agriculture mainstay for 89.96% population The situation has raised red flags for farmers and the government. Agriculture is the primary occupation for 89.96% of the population. Agriculture and horticulture provides direct employment to around 70% of the total workers in the state. Agriculture in Himachal comprises 13.62% of the state income. Of the total geographical area of the state (55.67 lakh hectares), the operational land holding of 9.44 lakh hectare is operated by 9.44 lakh farmers. Around 80% percent of the total cultivated area in the state is rain fed. The dry spell has made farmers in Kangra anxious as the district accounts for the highest production of wheat crop. Rain in Kangra was 83% below the normal. Chandermani Verma, a farmer from Mandi, said the prolonged dry spell had adversely hit the Rabi crop, primarly wheat. “Around 30 -40% of the crop was damaged. Rainfall in mid-March brought some relief but more damage is likely if it does not rain for few more days,” Verma said. Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Una and Chamba districts have also received scanty rainfall. The dry spell has also delayed sowing of vegetables, particularly the cucurbits ( gourd family), that are sold during the summer. “ There has been extensive damage to the wheat and other standing crops in the lower parts of Himachal Pradesh “ said director agriculture, Naresh Kumar Badhan “So far, around 20 to 25% of the crop has already been damaged, the extent could have been more if the weather remains dry in the coming days,” he said. The agriculture department has sent out its teams for assessing the damage. “Himachal’s economy is largely dependent on agriculture and any fluctuation in the production of food grains affects the economy,” says economist Pradeep Chauhan , former economic advisor to the state government. Apple growers concerned The dry spell has also added to the worries of the fruit growers. “Arid climate has caused stress on the plants, it is resulting in weak blooming in apple trees. The drought like situation will adversely impact the fruit quality,” says Progressive Apple Growers’ association President Lokinder Singh Bisht . “Sudden rise in temperature has caused blooming in higher elevation orchards, which is premature by two weeks” he said. Declare state drought prone: Farmers In the wake of the prevailing dry spell, farmers in Himachal Pradesh are demanding that the government to declare the state drought-prone state . Bharatiya Kisan Sangh has submitted a memorandum demanding the same. “ There has been very little snowfall and winter rainfall has been deficient , it has created a drought-like situation in the state that has affected rabi crops. Water sources are drying up rapidly,” said president Kedar Singh Tomar of Kisan Sangh Shimla . Farmers are demanding relief for the crop damage. Rabi crops such as wheat, gram, barley, peas, and potato and fodder crops have also seen heavy losses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dry-spell-causes-extensive-crop-loss-in-himachal-101617222895125.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Power gets cheaper for Chandigarh consumers||Even as the water tariff is set to increase by 3% from April 1, city residents have got a major relief, with the Joint Electricity Regulatory Commission (JERC) reducing the power tariff for the upcoming fiscal.The new tariff, which has been decreased by up to 11%, will be applicable from April 1. More than 2 lakh consumers, across different categories, including domestic, commercial and industrial, will benefit from the JERC decision.The last increase in the domestic and commercial electricity tariff was in 2018-2019. In more cheer for residents, JERC has directed the administration to stop recovery of the quarterly fuel and power purchase cost adjustment (FPPCA) from all categories starting April 1, 2021, till further orders. The electricity department, however, has been directed to submit the quarterly FPPCA calculation to JERC for review. Surplus revenue since 2016The department has standalone revenue surplus in each year from 2016-17 to 2019-20.JERC observed in its order that the projected standalone surplus for 2021-22 and cumulative revenue surplus at existing tariff was expected to be ₹98.21 crore and ₹345.61 crore, respectively.Therefore, the commission approved a reduction in the retail tariff for all categories. Fixed charges to stayHowever, JERC turned down the demand for removing fixed charges in the electricity bill.In the wake of losses incurred due to the two-month lockdown in 2020, commercial units in the city had been demanding removal of the fixed charges, which are levied over and above the consumption charges. These charges range from ₹30 per kWh to ₹200 per kWh per month.Notably, the UT administration is in the advanced stage of privatisation of its power department. Six companies are in fray to take over the electricity department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/power-gets-cheaper-for-chandigarh-consumers-101617222058434.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ensure compliance or show errant members the door: Akal Takht to Chief Khalsa Diwan||The Akal Takht on Wednesday issued directions to the Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) to ensure compliance by its non-amritdhari and errant members to code of ethics or remove them from the organisation that runs scores of educational and charitable institutions, mainly in Punjab. As per the Chief Khalsa Diwan’s constitution, a ‘patit’ (a fallen Sikh) or a ‘non-amritdhari’ (Sikh who does not partake of amrit) cannot become its member. The matter was pending in Sikhism’s highest temporal seat for several months after it was brought to its notice that the members were being included in the organisation in violation of the laid-down norms. CKD president Nirmal Singh and other office-bearers appeared in the Takht secretariat before the Sikh clergy led by acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh. The clergy also comprised Takht Kesgarh Sahib jathedar Giani Raghbir Singh and Takht Patna Sahib jathedar Giani Ranjit Singh. After hearing the CKD office-bearers, the clergymen found that while some of its members were non-amritdhari some were not following the Sikh code of ethics. “These members are directed to appear before Panj Pyaras (five beloved ones of Guru) at any of the five Takhts within two months to partake of amrit or correct their behavior as per Sikh ethos,” said Giani Harpreet Singh.He said, “If anyone is not ready to do so, they must tender resignation as members on their own, or the CKD must cancel the same. We may summon the members in two months and see whether they complied with the orders.”“The CKD is also directed to restore the clause in its constitution that accepts the Akal Takht patronage that was removed after an amendment. Also, submit a clarification about expelling two members — Satnam Singh Mumbai and Avtar Singh— within a week. We also need clarification as why new members are included despite the ban imposed in June last year,” he added. The Takht also sought records of membership forms of all members within two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ensure-compliance-or-show-errant-members-the-door-akal-takht-to-chief-khalsa-diwan-101617222056196.html
01-04-2021||Other||Traders welcome Pak’s decision to import cotton, sugar from India||Indian traders have welcomed the Pakistan government’s decision to allow import of cotton and sugar from India, saying it will pave the way for early reopening of bilateral trade between the two countries via the Attari-Wagah transit route. The traders have also urged the government of India to scrap the 200 per cent duty on items being imported from Pakistan. The neighboring country’s finance minister Hammad Azhar Islamabad on Wednesday said that Pakistan will import sugar and cotton from India. Pakistan had, unilaterally, stopped all trade ties with India in August 2019 when the Centre abrogated Article 370 that gave special status to the erstwhile state of Jammu and Kashmir. Before this, India had increased the customs duty on the goods being imported from Pakistan from 5 per cent to 200 per cent in the wake of the Pulwama terror attack in which 40 Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel were killed. Since August 2019, only imports from Afghanistan have been allowed by Pakistan through the land border. Terming the decision as ‘better late than never’, president of Federation of Karyana and Dry Fruit Association Anil Mehra said, “All Indian traders welcome the decision. With the opening of trade via the Attari-Wagah border, Pakistan will benefit more than India. Due to the rapidly increasing inflation in the neighboring country, the people there have been facing a tough time. India had not severed any trade ties with Pakistan, but it was their unilateral decision.” He said, “Pakistan had been exporting cement to India and due to the closure of the trade, many cement industries have closed there. Pakistan should also take early decision on allowing the import of vegetables from India. In Pakistan, tomatoes are sold for ₹150- 200 per kilo.” Former All-India Cement Importer Association president MPS Chatha said, “We appreciate that the Pakistan government finally considered it important to open trade with India. The Indian government should also take the initiative to strengthen the trade ties.” “India had mostly been importing cement, salt, and dry dates from Pakistan before August 2019. At that time, the price of cement was ₹250 per bag, which is nearly ₹450 now. Similarly, Pakistani salt was being sold for ₹6 to 7 per kg and it is now available for ₹35 per kg. The prices of dry dates have also gone up nearly 10-fold. Salt and dry dates are now being imported from Dubai and Afghanistan.” He said India was exporting dozens of items, including soya bean, chicken feed, vegetables, red chillies, cotton, and spares for automotives, biscuits, newsprints, plastic granules and fresh mutton, through the land route. In the year 2019-20, the integrated check post (ICP) Attari had witnessed only ₹2,767-crore trade, which was ₹4,354 crore in 2018-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traders-welcome-pak-s-decision-to-import-cotton-sugar-from-india-101617221756193.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Srinagar declared orange zone, residents question permitting festivals, opening gardens||With the Jammu and Kashmir administration declaring Srinagar an orange zone on Tuesday, people have raised questions over the government’s reasoning for allowing festivals and keeping gardens and parks open in the district that is emerging as a Covid hotspot. After a relative decline in virus cases in January and February, Kashmir valley witnessed a surge in daily infections in March. “The surging virus cases have taken Srinagar to the orange category. We need to be more cautious and take precautions,” said Srinagar deputy commissioner Aijaz Asad.In March, the UT logged 4,519 cases against 1,935 cases in February, reporting an increase of 133% - a definitive indication of a second wave. Srinagar alone has contributed 2,043 cases, which amounts to 45% of the total cases in March.Irrespective of the surging cases , people have been thronging parks and gardens with utter disregard for Covid-19 protocols. The Srinagar administration has announced that it will impose fines on those caught without masks and subject the person to rapid antigen test (RAT) on the spot.A video of thousands of people attending a musical programme at Badamwari (garden of almonds) on Sunday without any social distancing and negligent use of masks has gone viral on social media with people raising questions on the seriousness of the government to fight the pandemic.Thousands of tourists and locals have also been visiting Tulip Garden owing to the bloom of its 1.5 million tulip bulbs at Siraj Bagh on the foothills of Zabarwan mountain range after it was thrown open for public on March 25. Officials say that more than 50,000 people including tourists from other states have visited the garden in the past week ( around 14,500 visited on Sunday alone).The government is preparing to host a tulip festival from April 3 and has been making attempts to woo more visitors.Advisor to lieutenant governor Baseer Ahmad Khan on Monday directed officers to take all measures ‘meticulously’ so that tourists from the rest of the country and abroad are attracted to the festival. “This must look like the festive tulip season in the real sense,” he said. according to a government spokesperson and also ‘underscored the need to maintain guard against Covid and laid stress on following the protocol adherently”.However, as per the government figures, 34% of Covid-19 cases in March in Srinagar alone have been contributed by travellers.“Srinagar is one of the 46 hotspot districts in the country, showing an exponential rise in cases and we are participating in public concerts and shows. Around 40% of the new cases are travellers,” said Dr Muhammad Salim Khan,pProfessor and head community medicine, Government Medical College (GMC), Srinagar. He said there’s clustering of cases in marriage functions, condolence gatherings, tourist spots and recreational facilities. “We are contradicting our efforts by these activities,” he said.Khan said that after a dip in January and February the rise of the infections in March this year was exponential as compared to the steady rise in the same period last year.“The number of severe admissions in hospitals is more than last year,” he said.People have also expressed concern over ‘unrestricted’ entry of visitors, particularly tourists, saying such a measure will bring mutant strains in the valley. The officials on Wednesday said that they have already sent some samples for genome sequencing. Residents have demanded that those visiting the UT, particularly Srinagar, should be asked to perform a RT-PCR Covid-19 test beforehand and present its report at the airport.“If we allow them to travel and then perform tests on the airport, many people will already get infected during the flight. Such cases do not get detected as they would test positive after three to four days,” said Abdul Majeed, an ex-banker and a resident of Srinagar.“Why can’t we make Covid-19 negative reports mandatory for all those who want to visit? We should take a cue from Ladakh” he said.Divisional commissioner, Kashmir, Pandurang K Pole did not respond to calls and messages . Deputy commissioner Srinagar, Aijaz Asad, ruled out a fresh lockdown in the district, saying such a thing was in nobody’s favour.“We have seen how the previous lockdown affected almost every business. The lower strata of the society such as the labourers and the boatmen were especially affected,” Asad said, stressing that the district administration will scale up testing facilities and upgrade quarantine centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/srinagar-declared-orange-zone-residents-question-permitting-festivals-opening-gardens-101617221574838.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Escalate Covid testing, vaccination, Centre tells Punjab||The Centre has asked Punjab and Chandigarh to effectively implement the test-track-treat strategy against the Covid-19 pandemic, escalate testing till the positivity comes down below 5% and ensure priority vaccination of eligible population groups in districts reporting high number of cases.Punjab has reported nearly 21% week-on-week increase in new Covid-19 cases and about 2,740 average daily cases in the last seven days. During the same period, the state has also seen a 30 per cent week-on-week increase in new COVID deaths and is reporting about 53 average daily deaths, the health ministry said.Chandigarh has also followed similar pattern in the last week. The union territory has reported nearly 27 per cent week-on-week increase in new cases and 180 per cent week-on-week increase in new daily deaths, it said.An average of about 257 daily cases and 14 daily deaths have been reported during the last week.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Wednesday along with NITI Aayog Member (Health) V K Paul, to review the status of Covid-19 in Punjab and Chandigarh and the public health measures taken for surveillance, containment and management of the disease by the health authorities.Through a detailed presentation, a granular analysis of the highly affected districts in Punjab and the UT of Chandigarh along with some key statistics was presented, the ministry said in its statement.Paul re-emphasised the importance of stringent and continued measures to break the chain of transmission and not frittering away the gains of collaborative efforts of last year, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/escalate-covid-testing-vaccination-centre-tells-punjab-101617221514291.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 armed robberies in Amritsar on Tuesday night baffle police||Blurb: Armed men looted mobile phones worth ₹4 lakh from a shopkeeper, ₹20,000 cash from a liquor vend and snatched a bike from a labourer in three incidents AMRITSAR Three armed robberies were reported in Amritsar between 6.30pm and 10.20pm on Tuesday as unidentified armed men looted mobile phones worth ₹4 lakh from a shopkeeper, ₹20,000 cash from a liquor vend and snatched a bike from a labourer. The first incident occurred around 6:30pm near the Verka Bypass where three unidentified people robbed a labourer, Sarabjit Singh, of his motorcycle when he was on the way back home to Pakharpura village from a factory in the Mirakot area. “When I reached near DAV International School, I stopped my Hero Honda Splendor bike to attend nature’s call. In the meantime, three unidentified people came on a silver-coloured bike and asked for my bike’s key. When I refused, one of them pointed a pistol at my chest and threatened to kill me. I surrendered the key and they fled towards Batala side,” said Sarabjit. The second incident was reported around 8:40pm on Subhash Road in Chheharta area where three unidentified bike-borne armed men fled after snatching a bag full of mobile phones. The owner of Hari Electronics, Deepak, said, “I was closing my shop while my father was standing outside the shop with a bag of mobile phones in his hand. In the meantime, three men, who were on a motorcycle, came and started snatching the bag from my father’s hand. When we protested, one of the accused pointed a pistol at us. In fear, we handed over the bag that contained ₹4 lakh worth of mobile phones of different companies.” The third incident took place around 10:20pm at Kot Atma Singh Nagar where unidentified people looted ₹20,000 cash from a liquor shop registered in the name of one Rajinder Tung. The salesman of the liquor shop, Baqeel Singh, said the accused entered the shop and took him at gunpoint. “When I resisted the accused, they threatened to kill me,” he said. Police have registered three separate cases under various sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and the Arms Act at Verka, Chheharta and Division-A police stations, respectively. Investigations are on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-armed-robberies-in-amritsar-on-tuesday-night-baffle-police-101617221396027.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||MP Kirron Kher suffering from blood cancer, says BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party’s Chandigarh MP Kirron Kher is suffering from multiple myeloma, a type of blood cancer, and is undergoing treatment in Mumbai, according to one of her party colleagues.Addressing a specially-convened press conference here on Wednesday, Chandigarh BJP president Arun Sood said the 68-year-old Bollywood actor-turned-politician was on the recovery path after her treatment for the disease started last year.“She had suffered a broken left arm at her Chandigarh house on November 11 last year. After her medical tests at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh, she was diagnosed with multiple myeloma. The disease had spread to her left arm and right shoulder. For treatment she had to go to Mumbai on December 4,” said Sood. Stating that in the latest tests, the disease has receded from her arm and shoulder, Sood said, “Even though she is recovering after her four-month treatment and no longer admitted at Kokilaben Hospital, Mumbai, she has to visit the hospital regularly for treatment.”Took the political plunge in 2014Kher was first elected to the Lok Sabha in 2014 by defeating Congress stalwart Pawan Bansal and Aam Aadmi Party’s candidate and celebrity Gul Panag. Riding on the Modi wave, she again defeated Bansal in the 2019 parliamentary polls. Sood’s revelation on the MP’s health came in the backdrop of criticism of her and the BJP by the opposition Congress for her prolonged absence from Chandigarh during the Covid-19 outbreak. From pasting posters in public places declaring the local MP “missing” to “searching” the MP in the city, the Congress has been accusing Kher of ignoring her constituency during the pandemic.In April last year, Kher had released a video on social media countering the Congress allegations.Sood defended Kher’s absence from the city. “She was in the city till December last year. She is a senior citizen and diabetic. She was advised against venturing outside the house during the lockdown. Only to get treatment for the disease she had left the city. Despite her illness, Kher has been in regular touch with me discussing various city-related issues,” he added.Sood criticised the Congress for attacking Kher at this juncture. “Congress leaders know about her health problems, but still they are repeatedly making it an issue. This is nothing but petty politics.” ‘Advanced treatment has made the cancer manageable’A cancer of the plasma cells in blood, which normally produce antibodies, multiple myeloma may initially exhibit no symptoms. But, as it progresses, bone pain, anaemia, kidney dysfunction and infections may occur.Considered treatable, it is generally incurable. Remissions may be brought about with steroids, chemotherapy, targeted therapy and stem cell transplant. Bisphosphonates and radiation therapy are also used to reduce pain from bone lesions.“It is a type of blood cancer, but manageable. It usually affects the kidney and bones, causing fractures and renal failure. Treatment for this disease has advanced over the years, allowing survival beyond 10 years. Depending on the patient’s presentations, they can lead a reasonable life,” said Dr Pankaj Malhotra, professor of clinical hematology at PGIMER.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/mp-kirron-kher-suffering-from-blood-cancer-says-bjp-101617221334095.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Departmental store employee shot dead by two robbers in Amritsar||AMRITSAR An employee of a departmental store was gunned down by two unidentified people, who reportedly had barged into the store with an intention of robbery, at the Majitha Road area on Wednesday night. The deceased has been identified as Sunny of Vijay Nagar area in Amritsar. Police said the incident took place at around 8:40pm when the owner and the employees were preparing to close the store. A senior police official said the accused had come on a motorcycle and they thought that there were only two employees. “When the accused barged into the store, more employees came out of the storeroom. The accused, who had come with an intention to loot, found themselves in a tricky situation as store’s employees challenged them. The accused opened fire, during which one of the employees died.” The police have registered a case under sections 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 25-54-59 of the Arms Act at Majitha Road police station and started investigations. This comes a day after three back-to-back armed robberies had taken place in the city. Amritsar commissioner of police Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, deputy commissioner of police (DCP-law and order) Parminder Singh Bhandal and other senior officials visited the crime spot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/departmental-store-employee-shot-dead-by-two-robbers-in-amritsar-101617221035672.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||AAP announces to launch ‘mass stir’ from April 7 over rising power tariffs in Punjab||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday announced to launch a “mass agitation” from April 7 against rising power tariffs in Punjab “to force the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Congress government to provide free electricity to state residents on the lines of Delhi”. AAP state unit president Bhagwant Mann, party’s Punjab affairs in-charge Jarnail Singh, co-in-charge Raghav Chadha and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema made the announcement at a press conference in Jalandhar. Mann said, “This movement will reach every street, village, town and city. The party volunteers will go from door to door to get information about people’s electricity bills. We will also burn the bills. Earlier, it was the Akali Dal government and now the Congress that has entered into costly power purchase agreements (PPAs) with private companies keeping in mind their vested interests.” Jarnail said even if the Punjab government does not buy power from the three private thermals in the state, it has to pay crores of rupees to them. “Power is so expensive in Punjab though it is being generated within the state whereas there is no thermal plant in Delhi which is providing free electricity to people after purchasing it from outside,” he said. Chadha dared CM Amarinder Singh to reduce electricity bills as was done in Delhi. Cheema said AAP had been raising the issue of power prices in the assembly. “We are left with no option but to launch a mass agitation to resolve the issues of people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-announces-to-launch-mass-stir-from-april-7-over-rising-power-tariffs-in-punjab-101617220975627.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Employee unions stage protest at Punjabi University seeking appointment of regular V-C||The Punjabi University Teachers Association (PUTA) and three non-teaching employee unions on Wednesday staged protest on the varsity campus in Patiala demanding appointment of regular vice-chancellor amid an ongoing row between the officiating V-C and the staff members. Addressing a press conference, PUTA president Nishan Singh Deol strongly condemned the undue delay in resolving the issues of the varsity employees. “The absence of the acting V-C on the campus is a major reason behind this delay. The process of appointment of a regular V-C should be initiated at the earliest. The resignation of nearly 40 faculty members from administrative posts puts a big question mark on the working style of the officiating V-C. She should resign on moral grounds,” he said. PUTA secretary Avneet Pal Singh said the association’s general body also held an emergency meeting. “All the teachers unanimously decided to reject the 20-point checklist issued by the officiating vice-chancellor. The House also unanimously passed a resolution to oppose the new team to be appointed by the V-C to replace those who resigned from different posts,” he said.The unions also demanded that the state government should provide one-time relief of ₹300 crore to resolve the varsity’s financial crisis and increase the monthly grant to ₹30 crore from ₹20 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/employee-unions-stage-protest-at-punjabi-university-seeking-appointment-of-regular-vc-101617220974253.html
01-04-2021||Other||Most gates outside Ludhiana’s residential areas illegal, reveals RTI||Majority of the gates installed at the entry points of various localities in the city are illegal, an RTI query has revealed. Only eight localities have been given permission by the civic body to install the gates. While seven of these fall in Zone D of the city, one is located in Zone A. No permission has been granted in Zone B and Zone C. The civic body, however, has no record of the number of gates installed illegally by residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) in the city, the RTI further revealed.In 2014, citing the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court, the Ludhiana MC General House had approved a resolution making it mandatory for all RWAs to seek prior permission before installing gates at the entry points of any locality. Further, it was also decided that no permission would be granted without proper police verification.In the resolution, it was also stated that RWAs that wish to install gates can only do so for security reasons and the gates can be kept closed only from 11pm to 5am, and a guard will have to be deputed there.However, over the years, the gates have proved to be more of hindrance than an assurance of security for residents. Residents of various localities in Dugri, Model Town, Model Town extension, Kitchlu Nagar and Haibowal have been complaining that the gates remain closed even during day time.Hardeep Singh, a resident of Haibowal, said, “Gates are meant provide a sense of security to residents and safeguard their homes from burglaries. But in most localities, the gates remain closed even during day time, blocking free movement.” MC commissioner Pardep Sabharwal said, “I have directed the building branch officials to conduct a survey of gates installed in different areas of the city and ensure that residents’ welfare associations take permission before installing these. Also, they should follow all the norms fixed by MC or be ready to face action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/most-gates-outside-ludhiana-s-residential-areas-illegal-reveals-rti-101617220673813.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to set up special revenue courts of financial commissioners at district-level||The Punjab government has decided to set up special revenue courts of financial commissioners (FCs) at the district-level to facilitate people living in far-flung areas of the state.Revenue minister Gurpreet Singh Kangar said on Wednesday that as per the proposal, financial commissioners will hold weekly public hearings in the region where people from the designated districts can come and file appeals in revenue matters.“One such revenue court to be held by financial commissioner (appeal) will be housed in Bathinda, which will cater to the districts of Bathinda, Fazilka, Ferozepur, Muktsar and Mansa. Similar facility will be opened in Jalandhar, and other locations are being finalised,” said the minister.“It will reduce the financial burden on the applicants as they need not visit the state capital for filing appeals or appearing before the revenue courts,” he said.Presently, 11 senior bureaucrats, with the rank of principal secretary and above, have been deputed financial commissioners (appeal) in the revenue department. All these FCs have offices in the civil secretariat, Chandigarh.Complaints pertaining to land mutations with most disputes of inheritance of land and the Indian Stamps Act (with disputes on finalising stamp duty during land registrations) are among the other segments of revenue department jurisdiction that goes for appeal at the financial commissioner-level.“An applicant from Abohar in Fazilka, Ferozepur or Mansa needs at least six-eight hours to reach Chandigarh for his work in the revenue court. Then securing a pass to gain entry to the civil secretariat also takes time. The move of setting up special revenue courts at the district-level will reduce their hardships,” said the minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-set-up-special-revenue-courts-of-financial-commissioners-at-districtlevel-101617220318134.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||DSGMC polls: Hours after being barred, SAD gets Delhi HC nod to fight elections||In a relief to the Badals-led Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), a specially constituted double bench of Delhi High Court on Wednesday set aside the order of the Delhi gurdwara election department director who had barred the party from contesting the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) polls scheduled for April 25. The director had taken the plea that only a religious party can contest the gurdwara elections and the SAD was not eligible to contest the polls as it had failed to give an undertaking that it’s a religious party. The SAD contests the DSGMC polls on ‘bucket’ symbol, which was seized by the director and later restored with the SAD by the high court. The director’s order coincided with the declaration of the DSGMC poll schedule by virtue of which the filing of nominations also started for the 46-member gurdwara body. The results will be declared on April 28. “It’s the first step towards our party’s victory in the upcoming polls. The attempt by the Delhi government to interfere into Sikh religious matters has fallen flat,” said DSGMC president Manjinder Singh Sirsa, adding that his party would announce the candidates tomorrow. The SAD is controlling the DSGMC for the last two consecutive terms since 2013. Meanwhile, former DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK, who heads JAGO party announced 14 candidates on Wednesday. DSGMC advocate Avinash Kumar Mishra said SAD was recognised in October 1999 and given bucket symbol by the government of national capital territory by way of a gazette notification, which was subsequently followed ahead of the gurdwara polls in 2006, 2012 and 2017. “In July 2010, the DSGMC amended rules for election of members and mandated parties to register under the Societies Registration Act but the SAD being already recognised was not required to go for fresh registration,” said the advocate. “In 2012 an order was also pronounced by the Delhi High Court that SAD needs not register and so the party’s recognition continued. However, on March 16 this year, the department of gurdwara elections, Delhi government, issued a letter asking the SAD to implement the amendment of July 2010. The orders were stayed on March 26 by a division bench of HC,” added the lawyer. The division bench on Wednesday again stayed the orders of director of gurdwara election department and granted the bucket symbol back to the SAD, Mishra said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dsgmc-polls-hours-after-being-barred-sad-gets-delhi-hc-nod-to-fight-elections-101617220317033.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet asks CM Amarinder to raise issue of DBT to farmers with Modi for relief||With the central government firm on direct benefit transfer (DBT) of minimum support price (MSP) to Punjab farmers for the wheat procurement season that starts on April 10, the state cabinet on Wednesday asked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh to take up the matter with Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking relief. The cabinet said the existing system should be continued as adopting the new structure will not be politically wise for the ruling Congress amid the ongoing farmer protests and also the fact that the assembly polls are scheduled in less than a year’s time. Punjab is expecting to procure 130 lakh tonne wheat and has sought a cash credit limit (CCL) of ₹27,000 crore from the Reserve bank of India (RBI). State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who flagged the issue during the cabinet meeting, said the Centre’s proposal is in violation of the Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) Act that governs the functioning of the state procurement machinery. The CM reportedly assured his council of ministers of taking up the matter at appropriate level. The Centre wants Punjab to make payment to farmers for the wheat crop by bypassing commission agents or arhtiyas, who are part of the existing system, he added. Union food minister Piyush Goyal has rejected Punjab’s plea to allow the existing system to stay and suggested the state amend its APMC Act. “This is not possible as it will directly affect the country’s federal structure,” Ashu told the cabinet. In a communiqué to Punjab CM, Goyal on March 27 asked the Punjab government to implement public finance management system (PFMS) and make payment for the crop procured directly into the accounts of farmers.Punjab is the only state among the 12 procuring ones that is not making direct digital payment to farmers as mandated by the Union finance ministry’s PFMS order of May 2018. It continues to pay farmers through arhtiyas under the Punjab Agriculture Produce Marketing Rules, 1962. The state is seeking extension from implementing it for the past three procurements. Goyal in his letter to Amarinder has sought compliance and suggested that Punjab follow Haryana’s software that enables details of tenants or sharecroppers to be uploaded on the portal with a disclaimer that this would not be a legal proof for claiming ownership. Punjab has not integrated its land records with the central procurement portal, he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-asks-cm-amarinder-to-raise-issue-of-dbt-to-farmers-with-modi-for-relief-101617220315127.html
01-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana: 2 cars gutted as trash burning goes wrong!||Two cars were gutted as fire from a vacant plot, where garbage was reportedly being burnt, spread to the adjoining road in Feroze Gandhi market in Ludhiana on Tuesday morning around 10.15. Though no casualties were reported, a Swift and a Santro car were badly damaged. A few other cars parked on the road were saved by some alert passersby and showroom employees who moved the vehicles in time. They also tried to douse the flames on their own but as the fire raged on, they called the fire brigade, which managed to control the blaze in about 15 minutes. Eyewitnesses alleged that a large quantity of garbage had been dumped on the vacant plot and municipal corporation employees had set it on fire. MC health officer Dr Vipal Malhotra, however, denied the claims regarding civic body employees setting the trash afire. He said, “The MC has not marked any dump site in the area. It seems some miscreants had dumped garbage at the site and set it on fire.” Meanwhile, the owners of the two cars, gutted in the incident, were furious. “I had brought this car just around three months ago and now it has been completely destroyed,” said the owner of the Santro car.The owner of the Swift car, Karan, who is an advocate, said, “I was visiting the court complex for some work. I had parked the car here around 15 minutes before the fire broke out. The cars have been badly damaged. Commuters told me that MC employees had been burning the garbage on the vacant plot, from where the fire spread further.” Division Number 5 station house officer Kuldeep Singh said, “It is being claimed that the cars caught fire after someone set the garbage on fire but we have so far received no complaint in this case.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-2-cars-gutted-as-trash-burning-goes-wrong-101617220314102.html
01-04-2021||Other||HC adjourns cases listed in April to August||In view of a persistent rise in Covid-19 cases, the Punjab and Haryana high court has adjourned cases listed in April to August. The decision was taken by the administrative committee of high court to ensure safety of judges, staff and litigants, a senior official said. In case of urgency, a lawyer can move an application for advancement of hearing, he said. The cases listed after March 24, 2020 through mentioning and listed for hearing in April, will be taken up on the already fixed dates, the official added. Most of the judges are taking up cases through video-conferencing following the Covid-19 outbreak. However, physical hearing was resumed from February 8 by setting up three courts, which has now been extended to 12 courts. The high court has a total strength of 47 judges. The official said any interim order passed in the adjourned matters will stand extended up to the date fixed in a particular case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-adjourns-cases-listed-in-april-to-august-101617220193833.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Saini’s plea for CBI probe: HC seeks details of FIRs against Capt, Badal||Acting on the allegations levelled by former director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini of “witch-hunt” by the state government, the high court has sought details of FIRs registered against chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh and his predecessor Parkash Singh Badal and their associates. The high court bench of justice Arun Kumar Tyagi also asked the state police to apprise the court of the present status of the cases, copies of orders passed by high court on petitions filed by the accused named in those cases seeking court’s intervention and demanding advance notice prior to their arrest. Orders passed by the Supreme Court on pleas filed and brief statement of proceedings regarding arrest, bail and final orders passed in such cases be placed on record, the court directed. The court asked the government to place on record copies of relevant documents in these cases and also gave an opportunity to other parties to provide relevant record, pertaining to these cases. The court said that since Saini is seeking transfer of investigation of cases registered against him to Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or any other independent agency, Punjab should file an affidavit of the officer concerned giving details of the cases in which investigation regarding the involvement of Saini is pending. All these details have been sought by April 6. The order was passed during resumed hearing of 2018 plea on March 16, but released now.The 2018 plea was filed by Saini seeking direction to Punjab to transfer probe in criminal cases registered against him to the CBI and giving notice of specified period before his arrest. “The prayer for the above said reliefs is based on the grounds of mala fides on the part of Amarinder Singh and members of ruling party and apprehension of false implication and arrest of the petitioner on accusation of having committed non-bailable offence by Punjab Police on the basis of some tainted investigation,” HC summarises the allegations of Saini in the order. In the in 2018 plea, the HC asked Punjab government to serve a seven-day notice to Saini in the event of government initiating criminal proceedings against him. The 2018 plea claims that during Saini’s stint as head of state vigilance, a number of criminal cases were registered against Amarinder and his family members, citing example of FIRs in Ludhiana City Centre scam, Amritsar Improvement Trust scam and one against Bharat Inder Singh Chahal, adviser to the CM, and Amarinder’s son Raninder Singh.Since he is seen as the man behind starting criminal proceedings against the present CM and his “coterie”, state’s agencies have become “persecuting agencies” instead of “prosecuting agencies”, the plea alleges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sainis-plea-for-cbi-probe-hc-seeks-details-of-firs-against-capt-badal-101617220073787.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet okays free travel for women in government-run buses||The Punjab council of ministers on Wednesday approved free travel for women in government-run buses.Women can avail the facility in buses of the Punjab Roadways Transport Corporation (PRTC), Punjab Roadways and city services operated by the local bodies. But it is not applicable to the government-owned air-conditioned, Volvo and HVAC (heating, ventilation, and air conditioning) buses. The announcement on this was made in the Punjab budget recently. The scheme will benefit over 1.31 crore women/girls across the state (as per the 2011 Census). “Also, all women, who are family members of Punjab government employees and reside in Chandigarh, or are themselves employees of the state government but live in Chandigarh, can avail the benefit, irrespective of age and income criteria, of free travel,” an official said.“This scheme is not only expected to reduce female drop-out in schools because of the high cost of daily transport and but also facilitate working women, who have to travel considerable distances to their workplace,” he added. The facility will thus ensure access to “safe, cheap and reliable” travel for women to engage in any economic activity.The cabinet also gave nod to set up an enforcement directorate (ED) to check illegal mining in the state with a view to ramping up the revenues the government loses on account of the unlawful practice. The agency will be headed by a police officer not below the rank of a deputy inspector general (DIG) as part of the mining and geology wing of the state water resources department, a spokesperson of the chief minister’s office said. “The ED will help in keeping tabs on the unauthorised movement of minor minerals not only within the state but also at the inter-state borders of Punjab in coordination with the mining department. It will also get prosecuted those indulging in the illegal activity under the Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Act. Besides, it will ensure that those into the sand and gravel business do not overcharge beyond the price prescribed in the mining policy,” the spokesperson added. The agency will have the mandate to come up with measures to achieve its objectives in coordination with the director (mining) and the chief engineers dealing with mining and district-level illegal mining enforcement committees. It will also gather intelligence for the purpose and co-ordinate with the agencies of the neighbouring states dealing with illegal mining. The ED chief will be assisted by 3 superintendents of police (SP)-rank officers in the head office. The 7 mining blocks (number may vary as per government policy) each will be headed by an officer not below the rank of a deputy superintendent of police (DSP), who will be assisted by inspectors, sub-inspectors and head constables, constables.The deployment may be modified from time to time keeping in view the functional requirements, it was said. The police personnel deployed in the agency will be given salaries, equipment and arms by the police department. Any special equipment, if required, would be provided from District Mineral Foundation Funds. In addition to the investigation of mining-related cases by district police at present, the ED would also register cases and probe them. It will present final reports (challans) in courts concerned. The investigation will be completed in a time-bound manner. Also, in a bid to streamline the functioning of government-run cattle pounds and to effectively redress of the menace of stray animals, the cabinet also gave approval for running these under public private partnership (PPP) mode. The CMO spokesperson said there would be no financial burden on the state to run these pounds (except in Amritsar and Ferozepur) under PPP mode as they will become self-sustainable by generating the required revenue through various activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-okays-free-travel-for-women-in-government-run-buses-101617219834919.html
01-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid cases in March surpassed count of previous 4 months||The district’s Covid-19 infections in the month of March surpassed the total number of cases recorded in the previous four months, data sourced from the health department has revealed. While in March, Ludhiana logged 7, 294 cases, the number of cases recorded from November 2020 to February 2021, totaled to just 6, 825. The worrying numbers bring out the callous attitude of residents, who are increasingly becoming complacent with regards to Covid-appropriate behaviour.The number of deaths reported in the month of March also increased four-fold in comparison to the casualties recorded in February. The year’s highest single-day fatality count was recorded on March 29, with 11 persons losing their battle to virus.In November last year, the district recorded 2, 533 cases which went down to 1, 949 in December, going further down to 1, 024 cases in January and the seeing a slight increase in February with 1, 319 cases and then shooting up to 7, 294 in March. Similarly, the district reported 115 fatalities in March in comparison to 28 in February, 37 in January, 59 in December last year, 68 in November and 96 in October 2020.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said that in the present scenario, vaccination seems to be the only way out for breaking the chain. He appealed to residents to come forward and get vaccinated at the camps being organised by the district administration. He further appealed to residents to not drop their guard and take all necessary precautions while stepping out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-cases-in-march-surpassed-count-of-previous-4-months-101617219833864.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt warns of stricter curbs if Covid situation doesn’t improve in a week||A day after announcing curbs to tackle coronavirus, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday warned of imposing harsher restrictions if the situation does not improve by the next week. The warning comes amid a surge in Covid cases and fatalities in the state. On Tuesday, the state government issued orders to ramp up Covid-19 testing and vaccination and also directed closure of schools and colleges in the state till April 10.Addressing a virtual meeting with top health, administrative and police officials, the CM said a decision on further curbs will be taken after a review of the situation on April 8. “I will watch things for a week, and then if there is no improvement, we may have to go for stricter curbs,” he said. Punjab is witnessing a surge in the infections with more than 2,000 new cases being reported daily. There is also a rise in the number of fatalities due to the disease. On Tuesday, 65 Covid deaths were reported in the state. Mohali, Kapurthala, Patiala, SBS Nagar, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Hoshiarpur and Ludhiana are reporting the maximum positivity rate. The overall positivity in the state stands at 7.6% as of March 24. Underlining the need for aggressive vaccination, particularly in areas with high case and cities with more than 300 cases, Amarinder directed officials to reach out to eligible people at the mohalla-level in the worst-affected districts to motivate people to get vaccinated. He also directed stricter enforcement of Covid restrictions and protocols in the worst-affected cities of Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Mohali and Amritsar. Head of the state’s Covid expert committee Dr KK Talwar said more enforcement of restrictions was needed in the urban areas, which were reporting higher cases. Director general of police Dinkar Gupta said since March 19, 1.3 lakh people have been taken for RT-PCR testing on being found moving around without masks. Of these, 391 were found positive, he said. Taking note of the inconvenience caused to commuters, the chief minister did away with the one-hour silence on Saturdays to commemorate Covid warriors.Taking strong exception to the Centre’s criticism of the Covid-19 management in Punjab, Amarinder said the state’s rate of tests per million was higher than the national average and claimed the situation would have been better if the central government had not “delayed” the vaccination process.Had the central government acceded to the state’s request for allowing vaccination of all 50+ category population earlier, instead of delaying the decision to include 45+ age population by almost two months, the situation would perhaps have been better than present, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-warns-of-stricter-curbs-if-covid-situation-doesn-t-improve-in-a-week-101617219773884.html
01-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana MC recovers ₹3 cr as property tax on last day, still fails to meet target||The municipal corporation recovered around ₹3 crore as property tax from residents on Wednesday, which was the last day to pay the dues. As per MC officials, at least 70,000 property owners are yet to pay up their dues for the year 2020-21. They will now have to pay 20% of the amount as penalty and 18% as annual interest on the delayed payment.There are around 2.40 lakh properties in the city which fall under the ambit of property tax. Only 10% penalty was imposed on payment of tax by March 31.Meanwhile, a huge rush was seen at the municipal corporation (MC)’s offices on Wednesday as residents queued up to pay their dues on the last day. Though MC had deputed staff to ensure social distancing, the visitors were seen standing in close proximity to each other as they waited for their turn at the counter.MC superintendent (property tax), Vivek Verma said, “A large number of residents submitted their tax on the last day and MC has recovered around ₹3 crore in a single day. Residents who fail to pay the tax will have to pay an additional penalty and interest on delayed payment.” Meanwhile, the property tax wing once again failed to meet the annual recovery target of ₹130 crore, with the branch recovering only around ₹97 crore till March 31.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mc-recovers-3-cr-as-property-tax-on-last-day-still-fails-to-meet-target-101617219593844.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra suspends IFS officer over forest officer suicide case||The Maharashtra government on Wednesday suspended M Srinivasa Reddy, an Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer with immediate effect, in a suicide case of woman forest range officer over harassment. Reddy faced disciplinary action for inaction against the complaint filed the woman forest officer, officials said.Arvind Apte, chief conservator of forest, forest department confirmed his suspension.The decision comes six days after the woman forest range officer committed suicide over alleged harassment by her senior Vinod Shivkumar, deputy conservator of police, who has been arrested for abetting suicide by Amravati police. She had complained to Reddy against Shivkumar and had sought his intervention, it is said.Reddy was posted as additional principal chief conservator of forest and field director Melghat Tiger Reserve, Amravati. Soon after the incident, he was shunted out from the post of field director for not initiating any action on the victim’s complaint.Taking serious cognizance of the case, the Maharashtra State Commission for Women (MSCW) sought a report from principal chief conservator of forest, Nagpur in the case. It has also sought a clarification from Reddy in the next eight days.“The Government of Maharashtra in exercise of the powers conferred by clause (a) of sub rule (1) of Rule 3 of All India Services (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, and all the powers enabling in it that behalf hereby places, the said M Srinivasa Reddy then additional principal chief conservator of forest and field director, Melghat Tiger Reserve, Amravati under suspension with immediate effect until further orders,” states an order issued by the forest department on Wednesday.On Tuesday, Amravati guardian minister and women and child development minister Yashomati Thakur met chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanding Reddy’s suspension and stern action against the guilty.The 32-year-old deceased was posted at Harisal under the Gugamal division of Melghat Tiger Reserve. According to newsreports, Initial investigations revealed that the deceased was disturbed by the harassment meted out by her seniors. Before taking the extreme step, she left a note, in which, she made serious allegations against them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-suspends-ifs-officer-over-forest-officer-suicide-case-101617219473148.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||PM Awas Yojana: Centre dissatisfied with progress, defers Punjab’s request for funds||The Centre has expressed dissatisfaction with the pace of work of the Punjab government in implementation of the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY) in urban areas of the state. The Union ministry of housing and urban affairs expressed its concern over the slow progress of construction and completion of houses under the flagship scheme at a meeting with senior officials of the Punjab government last month. The central sanctioning and monitoring committee (CSMC) for the PMAY (Urban) also deferred the proposal submitted by the state government for approval of 92 new beneficiary-led individual house construction (BLC) and nine BLC enhancement projects worth ₹141 crore. The local government department had proposed 7,942 new houses for beneficiaries from the economically weaker sections (EWS) across the state with financial support under the scheme, seeking ₹121 crore from the Centre for these projects. As per the proposal, the state’s share was ₹19.85 crore. The committee headed by secretary, housing and urban affairs, Durga Shanker Mishra termed the progress of construction of houses ‘not satisfactory’. “The state government may resubmit the proposal once 95% of the sanctioned houses are grounded and 75% are completed,” it said, deferring the state’s request for new projects. The high-level meeting was attended by Punjab’s principal secretary, local government, Ajoy Kumar Sinha and other officials of the department. The ministry told the states that 2021-22 is the most critical year in terms of implementation. Of the 76,230 houses sanctioned to the state government under the beneficiary-led component so far, 35,434, or say 46%, have been grounded and the number of completed houses is just 8,368, according to available information. Sunil Verma, additional project director, Punjab State Urban Livelihood Mission, said the new projects were not approved because the central government had a parameter for grounding and completion of houses under the sanctioned projects. “As and when the criterion is met, they will sanction these new projects awaiting approval. This is their way of building pressure on the state government,” he said. Another official said the department had received the state share recently and the execution of works would gather pace. Under the BLC component, the cost of a two-room house is ₹3.5 lakh. Of this, the central government gives ₹1.5 lakh and the state government contributes ₹25,000 whereas the beneficiary has to shell out the balance 50%. In 2019, the central ministry had urged the state government to give a push to construction of houses for the EWS families under the programme vis-à-vis the housing demand. Against the projected demand of 3.48 lakh houses in cities across the state, the authorities had sanctioned about 20% houses till then. A department official had said that efforts were being made create awareness and more beneficiaries but not many were forthcoming. The state government had arrived at the projected demand houses after a survey by the urban local bodies department in 164 towns. The centrally sponsored PMAY was launched in June 2015 for ensuring housing for all in urban areas by 2022 by way of BLC, credit-linked subsidy scheme, affordable housing in partnership and ‘in-situ’ slum redevelopment. Overall, 1.09 crore houses have been sanctioned so far under the programme. Of these, 70 lakh have been grounded, including 41 lakh that have been completed and handed over to beneficiaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pm-awas-yojana-centre-dissatisfied-with-progress-defers-punjab-s-request-for-funds-101617219354904.html
01-04-2021||Other||In Ludhiana, new academic session to begin sans textbooks||Even with the new academic session set to begin from April 1 in government schools, the textbooks have not reached the students yet.The distribution process of textbooks from the PSEB depot to blocks started on Tuesday. Over 1.8 lakh textbooks have been sent to four blocks out of the total 19 in the district.The board’s depot in the city, which caters to the entire district, has received over 11,48,633 textbooks of 103 titles out of the total 183.As many as 1,85,422 textbooks, meant for free distribution among students from Classes 1 to 8 and those under SC/ST and BC categories from Classes 9 and 10, were sent to Ludhiana 1 block, Ludhiana 2, Mangat 1, and Mangat 2 till Wednesday.Last year, the schools were closed due to the Covid 19 pandemic owing to which the textbook distribution process got affected. The sanitized books were sent to blocks from May 13 onwards.Bhupinder Kaur, block primary education officer, Mangat-1 block, said, “We have received textbooks and will disburse them to cluster schools tomorrow. We have written to the higher authorities to provide us with a grant to send the books to cluster schools. There are seven cluster schools in our block which further have 51 schools under them.” However, Tripta Rani, the BPEO of Ludhiana 1 block, said, “We have received four trucks till now. Textbooks will be provided to schools at the earliest. We sent the books to Government Primary School, Giaspura, on Tuesday, and the rest will be delivered to schools in the next few days. Our block will receive 3 lakh textbooks in total.”The BPEO’s and district officials have been on their toes to transport the textbooks to government schools.Kuldeep Singh, deputy district education officer, elementary, said, “The textbooks received at the depot were sent to four blocks on Tuesday and Wednesday. The block primary education officers (BPEO) will further send the books to the schools, which will further be handed over to parents from Monday. All textbooks are available online on the Educare app, and teachers will teach the topics from it. As soon as we receive the new textbooks, the BPEOs will ensure that they are sent to schools in time.” Begin academic session online from April 1: DEOAfter the government schools in the district declared the results of non-board classes on Wednesday through WhatsApp groups, Harjit Singh, district education officer, secondary, instructed the school heads to begin the new academic session virtually.The teachers must be directed to hold online classes and a proper schedule should be prepared.As many as 1,527 government schools, that include primary, middle, high and senior secondary, declared the result on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-ludhiana-new-academic-session-to-begin-sans-textbooks-101617219353790.html
01-04-2021||Other||25-yr-old school teacher abducted from Bhiwani village||A day after a 25-year-old teacher, who used to teach Physics at a private school in a Bhiwani village, was allegedly abducted by three persons when she was returning home, her family alleged that police are unable to trace the kidnappers and recover the woman.In his complaint, the teacher’s father said, “When my daughter did not return home on Tuesday afternoon, I called her but the phone was switched off. Then, we got information that three men had abducted her and her car was found around 3-km away from our village.”“A witness told us that the three chased my daughter’s car and dragged her into their vehicle. We urged the police to trace and arrest them and rescue my daughter,” he added.Residents of the woman’s village took out a protest march on Wednesday and demanded safe return of the teacher.“It is worrisome that a female teacher was abducted in broad daylight. Police should arrest her abductors. We want safe return of the teacher,” the villagers said.Bhiwani SP Ajit Singh Shekhawat said that six teams have been formed to trace the woman.The three accused have been booked on kidnapping charges, police said.“We are checking the woman’s call log for clues. We are searching the region and scanning CCTV footages from where the woman was abducted. We will take strict action against the abductors,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25yrold-school-teacher-abducted-from-bhiwani-village-101617219113726.html
01-04-2021||Other||Gynaecology dept doctor super-spreader: PGIMS Rohtak authorities||After 23 healthcare providers at the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak, tested positive till Tuesday, the hospital authorities said that a doctor posted in the labour room of the gynaecology department was found to be the super-spreader.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said that other doctors got infected after coming in contact with the doctor.“Initially, the other doctors did not show any symptoms of the virus. We have started contact-tracing after eight junior doctors tested positive in just a span of two days. Health of none of the medical staff is serious and all of them are in home isolation,” she added.She added that four patients visiting the gynaecology department have tested positive in the last one month but none of them got infected from the doctors.“Services of the labour room have been started from the civil surgeon’s office. I have asked the health workers to sanitise the labour work and start services there after completion of 48-hours. I have told the civil surgeon to send doctors to treat expecting mothers, if required,” the medical superintendent said.Dr Dahiya said 13 of 23 healthcare providers have received the first dose and two of them had also received shots of the second dose.“Eight junior doctors did not take the vaccine jab due to some health complications. I admit that there is a rush at the gynaecology department but we are conducting tests of patients visiting there. There are some lapses on part of the doctors posted at the labour room, sometimes it happens due to negligence,” she added.A senior doctor, pleading anonymity, said that nine junior doctors had shared some food last week and eight of them have tested positive.“Three of them were posted in the labour room and all of them have tested positive. One of the eight turned out to be the super-spreader,” the doctor added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gynaecology-dept-doctor-super-spreader-pgims-rohtak-authorities-101617218813768.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana witnesses its biggest single-day spike of year as 1,106 test +ve for Covid||Haryana on Wednesday recorded eight fatalities and 1,106 fresh Covid-19 cases, in what was the biggest surge in spread of the virus after a lull of about three-and-a-half-months.After recording 1,250 new cases on December 10 last year, the number of fresh cases in state had started coming down until two weeks back.On Wednesday, among districts with maximum number of fresh cases were Gurugram with 276 cases, Karnal 182, Ambala 105, Jind 98, Panchkula and Yamunanagar 93 each, Kurukshetra 81, and Faridabad 70.Over one lakh people were vaccinated across state on Wednesday with 1,06,244 people getting the first dose and 2,656 being vaccinated with the second shot.As per the health bulletin, the cumulative number of people vaccinated till Wednesday rose to around 16 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-witnesses-its-biggest-single-day-spike-of-year-as-1-106-test-ve-for-covid-101617218277620.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana CM announces interest waiver for arhityas defaulting on dues||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday announced to waive-off 100% penal interest and 40% interest on default amount of commission agents (arhtiyas) owning plots in grain markets and vegetable mandis.The decision to waive-off “around ₹370 crore that otherwise arhtiyas had to pay” comes a day ahead of rabi crops procurement operations beginning (April 1).The move is aimed at placating powerful lobby of the arhtiyas, who have been opposing Haryana government’s decision to transfer minimum support price (MSP) amount of the procured food grains directly to bank accounts of farmers.Earlier, the practice in place was to transfer money to the bank accounts of arhtiyas, who used to further release the payments to farmers after deducting the amount, if any, that farmers owed to them as loan.“The farmers are fully in favour of the government’s decision to transfer the procured foodgrain payments to their bank accounts,” Khattar said, adding that farmers are the owners of the crop they grow and should receive payment of the grain they sell.“We have no problem if there is any financial dealing between farmers and arhtiyas. If a farmer owes money to the arhtiya, he will return it,” Khattar said, indicating that wheat arrival will pick pace around April 8-10.According to the CM, at present, there are 2,421 allottees in the defaulters list of the Haryana State Agricultural Marketing Board (HSAMB) and that about ₹1,131 crore is outstanding on their part.After Wednesday’s announcement, he said that these plot holders will get benefit of about ₹370 crore. The relief is subject to the defaulters clearing entire balance amount by June 15, 2021.Listing out a series of steps that the state government has taken in the past six years to ensure ease of living, the CM said that his government’s aim is to give relief to people by resolving administrative disputes and reducing litigation. BENEFIT TO OVER 2,250 INDUSTRIALISTSUnder ‘Vivaadon Ka Samadhan’ initiative, the state government had announced relief in outstanding payment of interest and penalties for industrialists owning the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited (HSIIDC) plots.Khattar said that this settlement scheme will benefit over 2,250 industrialists. The outstanding amount is about ₹1,500 crore and the benefit that is likely to be provided is expected to be ₹225 crore, Khattar said.The CM said that there will be no extension beyond six years and the plot will be mandatorily put to auction through the HSIIDC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cm-announces-interest-waiver-for-arhityas-defaulting-on-dues-101617218157609.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 11 more Covid-19 deaths, most since Jan 13||The city reported 11 deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, the most fatalities recorded in a single day in the Capital since January 13, as the fourth wave of the pandemic continued to expand its footprint in Delhi.The city reported 1,819 new cases of the infection on Wednesday. While this spike was slightly lower than the peak reported in the month — 1,904 on March 29, it also came on the back of far fewer tests.The test positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among total tested — has remained above 2.70% on Wednesday. The city has seen far fewer Covid-19 tests during the past three days, primarily on account of the weekend and Holi.Only 57,544 tests were conducted on average during the three days, in comparison to nearly 83,000 tests conducted each day on average last week.Also read | From today, vaccination drive opens to everyone above the age of 45 years“The test positivity rate over the past few days has been around 3%, because Delhi, along with the entire country, is witnessing a surge. In some states, the positivity rate has crossed 10%. Delhi’s testing capacity has been increased as well. More than 80,000 tests will be conducted every day,” Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday.Experts have suggested that an increase in the pace of vaccination might help in the long run.“Everyone who is eligible for a vaccine in Delhi should be administered the shot quickly. If south Delhi is reporting a high number of cases right now, there will surely be an increase in other districts as well. The impact [of vaccinations] will be visible only eight to 12 weeks later, in the form of fewer hospitalisations and deaths. This is going by the data that we have seen from Israel. It might take longer in India as Israel has been using the Pfizer vaccine that has a higher efficacy; we would have to vaccinate larger number of people to see the same effect,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.The vaccine rollout in Israel has been among the fastest in the world. Over 50% of Israeli citizens have received both shots of a Covid-19 vaccine, the country’s health minister had said last week.Delhi’s south district has been included by the Centre in its list of 46 “most affected” districts that have seen the highest surge in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-11-more-covid-19-deaths-most-since-jan-13-101617218033041.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Sizzler of a March turns out to be the hottest in 11 years, says IMD||March this year has been the hottest in the past 11 years, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) data on mean maximum temperature has revealed.Met officials said Delhi recorded a mean maximum temperature of 33.1 degrees Celsius this month, making it the “hottest” March since 2010.Usually, the mean maximum temperature for the month of March in Delhi is 29.6 degrees Celsius, according to the IMD.“This is the highest mean maximum temperature in March since 2010 when it was 34.1 degrees Celsius,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s regional weather forecasting centre.Also read | Heatwave grips states, IMD predicts a warmer summerOn Monday, Delhi had reeled under a ”severe heat wave” -- something that it usually witnesses only by May or June-- as the maximum temperature had shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius, nearly eight degrees above the season’s normal, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years.The city had recorded a maximum temperature of 40.5 degrees Celsius on March 31, 1945, and 39.6 degrees Celsius on March 29, 1973, according to the IMD. The city had breathed a brief sigh of relief on Tuesday after strong winds helped keep the temperature under control.On Wednesday, the maximum temperature recorded at the Safdarjung observatory, which is considered the official marker for the city, was 34.6 degrees Celsius. The minimum temperature was 20 degrees Celsius.Srivastava said such high temperatures in the month of March can be attributed to the absence of strong western disturbances.“Only one western disturbance affected Delhi this time and the city recorded rainfall only on two days. The capital had registered 10 rain days in March last year,” Srivastava said.The mean maximum temperature for the month of March was 28.2 degrees Celsius in 2020 and 2019.It was 32.8 degrees Celsius in 2018; 30.7 degrees Celsius in 2017; and 31.5 degrees Celsius in 2016, according to IMD data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sizzler-of-a-march-turns-out-to-be-the-hottest-in-11-years-says-imd-101617217974179.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||From today, vaccination drive opens to everyone above the age of 45 years||From Thursday, the number of daily Covid-19 vaccinations is likely to increase as Delhi is set to throw open the inoculation drive to all those above the age of 45 years (irrespective of comorbidities), as per directions of the Union government. There are nearly 45 lakh people in Delhi between the age of 45 and 59 years, according to the Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.So far, only those between the ages of 45 and 59 years, who have a combination of 20 listed comorbidities, were being administered the vaccine. Over 74,000 people between the ages of 45 and 59 years have been administered the jab in this category in Delhi until now, government data showed.“According to the population census, there are 65 lakh people over the age of 45 years living in Delhi. This includes 20 lakh people over the age of 60 years for whom the vaccination drive is already open. The vaccination drive will begin on a big scale tomorrow (Thursday) for all those who are eligible. There are currently over 500 centres in Delhi and many of them operate from 9am to 9pm,” said Jain during a press briefing on Wednesday.A spot-check by HT last week had shown that in two of the three hospitals that HT visited, the vaccination centres were not running beyond 5pm.Also read | Delhi's daily Covid tally goes up again with 1,819 new cases; toll at 11,027The minister added that earlier, people were facing problems if they weren’t able to reach the vaccination centre at the allotted time. But now the allotted time won’t be rigid and walk-ins will be allowed across centres after 3pm.In preparation for the larger vaccination drive from Thursday, districts have been gearing up their ANM (auxiliary nurse midwife) and ASHA (accredited social health activists) networks to educate and mobilise more people in this age group.“We are utilising our ANM and ASHA network to motivate more people and bring them to the vaccination centres. They are followed by our on-the-spot registration teams in vans in poorer neighbourhoods. They register people and directly take them to the neighbouring centres to get the shot,” said a senior official from south district.When it comes to the number of jabs, west Delhi leads the districts with over 138,000 first doses administered. South Delhi leads the number of second doses administered at over 33,000 doses.South district is currently in focus with the Centre listing it as one of the 46 “most affected” districts in India. “This is because we are conducting more number of tests. If you map the cases, you will see that most are in affluent neighbourhoods -- because residents in these areas are more aware and get tested whenever they have a fever or cold. So, we are reporting a high number of cases,” an official from south district said, asking not to be named.An official from north district said, also on condition of anonymity, “We are working on adding infrastructure, manpower, and conducting information campaigns. We are looking at whether we can expand the drive to dispensaries after they wind up their routine activities at 2pm.”“As for affluent areas, we are mobilising people with the help of residents’ welfare associations. However, in case they need transportation to and from the vaccination centre, we are providing that as well,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/from-today-vaccination-drive-opens-to-everyone-above-the-age-of-45-years-101617217973073.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Parking in Yusuf Sarai market to get costlier||The South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) on Wednesday approved a hike in the on-street surface parking charges, from ₹20 to ₹40, per hour, in Yusuf Sarai market in its standing committee meeting. The civic body also approved the levy of an annual fee on banquet halls operating in unauthorised colonies under its jurisdiction. The charges will come into effect after the House approves the proposals.Rajdutt Gehlot, chairman, SDMC standing committee, said, “We have decided to double the parking fee for on-street parking in Yusuf Sarai market near Green Park multilevel parking facility. The parking charges have been increased from ₹20 per hour to ₹40 per hour. This move will discourage people from parking vehicles in surface parking and will enhance occupancy in the (Green Park) multilevel facility.”Gehlot said that the civic body had built a multilevel parking at Green Park to accommodate 136 cars in November last year, but the facility was not being used. The civic body found later, through a survey, that people preferred to park their vehicles in the nearby on-street facility in Yusuf Sarai market. He said that depending on the public response, a similar approach might be taken in other areas too.Also read | CM reviews progress of redevelopment of industrial areasA 17-storeyed multilevel automatic car park near Green Park Metro station was inaugurated in November 2020, with a capacity to accommodate 136 cars, including 32 SUVs. The facility was built on 878 square metres (sqm), at a cost of ₹18.2 crore.Other multilevel car parks in the SDMC area are located in Hauz Khas, Lajpat Nagar, Sarojini Nagar, Munirka, Rajouri Garden and New Friends Colony.The parking policy approved by the Delhi government in September 2019 states that there should be no on-street parking within 500 metres of multilevel facilities. In case it is essential, it should be priced exponentially, at least three times that of the multilevel facility charges.Officials familiar with the matter said that the approval of a policy, for registration and collection of permission charges for weddings and social events at banquet halls in unauthorised colonies and unauthorised regularised colonies, is expected to boost revenue.Gehlot said that the municipality provides sanitation and other services to banquet halls but did not receive revenue so far. “So, we have decided to levy an annual fee on such banquets halls or other permanent structures where functions are held in unauthorised colonies. Charges will depend on the size of the plot area. The applicants can either take the licence for one year or half-year. They will be given a rebate of one month if they pay the amount in one go,” Gehlot said.According to the policy document approved by the SDMC, banquet halls having an area of up to 400sqm will be charges ₹6,000 per month and Rs72,000 annually, while those with an area of 401sqm to 1,000sqm will be charged ₹7,000 per month ( ₹84,000 annually). The monthly charge for halls built on an area of 1,001 sqm to 5,000sqm was set at ₹12,000 ( ₹1.44 lakh annually), while monthly fees of ₹27,000 ( ₹3.24 lakh annually) and ₹52,000 ( ₹6.24 lakh annually) would be collected from facilities running built on 5,001sqm to 10,000 sqm and above 10,000sqm, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parking-in-yusuf-sarai-market-to-get-costlier-banquet-halls-in-unauthorised-colonies-to-be-charged-for-services-101617217920380.html
01-04-2021||Other||Haryana all set for wheat procurement operations beginning April 1||The Haryana government has made all preparations for wheat procurement operations beginning from Thursday (April 1) at around 400 mandis and purchase centres across state.This year, around eight lakh farmers in state have registered on the ‘Meri Fasal, Mera Byora’ portal for the sale of wheat. More than 10,000 farmers from neighbouring states have also registered themselves on the portal to sell their produce in Haryana mandis.As per directions of the state government, the deputy commissioners held meetings with mandi officials, commission agents and officials of the procurement agencies. They have been directed to begin the procurement operations smoothly.Besides direct payments from this year, the government has also installed CCTV cameras at all mandis to ensure hassle-free procurement and timely lifting of foodgrains.“Hassle-free and time-bound procurement should be ensured by making advance scheduling plans so that farmers do not face any problem,” chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said.‘WILL PROCURE EVERY GRAIN ON MSP’Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, during his visit to Panipat on Wednesday, reiterated that the government has made all arrangements to procure grains from farmers on MSP of ₹1,975 as fixed by the Centre and the payments will be deposited in accounts of farmers within 48-hours of procurement and submission of the J-Form. He said that if the payment is delayed beyond 72-hours, the farmers will get 9% interest rate.In response to allegations of the farmer union leaders that the government wants to end MSP, Dushyant said that this year, six crops will be procured on MSP and in future, the government is planning to procure 10 crops on MSP.HARVESTING YET TO PICK PACEEven as the government has decided to begin procurement from April 1, according to farmers, harvesting of wheat was delayed by almost a week due to weather conditions and arrival of wheat is expected to pick pace over the next week.“I got an SMS to bring 63 quintal wheat to Indri grain market in Karnal on April 1, but I have not even started harvesting yet and will thus have to reschedule,” said Anil Kumar, a farmer from Indri.Mandi officials said that they are also making phone calls to farmers. The ones who have already harvested the crop will be allowed to bring their produce to the mandis.MIXED RESPONSE FROM ARHTIYASEarlier, the arhtiyas had raised objections over direct payment to farmers but as of now, the arhtiyas association has not taken any decision in this regard.“We are not favour of direct payment to farmers and have called a state-level meeting soon to take a call as procurement will take at least a week to pick pace,” said Ashok Gupta, president of the Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association.On the other hand, amid ongoing protests against Centre’s three farm laws, Haryana’s decision of direct payment is being praised by farm unions which is why, arhtiyas seem reluctant to oppose the move openly.FACTS & FIGURESTotal registered farmers: 8 lakhGrain markets and purchase centres in state: 400Number of commission agents: 18,000Acreage under wheat: 25.50 lakh hectareEstimated wheat procurement: 80 lakh MTExpected wheat production: 120 lakh MT||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-all-set-for-wheat-procurement-operations-beginning-today-101617217919933.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||E-rickshaw drivers need not take appointment for learner’s licence||E-rickshaw drivers seeking a learner’s licence can approach the regional transport offices (RTOs) without taking a prior appointment, the Delhi government said on Wednesday.The decision is part of the government’s efforts to change the way zonal offices or regional transport offices (RTOs) operate in the city, with “faceless services” being launched for registration certificates (RCs) and licence-related activities, which are currently under trials.“The applicant can directly approach the licensing authority of the concerned zone between 2 pm and 4 pm every working day, after depositing fees through the online software of Sarathi,” the city government said in a statement.To facilitate those finding it difficult to take a test on a working day, the government has also given the option of appearing for the test on Sundays, it said.Delhi transport minister Kailash Gahlot said the aim is to have a seamless system in place and successfully do away with wait time.According to the statement, the department is planning to scale up the faceless system to 70 essential services in two phases, over the next few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/erickshaw-drivers-need-not-take-appointment-for-learner-s-licence-101617217914771.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: BJP terms MVA probe committee an eyewash||A day after the Maharashtra government constituted a one-member probe panel of retired judge KU Chandiwal to investigate the allegations levelled by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against home minister Anil Deshmukh, the opposition, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), slammed the state government, saying the panel is just an eyewash. The ruling parties termed it “BJP’s double standards”.Leader of opposition and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis questioned how the committee will probe a home minister in the absence of powers given under the Commission of Inquiry Act. “The committee appointed under retired high court judge KU Chandiwal is just a committee without any powers of judicial commission. The committee has not been appointed under the Commission of Inquiry Act, nor has it been given any rights under the act. I do not see anything concrete to come from this probe,” he said. Fadnavis said the allegations are serious in nature and the probe is not likely to serve any purpose. He said a committee appointed by his government (to probe graft charges against former revenue minister Eknath Khadse), headed by retired judge Dinkar Zoting, had been given power under the act.The Maharashtra government — comprising Shiv Sena, Nationalist Congress party (NCP) and Congress — on Tuesday issued a government resolution to announce the appointment of a single-member judicial panel to probe the allegations. In his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh alleged that the home minister asked police officers from the crime branch to collect ₹100 crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours in Mumbai. The letter had led to a political slugfest between the BJP and state. BJP demanded the home minister’s resignation , while all the three ruling parties rallied behind the minister.The panel under Kailas Uttamchand Chandiwal has been asked to submit its report in six months. The three-point terms of reference given to the committee include to look into whether Singh has submitted any proof in his letter dated March 20, to establish that Deshmukh or any officer from his office committed any offence/ misconduct as alleged; whether the allegations levelled by Singh, citing the messages from assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil, (suspended) assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, have any truth; and whether they need to be investigated by the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) or any other investigating agency. The panel has also been asked to make any other recommendations it deems fit.BJP’s chief spokesperson Keshv Upadhye said looking at the terms of reference, the report is expected to be in favour of the home minister. “How can ACB conduct a probe, as mentioned in the terms of reference, when it is controlled by the home minister. The panel cannot summon anyone for the statement as it does not have been given power under the act. Thus, the constitution of the committee is meaningless,” he said.NCP slammed Fadnavis, saying his stance is an example of double standards. “The Zoting committee, too, was constituted under similar provisions to probe the allegations of the MIDC land scam. What was valid during their tenure is not valid now, according to Fadnavis. This is nothing but double standards,” said minority affairs minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said. Congress spokesperson Atul Londhe said, “Both, Zoting and Chandiwal committees, are under the similar provisions, but Fadnavis has been trying to mislead the people of Maharashtra by false claims. He should prove the Zoting committee was appointed under the Commission of Inquiry Act,” he said.IPS officer-turned-advocate YP Singh said the committee is just an administrative arrangement and would not solve any purpose. “It is neither a judicial probe nor the committee been given power under the Commission of Inquiry Act. The committee has not power of summoning anybody or instruct any department for the submission of documents like CDRs,” he said. He said there was no need of the probe committee to decide if the allegations need to be probed by ACB, as they, per se, are related to corruption in the department.The probe panel appointed under Commission of Inquiry Act gets the power of civil court. “The panel can summon any person to examine, ask for production of any document from any public record from any office as per the provision in section 5 of the Act,” said an official from the law and judiciary department. The Chandiwal committee is a high-level committee, which will probe whether the allegations levelled were true and there is any further need to investigate them by ACB or any other agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-bjp-terms-mva-probe-committee-an-eyewash-101617217913537.html
01-04-2021||Other||SIT questions woman in Jarkiholi case again||Bengaluru: A day after appearing before the Karnataka high court, the woman in the alleged sex video underwent a medical examination at Bengaluru’s Bowring Hospital on Wednesday. The woman, who was in hiding since March, recorded her statement before a judge in the Chief Metropolitan Court complex on Tuesday. A senior police officer familiar with the case said that a series of tests, including the rapid antigen test, was conducted during her visit. The samples were sent to the Forensic Sciences Lab, the officer said. She arrived at the hospital around 11.30 am, accompanied by tight security. Around 4 pm, she left for the Technical Centre in Adugodi for questioning by the Special Investigation Team (SIT). “She is currently giving a statement and voice samples to the SIT. The questioning was limited to the 376 C (sexual intercourse by a person in authority),” said KN Jagadish Kumar, the lawyer of the woman. When asked if she will be questioned regarding the extortion case filed by former Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi, the lawyer said no such information has been given to them by the SIT. “The accused in this case, who has filed a case with the Sadashivanagar police, has not mentioned my client in the complaint. So, there is no need to question her. If they have to question her, a complaint should have been filed against her,” the lawyer said. A top SIT official said that the woman was questioned on the basic details of the case such as how she came in contact with the former minister, what job offer did he make and who gave her the ministers number etc. He also added that more clarifications have sought on the statements she made in the video released last month and her alleged conversation with the former minister. Jarkiholi who has been giving multiple statements to reporters, remained unavailable for comments after the woman gave a statement before the high court. His number was not reachable when HT tried to contact him for a comment. Meanwhile, Karnataka home minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday slammed the Congress party for criticising the probe and said it will not influence the investigation in any way as the SIT was functioning in accordance with the law. “SIT will have to do in detail all round inquiry systematically. There is a set criminal procedure code for it and accordingly, it has to be done and they are doing it. No one can intervene in it, so I will also not comment on it,” Bommai said. “They (Congress) will have to look back and see what they had done while in power. We are doing things in accordance with law because ultimately everything has to be established in the court of law,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sit-questions-woman-in-jarkiholi-case-again-101617217914158.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Scooter rider, homeless man killed, two others injured as speeding mini truck runs onto pavement||A 35-year-old homeless man and a civil defence volunteer were killed and two other homeless men seriously injured after a mini truck, which was allegedly speeding, first hit a scooter and then ran onto a pavement where the homeless were sleeping in north Delhi’s Kashmere Gate on Wednesday morning, the police said.The deceased civil defence volunteer, who was on the scooter, was identified as 34-year-old Vehram Khan. Police said the identity of the dead homeless man could not be ascertained till late evening. The errant mini truck driver, Atiq Ahmed, was caught by a police team on patrol duty. He was booked for rash and negligent driving causing death and injury, the police said.Deputy commissioner of police (north) Anto Alphonse said around 6.15am, the patrolling staff of Kashmere Gate police station spotted an accident on a loop road towards Nigambodh Ghat from Yudhister Setu.“A mini truck had ran onto the pavement and injured three homeless people sleeping there, after first hitting a man on a scooter. One of the homeless men died on the spot. The other three injured persons were rushed to Sushruta Trauma Centre, where the scooter rider was declared brought dead,” said Alphonse.A police officer said the truck was carrying some plants and saplings to Sarai Kale Khan from north-east Delhi. The truck driver was alone in the vehicle and it was coming from the Shastri Park side. After crossing the Yamuna bridge (Yudhister Setu), the truck driver took a left turn on the loop towards Nigambodh Ghat.“Prime facie, it appears that the truck driver may have fallen asleep at the wheel because of which he lost control of the vehicle. The truck first hit the scooter before climbing onto the footpath outside a night shelter run by Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB). It ran over three homeless men sleeping on the footpath before crashing through a concrete wall and into a drain alongside the road,” the officer said.Of the two injured men, one was identified as Ramesh, 52, from Ludhiana, Punjab, while the other one was yet to be identified. At the time of the mishap, civil defence volunteer Vehram Khan was returning home on the scooter after dropping his mother at a bus stop in Jafarabad, his family members told the police.“My brother’s duty was in a Covid-19 vaccination centre in GB Pant. I called him around 7am but his phone was not reachable, and he had not reached home. We panicked and went looking for him on the route he had taken to return home after dropping our mother. We found his badly damaged scooter at the accident spot. We identified him from the images of the injured persons that the policemen showed us,” said Khan’s brother Zaidan Khan.A homeless men, Mahroof, who was sleeping on the pavement but escaped unhurt, said since it was windy over the past two days, people had started sleeping on the footpath to escape the heat and mosquitoes inside the night shelter.“I was sleeping nearly 10 feet away from them (dead and injured men). I woke up because of a loud noise and saw a truck had fallen into the drain. Three of our men lay bleeding on the footpath while a scooter rider was also lying injured on the road. Had the truck come straight onto the footpath, it would have killed me and a few others as well,” said Mahroof.DUSIB member Bipin Rai said there are 30 shelter homes in a 2km radius between Geeta Ghat and Gandhi Park for the homeless. “Despite the caretakers of these homes asking people to sleep inside, some sleep on the pavements to escape the heat. It was an unfortunate incident, and we will try to rope in more NGOs to ensure the homeless sleep inside the shelters only,” said Rai.Sunil Kumar Aledia, member, Centre for Holistic Development, however, said there is a large number of homeless around Kashmere Gate and they sleep on footpaths because there is not enough space in shelter homes.“Twenty temporary winter homes where nearly 600 homeless people slept were recently removed from the area. The existing homes are already overcrowded. So these people have no choice but to sleep on pavements. There have been similar deaths in the past, but the Delhi government still does not have a homeless policy to ensure their safety and security,” added Aledia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/scooter-rider-homeless-man-killed-two-others-injured-as-speeding-mini-truck-runs-onto-pavement-101617217913008.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||AAP alleges irregularities in ration distribution at MCD schools||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday accused the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of irregularities in the distribution of dry ration through municipal schools, allegations that the latter dismissed as “baseless”.While the AAP is in charge of the Delhi government, the BJP rules the three municipal corporations (MCD).Ration allotted for midday meals in MCD primary schools for 2020-21 were to be distributed to families of enrolled students because primary schools are closed in the light of the Covid-19 pandemic.Also read | CM reviews progress of redevelopment of industrial areas“The BJP is an anti-poor party. They stalled the Delhi government’s home delivery of ration scheme to harass the poor. It is shameful that BJP-ruled MCD has distributed dry ration to only one MCD school and the tender of this scheme is yet to take place, even though BJP leaders have officially inaugurated it. The situation is so serious that there is no clue whether the four lakh students of MCD schools will get dry rations or not,” said the AAP’s chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “These are baseless allegations with which AAP leaders are trying to mislead people. The ration distribution to school children started with North MCD schools. It was designed to utilise the already allotted midday meal ration scheme, for which no separate tender is required. New tenders will be floated for the period beyond April 2021.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-alleges-irregularities-in-ration-distribution-at-mcd-schools-baseless-claims-says-bjp-101617217854621.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||CM reviews progress of redevelopment of industrial areas||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to speed up redevelopment work at existing industrial areas of Mayapuri, Udyog Nagar, Okhla, Jhilmil, Jhandewalan, Kirti Nagar, GT Karnal Road, Bhorgarh and Bawana, said the government in a press statement.Kejriwal, on Wednesday, chaired his first review meeting on redevelopment of industrial areas. Last December, Kejriwal announced the setting up of new industrial zones exclusively for tech industries and the service sector, and opening up the existing ones to more sectors other than just manufacturing.While setting up new industrial areas is the long-term plan, the Delhi government’s key focus currently is to upgrade the existing 29 industrial areas to meet the changing needs of the city, said government officials.Also read | New school session to be online for all classes for now, says govtIn Wednesday’s press statement, the government said, “CM Kejriwal expressed his satisfaction regarding the ongoing industrial work and directed the officials to expedite the ongoing work for larger industrial development in the national capital of Delhi. During the review meeting, he directed the officials to finish the development work within the stipulated time so that the overall industrial development in Delhi gets a larger boost.”“During the meeting, senior officials of the industry department apprised the chief minister about the progress of work in these industrial areas and the satisfactory pace of work was noted and acknowledged by Kejriwal. The pace of work has been such that the work has been completed before the timeline set by the government. To exemplify their claim, officials cited the example of Mayapuri Industrial area, where more than 85% of the development work has been completed. Similarly, 99% of the road and drainage work in the Udyog Nagar Industrial Area has been completed, 95% of the road work in the Okhla Industrial Area has been completed,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cm-reviews-progress-of-redevelopment-of-industrial-areas-101617217853515.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||New school session to be online for all classes for now, says govt||A day before the start of the new academic session in schools across the national capital, Delhi government officials on Wednesday said all classes in private and public institutions will continue to remain online, a decision which caused confusion for some schools that had prepared to begin the session with in-person lessons for students of classes 9 to 12.Schools in Delhi have conducted online lessons and exams for all students till Class 8 since March last year, owing to restrictions in place to minimise the spread of Covid-19.Between January 18 and February 5, the Delhi government had allowed schools to reopen for students in classes 9 to 12, to allow practical work and remedial lessons. However, government officials on Wednesday said they have not sanctioned these permissions for the new academic session so far and added that schools will have to continue online classes for all students.“The last reopening orders were issued to ensure that schools manage to conduct practical and remedial classes for these students [of classes 9-12]. It was also to prepare students for the CBSE Class 10 and 12 board exams. The order was for a specific purpose. The government has not yet allowed schools to reopen normally for senior students. Delhi government schools will on Thursday begin the new session for students of Class 9 and below remotely. Private schools cannot resume offline classes without the government’s permission,” a senior official at the government’s education department.Although the directorate of education (DoE) had on March 16 issued a circular directing all government schools to begin the new academic session from April 1 for students up to Class 9 online, it is yet to issue any such notification for private schools.Officials at some private schools, including Mount Abu Public School in Rohini and Sanskriti School in Chanakyapuri, that had decided to revert to in-person lessons for senior classes, said the education department’s orders needed more clarity.“The DoE’s March 16 notification doesn’t clearly mention which classes can or cannot be called to schools for in-person classes. Besides, the reopening guidelines issued for classes 10 and 12 in January and classes 9 and 11 in February did not mention how long the guidelines were valid. The government needs to make it more transparent,” said an official at Sanskriti School who asked not to be named.Also read | Delhi's daily Covid tally goes up again with 1,819 new cases; toll at 11,027Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School said, “There should be clear guidelines on online and offline classes. The academic session is set to begin tomorrow [Thursday], and we are still waiting for instructions from the state education department.”Lakshay Chhabaria, president of the Affordable Private Schools’ Association in Delhi, said most schools under their umbrella were also planning a blend of online and in-person lessons for senior students.“A large number of parents have consented to sending their children to school, and we are also taking all precautions and due care. The government order dated March 16 was only for aided and government schools. We are yet to be notified of anything,” he said.Meanwhile, a majority of the private schools, including Springdales School, Delhi Public Schools, Tagore International, The Indian School, Birla Vidya Niketan, and Bal Bharti Public School, among others, had earlier decided to continue with online lessons for all classes in the new session.Officials at these schools said a year of familiarity with the process meant that virtual classes this session are likely to be less challenging than they were in 2020.In the last year, both private and public schools in Delhi have switched to online lessons via videoconferencing, recorded video and audio lectures, presentation slides, podcasts, portable document format (PDFs), worksheets, and activities on emails.Meenu Goswami, principal of Bal Bharti School in Pitampura, said, “Over the past year, teachers and students have become familiar with several technologies and learning techniques, which is why it will be slightly easier for us to start a new academic year virtually. However, this year, we have decided to have mandatory slots for personalised, one-on-one interactions between students and class teachers every day, in order to rekindle their personal connection with their school and teachers.”Principals at government schools also said that their teachers and students are more prepared for digital lessons this year. RP Singh, principal of Rajkiya Pratibha Vikas Vidyalaya (RPVV) in Surajmal Vihar, said, “Last year at this time, we were struggling to understand the use of technology. However, over the last year, our teachers and students have learned a lot. The quality of worksheets has also improved over the period. But we are really worried about the impact of a prolonged school closures on the overall development of students.”Several students also said they were disappointed to begin another academic year online. Rania Mavinkurve, 14, a Class 9 student at Springdales School, Pusa Road said she would miss wearing a new uniform, buying a new bag and stationery, and meeting friends. “Although we are much comfortable with online learning after a year, I really wanted to go back to school and attend in-person classes this time. I wanted to meet my new classmates since our sections have reshuffled this year. This is so disappointing that we are starting another session online,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-school-session-to-be-online-for-all-classes-for-now-says-govt-101617217853003.html
01-04-2021||Other||Dushyant Chautala faces protest from farmers during Panipat visit||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala faced protest from farmers during his visit to Panipat on Wednesday.Soon after getting information about Dushyant’s visit to Panipat to attend the monthly grievances committee meeting, hundreds of farmers gathered near the mini-secretariat and raised slogans against Dushyant and the BJP-JJP coalition in state.The protesters carried black flags and burnt an effigy of the deputy CM. They slammed him for not supporting their agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.Amid heavy police deployment, Dushyant reached Panipat in a helicopter. Following threat of protests by farmers, the deputy CM had earlier postponed the grievances committee meeting twice.Interacting with the media, Dushyant said everybody has the right to protest. Government is ready to resume talks with the farmers, he said.He claimed that the government was committed towards welfare of farmers and steps are being taken to increase their income. He said that of 15 registered grievances, seven were resolved on the spot.In a sharp reaction to his uncle and INLD leader Abhay Chautala’s statement that the farmers should tie up BJP-JJP leaders if they come to their village, Dushyant said, “I don’t think he is a serious politician. I don’t take such people seriously.”“He (Abhay) may claim that he paid my tuition fee and purchased clothes for me, but such statements are illogical,” he said, regarding Abhay’s claims that he played a key role in Dushyant’s first election as an MP.Meanwhile, he condemned the thrashing of Punjab BJP MLA Arun Narang by farmers and termed the incident a “police failure”.He said that Punjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh should support Centre’s decision of direct payment to farmers and added that the move will ensure that farmers get payment of their produce without any delay.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dushyant-chautala-faces-protest-from-farmers-during-panipat-visit-101617217793724.html
01-04-2021||Other||Dog stands guard as pups are rescued from borewell near Mumbai||A female stray dog, who had delivered a litter of puppies merely 20 days ago, stood guard over a 70-foot-deep borewell of a housing society in Badlapur for over 13 hours as two of her seven puppies had fallen in it. Some volunteers of an animal shelter managed to rescue the two puppies after 13 hours of non-stop rescue operation, uniting the two scared but unhurt puppies with their mother and siblings. The incident took place in Badlapur, 52 kilometres from Mumbai, early on Monday morning. Eye witnesses said the female dog did not leave the site during the entire operation. The incident came to notice when Prashant Ghugare, 25, who lives in the building, heard the puppies howling when he was out for a walk around 5.30am. He realised the puppies were barking from inside the borewell and informed a volunteer of Panvatha orphanage for handicap animals, Badlapur. “I was out for a walk and heard the puppies howling and called the orphanage. The borewell, a failed project, was closed earlier but somehow it was left opened recently,” said Ghugare. The volunteers first took photos of inside the six-inch-wide well to get an idea of the situation. “We wanted to know if there is ample space for the puppies to move or they can’t move at all. We did the recording and found that there was no space for them to move and they were covered with muddy water,” said Ganraj Jain, 35, founder of the orphanage that shelters nearly 100 disabled animals. A volunteer group then purchased a rope and binding wire, and prepared a trap using a pipe to pull the puppies out safely. “The puppies were too tiny and it was very important to ensure they are not hurt. Preparing the trap using rope and the pipe took some time. Around 12.30pm we managed to pull out one of the puppies. It looked weak. We believe it might have fallen into the borewell on Sunday night when it was dark,” said Jain. The second puppy was rescued around 6pm in the evening. “We cleaned the puppies and kept them near their mother who was there since we started the rescue operations. It was a touching moment when the mother cuddled the two puppies,” said Jain. The housing society members have closed the borewell for safety reasons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dog-stands-guard-as-pups-are-rescued-from-borewell-near-mumbai-101617217733621.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Random Covid-19 testing starts at airport, railway stations and ISBTs||The Delhi government on Wednesday started conducting random Covid-19 tests on domestic passengers arriving at the T3 and T2 terminals of the Indira Gandhi International Airport. Covid tests are also being conducted at railway stations and interstate bus terminals since the past two-three months but none of the tests conducted at these places was done on the basis of city of origin -- to test passengers from states witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases.On Wednesday (Day One of the exercise), the Delhi government randomly picked 660 samples for RT-PCR tests from passengers who landed at the IGI airport, even as officials deployed at railway stations and ISBTs were seen testing mostly those who walked up to their counters. There was no prioritisation or identification of passengers who arrived from states that are witnessing a steep surge in cases such as Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Gujarat, among others.To be sure, the DDMA in its March 23 order had stated, “All district disaster management authorities shall conduct random testing (RAT/RT-PCR) of passengers coming from the states where Covid-19 cases are increasing, at all airports, railway stations, interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) and other alighting points (for private buses) in NCT of Delhi.”When asked about the week’s delay -- the order came on March 23 -- in deploying health teams for random tests at the airport, a senior district official said getting passes for teams and approvals for a space to operate from inside the airport took time.Also read | From today, vaccination drive opens to everyone above the age of 45 years“We are randomly requesting people to undergo RT-PCR tests. If anyone is not willing, we are not forcing them. At present, we are not able to test on the basis of states having a high Covid caseload as the space we have been allotted is not where people immediately deboard from the aircraft. The only way that can be done is by asking people to show their boarding pass -- we do not know how many will be comfortable showing us these,” said the official, asking not to be named.If any of the 660 samples are positive, it will be sent for genome sequencing as well and the person will have to undergo a 10 -day mandatory isolation at their scheduled place of stay or an institutional quarantine facility in the city, the official said.“At T3, we have two teams deployed in the area before the luggage collection zone. At T2, our space is beyond where the passengers collect their luggage, closer to the exit gates,” the official said.AT RAILWAY STATIONSAt the New Delhi and Old Delhi railway stations, the district teams said they are conducting around 2,000 tests daily on inbound passengers. Data of the district, seen by HT, showed that on March 28, the positivity rate among the 2,000-odd incoming passengers at the two railway stations was 1.04%.“Whosoever is coming, we are testing them. Nobody is being denied a Covid test,” said a district official engaged in Covid tests at the New Delhi railway station and the Old Delhi railway station.A second district official said random testing at the Kashmere Gate ISBT has been ongoing for almost three months. “We have not been provided with a list of states based on which we would segregate passengers and test them. No such direction was issued,” said the official, asking not to be named.AT ANAND VIHAR ISBTAt Anand Vihar, a common test camp, located between the ISBT and the Metro station, caters to passengers using either of the three modes of transport -- bus, railways or the Metro. The scene was similar at that camp as well.“No new camp has been set up. This camp has been operational for several months now. On average, we are testing 1,500 people every day. But these tests are not happening based on the state of origin of travellers. It is voluntary, so whoever comes, we test them,” said the official involved in the Anand Vihar ISBT testing camp.“Those who are tested through the rapid antigen test get the results on the spot, while those undergoing RT-PCR tests are asked to leave after recording their address and phone number. If their results come positive the next day, the district administration is informed and officials there take the necessary steps thereafter,” the official said.When asked, the Delhi government did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/random-covid-19-testing-starts-at-airport-railway-stations-and-isbts-101617217732986.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Four Rohingya refugees from Kalindi Kunj camp detained for not having documents||Four Rohingya refugees were detained in South Delhi’s Kalindi Kunj on Wednesday for not having the necessary documents (refugee cards) and handed over to the Foreigner Regional Registration Office (FRRO), the Delhi Police said.Rohingya leaders alleged a concerted drive against them, citing a similar incident earlier in March when about a dozen refugees were detained for not having papers. However, the police denied any planned campaign or drive against the community.“It’s just that some refugees were found staying here illegally. There is no drive against them as such,” said RP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east).Ali Jauhar, a community leader of the Rohingyas, on Wednesday said the local police detained four refugees each from the Kalindi Kunj and Shaheen Bagh camps on the pretext that they did not have the necessary documents. “They later let go of the Shaheen Bagh refugees, but the Kalindi Kunj Rohingyas have been detained,” Jauhar, who also lives at the Kalindi Kunj refugee camp, said.Jauhar said that on March 24, six Rohingyas from each camp were held.The DCP confirmed that a few refugees were detained earlier as well, but did not elaborate on the exact number or date. “Whenever we get to know that someone is living illegally, we detain them and hand them over to the FRRO,” Meena said, adding that no police cases were registered against them.Jauhar, however, alleged that refugees were being detained despite possessing the necessary documents. “I don’t know why that is being done,” he said.Jauhar said about 600 Rohingya refugees are living in the two camps. “They all have refugee cards issued by the United Nations High Commissioner,” he said.Despite repeated attempts, the FRRO wasn’t available for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-rohingya-refugees-from-kalindi-kunj-camp-detained-for-not-having-documents-101617217674776.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Man stabbed to death by mob following altercation, police arrest four||A 23-year-old man, working at a restaurant in Connaught Place, was killed after being attacked with a knife, beer bottles and sticks by around six men following a quarrel between them in outer Delhi’s Narela on Monday evening, the police said.Although rumours were rife on Tuesday that the murder had communal tones to it, police categorically quashed these speculations and said most of the suspects also belonged to the same religion as the victim. As a precautionary step, the police also deployed additional force in the neighbourhood to maintain peace and order.Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer north), said so far four of at least five known suspects have been arrested. “We have arrested Qayamuddin, Salauddin, Kundan and Kaushal. We are on the lookout for one more known suspect and other possible unknown attackers,” said Ranjan.The victim was identified as Bunty Verma, a resident of Narela Industrial Area. He worked in the housekeeping department of a restaurant in Connaught Place.The police said after celebrating Holi on Monday, he visited a water purifier kiosk in his neighbourhood to collect drinking water. “Around 4.30pm, while he was returning with the water, he noticed some drunk men in the local park. He asked them not to consume alcohol in public and they began beating him over that,” Verma’s brother Rahul said.The DCP said it later emerged that Verma, too, was drunk at that time.Some locals intervened in the fight and broke it up. Verma returned home, but around 6pm, he again ventured into the street.This time, the rival group allegedly attacked him with a knife, broken bottles and sticks until his brother rescued him. “Even when I tried to rush him to a hospital in an auto-rickshaw, the men kept attacking us,” Rahul said.Verma eventually succumbed to multiple stab wounds, Rahul said.On Tuesday, Verma’s family took to the street to accuse the police of not acting against the suspects. Police have assured the victim’s family that no effort will be spared in acting against the killers and quashed all rumours of a communal fight. The arrested men either worked at a power plant or did odd jobs. None of them has a criminal past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-stabbed-to-death-by-mob-following-altercation-police-arrest-four-101617217673525.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo to open with Covid-19 precautions||The National Zoological Park will open to the public on Thursday, after a gap of over a year, and operate in two shifts to prevent crowding, officials familiar with the matter said.Ramesh Kumar Pandey, director, Delhi zoo, said, “The entire premises will be completely sanitised before it is opened in the morning. We will operate in two shifts; the first shift will be from 8 am to noon and the second shift will be from 1 pm to 5 pm. Between noon and 1 pm, we will close the zoo for sanitisation to adhere to the coronavirus protocols.”The Delhi zoo was shut for visitors on March 18 last year, a week before the nationwide lockdown that lasted 68 days was imposed. Although most services gradually resumed in the last few months, plans to get visitors back to the zoo were hit by cases of avian flu earlier this year.The first case of bird flu was reported from the zoo on January 15, when a sample from a brown fish owl that was found dead in its enclosure tested positive. Seven more samples collected from the zoo premises also tested positive over the next few weeks.The Delhi zoo is one of the Capital’s most popular tourist spaces, receiving 15,000-20,000 visitors on weekdays before the pandemic. Zoo officials said that the footfall went up to 30,000-35,000 during the weekends and national holidays.Also read | Seven samples from Delhi Zoo test positive for bird fluPandey said that to ensure there is no crowding inside or outside the zoo, the administration decided that not more than 1,500 people will be allowed on the premises at a time. Manual ticketing has been completely stopped and visitors will have to pre-book their tickets online from the official website of the Delhi zoo, nzpnewdelhi.gov.in. To minimise physical exchange, the Delhi zoo will also provide digitised maps and brochures to help visitors navigate.“To ensure that the number of people coming into the zoo is controlled, we opened the website for ticket sale at 8 am on Wednesday, 24 hours before entry. Around 5 pm on Wednesday, we had over 50 bookings,” Pandey said.The cost of entry has increased from ₹40 to ₹80 for adults and from ₹20 to ₹40 for children aged 5-12 years and senior citizens. Officials said that the hike in prices was not related to the pandemic and a proposal was already in the works as the fee was not revised for seven years.While visitors will have to strictly adhere to social distancing norms, they will be welcomed by many new residents, including sloth bears, striped hyenas, chinkara (Indian gazelle), ostrich and Indian boar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-to-open-with-covid-19-precautions-101617217674112.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Shiv Sena reconstitutes panel of party spokespersons||The Shiv Sena leadership on Tuesday reconstituted the party’s panel of spokespersons. The party leadership appointed south Mumbai MP Arvind Sawant as the party’s chief spokesperson along with Sanjay Raut. The decision to reconstitute the panel of spokespersons comes days after Raut’s criticism and comments irked Sena’s alliance partners Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress party. Raut’s editorials and column in party mouthpiece Saamana has also taken shots at chief minister Uddhav Thackeray recently.Over the past few weeks, Raut’s reiterations that NCP chief Sharad Pawar should head the United Progressive Alliance (UPA) upset the Congress leadership in Maharashtra. On Sunday, Raut in his weekly column had criticised home minister Anil Deshmukh regarding the allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh. In the same column, the Sena parliamentarian had also criticised the Uddhav Thackeray-led government saying it did not have a damage control plan in Sachin Vaze-Mansukh Hiran case.The Sena had appointed Raut as the chief spokesperson and 10 other spokespersons including Sawant in September 2020. Within six months of his appointment, the party has reconstituted the panel of spokespersons. Despite repeated attempts Raut was unavailable for a comment.Sawant was the Union minister in the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government had held the heavy industries portfolio before he quit in November 2019 after the Sena pulled out of the NDA. In February, he was appointed the head of the Bharatiya Kamgar Sena (BKS), the post that fell vacant after Suryakant Mahadik’s demise. BKS has over 500,000 members across the state from workers in airlines, airports, MTNL, hospitals, five-star hotels, banking and manufacturing sectors, etc.As per the new list, the party has added MLA Bhaskar Jadhav who was vocal in the state Assembly while defending the party in Vaze case, and former minister Sachin Ahir who is known to be close to Sena scion Aaditya Thackeray. The party has also included MLCs Ambadas Danve and Manisha Kayande, corporator Sheetal Mhatre, former Mumbai mayor Dr Shubha Raul, OBC leader from Nagpur Kishore Kanhere, former MNS member Sanjana Ghadi and Anand Dubey, who is a north Indian face in the party.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-shiv-sena-reconstitutes-panel-of-party-spokespersons-101617217672985.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro gets ₹8,390-crore loan from Japan agency for Phase 4 expansion work||The cash-strapped Delhi Metro body has received a major funding boost, with the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), a bilateral cooperation agency of the Japanese government, sanctioning a loan of ₹8,390 crore for Metro’s Phase 4 expansion plan.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communication, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC), said, “The loan agreement between the government of India and JICA for the sanction of loan for Delhi Metro’s Phase 4 expansion was signed last Friday. The amount sanctioned is Japanese Yen 119,978 million (Approximately ₹8,390 crore).”While DMRC started work under the Phase 4 in December 2019, HT has learnt that the body couldn’t start work on some of its underground sections because of questions over funding.Also read | CM reviews progress of redevelopment of industrial areasTo be sure, the JICA loan is meant specifically for the construction of the Phase 4 corridors and can’t be used by DMRC to meet its operational losses.While there are six corridors, spread over 104 km, proposed under Phase 4, the central government has approved three corridors so far. The three corridors will add 65km to the existing 389km network. The approved corridors are Aerocity-Tughlakabad (20.2km), Maujpur-Majlis Park (12.5 km) and Janakpuri West- RK Ashram corridor (28.9 km). DMRC started work on the Janakpuri West-RK Ashram corridor in December 2019.However, the nationwide lockdown last year, and the consequent labour shortages, meant that construction work was stalled in the initial months, but picked up later on. DMRC, HT has learnt, has been incurring huge operational losses since Metro services in the city resumed on September 7 last year. The corporation’s revenues took a severe hit due to the 169-day closure enforced due to curbs put in place to stem the spread of Covid-19.In January this year, DMRC asked the Centre and Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana for financial assistance of ₹1,678.41 crore. Officials said this assistance has not been sanctioned as yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-gets-8-390-crore-loan-from-japan-agency-for-phase-4-expansion-work-101617217620239.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: MVA’s show of unity at Bal Thackeray memorial event||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday performed the ground-breaking ceremony for the Bal Thackeray Memorial in Shivaji Park, Dadar. In a show of strength, Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers, including deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat — chief guests at the event — were present. Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) legislator and Sharad Pawar’s grandnephew Rohit Pawar was also present at the event.The ₹400-crore memorial will come up on the plot of the erstwhile Mumbai mayor’s bungalow. Executed by Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority (MMRDA), phase one of the project is expected to be completed in 14 months.As part of the phase one, it will have architecture including a grand six-metre high entrance, administrative block, interpretation block, cafeteria, a pond. As part of the construction, an underground section will be built where a gallery with pictures, quotes, among other things of the Sena supremo’s life will be displayed. Phase one will also include the construction of a parking lot for visitors and focus on the mechanism of rain water harvesting at the memorial. The second phase will consist of the technological part of the memorial. This will include preparation of digital mapping, films, audio visuals, etc. for the memorial to start its operations. The erstwhile mayor’s bungalow will be untouched and will also house Thackeray’s journey from a cartoonist in a Mumbai-based newspaper to setting up a political outfit and his political journey. Abha Narain Lambha Associates has designed the memorial. The event also had its share of controversy. The official card of the event did not mention urban development department minister Eknath Shinde’s name. The Sena minister was, however, present at the event. The opposition criticised the Shiv Sena for not extending invitation to leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis.“The programme was held in the presence of limited people. Once the [Covid-19] restrictions are lifted, we might have a grand event,” said industries minister Subhash Desai, who is the general secretary of Balasaheb Thackeray National Memorial Trust. Sena minister Anil Parab said the opposition is trying to create a difference. “All Sena ministers have been invited. No invitations were printed for this event,” he said before the programme.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-mva-s-show-of-unity-at-bal-thackeray-memorial-event-101617217619668.html
01-04-2021||Other||Will give martyr status to farmers who died during farm stir, says Hooda||Former Haryana chief minister and leader of Opposition Bhupinder Singh Hooda said that if voted to power, his party will give martyr status to farmers who lost their lives during the ongoing farm agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.Speaking at Makrauli Kalan toll plaza on Wednesday, Hooda said over 300 farmers have sacrificed their lives during the farm movement but the central government has not shown any empathy.“We have given financial help of ₹2 lakh each from the Congress Legislature Party to families of farmers who died during the stir. When Congress government is formed in future, these farmers will be given martyr status and appropriate financial help. Also, government job will be provided to a member of their families,” he said.“In the assembly session, an attempt was made by the Congress to bring a Bill guaranteeing MSP to farmers but the Speaker of the assembly rejected it. It is clear to everyone that the mindset of the BJP-JJP government is anti-farmer,” he added.Hooda urged the Union government to start a dialogue with the protesters and end the ongoing deadlock.“The demands of farmers are justified. It has been more than four months since the movement started. Despite this, the movement continues to be peaceful and disciplined. Farmers’ morale is still high and they are not tired despite their long struggle,” he said.He added that the government will repeatedly try to provoke the farmers and advised the farmers to be cautious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-give-martyr-status-to-farmers-who-died-during-farm-stir-says-hooda-101617217619233.html
01-04-2021||Delhi||68 patients evacuated after fire breaks out at Safdarjung hospital’s HDU||A fire broke out in the high dependency unit (HDU), or step-down intensive care unit, on the first floor of Safdarjung hospital early Wednesday, triggering panic for a brief period and leading to the evacuation of eight patients in the HDU and 60 other patients in the two adjoining wards, fire officials said. No casualty or injury was reported in the incident, the first responders added.Although the fire was small one and was doused quickly using the fire safety equipment available in the hospital building itself, the smoke caused by it had engulfed the HDU and the two adjoining wards because of which the patients had to be shifted, the fire officials said.“The fire broke out around 6.15am in the high dependency unit 11 in the H block of the hospital. It was most likely caused by high voltage fluctuations triggering a short-circuit,” said hospital spokesperson Poonam Dhanda.The HDU is meant for patients admitted to the medicine department of the hospital who are in need of constant monitoring and some life-support.Delhi Fire Services chief Atul Garg said the fire control room was alerted at 6.35am. “It’s a three-storey block and the fire was on the first floor. A total of nine fire tenders were rushed from Safdarjung, Bhikaji Cama Place and other nearby fire stations. The fire was doused and patients shifted to other wards with the help of the hospital staff,” said Garg.Also read | Delhi's daily Covid tally goes up again with 1,819 new cases; toll at 11,027The visuals from the fire spot shared by the fire department showed beds and medical equipment in the affected wards covered by a thick layer of soot but no major visible damage.Assistant divisional fire officer Vedpal Chhikara, who was leading the rescue efforts, said the fire had originated in one of the ventilators in the HDU where eight patients were undergoing treatment. There was smoke all over the HDU but nearly 20 hospital employees, including the nursing staff, ward helpers and security guards, quickly responded to the emergency situation and began shifting patients to other wards, said Chhikara.“The hospital staff and our firefighters lifted patients using the bed sheets and shifted them to other wards about 20 metres away on the same floor. There were 30 patients each in the two adjoining wards. They were also safely evacuated and shifted to other wards. Things were under control within half an hour,” said the fire officer.In a statement issued in the afternoon, the hospital authorities said “regular fire drills in the hospital with cooperation from the fire department helped in managing the situation”.In another incident, a fire broke out at a three-storey ready-made garments godown in east Delhi’s Raghubarpura Part-2, near Gandhi Nagar, on Wednesday morning, fire and police personnel said.Fire chief Garg said 15 fire tenders were sent to the spot to douse the flames. The fire was controlled within an hour but the cooling operation continued till late afternoon.Deputy commissioner of police (Shahdara) R Sathiyasundaram said the fire was on the first, second and third floor of the building. “No casualty was reported. The cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/68-patients-evacuated-after-fire-breaks-out-at-safdarjung-hospital-s-hdu-none-injured-101617217612998.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC reserves order in PILs by Param Bir Singh, others seeking CBI probe||The Bombay high court on Wednesday asked former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh why he did not file a first information report (FIR) against Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh if he was aware that the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader was engaged in extortion.The court made the observation while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Singh seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe against Deshmukh.“As per your claims you were witness to an offence (Deshmukh asking police officers to extort money from bars and restaurants). Then why did you not file an FIR. You held the highest post in the force, what stopped you from filing the complaint?” a division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni asked of Singh, who was transferred out as commissioner on March 17 for his handling of the Antilia bomb scare case, and then chose to go public, on March 20, with allegations against the home minister.The bench reserved its order on Singh’s PIL. “Even if Deshmukh was your boss, why did you not file a complaint against him? No one is above the law,” observed the bench.Advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, appearing for the state, started arguments objecting to the maintainability of the PIL by Singh as it was for personal gain, was politically motivated and was based on vendetta as Singh did not share a good rapport with Deshmukh while he was the commissioner of police (CP).Kumbhakoni justified his submissions by stating that the allegations by Singh were made after he was transferred to the home guards by a March 17 order of the home department.Also read | 'Eyewash': Fadnavis on panel formed to probe charges against DeshmukhKumbhakoni further added that while Singh alleged that Deshmukh bypassed him and called police officers to his residence and asked them to collect money from bars and restaurants, there was no affidavit or complaints by the officers themselves.Senior counsel Vikram Nankani appearing for Singh, however, justified the PIL and stated that though his client enumerated the alleged malpractices by Deshmukh in his letter to the chief minister, no action was taken and hence he had no option but to approach the high court.After hearing the submissions, the bench observed that prima facie the PIL by Singh was not maintainable as no FIR was registered. The court held that the basic premise of transferring an investigation was when an investigation was underway, however here in the absence of any FIR, no investigation was going on hence the court could not pass orders for transferring investigations to any other agency. After hearing all sides, the bench concluded the marathon hearing that lasted for more than six hours and said that it had heard all sides and the preliminary objections of the state on maintainability of the petition and reserved its order on the same.Singh was transferred following a case that embarrassed the city police and the state government.On February 25, a SUV with explosives was found outside the house of billionaire Mukesh Ambani. It turned out that the owner of the SUV had filed a complaint about the car being stolen on February 18.However, the owner turned up dead on March 5, following which it emerged that Sachin Vaze, a powerful and influential sub-inspector in Mumbai Police, was behind the whole incident, according to the National Investigation Agency which is investigating both the explosives case and the murder.Singh was moved out citing his handling of the case, following which he shot of an angry letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in which he made his allegations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-reserves-order-in-pils-by-param-bir-singh-others-seeking-cbi-probe-101617217553000.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra refuses to extend stamp duty rebate||The Maharashtra government has refused to extend relaxation of stamp duty for real estate sector which had considerably boosted sales of houses across the state from September last year onwards. However, the state has maintained status quo on the ready reckoner (RR) rates, saying it will be same as last year. Stamp duty will now be charged at 5% from the current 3%.“The rebate given in stamp duty to give boost to the realty sector which ends on March 31 will not be extended. The regular stamp duty rates will be applied,” tweeted revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat.Builders had hoped that the state will extend the rebate further, especially in view of the second wave of Covid-19. “We are disappointed with the move to not extend the stamp duty rebate beyond March 31. It will impact sales momentum,” said Deepak Garodia, president of Maharashtra Chambers of Housing Industry (MCHI-CREDAI), an association of builders across the state. “However, we will continue with our efforts to pursue the government that waiver is necessary as it will boost the money being paid to the state exchequer,” he added.The government in August last year announced its decision to reduce stamp duty levied on sales of apartments to 2% from September 1 till December 31, 2020,and then hike it to 3% from January 1 till March 31, 2021. The move had played a huge role in boosting sales of both primary and secondary market.Niranjan Hiranandani, president of National Real Estate Development Council (NAREDCO), urged the government to reconsider reducing both stamp duty and RR rates, saying they were imperative in the post-Covid era to speed up sales and to ensure economic revival.RR rate is a guide published annually by the state government, which determines the rate of properties in a particular area, on which stamp duty and registration charges are levied. In addition, all calculations related to real estate are based on RR, whether it is premium, tax collection or even income tax matters related to the construction sector.“Bringing down the RR rate at this juncture would have definitely aided the real estate market as it was something that all stakeholders were looking forward to. A cut in RR rates would have given more room to developers to bring down the prices,” said Anuj Puri, chairman of ANAROCK Property Consultants.The government however will provide a 1% rebate to any woman registering a property in her name solo or with another female member.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-refuses-to-extend-stamp-duty-rebate-101617217477368.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Dreams Mall fire: Mumbai civic body will not extend licence of Sunrise Hospital||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has decided to not extend the license of Sunrise Hospital in Bhandup’s Dreams Mall where nine Covid-19 patients lost their lives due to a fire reported on March 25. The civic body has maintained that the hospital should get permanent occupation certificate (OC) and no objection certificate (NOC) from the Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB).According to BMC officials, the BMC gave permission to the hospital in May last to run as a Covid-19 hospital till March 31 this year. The hospital was also given permission to operate on the basis of provisional OC and NOC from MFB.On March 25 around 11.45pm, a level-four fire was reported inside Dreams Mall which also houses Sunrise Hospital on the third floor. The fire was reported on the first floor of the mall and took around 40 hours to douse.Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC, said, “We are not going to extend the permission for now. We are very clear that the hospital should get permanent OC and fire NOC, after which we will give them further permission.”BMC has also ordered an enquiry into the fire incident and the report is expected to come out by April 10.Reacting to BMC’s decision, Sunrise Hospital in a statement said, “The hospital had all required permissions including the fire NOC, OC and nursing home license. All the compliances were completed and hence the provisional OC was given. The issue is with the mall administrator for not fulfilling the required compliances leading to the tragedy. We have given our complaints to the authority against the administrator too.”Meanwhile, corporators from all the political parties raised the matter in BMC’s standing committee demanding action against guilty officers. Samajwadi Party corporator Rais Shaikh said, “I have written to BMC administration to take action against the guilty officers who gave permission for operation of the hospital by overlooking several factors that has resulted in death of Covid-19 patients.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dreams-mall-fire-mumbai-civic-body-will-not-extend-licence-of-sunrise-hospital-101617217372987.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Navi Mumbai: Pet dog attacks three-year-old girl, owner booked||Vashi police booked a 36-year-old woman after her dog allegedly attacked and injured a three-year-old girl on Monday. According to the police, Pratiksha Shinde was on her way to a shop with her mother Swati Shinde, 23, in the evening when the accused, Christina Joseph, stepped out to take her two dogs out for a walk. “One of the dogs managed to free himself from her grip, ran towards the girl and attacked her. The girl suffered injuries on her abdomen. The mother managed to rescue her and took her to civic hospital in Vashi. She was discharged after a few hours,” said Sanjay Savle, sub-inspector from Vashi police station. “Her mother later approached us and registered a complaint against the accused. We have booked the accused under section 289 (negligent conduct with respect to animal) of the Indian Penal Code and are investigating the matter,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/navi-mumbai-pet-dog-attacks-three-year-old-girl-owner-booked-101617217192954.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Coastal road: ‘Translocated from Haji Ali, corals surviving in Navy Nagar’||A total of 329 coral colonies -- belonging to the species ‘pseudosiderastrea tayamai’ -- are surviving in relatively undisturbed conditions at their new habitat in Navy Nagar, Colaba, officials in the forest department’s mangrove cell and the National Institute of Oceanography (NIO) said on Wednesday, after undertaking an inspection of the site.The coral colonies had been translocated after being retrieved from 194 rock boulders in the intertidal zone at Haji Ali to Navy Nagar, in November 2020, as they were getting in the way of the coastal road alignment that will connect Princess Street near Marine Lines to Worli. This stretch of the coastal road is expected to be 10.5-km-long when finished.Neenu Somraj, deputy conservator of forests, mangrove cell, said, “We have inspected the corals along with officials from the National Institute of Oceanography, who had translocated the colonies and are conducting monthly inspections. The area is less polluted than Haji Ali and as it is in a high security zone, the area is not as disturbed either. There is a rich variety of intertidal life in the region already, and all shifted corals are intact.”Somraj said the NIO, at the instruction of the courts, has been conducting monthly visits to inspect the translocated corals (which are protected under Schedule II of the Wildlife Protection Act). “They have also been submitting quarterly reports directly to the BMC, but we have told them that the mangrove cell also requires these reports. We should receive them shortly,” said Somraj.The proposal to shift the corals had attracted several objections from citizens and experts last year, with the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) in Nagpur finally giving permission on condition that the chief engineer, Coastal Road project, BMC, would continue to monitor the health of the species after they were moved. “We will only really know about their health and growth toward the end of 2021. We need to observe the corals for at least a year before making any conclusions,” said Somraj.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/coastal-road-translocated-from-haji-ali-corals-surviving-in-navy-nagar-101617216773434.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Class 5, 8 scholarship exams to be held on May 23||The Maharashtra State Council of Examination has recently announced that it will conduct Class 5 and Class 8 scholarship examinations for students from across the state on May 23. The exam was earlier scheduled to take place on April 25, but has now been pushed to May due to the surge in Covid-19 cases.“The examination will be conducted at the same time in centres across the state. Application deadline for the exams is further extended unto April 10,” stated an official circular released by the council this week.The state government is yet to sanction the scholarship amount of students who passed the exam conducted in February 2020. While the results were declared in October after being marred with several delays, students are yet to get their scholarship amounts. “The process for disbursement is on and students will not have to wait for too long to get their money,” said a senior official from education department.Meanwhile, schools are now worried about conducting scholarship exams amid rising cases of Covid-19. “We hope the cases dip by then. Students are really worried, and we do not want to add to their stress. Conducting a physical exam is going to be tough, especially in areas with more cases,” said the principal of a suburban school.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-class-5-8-scholarship-exams-to-be-held-on-may-23-101617216772960.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Khar NYE murder: Janhvi Kukreja was assaulted, killed in just 20 minutes, say witnesses||“It was all over in about 20 minutes,” according to the statements of the witnesses who were partying with deceased Janhvi Kukreja and her alleged killers, boyfriend Shree Jogdhankar and his friend Diya Padalkar, on the night of December 31, 2020 at Bhagwati Heights building at Khar. Kukreja’s friends claimed in their police statements that they had last seen Kukreja in the passage outside the house of party organiser Yash Ahuja at 1.40am. They said she was crying while talking with someone over the phone and then at around 2am, they saw Padalkar washing off blood from her lips in Ahuja’s bathroom, while Kukreja and Jogdhankar were not seen around. Police officers said 15 people attended the New Year’s party, including organiser Ahuja. The Khar police have recorded the statements of many of them, including Yashna Ahuja, 22, Karishma Kharwani, 22, Saideep Arora, 23, and Pratik Sadhwani, 20, Ahuja, and a few others and have annexed the statements to the charge sheet filed on Tuesday. Yashna said that he did not know Jogdhankar and met him as he was along with Kukreja. She saw that Kukreja had plugged her phone with the projector at the party. She said that Kukreja, Jogdhankar and Padalkar were sitting in a corner and did not mingle with the rest. Her friend showed Ahuja that Kukreja and Jogdhankar were kissing, however, later Padalkar came and laid down the mattress besides them and then Jogdhankar got intimate with her, according to the statement. Yashna said Kukreja saw this and immediately unplugged her phone from the projector. Then Ahuja saw Kukreja talking on the phone and crying. Kharwani told the police that Jogdhankar was not invited to the party and she learnt at the party that he was Kukreja’s boyfriend for three years. Arora told the police that at 1.15am when they were chatting on the terrace, Diya began vomiting, after which Kukreja and Ahuja took her to his house where she slept. Kharwani said that when he went to Ahuja’s house to use the bathroom, she saw Padalkar sleeping on the bed as she was drunk. At 1.40am when Kharwani was leaving for home with Arora and Ahuja, they saw Kukreja crying in the passage. When Arora asked her what was wrong, Kukreja hugged him and left. At 2am, Sadhwani said that when he went to Ahuja’s house with a friend, he saw Padalkar washing her face and blood oozing from her lips. When he asked her how she hurt herself, Padalkar said that she was not aware. Ahuja said the same thing. The police officers also spoke to Parnika Nehrulla, 19, who was not present in the party but was constantly in touch with Kukreja over the phone throughout the party. She told the police that Kukreja was upset seeing her friend and boyfriend engage in inappropriate behaviour. She told Nehrulla that she did not want to lose Jogdhankar and began crying after which she hung up around 1.40am and did not call her again. Based on these five statements, the Khar police concluded that Kukreja was upset with the accused and was assaulted by the two when she confronted them and within 20 minutes, she lost her life. Ahuja further said that when he went to drop Karishma and reached the lobby, Dhanuka, who stays on the eighth floor, pointed out towards the passage saying that someone had died there. It was then that Ahuja saw Kukreja’s body. He frantically began calling Jogdhankar as he was closest to Kukreja, but his calls went unanswered. Later, Jogdhankar answered the phone, but seemed indifferent when Ahuja told him about Kukreja’s death, he told police. Ahuja, his grandfather and Saideep then went to the police station and informed the police about the incident. Param Mogal, Jogdhankar’s friend, told the police that at 2.07am, he got a call from Jogdhankar asking whether they were home. He told Mogal that he was on his way there. Mogal further said that 2.23am, Jogdhankar called him again asking to pick him up from Mahim. When Jogdhankar met Mogal, his white shirt was covered in blood and he told Mogal that he does not remember what happened. He then took Jogdhankar to Sion Hospital and got him treated. Jogdhankar’s lawyer, advocate Mahesh Vasqani has, however, expressed doubts about the police investigation. “The police have failed to properly investigate the assault and murderous injuries suffered by my client, Shree Jogdhankar, and have also not filed all the statements of medical personnel with the charge-sheet and it seems police has been misled in investigation. All witnesses statements are contradictory, and it is clear that the police have made some mistake in filing charge-sheet against Shree,” said advocate Vaswani. The defence lawyer added that there were 15 people in the party who were moving up and down (terrace and Yash’s second floor house) but there was not a single eyewitness to the incident. “If police found alcohol bottles on the terrace, why didn’t they test all the people in the party immediately but waited for two days. Even ganja was being supplied there,” said Vaswani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/khar-nye-murder-janhvi-kukreja-was-assaulted-killed-in-just-20-minutes-say-witnesses-101617216713047.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Malwani hooch tragedy: 8 cops let off with minor penalties||Six years after 106 people lost their lives due to consumption of spurious liquor, eight policemen, who were suspended for alleged dereliction of duty and negligence in connection with the July 2015 Malwani hooch tragedy, are let off with minor penalties such as small pay cuts and fines equalling to a month’s basic pay.Those who faced departmental enquiry after the tragedy included senior police inspector Prakash Patil (retired); sub-inspectors Shankar Gharge (retired) and Manisha Shirsat; head constable Ram Milan Singh; and constables Arun Jadhav, Sanjay Mane, Pravin Bhosale and Vilas Desai.A police officer said Patil and Gharge have received a pay cut of ₹2,000 each from their pension for two years, which translates into monetary loss of ₹48,000 for each of them. The remaining six cops will have to pay fine of a month’s basic pay, the officer added. These personnel were suspended immediately after 106 people died and over 70 others were rendered disabled in the tragedy. Most of the victims were construction workers, sewage cleaners, sweepers, and other daily wagers from Malwani.The then Mumbai Police commissioner Rakesh Maria had ordered suspension of these eight policemen posted at beat chowkie under Malwani police station within whose jurisdiction the tragedy happened. He had also ordered departmental proceedings against them. During pendency of the inquiry, two of the eight policemen retired and suspension of the remaining six was revoked and they were allowed to resume duty.Mumbai Police’s crime branch had investigated the case registered in connection with the tragedy and had charged 16 accused with murder, attempt to murder, causing hurt by poison etc. The police officer said the trial is yet to conclude.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malwani-hooch-tragedy-8-cops-let-off-with-minor-penalties-101617216592909.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Young adults: Mumbai’s new superspreaders||A high number of young adults is contracting the Covid-19 infection owing to relaxation of lockdown norms and starting of public transport, say experts, adding that although they remain asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic, they are becoming super spreaders, giving the virus to the older, more vulnerable population. Data from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) shows the highest number of infection rates has been recorded between the age group of 30-49 years. Around 150,000 people between the age group have contracted the infection. This is followed by the 50-69 age group, considered the most vulnerable group due to their underlying health conditions. In this category, around 128,000 people got infected with the virus. With the rise in awareness, elderly have become more cautious and avoid travelling outside. The civic ward officers have noticed they are more careful in following Covid safety rules such as physical distancing, wearing a mask than the young adults. But the shift of the pandemic towards the younger demographic is largely contributing to the transmission. “Infection in young adults is mild which is good for them but as many of them live with older individuals, they spread it to them who are more likely to be hospitalized and have higher fatality rate,” said Dr Gautam Bhansali, in-charge of Covid beds in private hospitals. As per the BMC, despite having a lower infection rate compared to young adults, the fatality rate is the highest among the older. So far, 5,850 senior citizens between the age group of 50 to 69 have succumbed to the infection. Whereas only 1,428 individuals between the 30-49 age group have died because of Covid-19 in the city. “While doing background checks of infected people, we have found out that most of the young adults either have frequent travel history in public transport or have recently attended family functions. Later, many of those turn into carriers who end up infecting the elderly at home,” said Bhagyashree Kapse, ward officer of the R-C ward that covers Borivli. Ward officers have observed that many are contracting infection from their infected colleagues. “Offices are getting contaminated due to overcrowding. The staff who come from far-off have to travel in buses and trains. Also, as most offices have air-conditioners, it leads to faster spread,” said assistant commissioner Vishwas Mote. Many private firms have started to call back their employees who were earlier working from home. Due to this, many are being forced to commute daily including in trains who become a source of infection. “There has been a shift in the behaviour post lockdown relaxation. Many unknowingly become silent carriers. Unlike other cities, most of the families live in a one-BHK flat, with their elderly family members,” said Dr Ramesh Bharmal, dean of BYL Nair Hospital. Public health experts insist on maintaining Covid safety precautionary measures while travelling daily. “We have already imposed night curfew to restrict the night crowd in pubs, clubs and other socialising places. Also, we have issued new guidelines for private firms to limit the number of staffers at offices,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/young-adults-mumbai-s-new-superspreaders-101617216533551.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccination: State plans to cover 33.8mn||With the new phase of Covid vaccination for those above 45 years beginning on Thursday, the state aims to cover 33.8 million citizens of Maharashtra. The number of potential beneficiaries rose to 33.8 million from 17.7 million after the addition of all citizens above 45 years. The state authorities said the new beneficiaries will be accommodated at the existing 3,000-plus centres. Of the 33.8 million population over 45 years, about 4.5 million have already been inoculated as part of the categories taken on priority after vaccination kicked off on January 16. Maharashtra has inoculated 5,296,000 beneficiaries with first dose till March 30,while 733,000 of them have been given their second shots too. The state now aims at inoculating more than 300,000 beneficiaries a day. “We have vaccinated 992,000 health care workers covering almost all of them registered on CoWIN. Also, 851,000 frontline workers have been inoculated so far. Against the capacity of inoculating more than 300,000 beneficiaries every day, our average vaccination is 250,000. This means we can take up additional number of beneficiaries from the new group. If needed, we will increase the number of centres with the permission from the central government,” said an official from the health department. He said that the number of vaccination centres has been increased manifold over the last one month after the new category of senior citizens and citizens over 45 years with comorbidities was introduced for inoculation. The number of centres before March 1 was around 800, which has now crossed 3,000. The state government is expected to get an additional supply of 2,627,000 doses on Thursday. Until March 23, the state has received 76,01,500 doses from the Central government. Mumbai tops the chart of vaccine beneficiaries with 1,126,000 beneficiaries (including second dose), followed by Pune (747,000), Thane (453,000) and Nagpur (360,000).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccination-state-plans-to-cover-338mn-101617216532970.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai’s active Covid cases near 50K; civic body takes over bed management||The number of active Covid cases in Mumbai came close to 50,000 on Wednesday. Mumbai reported 5,399 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, and 15 deaths, taking the active cases in the city to 49,953, and the toll to 11,690. So far, Mumbai has reported a total of 414,773 Covid-19 cases.To manage allotment of hospital beds to cater to the rising number of cases in the city, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) took over bed allotment through its Covid war room at the ward level. Hospital beds cannot be directly assigned to patients anymore by the hospital. This system was put in place by the civic body at the beginning of the pandemic in March last year. However, municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Monday reiterated that hospitals will not be allowed to assign beds to patients directly, and such allotment has to happen through Covid war rooms at each ward, in a centralised manner. All assistant commissioners were directed to take over hospital beds in their respective wards.Emphasising that the situation is not out of control, Chahal who took the Covid-19 vaccine on Tuesday said, “We are detecting high number of cases as we have increased the number of tests. The number of tests will soon go up to 60,000 per day and the number of infected people can be as high as 10,000 per day. Of these, the number of people in need of a bed will be relatively small, given the current situation. The mortality rate in Mumbai is also low now. For the growing number of patients, bed management is being done through ward war rooms, as before.”A total of 85,000 patients were found in the 48 days from February 10 to March 30. Of these, 69,500 patients were found to be asymptomatic, Chahal said on Tuesday.On Tuesday, Mumbai conducted 41,363 Covid-19 tests, with a positivity rate of 13%. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 4,083,173 tests. Presently, the cumulative case fatality rate is 2.8% as opposed to over 3% recorded earlier this month.As of March 31, Mumbai has a total of 13,110 hospital beds for symptomatic, serious and critical Covid-19 patients, of which 10,061 are occupied and 3,049 are available. There are 1,627 ICU beds of which 324 are vacant, 1,000 ventilator beds of which 170 are vacant, and 8,914 beds with oxygen supply, of which 2,219 are vacant. There are 3,451 beds for asymptomatic patients in Covid Care facilities (CCC2) of which 884 are vacant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbais-active-covid-cases-near-50k-civic-body-takes-over-bed-management-101617216472897.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Donate blood before taking Covid vaccine, urges body||Fearing a possible shortage of blood in the coming days, the State Blood Transfusion Council (SBTC) has requested probable beneficiaries to donate blood before getting the jab as they will not be eligible for donation for 28 days after taking the first shot of the vaccine. Starting from 1 April, people above 45 years old will be able to take vaccines against novel coronavirus. Though doctors across the state have welcomed the move which may contribute to containing the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, blood bank officers are quite concerned as it can contribute to further shortage of blood. A recent order by the National Blood Transfusion Council (NBTC) has said that a person cannot donate blood for the next 28 days after taking the last dose of Covid-19 vaccine. Beneficiaries have to take two shots of vaccines. So, considering the new guidelines, a beneficiary cannot donate for 56 days after taking the two jabs. At present, the state has 29,000 units of blood. Blood bank officers fear this new rule may further affect the collection of blood as lakhs of public above 45 years would get inoculated from Thursday. “The demand for blood has increased with the relaxation of lockdown. Now, hospitals are treating both Covid and non-Covid patients. So, we need more donors which are struggling to arrange due to the restrictions on blood camps in the pandemic. Thus, I would request to donate blood before taking the vaccine,” said Dr Arun Thorat, director of SBTC. “Unlike post-Covid days, we can’t arrange large blood camps as it attracts a large crowd. Also, all schools and colleges are closed so we can’t collect blood from youths who were the primary blood donors. Rather than providing some relaxation, the central government has imposed more stringent rules,” said a blood bank officer from a civic-run hospital. Two vaccines ‒ Oxford’s Covishield manufactured by Serum Institute in the country and Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin – have been approved by the national drug regulator for restricted emergency use in India. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers getting inoculated. From February 2, the frontline workers were added to the list. In the next phase that commenced from March 1, individuals above 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with co-morbidities were enrolled.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/donate-blood-before-taking-covid-vaccine-urges-body-101617216412837.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||3,700,000 qualify for new phase: BMC data||A total of 3,700,000 Mumbaiites qualify for the next phase of vaccination for those above the age of 45 regardless of comorbidities which starts from April 1, as per data collected by Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) during its My Family My Responsibility survey. The drive will take place across 111 centres in the city. Any citizen above the age of 45 can register on the CoWIN application or the Aarogya Setu application to get vaccinated. Of these, 30 centres are in municipal hospitals, 13 are in state and central government hospitals, and 68 are in private hospitals. Citizens can also walk into any vaccination centres for their vaccine shots. No medical certificate of comorbidities will be required to qualify for this phase of the drive. Currently, the BMC has been vaccinating senior citizens, and citizens above the age of 45 years who also have comorbidities. Iqbal Singh Chahal, municipal commissioner, said on Tuesday, “At least 4,000,000 citizens qualify for the category of above 45 years, of which 300,000 have comorbidities, our surveys have shown. A total of 2,300,000 citizens are above the age of 60.” With this, the BMC hopes to inch closer to its target of vaccinating 100,000 citizens per day. It has vaccinating about 40,000 to 45,000 beneficiaries per day, including healthcare and frontline workers, senior citizens and those above 45 years of age with comorbidities, many of whom have received the second dose of their vaccine shot as well. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in charge of BMC’s public health department, said on Monday, “So far, the turnout in citizens above the age of 45 who also have comorbidities is low. Beneficiaries are afraid to bring medical certificates to validate they have comorbidities, which is a prerequisite to qualify for vaccination at present if you are above 45 years, as they do not want this to go on their medical record. They fear this will interfere with their health insurance systems at a later stage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/3700000-qualify-for-new-phase-bmc-data-101617216352925.html
01-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees 227 Covid-19 deaths, highest 1-day toll since Oct 17||The number of new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra jumped to 39,544 on Wednesday, after two days of comparatively lower numbers, even as the single-day toll rose to 227, highest since October 17, 2020 (250 deaths). Also, the last time the state saw more than 200 deaths in a day was on October 20, 2020 (213 casualties).The Maharashtra government, in order to ramp up Covid-19 testing, has reduced RT-PCR test rates to ₹500 and antigen tests to ₹150 for private laboratories.Commenting on the rise in deaths, Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said the problem was that many citizens tend to ignore the initial signs. “We have observed many just tend to neglect signs like headache or body ache. They are seen to test late after their condition gets worse and hence many then succumb to this virus,” said Dr Lahane.Dr Lahane said although 167,078 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, the government wants to increase test rates further and hence the reduction in prices of tests. “We feel that if test prices are slashed, it will encourage more people to test themselves,” said Dr Lahane.The number of deaths in the previous five days was 633 and with the addition of 227 fatalities on Wednesday, the total deaths over six days is 860. The total state toll due to Covid-19 is 54,649, with Mumbai leading the state with 11,690 fatalities, followed by Pune’s 8,326. Maharashtra’s case tally stood at 2,812,980.Dr Neeta Khandelwal, a consultant at Bombay Hospital, said efforts must be made to increase the number of vaccinations to control this toll. “There should be mandatory mass vaccinations for all. Vaccines will reduce the severity of the virus and also bring the death rate down considerably,” said Khandelwal. She said the government needs to strictly penalise people who tend to violate the guidelines and force them to wear masks and observe social distancing. The total number of active cases in the state stood at 356,243, with Pune leading with 64,277 cases, followed by Mumbai at 49,953 active infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-227-covid-19-deaths-highest-1-day-toll-since-oct-17-101617216292893.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Five cars, four small-scale factories destroyed in separate fires in Pune||Five cars and four small-scale factories were gutted in two isolated fire incidents in two parts of the city on Wednesday. In the first incident reported at around 3 am in Baner, the Renault service centre located off the NH 48 Pune-Bengaluru highway caught fire, and cars awaiting repairs were gutted. The officials of the Pune city fire brigade were fighting the blaze for four hours with the help of five fire tender units. In the second incident, a fire was reported from a shed that housed four small-scale factories around 11am in Dhayari area. The factories located near Abhinav College road were used for producing material like cardboard, the foam used for bedding, decoration material, according to fire officials. The Pune city as well as the planning and development authority for the Pune Metro Region Development Authority (PMRDA) fire brigade were deployed for dousing the fire. The fire took comparatively less time to get doused compared to the service centre. In yet another fire incident, the garbage and hay near a temple in Sahakarnagar area of Pune caught fire around noon. One fire tender unit from Katraj division responded to the call and doused the fire. It was the garbage that was thrown in the open area that caught fire and the dry grass increased the intensity before the fire brigade officials could reach and douse the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-cars-four-small-scale-factories-destroyed-in-separate-fires-101617207412467.html
01-04-2021||Pune||Labourers fear another lockdown, many plan to leave Pune city||As the state government is planning to impose stricter restrictions in the coming days, it has an adverse impact on the labourers in the city.Due to the fear of another lockdown, even as the state government has clarified of no complete closure, several migrant workers who had returned to Pune at construction sites and small industries earlier are planning to go back to the native places.Most of these labourers come from North Indian states and in the last couple of weeks there has been a drastic increase in the number of passengers travelling from Pune to North India, a reflection of it was seen through the increase in passengers travelling in the north-bound trains at Pune railway station.“We have seen a considerable amount of increase in the number of daily passengers travelling through various trains starting from Pune going towards North India. It includes - Pune to Patna, Pune to Lucknow, Pune to Jhelum and others,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson.The developers too reported some workers either planning to leave or already left the city even as numbers are small at this point.“Work is underway at our construction site at Ambegaon and it resumed in August last year when most of our workers returned back from their villages in North India. For the last four to five months work was progressing smoothly, but since the first week of March when the Covid cases started increasing, a fear of infection and now lockdown has started impacting labourers. Of the 40 labourers, 15 of them have left for their hometowns in Bihar last week and we are somehow managing the work at the site,” said Anant Shinde, a builder from the Katraj.Similar is the situation with the small scale industries in and around Pune. Abhay Bhore, state president of Forum of Small Scale Industries Association, said, “There is already a major impact on the business of small scale industries, as 50 per cent of work has reduced. Amid this, workers are now planning to leave for their hometowns due to the fear of lockdown in Maharashtra. Some of them who have stayed back are waiting for work and to earn money.”The fear of lockdown among workers and traders increased after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray asked the administration to prepare for lockdown. As the fear grew, health minister Rajesh Tope clarified that lockdown will be the last option before the state tries other restrictions.Suhas Merchant, president of Confederation of Real Estate Developers Associations of India (Credai)-Pune Metro, said, “If a lockdown is imposed it will majorly impact the work at construction sites. If there is a lockdown imposed for eight to ten days then its effect on construct sites will remain for two to three months. It is not a manufacturing industry and it is a human process, once you stop work then it again takes time to bring all things back and mobilise which takes two months. So we have already requested state government to allow work at construction sites.”“Amid a surge in Covid cases if a lockdown is imposed we are ready to take care of our workers, as it won’t be for many days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/labourers-fear-another-lockdown-many-plan-to-leave-pune-city-101617205132301.html
01-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal sees 120% rise in Covid cases this week||Himachal Pradesh has seen a 120% rise in Covid-19 cases in one week with the total case tally climbing up to 63,605 on Wednesday. According to the health department, the state recorded 2,570 fresh infections over the past week as compared to the 1,166 cases reported the week before. The highest single-day spike of this year was also recorded on March 27 when 416 people tested positive in the state. The rising cases have also led to a rise in fatality. This week, 23 people lost their lives due to coronavirus-related complications, while 14 people died last week. There has been a 64% increase in fatalities. The total Covid-19 toll in the state stands at 1,035. The case fatality ratio has gone up from 1.4% to 1.6% in a week. Active cases have gone up sharply from 1,455 in the previous week to 2,973 on Wednesday. Kangra, Solan and Una have emerged as Covid hotspots in Himachal Pradesh. Kangra saw a maximum of 568 infections during this week followed Una where 414 people tested positive, and 405 infections were reported in Solan district. Sporadic outbreaks have also been seen in other districts, including Hamirpur, Bilaspur, Sirmaur and Shimla. 285 cases on Wednesday Himachal recorded a total of 285 cases and three fatalities on Wednesday. Of the new cases 95 were reported in Kangra, 35 in Una, 33 in Bilaspur, 32 in Hamirpur, 28 in Mandi, 25 in Shimla, 16 in Solan, 12 in Sirmaur, five in Kullu and four in Chamba. Recoveries have reached 59,581 after 139 people recuperated. Shimla remains the worst hit district with a total of 10,916 infections, followed by Mandi (10,506) and Kangra (9,578). Alert over new Covid-19 variant Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Tuesday urged people to strictly follow the safety protocol and stay alert against the new Covid-19 variant that is more lethal. Presiding over a review meeting at Dr Rajendra Prasad Medical College, Tanda, the chief minister said health experts have observed that common symptoms such as cough and fever were not detected in patients infected with the mutant virus and instead, they were suffering from joint pain, weakness and loss of appetite besides pneumonia. The new strain of the virus is not found in the nasopharyngeal region, rather it directly affects the lungs, which means the window period is shortened. Thakur asked the health department to encourage people to take the vaccine to reduce chances of infection||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-95-rise-in-covid-cases-this-week-101617166791670.html
01-04-2021||World||'Every step of the way': McConnell pledges battle over Biden infrastructure plan||US Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell on Thursday said he will fight President Joe Biden's $2 trillion infrastructure plan "every step of the way" and predicted the sweeping package would not see support from Republican lawmakers in Congress.At a news conference in Owensboro, Kentucky, McConnell said the Biden proposal underscores deep philosophical differences between Republicans and Democrats over taxes and the national debt. He told reporters that he does not believe the White House has a public mandate to pursue the plan."I'm going to fight them every step of the way, because I think this is the wrong prescription for America," he said.Biden's infrastructure plan, unveiled on Wednesday, charts a course for dramatic change in the direction of the US economy and includes investments in traditional projects like roads and bridges along with climate change initiatives and human services like elder care."There's more money in that plan that the president laid out in Pittsburgh for electric cars than for roads and bridges. Let me say that again: more money for electric cars than roads and bridges," McConnell said.Biden has proposed funding the package by raising the tax rate on US corporations to 28% from 21% and making it harder for companies to use offshore tax shelters and other methods to reduce their tax burdens.McConnell warned that "massive tax increases" would harm the economy and said the package's spending level could run up the debt. The White House says the infrastructure proposal would more than pay for itself."My view about infrastructure is, we ought to build that which we can afford and not either whack the economy with major tax increases or run up the national debt," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/every-step-of-the-way-mcconnell-pledges-battle-over-biden-infrastructure-plan-101617300181797.html
01-04-2021||World||Allies raise alarm over health of hunger-striking Alexei Navalny||Supporters of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny are raising concerns about his decision to launch a hunger strike, saying they fear more damage to his already-fragile health.President Vladimir Putin's most prominent opponent announced the hunger strike on Wednesday to demand proper medical treatment in prison.The 44-year-old is serving two-and-a-half years on old fraud charges in a penal colony east of Moscow. He was arrested when he returned to Russia in January from Germany, where he had spent months recovering from a near-fatal poisoning he blames on the Kremlin.Navalny says he is suffering in prison from severe back pain and numbness in his legs and has only been given painkillers.On Thursday, his team said in a statement he had lost eight kilogrammes (18 pounds), even before he went on hunger strike and now weighs 85 kilogrammes.They said the weight loss was linked to sleep deprivation that Navalny called a form of "torture"."They are still not allowing a doctor to visit."His announcement of a hunger strike is no idle threat and they do not expect he will back down, they said."Navalny has always taken such a step as a hunger strike extremely seriously," spokesman Ruslan Shaveddinov told AFP."We are very concerned about his condition and that's why we are demanding immediate access to doctors."Navalny is still recovering from the poisoning last August, when he began howling in pain and collapsed on a flight from Siberia to Moscow, forcing the plane to make an emergency landing in the city of Omsk.He was treated for several days by local doctors and eventually flown to Berlin in an induced coma.'Very alarming'Western experts concluded he was poisoned with the Soviet-era nerve agent Novichok. Russian authorities have repeatedly denied any involvement.Navalny spent months recovering in Germany, going through physical therapy to re-learn how to walk and even lift a glass of water.True to usual form, Navalny initially made light of his recent ailments, but on Wednesday turned serious."I have the right to ask for a doctor and receive medicine... Jokes aside but this is already bothering me," he said.The prison service said Navalny is provided with "all the necessary medical assistance in accordance with his current medical condition".Shaveddinov said Navalny would not have taken the decision to go on hunger strike lightly."After a poisoning, no one knows what kind of reaction a body might have in this situation -- and this is very alarming," he said.Navalny's team declined to provide details as to how the hunger strike will be carried out, but it is an action his allies have experience with.His ally Lyubov Sobol spent 32 days drinking only liquids in the summer of 2019 after she and other opposition politicians were barred from standing in local elections.In 2015, Navalny's right-hand man Leonid Volkov and a group of activists in the Siberian city of Novosibirsk went on hunger strike after they were disqualified from local elections.That action ended after 12 days, when one of the group's members, opposition politician Sergei Boyko, was hospitalised.'Unbearable' situationRussia's most prominent political hunger striker in recent years was Oleg Sentsov, a Ukrainian filmmaker and outspoken critic of Moscow's annexation of his native Crimea in 2014.Arrested and jailed in 2015 on terrorism charges, Sentsov went on hunger strike in 2018 demanding that he and Ukrainian political prisoners in Russia be freed.He ended it after 145 days of subsisting on nutritional supplements -- and glucose drips near the end -- after prison officials announced they would force feed him to ensure his survival.Sentsov, who was eventually released in a 2019 prisoner swap, lost 20 kilogrammes during the strike.Russian law requires the prison service to force feed prisoners if they will not eat voluntarily.It does not specify how this should be done but rights activists have reported that prisoners are fed a "nutrient mixture" orally, rectally or through a tube.Navalny "is well aware that a hunger strike is a desperate step", an ally, economist Sergei Guriev, said on Twitter."Since he went on a hunger strike, it means that he believes that he has nothing to lose, that the situation is unbearable."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/allies-raise-alarm-over-health-of-hunger-striking-alexei-navalny-101617295998797.html
01-04-2021||World||Pakistan court allows commercial sale of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine||A Pakistani court on Thursday ordered that a batch of the Russian Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine imported by a private company be immediately made available to the public for sale, according to a court document and officials.The government had argued that pricing issues should be settled first."Any restriction relating to sale of the COVID-19 vaccine at this stage would be against the public interest because of its undisputed urgent need due to the crisis faced by the country," a Sindh High Court judge said in an order on Thursday.Pakistan, largely reliant on the COVAX vaccine-sharing initiative, last month allowed private firms to import vaccines and agreed to exempt them from price caps, but later rescinded the exemption and said it would set maximum prices.The decision threw the government and pharmaceutical companies into dispute, and stalled the commercial sale of the vaccine.Thursday's court order was passed in a case brought last week by M/S AGP Ltd, which imported 50,000 doses of Sputnik V on March 17.A senior official of AGP told Reuters that the company had asked the court to allow it to sell the vaccine at a price of 12,268 Pakistani rupees ($80.54) for a pack of two doses of Sputnik V.It was not immediately clear if this would be the price it would be marketed at, which is much higher than the initial government proposed price of 8,449 Pakistani rupees ($55.47).AG Pharma had told the court it has cost the company $45 for a pack of two doses.The court said it would hold further hearings to determine pricing, but said the sale of the vaccines should start immediately and, once a fair price was determined, any monetary difference could be recovered from the company at a later stage.Pakistan is one of the first countries in the world to allow the commercial sale of Covid-19 vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-court-allows-commercial-sale-of-sputnik-v-covid-19-vaccine-101617296226054.html
01-04-2021||World||Donald Trump Jr. buys mansion 20 miles from Mar-a-Lago||Donald Trump Jr. and his girlfriend Kimberly Guilfoyle are now Florida home owners.The Palm Beach Post reports that the couple spent $9.7 million this week to buy a 11,000-square-foot (1,000-square-meter), six-bedroom, 11-bath mansion in the town of Jupiter, about 20 miles (32 kilometers) from the Mar-a-Lago compound where former President Donald Trump and former first lady Melania Trump are living.The home is in the exclusive and gated Admirals Cove community and on the Intercoastal Waterway. Baseball Hall of Fame member Mike Schmidt and Washington Nationals star pitcher Max Scherzer also live in the 888-home community and singer Celine Dion is a former resident.On top of the home price, new residents must pay a $195,000 membership fee. The community features a marina that can accommodate large yachts, 45 holes of golf and tennis courts.Trump Jr., 43, is the executive vice president of the Trump Organization, the family's business group. Guilfoyle, 52, is a former Fox News personality and the ex-wife of Gavin Newsom, California's Democratic governor. Both are active in Republican politics.The couple has been dating for about three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-jr-buys-mansion-20-miles-from-maralago-101617292194218.html
01-04-2021||World||Fox News takes on late-night comedy with right-leaning talk show||Fox News is entering the late-night talk-show wars.The Rupert Murdoch-controlled network is moving its in-house political satirist, Greg Gutfeld, over to an 11 p.m. weeknights slot where he can go joke-to-joke with other late-night hosts, including ABC’s Jimmy Kimmel, CBS’s Stephen Colbert and NBC’s Jimmy Fallon, who start about a half-hour later.The network, part of Murdoch’s Fox Corp., has been buying ad spots on those and other late-night programs to promote “Gutfeld!,” as the new show will be called. Fox News even placed a billboard across the street from the Los Angeles studio where Kimmel records his show, declaring, “Cancel culture just got cancelled!” The Gutfeld program premieres April 5.Fox executives are hoping he can do for late-night TV what the channel did in news: create a conservative alternative to the other middle-of-the-road or liberal-leaning networks. It’s certainly worked for Fox News, which has been the most-viewed cable news channel for 19 years running. Gutfeld, in an interview, said he sees the same scenario playing out.“They are covering the same turf. They are getting all their sustenance from the same buffet,” he said of his rivals. “That leaves a whole swath for me to pick apart.”$500 Million MarketAt stake is a slice of a late-night TV advertising market worth some $500 million a year, according to market researcher Kantar. But it’s about more than ad dollars for Fox News. For the first time in its history, the network is facing competition from even-more-conservative channels, Newsmax and One America News Network. Offering more unique programming may help it stand out.Fox Corp., which sold the bulk of its entertainment assets to Walt Disney Co. two years ago, is trying to broaden its offerings beyond political news. Its $6-a-month Fox Nation video streaming service, for example, features true-crime stories, Bible studies and reruns of “Duck Dynasty,” the reality show about a Louisiana bird-hunting clan.A satirical late-night chat show could potentially attract a younger audience to Fox News, particularly if Gutfeld can prove as adept at creating viral videos for social media as rivals such as Fallon, CBS’s James Corden and HBO’s John Oliver.Gutfeld, a 14-year veteran at Fox News, had been drawing a strong audience with his last program, “The Greg Gutfeld Show,” which aired at 10 p.m. New York time on Saturdays. It averaged 2.56 million total viewers a night last year, according to Nielsen data. That put it ahead of all the other late-night hosts but Colbert, who averaged 2.61 million.“The country is divided, almost in half,” said Steve Nason, research director at Parks Associates, a media consulting firm. “There’s certainly a place for other perspectives.”Odd RouteGutfeld, 56, has taken an odd route to becoming a conservative provocateur. He grew up in the San Francisco Bay area, where he majored in English at the University of California, Berkeley. He recalls campaigning for nuclear disarmament in high school and losing a debate on the topic his senior year.At college, however, a schoolmate turned him on to conservative publications such as the American Spectator and National Review.“I’d never seen them before and there’s actually funny stuff in there,” he recalled. “They’re well-written, witty pieces. And I thought, ‘I didn’t know this existed at all.’”He worked as a magazine editor, for titles such as Men’s Health and later the U.K. version of Maxim, the men’s lifestyle magazine, and contributed to the Huffington Post. But he also made appearances on Fox News, which led to him being hired for “Red Eye,” a very late-night show, in 2007.That satirical take on the day’s news ran at 3 a.m. weeknights. Gutfeld, who describes himself as a libertarian, often had liberal guests and sidekicks, as well as up-and-coming comedians such as Amy Schumer and Chelsea Handler.The new show will continue to feature his longtime sidekick Tyrus, a professional wrestler whose real name is George Murdoch, no relation. Gutfeld is beefing up his writing staff with stand-up comedians to help with the requirements of daily production.“I’ve always written my own stuff, so it’s going to be weird to adopt that prototypical setup of joke writers,” he said. He’ll rely more on taped segments to quicken the show and take some of the pressure off himself.“That’s always been my flaw,” he said. “My pacing has always been too skittery and high-strung, but that’s also my brain.”A rotating series of guests will sit in a campfire-like semicircle, including writers, politicians and even former CIA agents, according to Tom O’Connor, one of the producers. Skits will feature regular panelists Tom Shillue, playing Joe Biden, and Katherine Timpf, as press secretary Jennifer Psaki.‘The Five’Gutfeld is perhaps best known to the broader Fox News audience for his regular monologues on “The Five,” the network’s afternoon panel discussion show.Among his recent targets have been Prince Harry and Meghan Markle’s interview that was critical of Harry’s family (“There’s nothing I like more than royal-on-royal action. It’s like a story with two Cuomos!”), and what he considers mainstream media’s coddling of Biden (“Hey, did you hear Joe has a Peloton, I got two sources to go on record!”).Then there’s the subject of alleged fraud in the November election, which he described in January as having had “more irregularities than at an Ex-Lax festival.”Gutfeld stands by that statement, but also concedes Biden is the duly elected president.“You can possess all of these thoughts at once,” he said. “There are irregularities, but Joe won.”Culture WarsGutfeld’s big target, other than rival media outlets, is the culture wars, and what he perceives as an overdose of political correctness. Topics he’s recently taken on include the backlash over Rachael Kirkconnell, a contestant on the ABC reality show “The Bachelor,” having attended an Old South-themed party.“Kirkconnell is White, currently trying to marry the Black male star,” Gutfeld said recently in a monologue. “Making her a pretty lame racist.”Conservative commentators such as Gutfeld can have a hard time as comedians because it requires poking fun at themselves and not being so sure about their beliefs, said Steve Kaplan, a comedy-writing coach and author of “The Hidden Tools of Comedy.”“A comic will find comedy wherever it is and exploit it, because first and foremost they’re trying to get laughs,” Kaplan said. “They look at the world as absurd. Fox wants to enrage people, get them angry.”Will Gutfeld make Donald Trump jokes?“I’ve made my fair share of them,” the host said. “I have a feeling Trump will be back on the turf doing something. And when that happens, we’ll be there.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fox-news-takes-on-late-night-comedy-with-right-leaning-talk-show-101617290582192.html
01-04-2021||World||US Covid-19 vaccine rollout analysis hampered by technology, state data reporting||When a dose of a Covid-19 vaccine leaves a US manufacturing plant, its path can be traced all the way to the hospital or clinic representative signing for the shipment at its destination. What happens next is not always clear.Federal agencies overseeing the rollout are relying on a tangled web of aging state vaccine registries complicated by state laws and practices.Data collection has improved since the national vaccination campaign began in December, with county-level reporting in most states. But gaps and tech issues remain that could compromise equitable distribution of doses, analysis of vaccine protection, and identification of pockets of vaccine hesitancy, experts said.It is a monumental task as the national vaccination campaign gathers steam with an average of 2.4 million shots going into arms each day and rising, and some 196 million doses distributed since December.As the vaccine rollout opens to all American adults, analysts will be watching whether the less advantaged lose out."Are we achieving our equity goals?" said Dr. William Moss, executive director of the International Vaccine Access Center at Johns Hopkins University. "That would be very hard to tease out at a federal level, given the variation in how states are reporting."The uncoordinated nature of data collection in Marin County, California, across the Golden Gate bridge from San Francisco, "makes it virtually impossible for me to have that global view that I need to be able to see who is getting vaccinated and who isn't," said Dr. Matt Willis, county public health officer.The US vaccine data system has two main parts: recently developed federal software from Palantir Technologies Inc that closely tracks distribution of doses, and a range of systems used by states that report into decade-old federal systems developed for limited tracking of child vaccinations."We know where every single dose was delivered; we know when it was delivered; we know who ordered it; we know who signed for it; we know who dropped it off at the location," said one person involved in tracking vaccine distribution. "Where we lose sight of it is when (the providers) take it."'IT'S NOT PERFECT'Matthew Ritchey, an epidemiologist and data expert at the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), said vaccine data collection has improved significantly since the beginning of the rollout. The CDC, which is leading the nation's vaccine data collection, now has a more detailed view of inoculations across the country."Does that mean perfect? No, it's not perfect. But the amount of information that we're collecting now on a daily basis is pretty astounding," he said, with most vaccinators reporting shots within the required 72 hours.Last week, the CDC also publicly released county level data for the first time since the rollout began. A Kaiser Family Foundation (KFF) report using the data found counties with high Black and Hispanic populations had lower vaccination rates than others, confirming what many health experts had feared.However, KFF was only able to analyze about 72% of the counties due to low quality or incomplete county-level data from a dozen states, including Colorado, Georgia, and Virginia.The CDC itself has a Texas-sized gap in its own data. The federal government is not receiving the same detailed information about vaccinations of the Lone Star state's 29 million residents that it's getting from other states, because Texas statutes prevent it from sending that data to the federal government. Instead, Texas is sending aggregate reports.Lynn Gibbs-Scharf, the CDC's co-lead for data monitoring and reporting for its Covid-19 vaccine taskforce, said the agency had no immediate plans to replace systems from the early and mid-2000s that were developed for tracking childhood vaccinations and repurposed for Covid-19."We want (the states) to have systems that can accommodate their unique needs for managing vaccination at the local level, but that conform to a standard that allows them to exchange data beyond their jurisdiction," Gibbs-Scharf said.Marin county's Willis sees much more to be done."It says a lot about how poorly the nation is equipped to manage the data challenges when we're having these problems in the Bay Area, with all our tech and informatics innovation. If anyone should be able to get this right, it's California," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-covid-vaccine-rollout-analysis-hampered-by-technology-state-data-reporting-101617288274177.html
01-04-2021||World||US Supreme Court bars suit against Facebook under anti-robocall law||The US Supreme Court on Thursday barred a proposed class action lawsuit accusing Facebook Inc of violating a federal anti-robocall law, sparing the social media company from a potentially costly fight over unwanted text messages.The justices, in a unanimous decision authored by Justice Sonia Sotomayor, sided with Facebook in its appeal of a lower court ruling that revived the lawsuit alleging that the text messages violated the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA), a 1991 law that sought to curb telemarketing abuse by banning most unauthorized robocalls.The court ruled that Facebook's actions - sending text messages without consent - did not fit within the definition of the type of conduct barred by the law, which was enacted before the rise of modern cellphone technology.The case highlighted the challenge for the justices in applying outdated laws to modern-era technologies.The lawsuit was filed in 2015 in California federal court by Montana resident Noah Duguid, who said Facebook sent him many automatic text messages without his consent. The lawsuit accused Menlo Park, California-based Facebook of violating the TCPA's restriction on using an automatic telephone dialing system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-supreme-court-bars-suit-against-facebook-under-anti-robocall-law-101617288259159.html
01-04-2021||World||‘Nightmare scenario unfolding’: At least 43 children in Myanmar killed by armed forces, says rights group||At least 43 children have been killed by armed forces in Myanmar since the military carried a coup d’etat in February, according to the rights group Save the Children. Citing the data compiled by the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP), the rights organisation on Thursday said in a statement that the death toll of children has more than doubled in the past 12 days. The report suggests that the youngest victim of the violence was a seven-year-old girl.According to a BBC report, the seven-year-old girl was killed by police while she ran towards her father during a raid on their home. Among the dead is a 13-year-old boy who was reportedly shot in the head while trying to run away from the armed forces.A 14-year-old boy is believed to have been shot while he was inside or around his home in Mandalay. Save the Children expressed shock over the continued targeting of children despite repeated calls to protect them from harm.“This is a nightmare scenario unfolding. Innocent children have had their futures brutally and needlessly snatched away from them. Grieving families – among them young children who have seen siblings die – are suffering unimaginable loss and pain,” Save the Children said.“Children have witnessed violence and horror. It is clear that Myanmar is no longer a safe place for children,” it further added.The UN special envoy for Myanmar has warned about the possibility of civil war in the country "at an unprecedented scale". Christine Schraner Burgener urged the UN Security Council to consider "potentially significant action" to reverse the military coup and restore democracy. The reports of violence have sparked global outrage and countries like the US and the UK have announced sanctions against the coup leaders and companies linked to Myanmar’s military, the Tatmadaw.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-least-43-children-in-myanmar-killed-by-armed-forces-says-rights-group-101617284642524.html
01-04-2021||World||Suu Kyi faces new charge under Myanmar's secrets act; wireless internet suspended||Myanmar's deposed leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, has been charged with breaking a colonial-era official secrets law, her lawyer said on Thursday, the most serious charge against the veteran opponent of military rule.Myanmar has been rocked by protests since the army overthrew Suu Kyi's elected government on Feb. 1 citing unsubstantiated claims of fraud in a November election that her party swept.In a new measure to stifle communication about the turmoil, the junta ordered internet service providers to shut down wireless broadband services until further notice, several telecoms sources said.Suu Kyi and other members of her National League for Democracy (NLD) have been detained since the coup and the junta had earlier accused her of several minor offences including illegally importing six handheld radios and breaching coronavirus protocols.Her chief lawyer, Khin Maung Zaw, told Reuters by telephone that Suu Kyi, three of her deposed cabinet ministers and a detained Australian economic adviser, Sean Turnell, were charged a week ago in a Yangon court under the official secrets law, adding he learned of the new charge two days ago.A conviction under the law can carry a prison sentence of up to 14 years.A spokesman for the junta did not answer telephone calls seeking comment.Suu Kyi, who is 75 and won the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991 for her efforts to bring democracy to Myanmar, appeared via video link for a hearing in connection with the earlier charges on Thursday. Another of her lawyers, Min Min Soe, said she appeared to be in good health."Amay Su and President U Win Myint are in good health," the lawyer said, referring to Suu Kyi by an affectionate term for mother. The president, a Suu Kyi ally, was also deposed and detained in the coup. He too faces various charges.Their lawyers have said the charges against both of them were trumped up.At least 538 civilians have been killed in protests against the coup, 141 of them on Saturday, the bloodiest day of the unrest, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) activist group.Protesters were back out in several places on Thursday and two more people were killed, according to media reports, as activists burned copies of a military-framed constitution and called for unity among all those opposed to army rule.One person was killed and five wounded when the security forces fired in the central town of Monywa, the Monywa Gazette reported.Security forces also opened fire in the second largest city of Mandalay killing one person, media reported. Shots rang out and black smoke drifted over Myanmar's ancient royal capital.Police and a spokesman for the military did not answer calls seeking comment.The suspension of wireless internet connections is likely to cripple communications about the protests in a country where very people few have access to fixed line connections.'NEW DAY'The coup has also triggered new clashes in Myanmar's old wars.At least 20 soldiers were killed and four military trucks destroyed in clashes with the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), one of Myanmar's most powerful rebel groups, DVB news reported.Reuters could not immediately verify the reports and a junta spokesman did not answers calls seeking comment on the clash.Myanmar military aircraft have started bombing positions of another group, the Karen National Union (KNU), for the first time in more than 20 years and thousands of villagers have fled from their homes, many into Thailand.The army takeover has led to calls for a united opposition among city-based democracy campaigners and ethnic minority forces battling in frontier regions.Ousted members of parliament, mostly from Suu Kyi's party, have vowed to set up a federal democracy in a bid to address a long-standing demand from minority groups for autonomy.They also announced the scrapping of the 2008 constitution drawn up by the military that enshrines its control over politics. The military has long rejected federalism, seeing itself as the central power holding the fractious country together.Social media posts showed copies of the constitution, real and symbolic, being burned at rallies and in homes."The new day begin here!" Dr Sasa, the international envoy for the ousted parliamentarians said on Twitter, referring to what for now is not a change that proponents can make.Britain's Next on Thursday joined a growing list of European clothing retailers suspending new production orders with factories in Myanmar in the wake of the coup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suu-kyi-faces-new-charge-under-myanmar-s-secrets-act-wireless-internet-suspended-101617284596573.html
01-04-2021||World||Covid-19 pandemic slowdown led to record fall in EU carbon market emissions||Emissions regulated by Europe's carbon market fell by 14.4% in 2020, their biggest percentage decline yet, as pandemic restrictions stifled economic activity and grounded flights, official data examined by carbon analysts at Refinitiv showed.Around 45% of the European Union's output of greenhouse gases is regulated by the Emissions Trading System (ETS), the bloc's flagship instrument to tackle global warming by charging for the right to emit carbon dioxide (CO2).The Refinitiv analysts' interpretation of European Commission data found emissions covered by the ETS totalled 1.365 billion tonnes of CO2 equivalent (CO2e), down 14.4% on the previous year.The fall was the largest in percentage terms since the market was launched in 2005.The market does not cover emissions from agriculture or transport beyond the aviation sector."The substantial drop in emissions is the fallout from the pandemic with economic activity shrinking last year and renewables displacing fossil-fired power," Refinitiv analyst Ingvild Sorhus said.With international travel restricted, aviation sector emissions dived 58.4% to 25.8 million tonnes CO2e.After aviation, the heat and power sector, whose emissions totalled 632.8 million tonnes of CO2e, down 17.1% on 2019, registered the next steepest fall.Stationary emissions covered by the scheme, such as from power plants and factories, totalled 1.339 billion tonnes of CO2e, down 12.6% on the previous year, the data showed.The figures were in line with analysts forecasts and the benchmark price of carbon permits in the ETS was little changed on Thursday at around 42.50 euros a tonne.Carbon prices have been rising since the European Union agreed last year to toughen its climate targets, which will increase demand for permits to emit, and hit a record high of 43.77 euros/tonne last month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pandemic-slowdown-led-to-record-fall-in-eu-carbon-market-emissions-101617283414793.html
01-04-2021||World||UK data shows good immune response in over 80s after 2-dose Pfizer Covid shot||Some 98% of 80 to 96 year-olds who had two doses of Pfizer's coronavirus vaccine had a strong antibody immune response, adding to evidence that it can help protect those most at risk of severe or fatal Covid-19, UK data showed on Thursday.A real-world study of 100 elderly people in Britain also found that participants who had previously been infected with the SARS-CoV-2 virus had a peak antibody response after just one dose of the Pfizer vaccine, and this response remained high after their second dose.Paul Moss and Helen Parry, respectively a professor and a clinical lecturer at Birmingham University who co-led the study, said the high levels of antibodies detected were very reassuring, particularly since the antibody response was strong right up to the oldest participants at age 96."We were surprised, and very pleased," Moss told reporters at a briefing about the findings. "But, of course, this does go with the excellent clinical protection that we're seeing with the vaccine - so it does correlate."Pfizer and its co-developer BioNTech said earlier on Thursday that updated clinical trial data showed their vaccine is around 91% effective at preventing Covid-19 cases.Moss's and Parry's UK study involved 100 people aged 80-96 who were living independently and not in care homes, and who received two doses of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine three weeks apart. They were immunised before a UK policy change to extend the gap between Covid-19 vaccine doses to up to 12 weeks.Immune measurements were taken two weeks after the second dose, the researchers said. The results have not been peer-reviewed by other scientists.In laboratory tests, the researchers found the SARS-CoV-2 virus was strongly neutralised in serum from blood samples taken from participants.When tested against a mutated version of the virus called P.1 that was first discovered in Brazil, the levels of neutralisation reduced 14-fold, Parry said, but still showed the shot "retains broad efficacy" against this variant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-data-shows-good-immune-response-in-over-80s-after-2-dose-pfizer-covid-shot-101617281096355.html
01-04-2021||World||Any attempt to start a new war in Donbass could destroy Ukraine: Russia||Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Thursday that any attempts to start a new military conflict in Ukraine's war-torn east could end up destroying Ukraine, the TASS news agency reported.The comments come amid tensions after Ukraine's commander-in-chief this week accused Moscow of building up forces near their shared border and said that pro-Russian separatists were systematically violating a ceasefire.The Kremlin said earlier on Thursday that recent Russian troop and military hardware movements near Russia's borders with Ukraine were aimed at ensuring Moscow's own security and were not a threat to anyone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/any-attempt-to-start-a-new-war-in-donbass-could-destroy-ukraine-russia-101617280522247.html
01-04-2021||World||Dutch parliament to hold no-confidence vote on caretaker PM Rutte||Opposition parties in the Dutch parliament on Thursday tabled a no-confidence motion in Prime Minister Mark Rutte, who is trying to form a new government in the wake of March 17 elections.Rutte was the clear winner of last month's parliamentary elections. Losing a vote of confidence would delay the formation of a new coalition government and weaken his position as head of the conservative VVD party.The no-confidence vote was to take place later in the day, after Rutte appeared in parliament to explain why he had told reporters he had not discussed a political appointment for one lawmaker, when it later emerged that he had.Rutte denies having lied."I did not lie, I acted honourably and in good conscience", Rutte said in parliament.Talks on forming a new government were abruptly put on hold on March 25 when one of the chief negotiators unwittingly revealed a sensitive document to a news photographer as she rushed out of parliament after learning that she had tested positive for Covid-19.The document showed that negotiators were discussing a position "elsewhere" for MP Pieter Omtzigt, a prominent critic of Rutte's previous Cabinet, though Omtzigt's Christian Democrats were a coalition member.Rutte told reporters on March 25 he had not been the one to mention Omtzigt's position, but notes from talks given to parliament this week showed he had in fact mentioned it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dutch-parliament-to-hold-no-confidence-vote-on-caretaker-pm-rutte-101617280358309.html
01-04-2021||World||China takes aim at ‘illegal’ club for foreign correspondents||China slammed a foreign correspondents’ club in the country as an “illegal organization” in a move that broadens its attack on journalists whose reports differ from the government’s official line.The Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China has no sense of right and wrong and lacks principles, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying said at a regular press briefing Thursday in Beijing.“Fewer than half of foreign correspondents in China are members of the FCCC, and most of them are Western journalists from the U.S. and Europe,” she said. “Foreign journalists in China should feel lucky.”The FCCC declined to comment.While Beijing has long described the FCCC as illegal, the rebuke as a whole was harsher than in the past. China’s criticism of reporters from abroad has become more pointed under the rule of President Xi Jinping, especially as China hits back at Western criticism of its activities in Xinjiang.Spokespeople for the government now regularly criticize reporters during press briefings, saying they lack credibility or complaining about their use of the word “camps” in the far western region. The government insists they be called vocational education “centers.”Western governments including the U.S. accuse China of interning as many as 1 million Muslim Uyghurs in Xinjiang and forcing them to work. Beijing denies the allegations, saying it is fighting religious extremism and providing jobs.The BBC’s China correspondent John Sudworth recently left Beijing for Taipei after criticism from the government over recent coverage. The BBC News Press Team said in a statement that his reporting “exposed truths the Chinese authorities did not want the world to know.”The Communist Party-backed Global Times characterized Sudworth’s work as biased. “From stigmatizing China as being the origin of the novel coronavirus to claiming Xinjiang’s cotton was ‘tainted,’ Sudworth has participated in many of BBC’s notorious reports attacking China in recent years,” it said.Beijing last year kicked a slew of foreign reporters out of the country, saying most of the expulsions were in response to curbs the U.S. placed on Chinese reporters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-takes-aim-at-illegal-club-for-foreign-correspondents-101617280510603.html
01-04-2021||World||India AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot delay could be 'catastrophic' for Africa: Health official||India's temporary hold on major exports of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 shot will undermine Africa's vaccination plans, and could have a "catastrophic" impact if extended, the head of the continent's disease control body said on Thursday.India decided to delay big exports of the shots made in its territory by the Serum Institute of India (SII) to make sure it could meet local demand, two sources told Reuters last week.The hold "will definitely impact our ability to continuously vaccinate people," the director of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, John Nkengasong, told a news conference in Addis Ababa.The African Union had planned to vaccinate 20%-30% of the continent's population by the end of the year he said. "If the vaccines are delayed we are unlikely to meet our target," he added.That AU target primarily relies on supplies from the global COVAX vaccine-sharing facility, through which 64 poorer countries including many in Africa are supposed to get doses from the SII. COVAX aims to provide enough shots for African countries to inoculate at least 20% of their populations."If the delay continues, I hope it’s a delay and not a ban, that would be catastrophic for meeting our vaccinations schedule," Nkengasong said.African countries have reported 4.25 million coronavirus infections and 112,000 related deaths, though experts have said the actual numbers could be higher.The AU has also been negotiating with manufacturers to help member states secure the additional doses they they will need to achieve 60% coverage.On Monday, Johnson & Johnson announced it would supply the AU with up to 400 million doses of its Covid-19 vaccine. Delivery of those doses is due to begin in the third quarter of this year and will continue through 2022.Those doses are separate from the GAVI/WHO-backed global COVAX facility.Nkengasong said on Thursday the AU has "pivoted" towards the J&J shot in part as a result of the delay in the delivery of AstraZeneca shots, and also because it is a single-dose shot.The J&J doses will begin to arrive in June or July, which will ease any shortage caused by the delay in the AstraZeneca doses, Nkengasong said. The gap until the arrival of the J&J doses is a concern, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-astrazeneca-covid-19-shot-delay-could-be-catastrophic-for-africa-health-official-101617278130309.html
01-04-2021||World||UK needs to do more to tackle racism, PM Johnson says||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday that a racism review commissioned by his government was stimulating but that the country needed to do more to deal with racism."I don't want to say that the government is going to agree with absolutely everything in it, but it has some original and stimulating work in it but I think people need to read and to consider," Johnson said of a review into race inequality."There are very serious issues that our society faces to do with racism that we need to address, we've got, we've got to do more to fix it and we need to understand the severity of the problem," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-needs-to-do-more-to-tackle-racism-pm-johnson-says-101617277538751.html
01-04-2021||World||Chinese media warns against using ‘crude’ methods to vaccinate citizens||China’s vaccination drive is in the eye of huge media storm as the campaign is being pushed in some cases by “crude” methods including linking it to better grading for students and even banning those who do not agree to take the jab from entering public places. Wancheng township in the Hainan province, for example, had to apologise on Wednesday and withdraw an order, which said that those who did not take the vaccine would not be allowed to enter public places such as supermarkets and restaurants and could not use public transport, a state media report said.The individuals, the notice said, could be added to a blacklist as well.On Wednesday, in a rare admission, Xinhua Daily Telegraph, a media outlet affiliated to the Xinhua news agency, warned against using “simple, crude” methods to persuade people to vaccinate.“It is worth noting that in the process of advancing vaccination, there have been some simple and crude bad signs in a few places,” the opinion piece said even as it lauded China’s vaccination campaign.It said that in some instances schools had linked the performances of both students and teachers to the number of vaccinations carried out by the school.Criticising the “one size fits all” way of carrying out the vaccination drive, the article said in some cases the jabs were given to factory workers “ignoring special physical conditions”; and, at yet others, the normal production of enterprises was hampered to increase the number of vaccinations.“A high school in the southern city of Shenzhen required faculty members who didn’t get vaccinated by the end of March to provide a written report to the principal explaining why,” a person who received the notice told Reuters.These methods may not only pose a medical risk to the unvaccinated population but may even increase the resistance in the population, the Xinhua piece said.The opinion piece warned that the vaccination drive like the epidemic prevention and control work was also a “…major test of grass-roots governance capacity”.China carried out about 5.1 million vaccinations against Covid-19 on March 31, bringing the total number administered to 119.82 million, the national health commission said on Thursday.“China’s mass vaccination campaign has entered the fast track with its daily inoculations leaping from 1 million to nearly 3 million within a week. The Global Times has learnt China’s overall inoculation rate to surpass 10 million per day, putting it on target to administering vaccines to 40 percent of the population,” the tabloid Global Times said in an article in late March.China’s daily vaccine output has climbed to 5 million doses every day from 1.5 million in February.The Chinese government vaccination task force announced a week ago that China plans to speed up its universal, free-of-charge immunisation programme, expanding its coverage from people at higher risk for Covid-19 to the general public.A widespread concentrated vaccination drive is in the offing, it added.“Priorities will be given to people in key sectors, including medicine and health, traffic and education, and at key workplaces, such as supermarkets, large-sized enterprises and office buildings,” a report in the Xinhua said, quoting the task force.Vaccination has been kicked off among people aged above 60 in some regions, said the task force.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-media-warns-against-using-crude-methods-to-vaccinate-citizens-101617277377862.html
01-04-2021||World||Is UK coronavirus variant already dominant in US? All you need to know||The highly transmissible coronavirus variant first detected in the United Kingdom, B.1.1.7, may already be dominant across the United States, according to a CNN report. A recent study published in the journal Cell investigated the prevalence and dynamics of the variant of concern in the United States. While the variant was first detected in the US at the end of December 2020, the study revealed that several independent introductions in the country occurred in late November 2020, with community transmission spreading it to most states within months.The researchers estimated that the proportion of cases caused by B.1.1.7 was increasing at a rate of around 7.5% per day and doubling in frequency about every week and a half, suggesting that the variant would become dominant across the US states by March. "I think we are there," William Lee, the co-author of the study, was quoted by CNN as saying. However, he added that “it's hard to say for sure", given gaps and delays in the data.According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 11,569 cases of Covid-19 caused by B.1.1.7 variant has been reported in the US as of March 30. However, the US health agency said that the cases do not represent the total number of the variant that may be circulating in the country but only such cases that have been found by analysing positive samples.The CDC has not revealed whether the variant is dominant across the United States but an early study by its own scientists had predicted that this would be the case by March. “The modeled trajectory of this variant in the US exhibits rapid growth in early 2021, becoming the predominant variant in March,” the study published in January said.Citing the “most recent data”, CDC Director Dr Rochelle Walensky on Wednesday said at a briefing that B.1.1.7 is “about 26% of circulating virus right now”. Walensky apparently cited the preliminary data of samples collected in the two weeks leading up to March 13, which is in line with the data shared on CDC’s website, and since then, nearly two doubling periods have passed. A CDC spokesperson told CNN that "national prevalence estimates are inherently delayed by a few weeks."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/is-uk-coronavirus-variant-already-dominant-in-us-all-you-need-to-know-101617275663979.html
01-04-2021||World||Pfizer says its Covid-19 vaccine remains more than 91% effective after 6 months||Pfizer Inc.’s Covid-19 vaccine remained highly effective after six months, according to new long-term results that the company said could be used to seek an expansion of its regulatory status.Follow-up data from a final-stage trial of 46,307 people showed the vaccine was 91.3% effective in preventing symptomatic cases starting one week after the second dose through as long as six months. In the US alone, the efficacy rate was 92.6%, according to a report Thursday by Pfizer and its partner BioNTech SE.At the same time, the companies provided some of the first data on how their vaccine might handle the immune-evading B.1.351 variant that arose in South Africa. Nine of 800 trial participants in that country got sick with Covid, including six infected with B.1.351. However, all were in the placebo group, suggesting the shot retains efficacy against the variant.Albert Bourla, Pfizer’s Chief Executive Officer, said in the statement that the results “position us to submit a Biologics License Application to the U.S. FDA.”The vaccine has already secured an emergency use authorization from the Food and Drug Administration, which means it’s only in effect until the emergency ends and it can be revoked or changed at any time. Formal approval is for the long term.Pfizer shares rose 0.5% in pre-market trading while BioNTech gained as much as 1.4%. Pfizer will soon share the data with regulators around the world and submit it for publication in a scientific journal, Pfizer spokeswoman Amy Rose said in an email.The six-month result is only slightly lower than the 95% efficacy rate that was originally found for the vaccine, based on much shorter term results. The two-shot vaccine also prevented all or nearly all severe cases of the disease over six months, depending on the exact definition used.The companies said that no new serious safety concerns were identified.The data was released in a joint company statement and hasn’t been independently reviewed and published in a scientific journal. Nonetheless, it provides an early reassuring sign that the vaccine’s strong efficacy seen in the short-term results will hold up and not fade away quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-says-its-covid-19-vaccine-remains-more-than-91-effective-after-6-months-101617276217135.html
01-04-2021||World||Suspect in attack on Asian American woman in NYC arrested||A parolee convicted of killing his mother nearly two decades ago was arrested on assault and hate crime charges in an attack on an Asian American woman in New York City, police said Wednesday.Police said Brandon Elliot, 38, is the man seen on surveillance video kicking and stomping the woman near Times Square on Monday. The woman was attacked in front of an apartment building.Two lobby workers witnessed the violence but no one intervened or called 911, police said. Their union said Wednesday they told a union representative that they waited until the attacker left because he had a knife and then flagged down a police car.Elliot, who is Black, faces charges of assault and attempted assault as hate crimes. He made an appearance in court via video Wednesday night, and was remanded into custody, with the next court date scheduled for Monday.Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. said Elliot faces up to 25 years in prison if convicted.The Legal Aid Society, which is representing him, said in a statement, “We strongly urge the public to reserve judgment until all the facts are presented in court."Elliot lived at a hotel that serves as a homeless shelter a few blocks from the attack scene, police said. He was taken into custody at the hotel around midnight. Tips from the public led to his apprehension, police said.Elliot was convicted of stabbing his mother to death in the Bronx in 2002, when he was 19. He was released from prison in 2019 and is on lifetime parole. The parole board had previously twice denied his release. His record also included an arrest for robbery in 2000.“For the life of me, I don’t understand why we are releasing or pushing people out of prison — not to give them second chances, but to put them into homeless facilities or shelters, or in this case a hotel — and expect good outcomes,” Police Commissioner Dermot Shea said at a news conference Wednesday. “We need real opportunities. We need real safety nets.”A law enforcement official identified the victim as 65-year-old Vilma Kari. The official was not authorized to speak publicly and did so on condition of anonymity. Kari’s daughter told The New York Times that she emigrated from the Philippines several decades ago.Kari, who was repeatedly kicked and stomped, suffered serious injuries including a fractured pelvis, the law enforcement official said. She was discharged from the hospital on Tuesday, a hospital spokesperson said. Kari has been speaking to police, Shea said.Philippine Ambassador to the U.S. Jose Manuel Romualdez said the victim is Filipina American.The country’s foreign secretary, Teodoro Locsin Jr., condemned the attack, writing on Twitter: “This is gravely noted and will influence Philippine foreign policy.” He didn’t elaborate how.The Philippines and United States are longtime treaty allies, but Philippine leader Rodrigo Duterte is a vocal critic of U.S. security policies who has moved to terminate a key agreement that allows largescale military exercises with U.S. forces in the Philippines.“I might as well say it, so no one on the other side can say, ‘We didn’t know you took racial brutality against Filipinos at all seriously.’ We do,” Locsin said.Kari was walking to church when police say Elliot kicked her in the stomach, knocked her to the ground, stomped on her face, shouted a curse and anti-Asian slurs and told her, “You don’t belong here” before casually walking away as onlookers watched. Shea called it a “completely unprovoked violent attack on an innocent, defenseless woman.”Monday’s attack, among the latest in a national spike in anti-Asian hate crimes, drew widespread condemnation and concerns about the failure of bystanders to intervene. New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio called the attack “absolutely disgusting and outrageous” and said it was “absolutely unacceptable” that witnesses didn’t help the woman.The attack happened just weeks after a mass shooting in Atlanta that left eight people dead, six of them women of Asian descent, and just a few days after a 65-year-old Asian American woman in the same midtown Manhattan neighborhood was threatened and heckled with anti-Asian slurs.The surge in violence has been linked in part to misplaced blame for the coronavirus pandemic and former President Donald Trump’s use of terms like “Chinese virus.”“This brave woman belongs here,” Vance said. “Asian American New Yorkers belong here. Everyone belongs here.”The late morning attack happened in front of a luxury apartment building in Hell’s Kitchen, west of Times Square. Two lobby workers, described by their union as doormen, were seen on video witnessing the attack but failing to help Kari. One of them was seen closing the building’s door as she was on the ground.The building’s management company said the workers were suspended pending an investigation. The workers’ union, SEIU 32BJ, initially said that they immediately called for help. A spokesperson clarified Wednesday that the workers waited until the assailant walked away to check on Kari and flag down a nearby patrol car.Residents of the building also defended the workers, saying in a letter Wednesday that a widely seen video clip focusing on the assault cut off before they could be seen giving the victim aid and alerting medics.Detective Michael Rodriguez said Wednesday that patrol officers driving by came upon the victim after she was assaulted.The Associated Press has requested the full video from the building’s management company. The company has not responded.This year in New York City, there have been 33 hate crimes with an Asian victim as of Sunday, police said. There were 11 such attacks by the same time last year. The NYPD last week said it was increasing patrols in Asian neighborhoods, including using undercover officers to prevent and disrupt attacks.Joo Han, the deputy director of the Asian American Federation, called the plainclothes patrols a “knee-jerk response” that ignored misgivings she said many people in Asian communities have about law enforcement.“That wasn’t something that was done in conversation with community leaders,” Han said. “That’s not something that we would have recommended. That’s not safe for a lot of folks who may not have status, who don’t have comfortable interactions with NYPD.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asian-hate-crime-suspect-in-attack-on-asian-american-woman-in-nyc-arrested-101617274486672.html
01-04-2021||World||Asian community pens letter of fear to Ohio's lieutenant governor||Dozens of Asian members of the suburb Ohio's lieutenant governor lives in penned a letter to him Wednesday, citing their concerns with his “Wuhan virus” tweet and their fears for the safety of their children."Lt. Governor Husted, your choice of words has only raised the anxiety and fear that Asians and Asian Americans in Upper Arlington are currently experiencing," the letter obtained by the local NBC affiliate read.“Our children have been targeted for bullying and abuse in the district well before the start of the Covid-19 pandemic, but that abuse has increased significantly in the last 14 months and has reached levels that have brought news media attention to our doorsteps," the letter continued. “Our children are the classmates, friends, and neighbors of your children.”The letter to the lieutenant governor was signed by nearly 70 members and families of the Asian community in Upper Arlington, a suburb of Columbus.It came in response to a March 26 tweet where Husted linked to an article in which Robert Redfield, the ex-director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, said, without citing evidence, that he believed the virus originated in a lab in Wuhan.“So it appears it was the Wuhan Virus after all?” Husted tweeted Friday from his personal account.His intention with the tweet, Husted said in an interview with The Associated Press earlier on Wednesday, was to criticize the Chinese government.“I was just pointing out that this is an international crisis, in my opinion, that the Chinese government is responsible for and I wanted an independent investigation,” he said. “So I wasn’t trying to accomplish anything that the political left or political right thinks that I might have from that tweet other than to draw attention to the issue.”The claim that Covid-19 originated in a lab in Wuhan has been scrutinized in the past year by health officials, including the leading U.S. infectious disease specialist, Dr. Anthony Fauci.The claim was further muddied when a draft obtained by The AP on Monday and formally published Tuesday from the World Health Organization’s inquiry said it was “extremely unlikely” that the virus emerged accidentally from a Chinese laboratory and was likely spread from animals to humans.Some replies on the original post supported Husted for standing up to China. More numerous were critical replies from Twitter users who said such rhetoric feeds into hate and violence against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders.The organization Stop AAPI Hate released a report last month that showed it received more than 3,800 reports in the U.S. of episodes ranging from shunning and verbal harassment to assault from March 2020 to Feb. 28 of this year. Many of the confrontations were linked to misconceptions around the virus.A gunman walked into three spas on March 16 in the Atlanta area, killing eight people, six of them Asian women, though police have yet to designate the shootings as a hate crime. The shock was still fresh when a man was caught on surveillance video Monday in New York City kicking an Asian American woman and stomping on her face while, police say, he shouted anti-Asian slurs.For Democratic State Sen. Tina Maharath, the first Asian American woman elected to the Ohio General Assembly, Husted's tweet was the second time that week she heard an elected official call the coronavirus that first emerged in Wuhan, China, the “Wuhan virus,” she said.Maharath said Husted and others are following the lead of former President Donald Trump, who sometimes used overtly racist terms to refer to the virus.“When you say those things, such as attach locations or ethnicities to the disease, it creates racial profiling, and then it turns into xenophobic behavior,” Maharath said. “And when leaders with that kind of power repeat those terms in confidence and double down on it, it leads to more hate crimes.”Two days before Husted's tweet, Republican Ohio Sen. Terry Johnson mentioned the “Wuhan virus” on the chamber floor.“We called it the Wuhan virus because that’s where it came from,” Johnson said. “We always called viruses by where they came from, but now we don’t even do that because of all this political correctness.”In the past century, international health experts have intentionally avoided naming diseases after the city or region of origin because of potential stigma. In 2015, the World Health Organization issued guidelines that discouraged the use of geographic locations, animals or groups of people in naming diseases.But Husted remained firm in his AP interview.“On Twitter, there were a lot of people who are from what I will call the cancel culture, who immediately assumed that there was a racial element to the tweet," Husted said, “which there wasn’t any.”His neighbors, however, believe Husted's words matter, regardless of intention, and offered an invitation to “meet personally to discuss the issues of violence and hatred towards Ohio’s Asian and Asian American citizens.”“As Lt. Governor, you are uniquely positioned to represent and protect the interests and safety of all Ohioans,” the letter stated. “As a resident of Upper Arlington, and our Lt. Governor, you are uniquely situated and have the power to take action to protect the families of our community. To protect all of our families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/asian-hate-crime-community-pens-letter-of-fear-to-ohio-s-lieutenant-governor-101617274239593.html
01-04-2021||World||Sunak says UK well placed to recover ‘strongly’ from pandemic||The UK economy is well placed to bounce back “strongly” from the pandemic, Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak said, citing a successful vaccination program and incentives to spur business investment.Revised data on Wednesday showed the U.K. economy shrank 9.8% in 2020, the most since the Great Frost of 1709. And while the economy is also forecast to shrink this quarter, the Bank of England sees it surging 14% in the year through the first quarter of 2022, an unprecedented pace in modern history.“I am confident that we’re in a good position to recover strongly,” Sunak said in an ITV interview due to be aired later on Wednesday, according to a transcript. “Businesses have about a hundred billion pounds ($138 billion) of excess cash that they’re sitting on,” and are “raring to go” as the country’s third coronavirus lockdown eases, he said.The U.K. has suffered one of the worst economic hits of any developed nation due to the pandemic, as well as one of the highest death rates. But Sunak pointed to one of the swiftest vaccination programs in the world as a reason for optimism, as well as the tax incentive for investment -- known as a super-deduction -- he announced in the budget this month.The super-deduction, which comes into effect on Thursday, means firms can reduce their tax bill by as much as 25 pence for every pound they invest in capital. The government estimates it will unlock 20 billion pounds of investment a year for the two years it’s in place.“What we’re seeing already is a lot of businesses responding to the super-deduction, accelerating capital plans,” Sunak said. “That’s what we want as we exit this pandemic and the economy reopens.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sunak-says-uk-well-placed-to-recover-strongly-from-pandemic-101617273784686.html
01-04-2021||World||Donald Trump-touted Hydroxychloroquine lives on as Covid therapy despite trial flops||Hydroxychloroquine, the antimalarial drug that former President Donald Trump touted as a “game changer” in the fight against Covid-19, is still being prescribed by physicians in the US though it has proven to be ineffective against the virus in clinical trials.Concern is growing that patients are at risk of harm because physicians continue to prescribe hydroxychloroquine over other potentially life-saving Covid treatments. In June, the Food and Drug Administration revoked the emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine “in light of ongoing serious cardiac adverse events and other serious side effects.” The potential benefits of the drug no longer outweigh the known and potential risks for the authorized use, the agency said in a statement.“I would say if it’s not malpractice then it’s certainly close,” said William Haseltine, a former Harvard Medical School professor and a pioneering HIV researcher who now chairs Access Health International, a health equity think tank. “It’s unfortunate. The patients that are receiving [hydroxychloroquine] are not receiving benefit. It’s not particularly toxic, although it is toxic in some cases for people with heart problems -- so it could harm those people.”Patients across the country are still seeking the drug and some doctors prescribe it off-label, meaning for unapproved purposes. Some physicians are convinced that hydroxychloroquine, in combination with other drugs, could help prevent mild Covid symptoms from worsening. From their perspective, it has been on the market for decades and has been used off-label in various ways by respected members of their field.While off-label prescribing is common and legal, trial after clinical trial has shown that treatment of Covid-19 with hydroxychloroquine shows no clinical benefit -- at any stage of the disease. The FDA declined to comment.Still PrescribingGeorge Smith, a family doctor who runs a solo practice in Covington, Georgia, said he has prescribed hydroxychloroquine to about 160 Covid-19 patients since the virus hit his community in March 2020. Many came to him because their own physicians wouldn’t treat them with the drug.He resigned from a job as a nursing home physician after the medical director refused to allow him to treat patients with hydroxychloroquine.“There have been so many people who have died from Covid needlessly because of government obstruction -- it’s a crime, it’s such a shame,” Smith said in a phone interview. “I look at it this way: I swore the Hippocratic oath when I finished medical school to treat my patients the best way I know how -- and so that’s what I’ve done. If they come and take my license, then they come and take my license. But I’m not going to let somebody die over some stupid government regulation.”The FDA authorized the emergency use of hydroxychloroquine in March 2020. A week later Trump endorsed the drug as a potential Covid-19 treatment and the government stockpiled millions of doses. After Trump promoted the drug in March, monthly prescriptions jumped 93% to 890,000.While demand for the drug has tailed off since then, it is still significantly higher than at the start of the pandemic -- in February 2021, there were 560,000 hydroxychloroquine prescriptions written, 22% higher than a year earlier. It’s difficult to predict how many of these were off-label, though researchers estimate that off-label versions make up between 12% and 38% of all prescriptions in the U.S, according to a recent report by the Congressional Research Service.The rush in 2020 led to shortages of the drug for patients with lupus, rheumatoid arthritis, and other autoimmune diseases, for which hydroxychloroquine has proven to be an effective treatment. As a result, 18 states issued emergency restrictions that prohibited prescribing and dispensing of the drug for Covid-19 use. Other states didn’t go as far but most released guidance discouraging inappropriate prescriptions.As of March 2021, restrictions remain in place in only six of the 18 states. Mike Donnelly, a spokesperson for the Lupus Foundation of America, says the non-profit group has not heard of patients experiencing difficulties accessing hydroxychloroquine since last year. In March a World Health Organization panel warned that hydroxychloroquine should not be used to prevent infection with Covid-19.Patient RequestsA conservative non-profit group says patients still want the drug. The Association of American Physicians and Surgeons compiles a list of doctors who are willing to prescribe hydroxychloroquine. Jane Orient, the group’s executive director, says many patients use telehealth to get a doctor, and they can get their prescriptions filled at an out-of-state pharmacy if they don’t have a local pharmacist who wants to do so.“In our newsletter each month we ask our members to list themselves if they are willing to accept new patients for this purpose. Many physicians don’t want to be public about this because there are some concerns about complaints going to the medical board, which are, at best, a very stressful and expensive time-consuming hassle,” Orient said.The AAPS, which is also known for opposing federal vaccine mandates, filed a lawsuit against the government in June 2020 citing the “irrational interference by the FDA with timely access to hydroxychloroquine.” The group wants an injunction against the FDA’s decision in March 2020, which prohibits the use of the donated hydroxychloroquine except for already hospitalized patients.They’ve also created a 26-page, home-based Covid treatment guide for patients, which advises taking a combination of anti-viral medicines at the onset of symptoms.Peter McCullough, a professor of medicine at Texas A&M University’s College of Medicine and an AAPS member, considers himself a firm believer in using hydroxychloroquine in combination with other drugs to treat Covid patients. “The biggest mistake in people reporting and even in the scientific investigations is to try to declare or not declare whether hydroxychloroquine works -- that’s a fool’s errand because we use drugs in combination,” he said.He said he’s prescribed a multiple-drug regimen that includes hydroxychloroquine for about 100 high-risk Covid patients and advised “hundreds more” doctors who then went on to treat thousands more patients, he said.A few other drugs that have shown greater effectiveness against Covid-19 have since gained authorization, including Gilead Sciences Inc.’s remdesivir and the antibody cocktail from Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. that Trump touted after he was diagnosed with the disease. Ridgeback Biotherapeutics and Merck & Co. have partnered to develop an oral antiviral treatment, molnupiravir, and are encouraged by the findings so far.Myron Cohen, associate vice chancellor for global health and medical affairs at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine at Chapel Hill, says this illustrates a broader medical issue that is not unique to Covid-19 -- it’s hard to move people away from their own anecdotal evidence.“Hydroxychloroquine was just filling a vacuum,” Cohen said. “In the long run, health providers are going to accede to drugs that have been proven to work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/donald-trump-touted-hydroxychloroquine-lives-on-as-covid-therapy-despite-trial-flops-101617271657045.html
01-04-2021||World||Russia prison service defends treatment of hunger-striking Kremlin critic Navalny||Russia's prison service has defended its treatment of Alexei Navalny, dismissing complaints by the hunger-striking Kremlin critic that he was not getting the medical care he needed in jail and was subjected to sleep deprivation.Navalny, one of President Vladimir Putin's most prominent critics, went on hunger strike on Wednesday to try to force the prison holding him to give him proper medical care for what he said was acute pain in his back and legs.The opposition politician said last week that guards were waking him up every hour at night and that his appeals for medical care were being ignored. The West has demanded his release.The local prison service in Vladimir region where the IK-2 facility holding him is located told Reuters that the prison measures Navalny was subjected to were strictly legal and were the same as those used against other inmates."Correction facility officers strictly respect the right of all inmates to eight hours of uninterrupted sleep," it said late on Wednesday, adding that guards were required to patrol and visually check on inmates at night."These measures do not interfere with convicts resting," it added."...Navalny is being provided with all necessary medical care in accordance with his current medical conditions," it said.In a handwritten letter addressed to the governor of his prison which was posted to social media by his team on Wednesday, Navalny said daily requests for a doctor of his choice to examine him and for proper medicine had been ignored.Alexei Barinov, a doctor, told Reuters that Navalny's lawyers had asked him to treat Navalny and that they had requested the prison service either allow him into the prison or to let Navalny out to a clinic."We're waiting for a decision from the FSIN (prison service)," he said, adding that he was ready to go.Medical professionals on Sunday published an open letter demanding the 44-year-old politician get proper care.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-prison-service-defends-treatment-of-hunger-striking-kremlin-critic-navalny-101617269671251.html
01-04-2021||World||South Korea mulls rapid coronavirus tests for home use||South Korea is reviewing whether to approve rapid coronavirus tests that can be taken at home and produce near-immediate results as another tool to fight the pandemic.Kwon Jun-wook, director of South Korea’s National Health Institute, said Thursday there’s a need to provide convenient and accessible tests that people can use regularly because the virus is often transmitted by people with no or mild symptoms.Health authorities had previously been reluctant to expand the use of rapid antigen tests and other forms of fast testing, which could produce results within 30 minutes but are less accurate than standard laboratory tests.However, Kwon said the country may need more tools as it has struggles to slow the spread of the virus following a devastating winter surge, with around 300 to 500 new cases still being reported every day.He said that real-time PCR tests, which involve health professionals administrating nasal and throat swabs and lab machines genetically analyzing the samples, would remain the country’s gold standard even if officials approve rapid tests for public use.South Korean officials also said Thursday that the country will issue a smartphone app this month that verifies a person has been vaccinated. While Prime Minister Chung Se-kyun raised the possibility that the app could be used as a vaccine passport, Korea Disease Control and Prevention Agency officials said countries would first have to agree on an international standard for screening travelers for vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-korea-mulls-rapid-coronavirus-tests-for-home-use-101617267055878.html
01-04-2021||World||New portable test to diagnose Covid-19 quickly, track variants as well||Scientists have developed a new portable, pocket-sized test that can not only diagnose Covid-19 in minutes but also sequence the coronavirus to track the spread of mutations and variants.The test, dubbed NIRVANA, can simultaneously test for other viruses such as influenza that might be mistaken for the coronavirus, the researchers said."This is a virus detection and surveillance method that doesn't require an expensive infrastructure like other approaches," said Juan Carlos Izpisua Belmonte, a professor at the Salk Institute for Biological Studies in the US."We can accomplish with one portable test the same thing that others are using two or three different tests, with different machines, to do," Belmonte said.The researchers noted that testing the population is key to stopping the spread of the virus.Also, tracking the spread of new SARS-CoV-2 variants -- some of which could respond differently to treatments or vaccines -- is critical, they said.The current standard approach to determine whether a nasal swab is positive for Covid-19 is to run a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test to detect genetic material from the SARS-CoV-2 virus.However, if the sample is negative, patients and clinicians don't get any information on what might be causing the coronavirus-like symptoms -- unless they run separate PCR tests, using different swab samples, for other viruses.Even if the sample is positive for SARS-CoV-2, they don't learn which Covid-19 variant a patient is infected with unless another set of tests is run, which require a large and expensive next-generation gene-sequencing machine.Mo Li, an assistant professor at King Abdullah University of Science and Technology in Saudi Arabia, wondered whether a gene-detection approach called isothermal recombinase polymerase amplification (RPA) coupled with real-time nanopore sequencing might be more useful than the current Covid-19 testing approach.Unlike PCR, which cycles through lower and higher temperatures to separate DNA strands and copy them, RPA uses proteins -- rather than temperature changes -- to accomplish the same thing in only 20 minutes.The technology lets researchers copy longer stretches of DNA, and probe for multiple genes at the same time."We quickly realised that we could use this technique to not only detect SARS-CoV-2, but other viruses at the same time," said Li.The study, published in the journal Med, describes a small, portable device that can screen 96 samples at the same time using the RPA assay.The scientists designed NIRVANA to simultaneously test samples for Covid-19, influenza A, human adenovirus, and non-SARS-CoV-2 human coronavirus.The researchers noted that in just 15 minutes the device begins to report positive and negative results.Within three hours, the device finalises results on all 96 samples -- including the sequences of five regions of SARS-CoV-2 that are particularly prone to accumulate mutations leading to new variants such as the B.1.1.7 variant identified in the UK.The team tested NIRVANA on 10 samples known to be positive for SARS-CoV-2, 60 samples of unknown SARS-CoV-2 status, as well as samples of municipal wastewater harbouring the SARS-COV-2 virus and others.In all cases, the assay was able to correctly identify which viruses were present.The sequencing data also allowed them to narrow down the origin of SARS-CoV-2 in positive samples, differentiating strains from China and Europe for instance."The design of this assay is really flexible, so it's not just limited to the examples we've shown," said Li."We can easily adapt it to tackle another pathogen, even something new and emergent," he said.With the small size and portability of the NIRVANA workflow, it could be used for fast virus detection at schools, airports or ports, the researchers said.It also could be used to monitor wastewater or streams for the presence of new viruses, they said."The pandemic has provided two important lessons: first, test widely and quickly, and second, know your variants. Our NIRVANA method provides a promising solution to these two challenges not only for the current pandemic but also for possible future ones," said Belmonte.Market analysis would be required to determine whether the initial cost of commercialisation -- and the constant tweaks to the test needed to make sure it detected new variants or new viruses of interest -- are worth it, Belmonte added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-portable-test-to-diagnose-covid-19-quickly-track-variants-as-well-101617269358549.html
01-04-2021||World||'Angriest octopus' lashes out at man on Australia beach||A swim on holiday at a Western Australia beach has resulted in a painful octopus "whipping" - and a video of the encounter that has gone viral.Geologist and author Lance Karlson was about to take a dip near the resort he and his family were staying at in Geographe Bay, on Australia's southwest coast, when he spotted what he thought was the tail of a stingray emerging from the water and striking a seagull.Upon walking closer with his two-year-old daughter, he discovered it was an octopus, and took a video, which shows the animal in shallow water take a sudden strike in Karlson's direction with its tentacles."The octopus lashed out at us, which was a real shock," Karlson said in emailed comments to Reuters.After setting up a sun protection tent for his family on the beach, Karlston put on goggles and went in the water alone to explore a collection of crab shells, which he believed were left by dead sea creatures.As he was swimming, he felt another whip across his arm - followed by a more forceful sting across his neck and upper back."My goggles became fogged, the water was suddenly murky and I remember being shocked and confused," Karlson added in the email.Karlson said he raced back to shore and saw raised imprints of tentacles across his arm, neck and upper back. Since he did not have vinegar, his preferred treatment for sea animal stings, he poured cola over the affected area, which worked well to stop the stinging.The footage Karlson posted with the comment: "The angriest octopus in Geographe Bay!" was widely shared, but he said he felt apprehension but no animosity toward the animal."This was clearly the octopus's domain," he said."I am worried that people will view octopuses in a different light. They are amazing creatures that clearly have some strong emotions (just like us)!"||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angriest-octopus-lashes-out-at-man-on-australia-beach-101617269220842.html
01-04-2021||World||'Familial terrorism': How personal ties link suicide bombings in Southeast Asia||As the rain teemed down and guests feasted on chicken curry, Muhammad Lukman married his burqa-clad bride in a late night ceremony at the home of Rizaldi, the head of their Islamic prayer group, on the Indonesian island of Sulawesi.Guests who attended the August wedding said the ceremony was held at 10 pm, deemed auspicious.This week, on Palm Sunday morning, the newlyweds strapped pressure cooker nail bombs to their chests and detonated them as they drove into the Sacred Heart of Jesus Cathedral in the provincial capital of Makassar.Their deaths followed the killing of their wedding host in January, shot by counter-terrorism forces.The millennial, newlywed bombers were the only fatalities in the cathedral attack, but the incident offers a view into the Islamic State's dangerous legacy in Southeast Asia, and the personal and family ties that bind religious extremists across the region.In Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim-majority nation, pro-ISIS groups remain a threat two years after the ultra-radicals were defeated in Syria and Iraq, analysts say.The Makassar church bombing was the third such attack perpetrated by husband and wife suicide bombers from Indonesia in recent years.In May 2018, an Indonesian family of six, a husband and wife and their four children, detonated explosives at several churches in the Javanese city of Surabaya, part of a series of attacks that killed 28 people.Less than a year later, Ulfa Handayani Saleh and her husband Rullie Rian Zeke, both Indonesians, bombed a cathedral in Jolo, in the southern Philippines, killing 23 and injuring more than 100.Ulfa was the sister of Rizaldi, whose home was where the Makassar bombers were married."This is the unique legacy of ISIS promoting the rise of familial terrorism," said Noor Huda Ismail, a visiting fellow at the S. Rajaratnam School of International Studies, "A number of Indonesians joined ISIS as family members."More than 1,100 Indonesians left the country to join ISIS, sometimes as whole families, including toddlers and infants, said Sidney Jones, director of the Jakarta-based Institute for Policy Analysis of Conflict (IPAC).In part, they were influenced by effective ISIS propaganda that idealised the concept of rearing children in a pure Islamic state, she said. Hundreds were deported or returned after ISIS was defeated in 2019.'DO WHAT YOU CAN'Police said the Makassar bombers were a couple who belonged to Jamaah Ansharut Daulah (JAD), an Islamic State-inspired group suspected of suicide attacks in Surabaya and elsewhere.Given the fragmented nature of JAD, Jones said it was instructive to examine the personal ties that reveal how extremists connect up across the region.The Makassar attack, said Jones, was likely part ISIS ideology fused with revenge for Rizaldi's death."What we are seeing is not only supporters of ISIS acting on their own in accordance with instructions earlier to do what you can wherever you can," she said, "But also doing it because of local drivers."Opening a kebab shop next to his house after he wed, neighbours say Lukman was quiet and religious, that his wife sold skin whitening products online, and everyone was surprised to learn they secretly harboured violent intentions."I was selling food at the market when someone said someone had blown themselves up. I said, 'So dumb. Why would anyone kill themselves? What for?' But I didn't realize it was my nephew,"Lukman's aunt, Sitti Rahma, 48, told Reuters, through tears.Police said the 26-year-old bomber left a farewell letter to his mother, in which he expressed his desire to die for his religious beliefs.On Wednesday, police shot dead a gun-wielding, 25-year-old woman who had attempted to attack the national police headquarters in Jakarta. Hours earlier she had posted a picture of the Islamic state flag on her Instagram account, police said.Seen as revenge for a string of arrests of suspected militants across the archipelago in recent days, the incident is another example of a global trend of women taking on more active militant roles.Since the Palm Sunday attack, Indonesian police have arrested at least 32 suspected extremists in Jakarta, Sulawesi, Java, and West Nusa Tenggara, raids that also uncovered more than 5 kilograms of explosives, including “Mother of Satan”, or triacetone triperoxide (TATP), a powerful but unstable mixture often used by Islamist militant groups."Despite being pushed back in the Middle East, ISIS networks in various countries are still active, including in Indonesia," said terrorism analyst Stanislaus Riyanta. "Their strength is diminished, but they have not died yet."Ismail, the analyst at the School of International Studies said: "You cannot deny the fact that there is still a virtual caliphate, which is now extremely hard to counter."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/familial-terrorism-how-personal-ties-link-suicide-bombings-in-southeast-asia-101617268230802.html
01-04-2021||World||Egypt may seek $1 billion in compensation for Suez Canal crisis||Egypt said it may seek around $1 billion in compensation after a giant container vessel blocked the Suez Canal for almost a week and roiled shipping markets.The figure is a rough estimate of losses linked to transit fees, damages incurred during the dredging and salvage efforts, the cost of the equipment, and labor, Suez Canal Authority chief executive Osama Rabie said late Wednesday to local television channel Sada Elbalad.He did not specify who the Canal Authority would seek compensation from.Also Watch: How ship which had blocked Suez Canal was finally freed; had Indian crew“This is the right of the country,” Rabie said, adding that the incident hurt Egypt’s reputation. “This country should get its due.”The 400-meter-long Ever Given ship ran aground on March 23 in the southern part of the canal and was freed on Monday.Taiwan’s Evergreen Marine Corp., the vessel’s charterer, said Thursday it’s not responsible for delays of any cargo it was transporting.The ship and its cargo, which Rabie said were worth $3.5 billion, is currently in the Great Bitter Lake, roughly halfway along the canal.Rabie said they could be held in Egypt if the matter of compensation went to court. Such a scenario is unlikely, he said, because Egypt has a long relationship with the ship owner.Evergreen’s agent in Egypt, Mohamed Bahaa, said he doubted there would be any financial dispute between his company and the canal authorities.“In 40 years now, not a single case of dispute has happened between SCA and Evergreen,” he said in an interview. “We all respect all the rules of the SCA.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypt-may-seek-1-billion-in-compensation-for-suez-canal-crisis-101617268018030.html
01-04-2021||World||Joe Biden signals continued Beijing tension over industrial policy||The Biden administration raised concern about some of the policy tools China is using to spur its economy, saying they crowd out international companies and will skew markets.“Made in China 2025,” a key 10-year plan released in 2015 and laying out Beijing’s industrial-policy aspirations, includes a wide array of state intervention and support that restricts and discriminates against foreign enterprises, the U.S. Trade Representative said in its 2021 estimate report on foreign-trade barriers released Wednesday.The administration’s views are consistent with those of the Trump and Obama presidencies.“Even if China fails to fully achieve the industrial policy goals set forth in Made in China 2025, it is still likely to create or exacerbate market distortions and create severe excess capacity in many of the targeted sectors,” the USTR said. “It is also likely to do long-lasting damage to U.S. interests, as China-backed companies increase their market share at the expense of U.S. companies operating in these sectors.”Beijing hit back at the report on Thursday, with Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying saying: the “U.S. side’s accusations on China’s industrial policies are groundless.”“Our policies follow market principles, with proper guidance by the government,” she added. “The policies apply to all companies in China, equally to Chinese and foreign companies.”The U.S. and China were embroiled in a trade war under President Donald Trump that continues to see tariffs applied on about $335 billion of Chinese goods annually. In the so-called phase one agreement last year, China promised to purchase more American products. Beijing missed its 2020 trade-deal targets as the global pandemic upended shipping and supply chains.At her confirmation hearing last month, Trade Representative Katherine Tai called on China to live up to the commitments in its trade pact with the U.S. She acknowledged that former officials have tried before to achieve structural changes in China’s economy and faced obstacles, saying the Biden administration needs to be “exploring all our options.”If China’s economy maintains its current growth trajectory, it will surpass the U.S. this decade to become the world’s largest.Beijing continues to provide substantial subsidies to its domestic industries, which have caused injury to U.S. industries, the USTR said. The U.S. is working with the European Union and Japan to identify further effective action and potential rules that could address problematic subsidies practices not currently covered by existing obligations, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-signals-continued-beijing-tension-over-industrial-policy-101617266905512.html
01-04-2021||World||Pakistan lifts weekslong ban on TikTok over racy content||Pakistan's media regulatory agency on Thursday reinstated access to the Chinese video service TikTok, after a court banned it weeks ago and urged authorities to ensure that it carried no “vulgar” content.The court in Peshawar had issued the ban on March 11 following complaints about the alleged presence of “immoral and indecent content” on the popular social media app. On Thursday, after consulting with the media agency, it repealed it.At the hearing, senior agency official Tariq Gandapur said that contact had been established with TikTok to ensure those who share obscene content are blocked. The app, owned by China’s ByteDance, has been downloaded almost 39 million times in Pakistan.Pakistan and China are close allies in the region. Last year, Pakistan had also blocked TikTok for 10 days over the same issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-lifts-weekslong-ban-on-tiktok-over-racy-content-101617266914378.html
01-04-2021||World||Myanmar protesters burn military's constitution as UN envoy warns of 'imminent bloodbath'||Myanmar activists burned copies of a military-framed constitution on Thursday two months after the junta seized power, as a UN special envoy warned of the risk of a bloodbath because of an intensified crackdown on anti-coup protesters.Myanmar has been rocked by protests since the army overthrew the elected government of Nobel laureate Aung San Suu Kyi on Feb. 1 citing unsubstantiated claims of fraud in a November election.Suu Kyi and other members of her National League for Democracy (NLD) have been detained.The junta has accused her of several minor crimes including illegally importing six handheld radios and breaching coronavirus protocols but a domestic media outlet reported on Wednesday she could be charged with treason, which can be punishable by death.But one of her lawyers, Min Min Soe, said no new charges were announced at a hearing in her case on Thursday.Her lawyers have said the charges she faces were trumped up.The UN envoy's warning of a bloodbath follows a flare-up in fighting between the army and ethnic minority insurgents in frontier regions.At least 20 soldiers were killed and four military trucks destroyed in clashes with the Kachin Independence Army (KIA), one of Myanmar's most powerful rebel groups, DVB news reported.Reuters could not immediately verify the reports and a junta spokesman did not answers calls seeking comment.Myanmar military aircraft have started bombing positions of another group, the Karen National Union (KNU), for the first time in more than 20 years and thousands of villagers have fled from their homes, many into Thailand.In cities across Myanmar there were candle-lit protests overnight and marches at dawn on Thursday, according to media and photographs on social media.Protests gathered in several places on Thursday and two people were wounded when police opened fire in the central town of Monywa, according to witnesses posts on social media.The coup has led to new calls for unity among those opposed to military rule, in particular city-based democracy campaigners and ethnic minority forces battling in frontier regions.Ousted members of parliament, mostly from Suu Kyi's party, have vowed to set up a federal democracy in a bid to address a long-standing demand from minority groups for autonomy.They also announced the scrapping of a 2008 constitution drawn up by the military that enshrines its control over politics. The military has long rejected the idea of a federal system, seeing itself as the central power vital to holding the fractious country together.Social media posts showed copies of the constitution, real and symbolic, being burned at rallies and in homes during what one activist called a "constitution bonfire ceremony"."The new day begin here!" Dr Sasa, the international envoy for the ousted parliamentarians said on Twitter, referring to what for now is a largely symbolic move.SOUTHEAST ASIAN MINISTER IN CHINAThe UN special envoy on Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgene, told the 15-member UN Security Council that the military was not capable of managing the country, and warned the situation on the ground would worsen.The council must consider "potentially significant action" to reverse the course of events as "a bloodbath is imminent", she said.The council has expressed concern and condemned violence against protesters, but dropped language calling the takeover a coup and threatening possible further action due to opposition by China, Russia, India and Vietnam.At least 536 civilians have been killed in protests, 141 of them on Saturday, the bloodiest day of the unrest, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP).The United States on Wednesday urged China, which has significant economic and strategic interests in Myanmar, to use its influence to hold to account those responsible for the coup.While Western countries have condemned the coup, China has been more cautious and the government's top diplomat Wang Yi called for stability during a meeting with his Singaporean counterpart on Wednesday.Wang said China welcomed and supported a long-standing principle of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) of not interfering in each other's internal affairs, even though there have been signs in recent weeks that adherence to the principle is wearing thin.Indonesia, Singapore, Malaysia and the Philippines have all spoken out about the situation in Myanmar and Thailand issued its strongest comments on Thursday, saying it was "gravely troubled" by the violence and calling for an end to it and the release of detainees.In a sign of stepped-up shuttle diplomacy, the foreign ministers of Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines are due to meet Wang in China this weekThe Myanmar military has traditionally been impervious to external pressure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-protesters-burn-military-s-constitution-as-un-envoy-warns-of-bloodbath-101617266905622.html
01-04-2021||World||UK opposition leader says 'British instinct' likely to oppose Covid passports||Britain's opposition Labour leader Keir Starmer has expressed scepticism about the use of so-called vaccine passports to allow people to access hospitality and entertainment venues, saying the "British instinct" could be against such documents.The government is reviewing the idea of asking people to show proof of a Covid-19 vaccination to access crowded spaces such as pubs or sports events to help with the reopening of some sectors of the economy.Starmer said he would not make any formal decision on whether to support the initiative before studying government proposals but indicated there could be opposition to the idea from the public if death rates are near zero and hospital admissions are very low."I think this is really difficult and I'm not going to pretend there's a clear black and white, yes-no easy answer on this," Starmer told the Daily Telegraph.He said if "we get the virus properly under control, the death rates are near zero, hospital admissions very, very low, that the British instinct in those circumstances will be against vaccine passports."British Prime Minister Boris Johnson suggested last month that some pubs might require customers to produce vaccine certificates but said it may be up to individual venues to decide. He acknowledged there are "moral complexities" around introducing such rules.The leader of the Liberal Democrats Ed Davey this week branded the use of Covid-19 passports within the United Kingdom as "illiberal" and "unworkable" and the plans are opposed by some lawmakers in Johnson's party.Britain has recorded 4.3 million cases of Covid-19 and a total death toll of more than 126,00 people, one of the highest rates in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-opposition-leader-says-british-instinct-likely-to-oppose-covid-passports-101617262240587.html
01-04-2021||World||Europe vaccine rollout 'unacceptably slow', case surge 'worrying': WHO||The World Health Organization on Thursday slammed Europe's "unacceptably slow" vaccine rollout and said the region's surge in coronavirus infections was "worrying"."Vaccines present our best way out of this pandemic... However, the rollout of these vaccines is unacceptably slow" and is "prolonging the pandemic", WHO director for Europe Hans Kluge said in a statement.He added that Europe's virus situation was "more worrying than we have seen in several months."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-vaccine-rollout-unacceptably-slow-case-surge-worrying-who-101617261179295.html
01-04-2021||World||Prince William struggling not to share his story after Meghan interview: Report||The Duke of Cambridge Prince William is having a hard time following his brother Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's bombshell interview with American talk show host Oprah Winfrey.Just weeks ago, Harry and Markle sat down with the Oscar-winning star to discuss their struggles since the 'Suits' alum joined the royal family.During the tell-all, the pair made allegations of racism and turning a blind eye to mental health needs against the royal family and the institution at large.According to Fox News, since the interview first aired, it has become understood that William is not pleased with his brother and sister-in-law, who also made mention of William's wife, Kate Middleton, during the interview.Now, a source has told Us Weekly that the Duke of Cambridge wants to publicly share his side of the story."The queen is insisting that the royals handle the matter privately," said the insider.Furthermore, they also said that Queen Elizabeth II "thinks that retaliating will only add fuel to the fire and make the situation worse.""William is struggling to hold back," shared the source. "He wants to get his side out there."The insider said that the mention of Kate is his priority for wanting to speak out, as he's reportedly felt "very protective" over his wife since Meghan claimed Kate made her cry around the time of her wedding to Harry.As reported by Fox News, the royal would like to "clear the racial allegations," said the source.William previously responded to the claims made by his brother and sister-in-law in a public statement deemed "unusual" by royal expert Katie Nicholl.When confronted by reporters shortly after the interview aired, William said that the royals are "very much not a racist family."He added that, at the time, he had not yet spoken to Harry about the contents of the interview. Gayle King recently reported that the brothers have since spoken, but conversations were "not productive."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-william-struggling-not-to-share-his-story-meghan-interview-report-101617260016368.html
01-04-2021||World||Jailed Kremlin critic Navalny launches hunger strike in bid for medical care||Jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny went on hunger strike on Wednesday in an attempt to force the prison holding him outside Moscow to provide him with proper medical care for what he said was acute pain in his back and legs.The fate of Navalny, one of President Vladimir Putin's most prominent critics, is in focus after he said last week that being woken up by a guard every hour during the night amounted to torture and that his appeals for medical treatment had been ignored.In a handwritten letter addressed to the governor of his prison which was posted to social media by his team on Wednesday, Navalny said daily requests for a doctor of his choice to examine him and for proper medicine had been ignored."I really need a doctor. Every convict has the right (by law) to invite a specialist to examine and consult him. Even I have such a right and I'm innocent," Navalny wrote in the letter."I demand that a doctor be allowed to see me, and until this happens, I am declaring a hunger strike."Prison authorities, after examining Navalny last week, declared his condition to be stable and satisfactory. The Kremlin has declined to comment on his health, saying it is a matter for the federal penitentiary service.On Wednesday, the penitentiary service said Navalny was receiving all necessary treatment."The convict A. Navalny is provided with all the necessary medical aid in accordance with his current medical conditions," Interfax news agency cited the federal penitentiary service of the Vladimir region as saying in a statement.It also said that regular checks of prisoners during the night were carried out in line with the law and "do not hinder the rest of the convicts".POSSIBLE 'SEVERE CONSEQUENCES'Medical professionals on Sunday published an open letter demanding the 44-year-old politician get proper care."We fear for the worst. Leaving a patient in this condition ... may lead to severe consequences, including an irreversible, full or partial loss of lower limb functions," the letter said.Navalny has said that what started out as acute back pain spread to his right leg and then to his left leg. The only medicine he has received has been Ibuprofen tablets and cream, he has said. Some members of a local prisoner monitoring group have accused him of faking his condition."I don't want to lose both legs," Navalny wrote in the same letter. "It would not be fair. Everyone has two legs and I wouldn't have any."Navalny was jailed last month for two and a half years for parole violations that he called politically motivated. He was arrested as he returned to Russia from Germany in January, where he had been recovering from what doctors said was a nerve agent poisoning.The West, including the European Court of Human Rights, has demanded Russia release Navalny. Moscow, which has cast doubt over his poisoning, has called such appeals unacceptable interference in its internal affairs.Asked about the hunger strike, U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price said the United States continued to call on Russia to end Navalny's "politically motivated" detention.The Kremlin has cast Navalny as a Western-backed troublemaker on a mission to destabilise Russia with Putin's spokesman linking him to the CIA, something Navalny has denied.Navalny's allies have announced plans to stage what they hope will be the biggest anti-Kremlin street protest in modern Russian history this spring. The authorities have said such protests are illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jailed-kremlin-critic-navalny-launches-hunger-strike-in-bid-for-medical-care-101617258710793.html
01-04-2021||World||Two girls, 3 and 5, dropped over 14-foot-high US-Mexico border wall||Two small Ecuadoran girls, three and five years old, were hoisted over and dropped from the top of a 14-foot wall marking the US-Mexican border in the middle of the night before being picked up by US Customs and Border Protection (CBP) officers, the agency said Wednesday."On Tuesday evening, a Santa Teresa agent utilizing camera technology observed a smuggler dropping two young children from the top of the approximately 14-foot-high (four-meter-high) border barrier," CBP said in a statement.The children were taken to a CBP station in Santa Teresa, New Mexico to be evaluated by medical personnel, and then were transported to a local hospital as a precaution. CBP said the girls remain in the agency's custody."I'm appalled by the way these smugglers viciously dropped innocent children from a 14-foot border barrier last night," chief patrol agent Gloria Chavez said in a statement.Chavez said US agents are working with Mexican authorities to identify those responsible."If not for the vigilance of our agents using mobile technology, these two tender-aged siblings would have been exposed to the harsh elements of desert environment for hours," Chavez said.The United States is facing an increase of migrant arrivals at the country's southern border, mostly Central Americans who say they are fleeing poverty and violence in their own countries.Recently, there has been an average of 500 unaccompanied children crossing each day.President Joe Biden's administration is facing growing pressure to confront the situation and criticisms about how the unaccompanied minors have been cared for while under US government custody.According to official statistics, the Department of Health and Human Services had 12,918 migrant children in their care as of Tuesday, while CBP was responsible for the care of another 5,285.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-girls-3-and-5-dropped-over-14-foot-high-us-mexico-border-wall-101617257227422.html
01-04-2021||World||CanSinoBIO says Covid-19 shot may be less effective over time||China's CanSino Biologics Inc said the efficacy rate for its single-dose Covid-19 vaccine may fall over time although it should still have a rate of 50% or more five to six months after inoculation.A second shot given to trial participants six months after their first injection could offer substantial protection, Zhu Tao, CanSinoBIO's chief scientific officer, said in an online presentation late on Wednesday."A booster shot six months later led to a seven times to 10-times increase in neutralising antibody levels, so we expect in this case efficacy could reach over 90%," Zhu said, though he cautioned more clinical trial data was needed for more precise estimates.The company in February reported interim data that showed the shot was 68.83% effective at preventing symptomatic Covid-19 disease two weeks after vaccination but the rate fell to 65.28% after four weeks.The February data reflected a shorter time span after the inoculation, Zhu said.The vaccine has been approved in China, Pakistan, Hungary and Mexico.CanSinoBIO is also planning a clinical trial in China for an inhaled version of the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/cansinobio-says-covid-19-shot-may-be-less-effective-over-time-101617255143700.html
01-04-2021||World||Biden lets Trump era H-1B visa bans expire; Indian IT professionals to benefit||US President Joe Biden on Thursday let the ban on foreign workers visa, in particular H-1B, lapse as the notification issued by his predecessor Donald Trump expired, a move which is likely to benefit thousands of Indian IT professionals.Amidst a national lockdown and the Covid-19 crisis, Trump in June last year issued a proclamation that suspended entry to the US of applicants for several temporary or “non-immigrant” visa categories, including H-1B, arguing that these visas presented a risk to the US labour market during the economic recovery.On December 31, Trump extended the order to March 31, 2021, noting that an extension was warranted as the pandemic continued to disrupt American’s lives, and high levels of unemployment and job loss were still presenting serious economic challenges to workers across the US.Biden did not issue a fresh proclamation for the ban on H-1B visas to continue after March 31.He had promised to lift the suspension on H-1B visas, saying Trump’s immigration policies were cruel.The H-1B visa is a non-immigrant visa that allows US companies to employ foreign workers in specialty occupations that require theoretical or technical expertise. Technology companies depend on it to hire tens of thousands of employees each year from countries like India and China.The expiry of the Trump’s proclamation would now result in the issuing of H-1B visas by American diplomatic missions overseas that would result in US companies bringing in talented technology professionals inside the country.No new proclamation was issued by Biden till Wednesday mid-night, resulting in the automatic end to the ban on issuing of fresh H-1B visas.The Wall Street Journal reported that the White House will not renew a ban on H-1B and other work-based visas imposed last year in response to the COVID-19 pandemic that is set to expire on Wednesday.Meanwhile, a Republican Senator from Missouri on Wednesday urged Biden to issue a fresh proclamation to continue with the H-1B visa ban.“I write today to urge you to extend the freeze on temporary foreign worker entries into the United States that, without intervention, will expire today,” Senator Josh Hawley wrote in a letter to Biden.“The presidential proclamation suspending entry of certain temporary workers into the US has protected Americans suffering from the pandemic-induced economic crisis. With millions of struggling Americans out of work – and millions more desperate to make ends meet – now is not the time to open the floodgates to thousands of foreign workers competing with American workers for scarce jobs and resources,” he wrote.In his letter, Hawley wrote that the unemployment rate remains at 6.2 per cent – with nearly 10 million Americans out of work and looking for a job. The pandemic has been especially devastating for low-income and working class Americans, many of whom have borne the brunt of the crisis – and stand to lose the most from misguided policy decisions, he said.In periods of high unemployment, it makes no sense to allow a struggling labour market to be flooded with a wave of foreign competition, he said.“What makes even less sense is to willingly introduce further competition for the US workers at the same time that a disastrous illegal immigration crisis grows on our southern border. As at the border, failure to take meaningful action is, in itself, a policy decision with detrimental impacts for American workers.“I urge you to extend the temporary foreign worker entry suspension until the national unemployment rate has meaningfully declined, and until your administration has conducted a thorough review of non-immigrant visa programmes to ensure that American workers are fully and effectively protected from harm,” Hawley added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-lets-trump-era-h-1b-visa-bans-expire-indian-it-professionals-to-benefit-101617251675581.html
01-04-2021||World||Kamala Harris discusses vaccination, hate crime with faith leaders||US Vice President Kamala Harris has held a meeting with a group of faith leaders to discuss a number of pressing issues, including hate crime, immigration and Covid-19 vaccination.Harris said the faith leaders had been a source of strength, comfort and counsel amid the difficult and dark times."You have worshipped with families virtually or in person who have experienced tremendous loss," Harris said in her address on Wednesday.Four faith leaders attended the event in person, while another five joined virtually. None of the attendees were from minority religions."As our faith leaders, you have been housing the homeless. You have been feeding the hungry," she said. "And over this last year in particular, it has stretched the resources that are not only financial and physical but spiritual. Yet you are unwavering."Harris urged faith leaders to encourage people to get the vaccine."As our faith-based leaders can help us to make sure that everyone, when it is their turn, gets a vaccine. And that is one of the first areas that I'd like to discuss with you," she said.Talking about the hate crimes, Harris underlined the importance of what faith leaders could do collectively and see the "moment of crisis" as an opportunity for coalition building.The vice president said she was doing work on the Northern Triangle."I know that a lot of you are working on this issue in many ways -- but to the extent that you have thoughts and experience about what we can do to address some of the root causes that cause people to flee their home"Because, as we all know, most people like being at home. They like being where they grew up. They like being in a place where they understand the culture -- it is part of their culture; they speak the language," she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-discusses-vaccination-hate-crime-with-faith-leaders-101617251681784.html
01-04-2021||World||Biden says sports teams need to follow the science and "beat this" pandemic||American President Joe Biden says US sports teams are making a mistake if they ignore the science and allow fans back into stadiums at full capacity and without aggressive Covid-19 restrictions.Biden said the Texas Rangers are not being "responsible" by allowing 100 percent capacity at Globe Life Field on Major League Baseball's opening day. The National Football League said earlier this week it plans to play games beginning in early September at full capacity."Well, that's a decision they made. I think it's a mistake," Biden said of the Rangers filling their 40,300 seat stadium. "They should listen to Dr. [Anthony] Fauci, the scientists and the experts. But I think it's not responsible."Biden made his comments as part of an interview with US sports broadcaster ESPN which aired Wednesday night.He also emphasized the importance of wearing masks and continuing to follow safety and health restrictions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus which has killed over 550,000 Americans since the global pandemic started. Texas has seen almost 50,000 people die, which is more than Canada and Sweden combined."In terms of it being responsible [for stadiums to open at full capacity] -- you see what's happening in Europe now when they lifted the mandates. I don't know why we don't just follow the science and beat this," Biden said.The Washington Nationals said this week that five players would miss Thursday's season opener against the New York Mets because of Covid-19 protocols, including one undisclosed player who tested positive. The Nationals plan to open their stadium to 5,000 fans, at 12 percent capacity.When asked what he would tell athletes who are reluctant to get the vaccine, Biden remarked, "I'm president of the United States and I got vaccinated. I don't have an unimportant job. Would I take the vaccine if I thought it was going to hurt me? We have done incredible research on the vaccines and they have shown that they work. We have to get to the point where enough people have taken the vaccine so we diminish the possibility for (the virus) to spread."Tennis players Elina Svitolina and Aryna Sabalenka, who are in Florida this week competing in a WTA tournament, have said they are reluctant to get the vaccine because of various concerns, including how fast it was rolled out.Biden also addressed the anti-mask contingent, saying "Some people think they are being tough guys by not wearing masks, but guess what, they are just hurting themselves and other people."Biden also talked about the importance of pay equity between men and women and described First Lady Jill Biden as a die-hard Philadelphia sports fan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-sports-teams-need-to-follow-the-science-and-beat-this-pandemic-101617251341577.html
01-04-2021||World||California office building shooting kills 4, including child||A shooting at a Southern California office building on Wednesday killed four people, including a child, and injured a fifth person before police shot the suspect, police said.Shots were being fired as officers arrived at a two-story office building on Lincoln Avenue in Orange, southeast of Los Angeles, at about 5:30 pm, Lt. Jennifer Amat said.“An officer-involved shooting occurred" and the suspect was taken to a hospital, Amat said, but she didn't immediately know his condition.The shooting was on the second floor of the building, Amat said. Media reports said bodies could be seen on the building’s second-floor walkway and in a courtyard.Amat had no details about the confrontation, what may have sparked the attack or why a child may have been at the building at 202 W. Lincoln Ave. Signs outside indicated a handful of businesses were located there, including an insurance office, a financial consulting firm, a legal services business and a phone repair store.By 7 pm, the situation had been stabilized and there wasn’t any threat to the public, police said.In a tweet, Gov. Gavon Newsom called the killings “horrifying and heartbreaking.”“Our hearts are with the families impacted by this terrible tragedy tonight,” he wrote.Rep. Katie Porter, a California Democrat whose district includes the city of Orange, said on Twitter that she was “deeply saddened” by reports of the shooting. “I’m continuing to keep victims and their loved ones in my thoughts as we continue to learn more. My team and I will continue to monitor the situation closely.”A Facebook livestream, posted by a resident who lives near the office building, showed officers carrying a motionless person out and providing aid to someone else, the Orange County Register reported.The livestream also showed officers taking two handguns from someone who was lying on the ground and providing help to another person. Two other people were led away in handcuffs, the paper said.The killings were the latest mass shooting in the United States in the last two weeks. Ten people were killed in a Boulder, Colorado, supermarket last week and eight people were fatally shot – including six Asian women – in three Atlanta-area spas the week before that.Amat said the shooting was the worst in the city since December 1997, when a gunman armed with an assault rifle attacked a California Department of Transportation maintenance yard. Arturo Reyes Torres, 41, an equipment operator who had been fired six weeks earlier, killed four people and wounded others, including a police officer, before police killed him.The city of Orange is about 30 miles (48.28 kilometers) southeast of Los Angeles and home to about 140,000 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/police-in-orange-california-report-shooting-with-multiple-victims-fatalities-101617248859378.html
01-04-2021||World||'Myanmar faces possibility of major civil war': UN envoy||The UN special envoy for Myanmar has warned that the country faces the possibility of civil war "at an unprecedented scale" and urged the UN Security Council to consider "potentially significant action" to reverse the February 1 military coup and restore democracy.Christine Schraner Burgener didn't specify what action she considered significant, but she painted a dire picture of the military crackdown in her virtual briefing to the council obtained by The Associated Press in which she also warned that the country "is on the verge of spiralling into a failed state"."This could happen under our watch," she said on Wednesday, "and failure to prevent further escalation of atrocities will cost the world so much more in the longer term than investing now in prevention, especially by Myanmar's neighbours and the wider region".Schraner Burgener urged the council "to consider all available tools to take collective action" and do what the people of Myanmar deserve -- "prevent a multidimensional catastrophe in the heart of Asia".The coup reversed years of slow progress toward democracy in Myanmar, which for five decades had languished under strict military rule that led to international isolation and sanctions.As the generals loosened their grip, culminating in Aung San Suu Kyi's rise to power after 2015 elections, the international community responded by lifting most sanctions and pouring investment into the country.In the virtual meeting, which was closed to outsiders, Schraner Burgener denounced the killing and arrest of unarmed protesters seeking to restore democracy. She cited figures from Myanmar's Assistance Association for Political Prisoners that as of Wednesday, some 2,729 people have been arrested, charged or sentenced since the coup and an estimated 536 have been killed.The Security Council adopted a presidential statement -- one step below a resolution -- on March 10 calling for a reversal of the coup, strongly condemning the violence against peaceful protesters and calling for "utmost restraint" by the military. It stressed the need to uphold "democratic institutions and processes" and called for the immediate release of detained government leaders, including Suu Kyi and President Win Myint.The statement is weaker than the initial draft circulated by the United Kingdom, which would have condemned the coup and threatened "possible measures under the UN Charter" -- UN language for sanctions -- "should the situation deteriorate further".Schraner Burgener told council members she fears that serious international crimes and violations of international law by the military "will become bloodier as the commander-in-chief seems determined to solidify his unlawful grip on power by force"."Mediation requires dialogue but Myanmar's military has shut its doors to most of the world," she said. "It appears the military would only engage when it feels they are able to contain the situation through repression and terror.""If we wait only for when they are ready to talk," Schraner Burgener warned that "a bloodbath is imminent."The UN envoy called on those with access to the military, known as the Tatmadaw, to let them know the damage to Myanmar's reputation and the threat it poses not only to its citizens but to the security of neighbouring countries."A robust international response requires a unified regional position, especially with neighbouring countries leveraging their influence towards stability in Myanmar," Schraner Burgener said, adding that she plans to visit the region, hopefully next week.Schraner Burgener said intensification of fighting in Kayin State has sent thousands fleeing to neighbouring Thailand and Conflict in Kachin State with the Kachin Independence Army near the Chinese border intensified "to its highest point this year".Armed ethnic groups on Myanmar's eastern and western borders are also increasingly speaking out against "the brutality of the military", she said.The opposition of ethnic armed groups to "the military's cruelty ... (is) increasing the possibility of civil war at an unprecedented scale", Schraner Burgener warned."Already vulnerable groups requiring humanitarian assistance including ethnic minorities and the Rohingya people will suffer most," she said, "but inevitably, the whole country is on the verge of spiralling into a failed state".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-faces-possibility-of-major-civil-war-un-envoy-101617243321165.html
01-04-2021||World||US plant ruins 15 mn Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine doses||About 15 million doses of the single-shot coronavirus vaccine made by Johnson & Johnson were ruined in a factory error in the United States, The New York Times reported -- a blow to the company's efforts to quickly boost production.When contacted by AFP, the pharmaceutical giant said it had identified a batch of doses at a plant in Baltimore run by Emergent BioSolutions "that did not meet quality standards" but did not confirm the specific number affected.The company also said the batch "was never advanced to the filling and finishing stages of our manufacturing process.""Quality and safety continue to be our top priority," it said.The Times report however signaled that issues with quality control could affect future output, with the Food and Drug Administration expected to investigate.The FDA told AFP it was "aware of the situation" but declined to comment further.Johnson & Johnson said it was sending more experts to the site to "supervise, direct and support all manufacturing of the Johnson & Johnson Covid-19 vaccine," which would allow it to deliver an additional 24 million shots "through April."The Emergent BioSolutions plant had not yet been authorized by US regulators to manufacture a "drug substance" for the J&J vaccine, the company said, but US media reported that it was expected to produce tens of millions of doses in the near future.The J&J vaccine has won praise for its single dosage and because it does not need to be frozen -- unlike the shots from Moderna and Pfizer -- making distribution much simpler."We continue to expect to deliver our Covid-19 vaccine at a rate of more than one billion doses by the end of 2021," J&J said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-plant-ruins-15-mn-j-j-coronavirus-vaccine-doses-101617244482173.html
01-04-2021||World||Aung San Suu Kyi expected to appear before Myanmar court today||Myanmar's deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi is expected to appear for hearing before a court in connection with criminal charges imposed by the country's military that could see her permanently debarred from political office.The charges against her include illegally importing six handheld radios and breaching coronavirus protocols. The military has also accused her of bribery in two recent news conferences.Her lawyers say the charges were trumped up and dismissed the accusation of bribery as a joke.Suu Kyi was arrested on February 1, when Myanmar's military seized power. The military has justified the coup by saying that a November election won by Suu Kyi's party was fraudulent. The election commission said the vote was fair.The reimposition of military rule after a decade of tentative steps towards democracy has triggered unrelenting opposition.At least 521 civilians have been killed in protests, 141 of them on Saturday, the bloodiest day of the unrest, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP).The United Nations' special envoy for Myanmar has warned that the country faces the possibility of civil war "at an unprecedented scale". Christine Schraner Burgener urged the UN Security Council to consider "potentially significant action" to reverse the February 1 military coup and restore democracy."Failure to prevent further escalation of atrocities will cost the world so much more in the longer term than investing now in prevention, especially by Myanmar's neighbours and the wider region," she said at a virtual briefing, according to news agency The Associated Press.For five decades, Myanmar languished under strict military rule that led to international isolation and sanctions.As the generals loosened their grip, culminating in Aung San Suu Kyi's rise to power after 2015 elections, the international community responded by lifting most sanctions and pouring investment into the country.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aung-san-suu-kyi-expected-to-appear-before-myanmar-court-today-101617243381219.html
01-04-2021||World||Canada’s Ontario to be put under lockdown for 28 days to tackle Covid-19 spread||The Canadian province of Ontario will return to a lockdown on Saturday, widening restrictions on stores, gyms, restaurants and hair salons for 28 days in an effort to get Covid-19 under control, CBC News reported, citing multiple sources.The new rules to be announced by Ontario Premier Doug Ford on Thursday are intended to counter coronavirus’s spread in Canada’s most populous province, which includes the capital city of Ottawa, CBC said. The restrictions would not be as tight as the province-wide lockdown that was imposed in December, the sources told CBC.Some regions, including the city of Toronto, are already operating under similar rules; Ford’s move would extend them to the entire province of 14.7 million people.Ontario joins a growing number of locations, including France and Italy, that are returning to strict limits on social interactions in an effort to slow the latest surge of the virus. While more vaccines are being made to interrupt the transmission of the pathogen, not every area has equal access. Novel variants are hastening the spread, and case rates are rising in many regions.Ontario added 2,333 new cases of Covid-19 on March 30, bringing its total case count to 349,903, according to Public Health Ontario. More than 17,000 residents have been hospitalized because of the disease, and 7,366 have died from it.The province, which imposed strict measures in December including temporarily closing schools, had begun to loosen in recent weeks. But cases resumed their rise as the novel variants of the virus spread.The biggest hot spot is Toronto, the country’s financial capital. More than half of the cases reported on Wednesday were in Toronto and Peel, a suburban region just west of the city. New daily cases in the province have more than doubled since the first week of March.Canada’s slow vaccine progess is compounding the problem: less than 2% of the population is fully vaccinated, as the government has had difficulty importing enough shots and the country has little vaccine manufacturing capacity of its own. While a number of U.S. states have now made the vaccine widely available to the adult population, Toronto’s city-run clinics are still focusing on getting the vaccine to residents 70 and older, in addition to health care staff and other categories of essential workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-ontario-to-be-put-under-lockdown-for-28-days-to-tackle-covid-19-spread-101617243252062.html
01-04-2021||World||Joe Biden to hold first cabinet meeting today||US President Joe Biden will convene his first cabinet meeting at the White House on Thursday, his spokesperson said.The focus will be working together to continue implementing and communicating about the American Rescue Plan and how it continues to deliver for working families, discussing the role cabinet members will play in advocating for the American Jobs Plan and ensuring "we accelerate our federal Covid-19 response, and that Americans don't let their guards down", the spokesperson said."Tomorrow, the President will convene his first full Cabinet meeting, just a day after rolling out his American Jobs Plan, which will be a key topic of discussion," White House Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre told reporters on Wednesday."The President will lift up his deeply qualified, historically diverse Cabinet as a key decision makers and voices for his administration's agenda and key priorities," she said.The cabinet will be gathered in person, in the East Room, to follow social distancing and other COVID protocols, she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-to-hold-first-cabinet-meeting-today-101617242144383.html
01-04-2021||World||Increased organ damage after discharge from hospital with Covid-19: Study||People discharged from hospital after covid-19 appear to have increased rates of organ damage ("multiorgan dysfunction") compared with similar individuals in the general population, finds a study.The study was published in The BMJ today.The increase in risk was not confined to the elderly and was not uniform across ethnic groups, prompting the researchers to suggest that the long-term burden of covid-19-related illness on hospitals and broader healthcare systems is likely to be substantial.Although covid-19 is most well known for causing serious respiratory problems, it can affect other organs and systems within the body, including the heart, kidneys, and liver.Several unexplained symptoms that continue for more than 12 weeks after covid-19 are said to be part of a post-covid syndrome (also known as "long covid"), but the long term pattern of organ damage after infection is still unclear.To investigate this, a team of UK researchers from the Office for National Statistics, University College London and the University of Leicester set out to compare rates of organ dysfunction in individuals with covid-19 several months after discharge from hospital with a matched control group from the general population.Their findings are based on 47,780 individuals (average age 65, 55% men) in a hospital in England with covid-19 who were discharged alive by 31 August 2020.Participants were matched with controls, based on personal characteristics and medical history. Health records were then used to track rates of hospital readmission (or any admission for controls), death from any cause, and diagnoses of respiratory, cardiovascular, metabolic, kidney, and liver diseases until 30 September 2020.Over an average follow-up of 140 days, nearly a third of individuals who were discharged from hospital after acute covid-19 were readmitted (14,060 of 47,780) and more than 1 in 10 (5,875) died after discharge.These events occurred at rates of 766 readmissions and 320 deaths per 1,000 person-years, which were four and eight times greater, respectively, than those in matched controls.Rates of respiratory disease, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes were also significantly raised in patients with covid-19, with 539, 66, and 29 new-onset diagnoses per 1,000 person-years, respectively (equivalent to 27, three, and 1.5 times greater than in matched controls).Differences in rates of multiorgan dysfunction between patients with covid-19 and matched controls were greater for individuals aged less than 70 than for those aged 70 or older, and in ethnic minority groups compared with the white population, with the largest differences seen for respiratory disease.Differences in disease rates between men and women were generally small.This was a large, well-designed study using 10 years of historical clinical records to exactly match individuals with covid-19 to controls. However, the findings are observational, and the authors cannot rule out the possibility that rates of diagnoses, in general, might have decreased indirectly because of the pandemic, particularly in people not admitted to hospital with covid-19."Our findings suggest that the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of post-covid syndrome requires integrated rather than organ or disease-specific approaches," they write.And they say urgent research is needed "to understand the risk factors for post-covid syndrome so that treatment can be targeted better to demographically and clinically at-risk populations."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/increased-organ-damage-after-discharge-from-hospital-with-covid-19-study-101617242164389.html
01-04-2021||World||Guru Granth Sahib stanza included in UN official video on gender equality||On the 4th Anniversary of the United Nations Faith for Rights declaration, the UN Office of the High commissioner on Human Rights has issued a short video on gender equality which contains a stanza from Guru Granth Sahib read by renowned scholar and human rights activist Dr Iqtidar Cheema.The video was launched at a United Nations conference on March 30, 2021. The conference heard from Michelle Bachelet, UN High Commissioner for Human Rights and various UN special rapporteurs and civil society organisations.Speaking at the conference, Cheema said that Guru Granth sahib carries a universal message. He said that the condition of women at the time of Guru Nanak was very deplorable as under the Brahmanical caste system, women were given a low status in life. But Guru Nanak strongly voiced for equal status of women, he added."Honoured to contribute to @UNshort video with readings from #Interfaith core texts," Cheema wrote in a tweet while sharing the video on the micro-blogging site.According to an official statement, he said that he was honoured to get three stanzas of Guru Granth Sahib included in the UN faith for rights declaration and also to read the stanza about women rights in the UN official video.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/guru-granth-sahib-stanza-included-in-un-official-video-on-gender-equality-101617239326630.html
01-04-2021||World||Google inks deals with over 600 news outlets||Alphabet Inc’s Google has reached licensing deals with over 600 news outlets around the world and is seeing a “huge increase” in users requesting more content from specific publications as part of a new programme, it said on Wednesday.The update comes as big internet service providers including Facebook Inc have been locked in bitter disputes over fair compensation to publishers.Google is continuing to negotiate with additional publishers, including in the Unites States, to spend $1 billion for what it calls News Showcase.The programme through 2023 is Google’s biggest effort to invest in an industry that blames tech giants for siphoning its advertising revenue. Combined, Facebook and Google control over half of the digital advertising market.Google is exercising little oversight over publishers’ use of the money.“The intention of our payment is to help make it easier for publishers to be able to participate in the programme,” Brad Bender, a vice-president at Google overseeing News Showcase, told Reuters.“But ultimately it’s in service of creating this more sustainable future for news.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-inks-deals-with-over-600-news-outlets-101617239299231.html
01-04-2021||World||Biden announces huge infrastructure plan to 'win the future'||President Joe Biden outlined a huge $2.3 trillion plan Wednesday to reengineer the nation’s infrastructure in what he billed as “a once in a generation investment in America” that would undo his predecessor’s signature legislative achievement of giant tax cuts for corporations in the process.Speaking at a carpenters union training center in Pittsburgh, Biden drew comparisons between his hard-hatted proposed transformation of the U.S. economy and the space race — and promised results as grand in scale as the New Deal or Great Society programs that shaped the 20th century.“It’s not a plan that tinkers around the edges," Biden said. "It’s a once-in-a-generation investment in America unlike anything we’ve seen or done since we built the interstate highway system and the space race decades ago. In fact, it’s the largest American jobs investment since World War II. It will create millions of jobs, good-paying jobs.”White House officials say the spending would generate those jobs as the country shifts away from fossil fuels and combats the perils of climate change. It is also an effort to compete with the technology and public investments made by China, which has the world’s second-largest economy and is fast gaining on the United States’ dominant position.“I’m convinced that if we act now, in 50 years people are going to look back and say this is the moment when America won the future,” Biden said.The Democratic president’s infrastructure projects would be financed by higher corporate taxes — a trade-off that could lead to f ierce resistance from the business community and thwart attempts to work with Republican lawmakers. Biden hopes to pass an infrastructure plan by summer, which could mean relying solely on the slim Democratic majorities in the House and the Senate.The higher corporate taxes would aim to raise the necessary piles of money over 15 years and then reduce the deficit going forward. In doing so, Biden would undo the action by Trump and congressional Republicans to lift the corporate tax rate to 28% from the 21% rate set in a 2017 overhaul.“Ninety-one Fortune 500 Companies, including Amazon, pay not a single solitary penny in income tax,” Biden said.Wednesday's announcement will be followed in coming weeks by Biden pushing a companion bill of roughly equal size for investments in child care, family tax credits and other domestic programs. That nearly $2 trillion package would be paid for by tax hikes on wealthy individuals and families.“Wall Street didn’t build this country," Biden said. "You, the great middle class, built this country. And unions built the middle class.”Biden's choice of Pittsburgh for unveiling the plan carried important economic and political resonance. He not only won Pittsburgh and its surrounding county to help secure the presidency, but he launched his campaign there in 2019. The city famed for steel mills that powered America’s industrial rise has steadily pivoted toward technology and health care, drawing in college graduates in a sign of how economies can change.The White House says the largest chunk of the proposal includes $621 billion for roads, bridges, public transit, electric vehicle charging stations and other transportation infrastructure. The spending would push the country away from internal combustion engines that the auto industry views as an increasingly antiquated technology.An additional $111 billion would go to replace lead water pipes and upgrade sewers. Broadband internet would blanket the country for $100 billion. Separately, $100 billion would upgrade the power grid to deliver clean electricity. Homes would get retrofitted, schools modernized, workers trained and hospitals renovated under the plan, which also seeks to strengthen U.S. manufacturing.The new construction could keep the economy running hot, coming on the heels of Biden’s $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief package. Economists already estimate it could push growth above 6% this year.To keep companies from shifting profits overseas to avoid taxation, a 21% global minimum tax would be imposed. The tax code would also be updated so that companies could not merge with a foreign business and avoid taxes by moving their headquarters to a tax haven. And among other provisions, it would increase IRS audits of corporations.Biden appealed for Republicans and the business community to join him in negotiations on the bill, but the legislative prospects for Biden's twin proposals already appear to hinge on Democrats coming up with the votes on their own through the budget reconciliation process, which requires just a simple majority in the 50-50 Senate.“I’m going to bring Republicans into the Oval Office, listen to them, what they have to say and be open to other ideas," Biden said. "We’ll have a good faith negotiation. Any Republican who wants to help get this done. But we have to get it done.”Democratic leaders embraced Biden’s plan on Wednesday. Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer of New York said it would create millions of jobs.“I look forward to working with President Biden to pass a big, bold plan that will drive America forward for decades to come,” Schumer said at an event in Buffalo.But key GOP and business leaders were already panning the package.“It seems like President Biden has an insatiable appetite to spend more money and raise people’s taxes,” Rep. Steve Scalise of Louisiana, the GOP whip, said in an interview.Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell dismissed Biden’s package as nothing more than a “Trojan horse” for tax hikes.The business community favors updating U.S. infrastructure but dislikes higher tax rates. U.S. Chamber of Commerce Executive Vice President and Chief Policy Officer Neil Bradley, said in a statement that “we applaud the Biden administration for making infrastructure a top priority. However, we believe the proposal is dangerously misguided when it comes to how to pay for infrastructure.” The Business Roundtable, a group of CEOs, would rather have infrastructure funded with user fees such as tolls.Trump, in a statement, blasted his successor’s proposal, claiming it “would be among the largest self-inflicted economic wounds in history.”Infrastructure spending usually holds the promise of juicing economic growth, but by how much remains a subject of political debate. Commutes and shipping times could be shortened, while public health would be improved and construction jobs would bolster consumer spending.Standard & Poor’s chief U.S. economist, Beth Ann Bovino, estimated last year that a $2.1 trillion boost in infrastructure spending could add as much as $5.7 trillion in income to the entire economy over a decade. Those kinds of analyses have led liberal Democrats in Congress such as Washington Rep. Pramila Jayapal to conclude Tuesday, “The economic consensus is that infrastructure pays for itself over time.”But the Biden administration is taking a more cautious approach than some Democrats might like. After $1.9 trillion in pandemic aid and $4 trillion in relief last year, the administration is trying to avoid raising the national debt to levels that would trigger higher interest rates and make it harder to repay.Biden’s efforts may also be complicated by demands from a handful of Democratic lawmakers who say they cannot support the bill unless it addresses the $10,000 cap on individuals' state and local tax deductions put in place under Trump and a Republican-led Congress.With a narrow majority in the House, they could conceivably quash any bill that doesn’t significantly lift the cap or repeal it entirely.“I can only vote for a bill that has meaningful tax impact for my constituents if it addresses the SALT cap,” tweeted Rep. Tom Malinowski, D-N.J.“We say No SALT, no deal,” said Democratic Reps. Tom Suozzi of New York and Bill Pascrell and Josh Gottheimer of New Jersey in a joint statement.___Miller and Freking reported from Washington. AP writers Lisa Mascaro, Josh Boak and Padmananda Rama contributed from Washington||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-announces-huge-infrastructure-plan-to-win-the-future-101617238646127.html
01-04-2021||World||France imposes 3rd lockdown amid rising Covid-19 cases||French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday announced that a 'limited lockdown' will be imposed across the nation to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to news agency AFP. All schools will remain closed as part of this phase of restrictions, he said.Macron, who has been severely criticised for going against the European trend in January and not imposing a third lockdown in his country even as the rising cases left hospitals in hotspot cities overwhelmed, addressed the nation on Wednesday and urged people to adopt a strategy "that aims to contain the epidemic without shutting ourselves in".Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"We gained precious weeks of liberty, weeks of learning for our children, we allowed hundreds of thousands of workers to keep their head above water, without losing control of the epidemic," he argued in favour of not locking down in January.Even as he ordered in his Wednesday address that schools be shut down, travel restrictions across France be imposed and non-essential shops around the country be closed for the next four weeks, he did not ask people to avoid socialising completely and gave a go ahead to them for travel between regions during the upcoming Easter holidays."From Saturday evening and for a period of four weeks, travel will be limited everywhere in France to a radius of 10 km from home for daily outings. During curfew hours from 7pm to 6am, or for trips exceeding 10 kilometres, a certificate will be required," he said in his televised address to the nation.Underlining the importance of the coronavirus vaccine, he credited it for an emerging way out of the pandemic. "We will do everything to vaccinate, vaccinate, vaccinate! Without rest, without holidays. Saturday and Sunday just like in the week," he said.More than 53,000 fresh cases of Covid-19 in France were announced on Wednesday, but that number covered two days as no numbers were made public on Tuesday. The country also recorded 304 new deaths, bringing its total toll to 95,667.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-imposes-3rd-lockdown-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101617237750120.html
01-04-2021||World||Pfizer says its jab is 100% effective on younger teens||Pfizer has said that its Covid-19 vaccine was 100% effective in a final-stage trial in children aged 12 to 15 years, a finding that could pave the way for teens and pre-teens to get shots before the next school year.The vaccine is already authorised in the US for people aged 16 and above. Pfizer and its partner BioNTech said they planned to submit the data to regulators in the US and Europe as soon as possible, seeking to amend their vaccine authorisations to include the younger age group.In the study of 2,260 adolescents, the vaccine produced antibodies against Covid-19 that exceeded the level seen in vaccinated young adults, Pfizer and BioNTech said. All 18 cases of Covid in the study were in adolescents who were administered a placebo, the companies said.EU: No risk from AZ shotExperts probing links between the AstraZeneca vaccine and blood clots have found no specific risk factors, including age, the EU’s drug regulator said. The European Medicines Agency said its safety committee is expected to issue an “updated recommendation” on the vaccine next week.WHO nod for China jabsTwo Chinese jabs are safe and effective, WHO experts said after reviewing partial data. Experts at the WHO didn’t issue any advice on how to use the jabs, saying they’ll wait until a decision was taken on granting them emergency licences. The experts said the vaccines from Sinovac and Sinopharm “lacked data” for older age groups.Covid vaccine for animalsRussia has registered the world’s first Covid vaccine for animals, saying it’s needed for disrupting mutations. Russia said the vaccine has been tested on dogs, cats, mink and foxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pfizer-says-its-jab-is-100-effective-on-younger-teens-101617225400501.html
01-04-2021||World||Under Biden, Trump-era H-1B ban set to expire||A temporary ban on H-1B visas, enacted by former president Donald Trump, is set to expire on Wednesday if President Joe Biden does not extend it, possibly ending yet another restriction on the non-immigrant work visa programme that scores of Indians use to work and live in the United States and go on to acquire citizenship.The ban was imposed on June 22 last year as part of an expanded and extended suspension of immigrant and non-immigrant visas — starting with Green Cards in April — to protect American jobs for Americans after millions were laid off due to the economic devastation caused by the Covid-19 pandemic.Trump had on December 31, 2020, extended the June proclamation — 10052 — temporarily banning H-1B for high-skilled foreign workers, H-2B for nonagricultural workers and services, L-1 for intra-company transfers and certain J-1 for research scholars and professors, till the end of March this year.The White House did not comment on whether the Biden administration will allow the ban to end. The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), which runs the H-1B programme, directed questions to the state department, which had not responded till this report was filed.On February 25 this year, President Biden lifted the Trump-era ban on Green Cards, which allows immigrants to live and work permanently in America and set them on course for citizenship, saying it “does not advance the interests of the United States … To the contrary, it harms the United States, including by preventing certain family members of United States citizens and lawful permanent residents from joining their families here”. He was, however, silent on the work visa ban.The H-1B work visa programme allows American companies to hire highly skilled foreign workers to make up for local shortage, which many critics contend saying there is enough local talent available but they are sidelined by less expensive workers from abroad. More than 70% of the 85,000 visas granted annually under the programme go to Indians hired from India or from those enrolled in US colleges.Tech firms such as Facebook, Google, Apple, Microsoft and Amazon rely on foreign talent to shore up domestic workforces, as have US subsidiaries of Indian IT services giants such as Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), Infosys and Wipro.Trump changed the selection process for H-1B visa by introducing a pre-registration stage, which came into effect this year, to prioritise H-1B petitions for the most qualified. He also sought to make H-1B visas less desirable for those seeking to use the programme to get permanent residency and eventually citizenship, by rescinding work authorisation — H-4EAD— for their spouses.The Biden administration doesn’t seem to be interested in pursuing many of these restrictions, as is clear from the cancellation of some of them. The plan to rescind H-4EAD, for instance, has been dropped.Stuart Anderson of the non-partisan National Foundation for American Policy, which closely tracks immigration, said that the two H-1B regulations remaining from the Trump administration are a department of labor wage rule and the department of homeland security rule to end the H-1B lottery and replace it with a system of awarding from highest to lowest salary when applications exceed the annual limit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/under-biden-trump-era-h-1b-ban-set-to-expire-101617219743453.html
01-04-2021||World||US Dollar’s share of global currency reserves sinks to lowest since 1995||The dollar’s share of global currency reserves dropped in the fourth quarter to around 59%, the lowest in 25 years, according to International Monetary Fund data.The slide came in a quarter when a gauge of the greenback fell the most since 2010, and amid questions about how long the dollar can maintain its status as the pre-eminent reserve currency. The Chinese renminbi is transforming into a force to be reckoned with in currency markets, with more yuan changing hands than ever before in London, the world’s leading foreign-exchange center.“This is a slow burn theme, but we are of the view that we’re eventually headed into a ‘multiple reserve currency’ framework over time,” Bipan Rai, a strategist at CIBC, said via email.In the fourth quarter, the euro’s share of official foreign-exchange reserves climbed to 21.2% from 20.5%, while the yuan’s rose to almost 2.3% from 2.1%. The renminbi accounted for 1.94% in the final three months of 2019.For Marc Chandler, chief market strategist at Bannockburn Global, the drop in the dollar’s share of global reserves is temporary and was driven by its slide against most currencies in the fourth quarter. He’s focusing on data that shows dollar holdings among central banks climbed to $7 trillion, a record, noting that the percentage changes are “distorted” by short-term valuation changes.“The 59% is a statistical noise generated by a combination of valuation and material changes” in demand for the euro in the fourth quarter, he said in an email. “The dollar’s recovery in Q1 21 will reverse the valuation adjustment and will see the dollar share of reserves increase.”With its rebound this year, the dollar is heading for its best quarterly performance in a year, up by 2.8%. The greenback is still the most dominant currency used, with data from the Bank for International Settlements showing it’s on one side of 88% of all trades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-dollar-s-share-of-global-currency-reserves-sinks-to-lowest-since-1995-101617218527935.html
01-04-2021||World||US businesses welcome Joe Biden's public works plan but disdain tax hikes||US business groups say they are thrilled that President Joe Biden is proposing massive new investment to upgrade crumbling US infrastructure, but they’ll be lobbying against raising the corporate tax rate to pay for it.The US Chamber of Commerce, Business Roundtable, and other business lobbies say they strongly oppose raising the corporate income tax rate to 28% from 21% to pay for the $2.25 trillion infrastructure plan that Biden is unveiling on Wednesday. They want to see a user-fee model for raising money for improvements.“We strongly oppose the general tax increases proposed by the administration, which will slow the economic recovery and make the US less competitive globally -- the exact opposite of the goals of the infrastructure plan,” Neil Bradley, executive vice president and chief policy officer of the US Chamber, said in a statement.The chamber plans to have its member companies engage directly with lawmakers to provide real-life examples of what an increase in the corporate tax rate would mean for their firms, such as not opening a new manufacturing facility, according to a person familiar with the chamber’s plans.The White House has said it welcomes other ideas, and the Chamber will be offering the program it’s long been advocating based on the user-pays concept that helped build the Interstate Highway system, said Ed Mortimer, the Chamber’s vice president of transportation and infrastructure.That includes raising federal fuel taxes one more time and transitioning to a tax on the number of miles traveled, as well as expanding federal lending and bonding programs as a way to encourage more investment by the private sector and state and local entities, he said.The chamber will also be seeking to recalibrate how the money is spent in the bill to focus more spending on roads, bridges and transit systems and less on items such as new electric-vehicle charging stations and other assets for the future, Mortimer said.“Today is the beginning of this debate, and we look forward to working with the administration and bipartisan members of Congress to get a bill that has desperately been needed enacted into law this year,” he said.The Business Roundtable, a lobbying group for chief executives, estimates that an investment of about $1 trillion to $1.5 trillion is necessary for US physical infrastructure. The group also opposes higher corporate taxes as the way to pay for it.“Business Roundtable has long supported user-fee models, which includes business paying its share, to provide sustainable support for infrastructure investment,” President and Chief Executive Joshua Bolten said in a statement. “Policymakers should avoid creating new barriers to job creation and economic growth, particularly during the recovery.”Raising the corporate tax rate for all businesses isn’t the answer because too many companies are currently paying little to no corporate income tax, while others pay full freight, said Michael Hanson of the Retail Industry Leaders Association. Closing tax loopholes or re-instituting some form of a minimum corporate tax is a better approach, he said in a statement.Americans for Tax Reform Foundation, a conservative-allied group headed by anti-tax activist Grover Norquist, plans to speak out against the higher tax rate and activate its network of coalitions in the states to oppose it, spokesman John Kartch said.A higher corporate tax rate will immediately result in higher utility bills as companies pass on the costs and decreased wages for workers. It will also hit small businesses organized as corporations at the worst possible time coming out of the coronavirus pandemic, Kartch said.“We’re going to make this very difficult for Democrats to take this vote,” he said.A new group led by Republican operatives including Marc Short, former Vice President Mike Pence’s chief of staff, also plans a campaign of as much as $50 million to target Democratic and possibly some Republican members of Congress who support the tax increase with ads in their districts.Conservative lawmakers and lobbyists are worried that the business community opposition to the proposed tax increases, which include a 21% minimum tax on global corporate earnings, won’t be as strong as the campaign to support the 2017 Republican tax overhaul that lowered the corporate rate, according to a conservative tax lobbyist who asked not to be named discussing the situation.The response from the business community to the tax increases is likely to be uneven, as some industries would be more affected than others, the person said.For example, technology companies are more likely to oppose the 15% minimum tax on book income in Biden’s plan, the person said -- especially a company like Amazon.com Inc, that’s both a tech company with research-and-development investment and a company that owns retailers like Whole Foods Market Inc with brick-and-mortar stores.While business groups say they don’t want a higher corporate tax to pay for infrastructure investment, companies will benefit from the new contracts and spending, said Ray LaHood, a Republican and former transportation secretary under President Barack Obama who promotes infrastructure funding through the Building America’s Future coalition.“Republicans don’t want to vote for any kind of tax,” LaHood said of Biden’s plan, which he predicted will be enacted in some form by August because of the support the president has right now. “Let’s see if business will come around.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-businesses-welcome-joe-biden-s-public-works-plan-but-disdain-tax-hikes-101617217997168.html
01-04-2021||World||Covid-19: France to close schools for 3 weeks, ban domestic travel for a month as cases surge||French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday announced a three-week nationwide school closure and a month-long domestic travel ban, as the rapid spread of the virus ramped up pressure on hospitals.In a televised address to the nation, Macron said efforts are needed as “the epidemic is accelerating.”“We’re going to close nursery, elementary and high schools for three weeks,” he said, adding that a nationwide 7 p.m.- 6 a.m. curfew will be kept in place.“If we stay united in the coming weeks ... then we will see light at the end of the tunnel,” he said.Macron said restrictions already applying in the Paris region and others parts of north and eastern France will be extended to the whole country, for at least one month. Under these restrictions, people are allowed to go outside for leisure, but within a 10-kilometer (6 miles) radius from their homes — and without gathering. Also most non-essential shops are closed down.The move is a departure from the government’s policy in recent months, which has focused on regionalized restrictions. School closures in particular had been seen as a very last resort.A debate is scheduled in parliament Thursday that will address the virus situation and the new measures.“The key factor in our decision-making remains the situation in hospitals,” government spokesman Gabriel Attal said Wednesday after Macron hosted his weekly coronavirus strategy meeting and a Cabinet meeting.After Paris hospital officials warned they would have to start refusing needy patients for lack of space, he said, “One thing is clear: France will not refuse care for any sick patients. Choosing patients is not an option.”Previous nationwide lockdowns in March and October 2020 were announced by Macron in televised speeches.The total number of Covid-19 patients in intensive care in France surged past 5,000 on Tuesday, the first time in 11 months that the figure has been that high. Macron on Wednesday said numbers of hospital ICU beds will be increased “in the coming days” from the current 7,000 to 10,000.After an overnight shift at an ICU in the northern French city of Amiens, Dr. Pauline Caillard described growing numbers of patients and mounting strain on medical staff.“It is moving very fast," she said. “I hope we do not have to make choices” between patients.The renewed surge of infections has led to growing questions about Macron's virus strategies. With presidential elections scheduled for 2022, Macron is having to weigh both political and health considerations.An overnight nationwide curfew has been in place since January, and all France's restaurants, bars, gyms, cinemas and museums have been closed since October.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-france-to-close-schools-for-3-weeks-ban-domestic-travel-for-a-month-as-cases-surge-101617217373604.html
01-04-2021||World||Diplomats say EU to sanction Iran militia, police, state entities over 2019 protests||The European Union will target eight Iranian militia and police commanders and three state entities with sanctions next week over a deadly crackdown in November 2019 by Iranian authorities, three diplomats said on Wednesday.The travel bans and asset freezes will be the first time the EU has imposed sanctions on Iran for human rights abuses since 2013 and are set to be put in place some time next week after the Easter holidays in Europe, the diplomats said.The individuals to be targeted include members of Iran's hardline Basij militia, who are under the command of the Revolutionary Guards, the most powerful and heavily armed security force in the Islamic Republic.Reuters reported on Tuesday that the EU was planning the sanctions. The bloc declined to comment on Tuesday and Wednesday.Iran has repeatedly rejected accusations by the West of human rights abuses. The Iranian Embassy in Brussels was not immediately available for comment, nor were other Iranian officials.About 1,500 people were killed during less than two weeks of unrest that started on Nov. 15, 2019, according to a toll provided to Reuters by three Iranian interior ministry officials at the time. The United Nations said the total was at least 304.Iran has called the toll given by sources "fake news".On March 9, UN special rapporteur on the situation of human rights in Iran, Javaid Rehman, presented a report saying Tehran used lethal force during the protests and chided it for failing to conduct a proper investigation or for failing to hold anyone accountable.Nuclear dealAsked why the bloc had taken so long to process its sanctions response, one EU diplomat involved in the preparations cited the need for strong evidence against those hit with the punitive measures.The bloc has also shied away from angering Iran in the hope of safeguarding a nuclear accord Tehran signed with world powers in 2015.The three diplomats said the sanctions were not linked to efforts to revive the nuclear deal, which the United States pulled out of but now seeks to re-join. That deal made it harder for Iran to amass the fissile material needed for a nuclear bomb -- a goal it has long denied -- in return for sanctions relief.After days of protests across Iran in November 2019, Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei issued an order to crackdown on protesters, Reuters reported in December 2019. That order, confirmed by three sources close to the supreme leader's inner circle and a fourth official, set in motion the bloodiest crackdown on protesters since the Islamic Revolution in 1979.In a statement following publication of the Reuters article, a spokesman for Iran's Supreme National Security Council described the death toll figure as "fake news," according to semi-official Tasnim news agency.The United Nations has warned about a deterioration of human rights in Iran. Its March 9 report documented Iran's high death penalty rate, executions of juveniles, the use torture to coerce confessions and the lawful marriage of girls as young as 10 years old.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/diplomats-say-eu-to-sanction-iran-militia-police-state-entities-over-2019-protests-101617216292230.html
01-04-2021||India||Ahemdabad-Mumbai Tejas Express suspended amid Covid-19 surge||The railways have decided to suspend Ahmedabad-Mumbai Central-Ahmedabad Tejas Express from April 2 amid a massive spike in daily Covid-19 cases in both Gujarat and Maharashtra. The decision is in the larger public interest, the IRCTC (Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation), which runs the services, said in a statement on Thursday. The services will remain suspended for a period of one month, it said.Temporary suspension of ADI-BCT-ADI Tejas Express due to recent COVID-19 Rising cases. pic.twitter.com/cVmRlqNOShIn November, both Delhi-Lucknow and Mumbai-Ahmedabad services were suspended owing to low occupancy. The Delhi-Lucknow one will be in service, as the IRCTC has not mentioned anything about this.However, the surge in the number of cases has led the authorities to review the decision as both Ahmedabad and Mumbai are seeing a steady uptick in the number of daily infections. "Night curfews have also been implemented in both the connecting states, which may cause inconvenience to passengers in general," an IRCTC official told news agency PTI.The decision comes as both Ahmedabad and Mumbai saw a huge spike in the number of cases on Thursday. Gujarat reported its highest single-day spike of 2,410 Covid-19 cases, with Ahmedabad reporting the highest in the state — 626 cases.Mumbai, on the other hand, saw the highest-ever spike with 8,646 new infections. Gujarat has made negative RT-PCR test mandatory for anyone entering the state while Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot are under night curfew till April 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ahemdabadmumbai-tejas-express-suspended-amid-covid-19-surge-101617297576964.html
01-04-2021||India||‘Have to give them food, shelter’: Mizoram CM on Myanmar refugees entering state||Mizoram chief minister Zoramthanga said on Thursday he told Union home minister Amit Shah that refugees coming into the state from Myanmar, which is facing violent protest against the military coup, are like "our brothers and sisters", adding that the government has to give them food and shelter from a humanitarian point of view. “We have family ties with most of them,” Zoramthanga was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.He also pointed out that the Centre should be more open towards the people of Myanmar and said his delegation will go to Delhi to discuss the issue. “We will request the government to change the foreign policy to accept the Myanmar refugees not to send them back. The exodus of refugees increasing,” the Mizoram CM told ANI.Zoramthanga comments come weeks after the Union home ministry wrote a letter to all states and Union Territories (UTs) on March 13, where it asked them to take appropriate action in accordance with the law to monitor illegal influx from Myanmar into the country. Security forces were also directed by the ministry to stay alert and take requisite action. I have told Union Home Minister Amit Shah that the people who came from Myanmar are our brothers & sisters. We have family ties with most of them. Once they enter Mizoram, we have to give them food & shelter from the humanitarian point of view: Mizoram CM Zoramthanga pic.twitter.com/p6M6cUbjJPEarlier, the chief minister held a meeting with Myanmar foreign minister in-exile Zin Mar Aung on March 21. There has been no official statement on the meeting. However, Hindustan Times reported that the two leaders talked about February’s military coup and the influx of refugees to Mizoram.More than 500 citizens have died in Myanmar during the anti-coup protests while thousands have been displaced after the leaders of the National League of Democracy were ousted by country’s military on February 1. In a recent development, the military junta ordered the shutdown of wireless internet services across the country with telecom company Ooredoo telling AFP that only fiber line will be working from Friday.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/have-to-give-them-food-shelter-mizoram-cm-on-myanmar-refugees-entering-state-101617296843380.html
01-04-2021||India||CBI arrests 3 for posing as TRS MP’s staff to accept bribe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested three people who posed as the personal staff of Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) Member of Parliament - Kavitha Maloth and demanded a bribe of ₹1 lakh from a man claiming they could get his work done in the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), people familiar with the development said. The accused – Shubhangi Gupta, Rajib Bhattacharya and Durgesh Kumar Maurya – had assured the complainant – Manmeet Singh Lamba - that they could get the demolition of his illegal construction stopped as they had contacts in MCD.They were nabbed from 401, Saraswati Apartments, which is allotted to Maloth, MP from Mahbubabad constituency in Telangana. In his complaint, Lamba alleged that Bhattacharya, who claimed to be the PA of the MP, called him on his mobile number threatening to demolish his illegal construction in Sardar Nagar area with the help of his contacts in the Municipal Corporation of Delhi (MCD), the officials said. Bhattacharya had claimed that one “Malik Saab” in the MCD can help Lamba if he pays ₹five lakh to him, they said. He also introduced Gupta as a “coordinator” of the MP. Maurya, Bhattacharya and Gupta together demanded ₹five lakh from Lamba. The amount was later reduced to ₹one lakh, according to the officials. Lamba was asked to bring the money to 401, Saraswati Apartments, the officials said. Maloth, while distancing herself from the accused persons, told HT over phone - “I have not appointed a PA in Delhi even after winning my constituency two years back. I only know Durgesh because he very recently joined as a driver but he mostly picked me from the airport and dropped me to a friend’s place in Gurugram.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-arrests-3-for-posing-as-trs-mp-s-staff-to-accept-bribe-101617296518948.html
01-04-2021||India||India backs WHO chief's call for further investigations into Covid-19 origin||India on Thursday joined a growing number of countries demanding a comprehensive investigation into the origins of the Covid-19 outbreak in China as it backed the World Health Organization (WHO) chief’s proposal to deploy additional missions.Without naming China, India noted that WHO director general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus had raised the issue of “delays and difficulties in accessing raw data” for the UN health agency’s report on the origins of the Coronavirus. It also sought “more timely and comprehensive data sharing” for future investigations.WHO and China released the long-awaited report on the origins of Covid-19 on Tuesday, listing four hypotheses in order of probability. The report said the SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes Covid-19 most probably jumped from bats to humans via an intermediary animal. It also said it was “extremely unlikely” that the virus had been leaked from a laboratory.“We share the need for a comprehensive and expert-led mechanism that would expeditiously investigate the origin of Covid-19 in cooperation with all stakeholders,” external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said.“It is pertinent to note that the director-general of the WHO has separately raised the issue of delays and difficulties in accessing raw data for the team conducting the study. We fully support the director general’s expectation that future collaborative studies will include more timely and comprehensive data sharing,” he said.Also read: Mumbai records highest spike with 8,646 cases, State sees jump of 43k infectionsIndia also welcomes the WHO chief’s readiness to deploy additional missions, Bagchi said.Ghebreyesus, who has for long been accused of being soft on China, has called for further investigation of the theory that Covid-19 began from a laboratory leak and also rebuked Beijing for sitting on crucial data. China has consistently rejected the hypothesis that the virus leaked from a lab.“Although the team has concluded that a laboratory leak is the least likely hypothesis, this requires further investigation, potentially with additional missions involving specialist experts, which I am ready to deploy,” the director-general told WHO’s 194 member states during a briefing on the report.“I do not believe that this assessment was extensive enough...Further data and studies will be needed to reach more robust conclusions,” he added.The US and 13 other countries have raised concerns about the report in a joint statement, saying the WHO team was “significantly delayed and lacked access to complete, original data and samples”. These countries have also backed an “independent analysis and evaluation, free from interference and undue influence” of the origins of the pandemic.Bagchi said the WHO report is an “important first step” in establishing the origins of the pandemic as it has stressed the “need for next-phase studies across the region”. He said, “The report also stresses the need for further data and studies to reach robust conclusions.”He added, “We join other stakeholders in voicing their expectations that follow up to the WHO report or further studies, including on an understanding of the earliest human cases and clusters by the WHO on this critical issue, will receive the fullest cooperation of all concerned.”India will continue to work with WHO to strengthen capacity and improve global health security so that the current report and further studies will provide inputs for developing protocols and building a knowledge base and expertise that facilitate genomic surveillance to track virus mutations and proactively respond to the next global pandemic, Bagchi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-responds-to-who-study-on-covid-19-origin-calls-for-comprehensive-mechanism-101617295739356.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Telangana, Bihar, Delhi, Gujarat among states lagging in RT-PCR tests||Amid the second peak of Covid-19 being witnessed across the country, the Union health ministry has identified the states which are not doing enough RT-PCR tests to track Covid-19 infections. The list includes Puducherry, Chandigarh, Jammu and Kashmir, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Mizoram, Tripura, Manipur, Jharkhand, Kerala, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Odisha, Bihar and Telangana — Telangana accounting the lowest percentage of RT-PCR test of only 15.50.Telangana, which is conducting the least number of RT-PCR tests in respect of its total tests, and has also reported the highest vaccine wastage, reported the highest single-day spike of this year with 887 fresh infections. State health minister Eatala Rajender reviewed the Covid-19 situation and asked officials to go into a warlike mode like that of the last year, PTI reported.In Gujarat, where over 2,000 new infections are being reported daily, the percentage of RT-PCR test remains as low as 23,89. In Delhi, the percentage is 46.04, while the Centre has asked all states and Union territories to bring the percentage to at least 70, while the rest can be rapid antigen testing.Rapid antigen testing is easier to be carried out on a mass scale as it is cheaper and quicker than RT-PCR, while it may produce false-negative tests. As several states are testing randomly in crowded areas, this rapid testing is convenient, but RT-PCR testing is considered the gold standard in Covid-19 testing.Initially, the cost of the RT-PCR testing was over 1,000 but now many state governments have capped the price. Maharashtra has been the latest state to slash the price of Covid-19 testing. In Maharashtra, for giving samples at the collection centre, ₹500 will be charged. For the same test at a Covid Care Centre or a quarantine centre, the charges will be ₹600 and to collect the swab from home, the labs can charge ₹800.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-telangana-bihar-delhi-gujarat-among-states-lagging-in-rt-pcr-tests-101617295166840.html
01-04-2021||India||‘Time to boot out tainted LDF, UDF from Kerala’: JP Nadda||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president, JP Nadda, on Thursday said time was ripe to throw out two corrupt coalitions of Kerala. Nadda, while addressing a public meeting in Karunagapally in Kollam district, said people of the state are fed up and turning to the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) in a big way. Nadda said the time has come to show doors to scamsters and smugglers. “This land is known for cashew industry, coir and many other small scale units. But wrong policies of both destroyed these sectors. One is neck-deep in solar scam and the other in gold smuggling. Both have tried to hamper cultural and traditional aspects of the state,” he said.Also read: Cong releases list of 4.3 lakh alleged double voters in Kerala, EC says ‘clerical error’Nadda took out a roadshow in Attingal and Kazhakootam (south Kerala) for NDA candidates.Raking up the Sabarimala issue, he said party workers were at the forefront to protect age-old customs of the hill temple and suffered a lot at the hands of the repressive regime.“The Congress was nowhere when the stir peaked. Now the party is making a lip service saying it will protect customs,” he said, adding that the BJP’s prospects were rising steadily which was quite visible in the last local body poll.Nadda said in the last few years, the party’s poll percentage grew from 5 per cent to 17 and will make a big jump in April 6 election. This is his second visit to the state in the last two weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/time-to-boot-out-tainted-ldf-udf-from-kerala-jp-nadda-101617293278668.html
01-04-2021||India||Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to arrive in India on Monday||Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will visit New Delhi from April 5-6, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said on Thursday."On April 5-6, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will pay a working visit to New Delhi, during which he will hold talks with his counterpart (External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar)," the spokesperson said at a briefing, as reported by Sputnik."The heads of the foreign affairs agencies will discuss the current state of bilateral relations, the preparation of the upcoming high-level meeting this year, including cooperation in the fight against the pandemic, will consider key topics on the regional, global agenda, assess approaches to the interaction between Russia and India on the international arena, including at the UN, BRICS," Zakharova added.After India, Lavrov will visit Pakistan from April 6-7, as reported by Sputnik.The foreign minister's visit to India comes as Indian Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla visited the country in February this year where he met minister Lavrov and discussed wide-ranging Special and Privileged Strategic Partnership between the two countries and ways to further strengthen it.Shringla said they discussed some regional and international issues of interest including cooperation in the UN and UNSC where India is a non-permanent member now."We also spoke about issues like Afghanistan, which both countries have a direct interest," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russian-foreign-minister-sergey-lavrov-to-arrive-in-india-on-monday-101617289013734.html
01-04-2021||India||BIMSTEC finalises major connectivity master plan for Bay of Bengal region||Foreign ministers of the Bay of Bengal Multi Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) grouping on Thursday endorsed an ambitious air, land and sea connectivity master plan that is expected to be adopted at a summit later this year.The BIMSTEC Master Plan for Transport Connectivity is the outcome of more than a decade of discussions among members of the grouping – India, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Sri Lanka and Thailand – and studies by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) in 2007 and 2014 that identified 167 connectivity projects in the region at an estimated cost of about $50 billion.The virtual ministerial meeting endorsed the master plan for adoption at the BIMSTEC summit to be held in Sri Lanka in the next few months. It also endorsed three agreements to be signed at the summit – a convention on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, an MoU on cooperation between diplomatic academies of member states, and a memorandum of association for establishing a technology transfer facility in Colombo.Addressing the meeting, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said the master plan will be an important step towards fulfilling the people’s aspirations for better connectivity and integration. He said the grouping should put in place a legal framework for smooth connectivity by speedily finalising the BIMSTEC coastal shipping agreement and motor vehicles agreement.“Next year will be the silver jubilee of the establishment of the BIMSTEC. It is high time that we dwell upon how to make a paradigm shift in raising the level of our cooperation and regional integration,” Jasihankar said. <blockquote class=”twitter-tweet”><p lang=”en” dir=”ltr”>Participated at the 17th BIMSTEC Ministerial Meeting. <br><br>Recognise the progress made by BIMSTEC in recent years, including:<br><br>1. Implementation of BIMSTEC Startup Conclave, Ministerial Conclave and Seminar on Climate Smart Farming Systems <a href=”https://t.co/OaOYDAHNcl”>pic.twitter.com/OaOYDAHNcl</a></p>&mdash; Dr. S. Jaishankar (@DrSJaishankar) <a href=”https://twitter.com/DrSJaishankar/status/1377640796283924483?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw”>April 1, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src=”https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js” charset=”utf-8”></script>Though the ADB studies identified 167 connectivity projects, BIMSTEC has prioritised 66 of them to establish seamless multi-mode transport links and smooth and simplified transit facilities through the development and modernisation of highways, railways, waterways and sea and air routes. The BIMSTEC master plan will also promote synergy with other connectivity frameworks such as the ASEAN master plan on connectivity 2025.Some of the arterial links included in the master plan are the India-Myanmar-Thailand trilateral highway, Kolkata-Birgunj and Kolkata-Kathmandu links, Kolkata-Siliguri-Guwahati-Imphal link, and Kandy-Colombo link. India’s northeastern states form a key part of the master plan, with several road and river links passing through the region.Jaishankar reiterated India’s commitment to build on the momentum for regional cooperation under the BIMSTEC framework and to make the grouping more result-oriented. India has turned to regional groupings such as the BIMSTEC to drive connectivity and economic initiatives after its differences with Pakistan held up cooperation under the umbrella of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). “BIMSTEC enjoys the unique strength of connecting South and Southeast Asia. It has steadily gained prominence in our foreign policy. Participation of BIMSTEC leaders at our government’s swearing-in ceremony in May 2019 was a testament to it,” Jaishankar said.However, he cautioned that members of the grouping face traditional and non-traditional security challenges. “Our NSAs have met thrice since 2017. They have been working closely and have moved forward in several aspects of security cooperation, including counter-terrorism, intelligence-sharing, coastal security [and] cybersecurity... in a tangible manner,” he said.The BIMSTEC convention on cooperation in combating international terrorism, transnational organised crime and drug trafficking came into force last month, and will provide a legal basis to strengthen cooperation in this field, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bimstec-finalises-major-connectivity-master-plan-for-bay-of-bengal-region-101617291898647.html
01-04-2021||India||Assam tries to deport 14-yr-old Rohingya girl; Myanmar doesn’t open border gate||Myanmar on Thursday refused to accept a 14-year-old Rohingya girl who had arrived in India nearly two years ago under unclear circumstances.A team of Assam Police from Cachar district accompanied her to the Indo-Myanmar border in Manipur’s Moreh where she was supposed to be handed over. But the immigration department of the neighbouring country refused to open the gate of the international border saying that the situation is not appropriate for any deportation currently.An immigration official from India confirmed the report and assured that the girl will be sent back to Silchar for now. He said, “We all know that the situation in Myanmar is not peaceful and it is not safe to send this minor girl now. But there are some procedures in these cases, and we have to follow them. When Myanmar immigration officials refused to open the gate, we agreed. In fact, they had closed the border gate due to the Covid-19 pandemic last year and it may take some months to reopen the gate. We are planning to send the girl to a shelter home in Silchar where she was residing.”The official further added, “The girl is not willing to go to Myanmar as her parents are in Bangladesh at present.”The minor girl belongs to Myanmar’s Rohingya community and is believed to be a victim of human trafficking. She had earlier written to India’s Ministry of External Affairs and requested to be sent back to her country. Her parents are reportedly staying in a refugee camp in Bangladesh.Cachar police officials have confirmed that after bilateral talks between officials of India and Myanmar, they took the girl to the international border to deport her. A team of eight police officers accompanied her on Thursday morning.Silchar-based human rights activist Kamal Chakraborty called this attempt to deport the girl inhuman. He said, “Report suggest that her parents are in a Bangladeshi refugee camp and the situation in Myanmar is volatile, so how did the Indian government even think of sending a minor girl to that country? This is a clear case of human rights violation. We are going to write a letter to the Ministry of External Affairs about it. We are also going to give her proper shelter so that she doesn’t become a victim of such attempts in future.”According to Cachar police, the minor girl was found in an unconscious condition at Rongpur area near Silchar town in 2019. After rescuing her, the police handed her over to the Ujjala Shelter Home for Girls and Women for counselling. She stayed there for almost a year and was later sent to the Nivedita Nari Sanstha.Diba Roy from Nivedita Nari Sanstha said, “She was sent to our shelter home last year. She wanted to go back to her country so she had written a letter to the Centre. A response came from the ministry and the girl was taken to court. Later, the process of sending her back started.”A counsellor from the Ujjala Shelter Home, Puja Das informed that the girl came to their centre in an almost unconscious condition. She did not understand the local languages. She was provided counselling and she learnt Bengali and English quickly. She once indicated that she had gone to Bangladesh from her country with her parents, who are still living there. But she does not know how she arrived in India.Several Myanmar nationals who illegally entered Indian territory were arrested in the last few years. During lockdown last year, a group of Rohingyas were arrested near the Assam-Manipur border in Cachar district. During interrogation they revealed that many Rohingyas are residing in various parts of Jammu and Kashmir and they were also staying there.Some of the detained Myanmar migrants have been deported in the last few years. The first deportation happened in 2018. Till date, around 40 Myanmar nationals have been sent back from Assam and a few from Manipur as well. At present, 22 illegal Myanmar migrants are staying in detention centres inside Silchar Central Jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-tries-to-deport-14-year-old-rohingya-girl-myanmar-refuses-to-accept-her-101617291661746.html
01-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Demands for special status to Andhra rise after BJP promises to Puducherry and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.After BJP promises special status to Puducherry, demands rise for Andhra PradeshThe demand for special status to Andhra Pradesh is back to the fore again soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in its election manifesto for Puducherry released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman on March 27, promised special status to the Union territory. Read moreMilitary gets new node in Mumbai for better logistics integrationThe Indian military on Thursday operationalised a new joint logistics node (JLN) in Mumbai to provide integrated logistics support to the three services, a move that will bolster jointness as well as help cut costs and better utilise manpower, the defence ministry said. Read moreHeat wave likely in Andhra, Telangana, temperatures may touch 43 degrees CelsiusBoth Telangana and Andhra Pradesh are likely to witness heat wave conditions in many parts in the next three days with the day temperatures being two to three degrees Celsius above normal, the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted. Read moreIPL 2021: KKR issues statement on Nitish Rana's Covid tests and his availability for IPL 2021Ahead of the upcoming season of the Indian Premier League (IPL), the Kolkata Knight Riders' star batsman Nitish Rana has returned a negative Covid test, a release from KKR said on Thursday. Read moreDia Mirza expecting first child with husband Vaibhav Rekhi: 'Blessed to cradle this purest of all dreams in my womb'Dia Mirza has announced her first pregnancy with husband Vaibhav Rekhi. She took to Instagram to share an update with her fans. Read moreDoggos remind how to wear masks properly in advisory post by Ohio hospitalIn an adorable post shared by the Cincinnati Children’s Hospital, two doggos show how to wear a mask properly. And their adorable demonstration has won the hearts of netizens. Read moreWatch | Nandigram: Mamata complains of 'poll-rigging' to Guv amidst 'Jai Shri Ram' chant||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-demands-for-special-status-to-andhra-pradesh-rise-after-bjp-s-promise-to-puducherry-and-all-the-latest-news-101617289539265.html
01-04-2021||India||After BJP promises special status to Puducherry, demands rise for Andhra Pradesh||The demand for special status to Andhra Pradesh is back to the fore again soon after the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), in its election manifesto for Puducherry released by Union finance minister Nirmala Sitaraman on March 27, promised special status to the Union territory.The demand for a special status for Andhra Pradesh has been raised by all major political parties in the state since the bifurcation of combined Andhra Pradesh in 2014 - something rejected by the BJP government at the Centre several times.The BJP said it would accord ‘Special Union Territory’ status to Puducherry to increase devolution of funds from 25 per cent to 40 per cent as was done in the case of Jammu and Kashmir to ensure development.The party also promised to revise cost-sharing of projects under centrally sponsored schemes in the ratio of 70 per cent by the central government and 30 per cent by the UT government in place of the current 30:70 formula.Telugu Desam Party (TDP) general secretary and MLC Nara Lokesh on Thursday wondered why did Centre declare a special status for Andhra Pradesh a closed chapter while promised the same to Puducherry.He demanded YSR Congress party president and chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy mount pressure on the Centre for special category status to Andhra Pradesh. “During the assembly elections in 2019, Jagan vowed to bend the necks of the Centre and secure special status to Andhra. But after coming to power, the chief minister has gone totally silent,” Lokesh said.The special category status to Andhra Pradesh was promised by former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh on the floor of Rajya Sabha on February 20, 2014, at the time of passage of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Bill, 2014, which sought to carve out Telangana from the combined Andhra Pradesh.However, the Narendra Modi government rejected the same on the ground that the 14th finance commission had suggested that no state can be granted a special category status because of the increased devolutions from the Centre.The TDP, which was part of the NDA government, initially accepted the special financial package to the state in lieu of the special category status. But the Yuvajana Sramika Rythu Congress Party (YSRCP) took it up as a major political issue and the TDP, too, started demanding the same, severing its alliance with the BJP in April 2018.Though the YSRCP came to power riding on the plank of special category status, it could not insist on the same in the last two years, though it has been mentioning the demand in all its representations to the Centre submitted periodically.Now, with the BJP promising a special status to Puducherry, the TDP is seeking to turn the tables on the BJP and the YSRCP. “How can the BJP, which denied the special status to Andhra Pradesh, promise the same to Puducherry? How can BJP leaders in AP justify this change in their stand?” asked senior TDP leader and MLA Gorantla Buchaiah Chowdary.Congress Andhra Pradesh unit president S Sailajanath wondered why the BJP’s state leadership remained silent when their central leadership promised special status to Puducherry. “Has the BJP forgotten the same status to AP? What is the stand of Jana Sena chief Pawan Kalyan who has allied with the BJP?” he asked.While YSRC leaders could not be reached for comment, BJP Andhra Pradesh unit president Somu Veerraju said the demand of the TDP leaders for special status to AP was meaningless.“How can they compare the special category status demand for AP and the special status promise to Puducherry? It is a very small union territory, not a state. The Central government will anyway have to spend money on Puducherry. It is promising more funds. That’s all,” Veerraju said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-bjp-promises-special-status-to-puducherry-demands-rise-for-andhra-pradesh-101617288778510.html
01-04-2021||India||Mumbai records highest single-day spike with 8,646 cases, Maharashtra sees jump of 43,183 infections||Mumbai on Thursday reported 8,646 fresh Covid-19 infections, in the highest ever single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. On March 28, the city recorded 6,923 cases which was the highest so far. On March 29, there were 5,890 new infections and on March 30, a dip was reported in the number of fresh cases as the city recorded 4,760 fresh infections; the dip being attributed to fewer tests on the occasion of Holi.Maharashtra too on Thursday saw a record spike of 43,183 new infections in the last 24 hours — the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. A total of 139 deaths were reported from all across the state. Nagpur reported 3,630 new coronavirus cases and 60 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra's Covid-19 task force head Dr Sanjay Oak said Maharashtra should be allowed to start door-to-door vaccination. "There are reports that some states have started door-to-door vaccination, and Maharashtra should also be allowed to do so. The state should be able to vaccinate maximum population by June for better control on the virus and its spread," Dr Oak told news agency PTI.Covid-19 situation in MumbaiThursday's spike took the tally of the city to 4,23,360, while the number of active patients is 55,005. In the last 24 hours, the city reported 18 deaths. A total of 82 per cent of active cases are asymptomatic, the BMC data revealed.At present, the city has a recovery rate of 84 per cent. There are 80 active containment zones (slums and chawls) in the city while 650 buildings have been sealed. KW ward has the highest number of sealed buildings - 157, followed by the FS ward, which has 73 sealed buildings.Covid-19 vaccinations to be carried out on all days of April, says Union health ministryDharavi, the slum which became a cause of concern during the first phase of the pandemic because of the living condition of the people there, reported 71 new infections in the last 24 hours.The entire state of Maharashtra is under night curfew between 8pm and 7am. Mumbai being the centre of commercial activities is facing resistance to any idea of restrictions.Multiplex Association of India (MAI), Retail Association of India (RAI), and Shopping Centres Association of India said they were following all the safety protocols of the government but a lockdown will hit the business, which was in the recovery process, news agency PTI reported.Restaurants and hotel owners of Mumbai took out a silent protest at Oshiwara on Thursday. Congress leader Sanjay Nirupam took part in the protest and said restrictions are doing harm to business owners of the city. "Night curfew means the end of the business for hotels in the city. I don't know whether this virus spreads more at night," the Congress leader said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-records-8-646-new-covid-19-infections-in-highest-single-day-spike-101617287731009.html
01-04-2021||India||No students to be called in schools in Delhi in new academic year, says govt||Amid the ongoing surge of Covid-19 cases in the Capital, the Delhi government on Thursday issued an order asking schools to not hold physical classes for the academic session 2021-22 till further orders. Non-compliance with the order will be viewed seriously, the order issued on April 1 said.Students of classes 9,10, 11, 12 of the earlier session (2020-21) may be called to the schools in case their project works and internal assessment etc., are pending. But for that, strict adherence to Covid-19 Standard Operating Procedure and the consent of the parents will be required.New school session to be online for all classes for now, says govtClasses for the new session will continue online till further orders, director of education Udit Prakash Rai said."Heads of all government, government-aided, and recognised un-aided schools are hereby directed to comply with the above instructions and disseminate this information to all teachers, students and parents through SMC/Mass SMS facility/phone calls etc.," the order said.Physical classes for the students of class 10 and 12 resumed in Delhi from January 18. From February 5, offline classes of 9 and 11 resumed.In view of the rising number of cases in the Capital, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has called an emergency meeting at his residence on Friday. The city has been witnessing nearly 2,000 daily infections for the past few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-students-to-be-called-in-schools-in-delhi-in-new-academic-year-101617283529170.html
01-04-2021||India||Military gets new node in Mumbai for better logistics integration||The Indian military on Thursday operationalised a new joint logistics node (JLN) in Mumbai to provide integrated logistics support to the three services, a move that will bolster jointness as well as help cut costs and better utilise manpower, the defence ministry said. This is the third JLN to be set up in three months, with the aim of integrating the military’s logistics set-up and improving its war-fighting ability. Logistics nodes were operationalised in Guwahati and Port Blair on January 1, 2021. The government sanction letter for setting up these nodes came on October 12, 2020. Chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat, who inaugurated the Mumbai JLN via a video link on Thursday, said, “Establishment and operationalisation of JLNs is a very important first step in the direction of logistics integration of our three services. Acceptance of each other’s limitations and learning from each other’s strengths and best practices is essential to help improve the functioning and efficacy of these nodes.” The Joint Operations Division (JOD) under the Headquarters Integrated Defence Staff pursued and enabled the establishment of the JLNs. “All future wars will be conducted by tri-service in an integrated manner. To enable our armed forces to conduct successful operations, it is essential that they be provided with sound logistics support during all stages of war,” the ministry said in a statement. “This is the precursor to the joint logistics command which is being planned and is imperative for the optimisation of the combat potential of integrated theatres,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. India is set to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May. Apart from the Air Defence and Maritime Theatre Commands, India is expected to have three other integrated commands to secure its western, northern and eastern fronts — these will be rolled out by December 2022. In addition, a logistics command is in the works to avoid duplication of efforts and resources. The CDS’s mandate includes bringing about jointness in operations, logistics, transport, training, support services and repairs and maintenance of the three services. The JLNs will provide integrated logistics cover to the armed forces for their small arms ammunition, rations, fuel, general stores, civil hired transport, aviation clothing, spares and also engineering support in an effort to synergise their operational efforts, the ministry said. “This initiative would accrue advantages in terms of saving of manpower, economise utilisation of resources, besides financial savings,” the statement said, adding that more such nodes would be launched across the country. Rawat emphasised the need to work towards greater logistics integration with national logistics to benefit from the infrastructural and logistics improvements taking place at the national level. “Through this, we will bring to bear the actual ‘Whole of the Nation’ effort on our adversaries,” he said. The government expects Rawat, who took charge as India’s first CDS on January 1, 2020, to bring about jointness among the three services in a three-year time frame (by January 2023). One of the means to achieve jointness is the setting up of integrated theatre commands for the best use of military resources to fight future battles.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-gets-new-node-in-mumbai-for-better-logistics-integration-101617281518075.html
01-04-2021||India||At BIMSTEC meet, Jaishankar says intra-regional tourism badly hit by Covid-19||External affairs minister Dr S Jaishankar on Thursday took part in the 17th Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) ministerial meeting, which comprises seven countries. Five of these seven countries- India, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Bhutan and Bangladesh-- are from South Asia while the remaining two, Thailand and Myanmar, are from Southeast Asia.Addressing the meeting virtually, Jaishankar said the collaboration in intra-regional tourism has been badly hit by the ongoing coronavirus disease pandemic (Covid-19) adding that as the overall situation becomes normal, strong emphasis should be laid on developing the BIMSTEC’s brand of tourism and also focus on developing modalities for using the initiative’s tourism fund.The BIMSTEC was formed in 1997 and is headquartered in Bangladesh’s capital Dhaka. The objective of the initiative is to harness shared, accelerated growth through mutual cooperation in multiple areas of common interests by using regional resources and geographical advantages, according to BIMSTEC’s website.Pointing out that robust connectivity is an essential prerequisite of the economic integration of the region with a smooth cross-border movement, Jaishankar said he was delighted that all members finalised a BIMSTEC master plan for transport connectivity.Robust connectivity is an essential pre requisite of economic integration of the region with smooth cross-border movement of people & goods. I'm delighted that the member states have finalised a BIMSTEC master plan for transport connectivity: EAM S JaishankarCurrently, the BIMSTEC is involved in 15 sectors including trade, technology, agriculture, tourism, fisheries, energy and climate change among others, for sectoral cooperation. In 1997, it started with just six sectors and later expanded to the remaining nine sectors in 2008.“I’m glad that the region is witnessing rapid economic growth, with growing economic and political cooperation among the member states,” Jaishankar said. He also highlighted that BIMSTEC steadily gained prominence in India’s foreign policy and the participation of its members during the Modi government’s swearing-in ceremony in 2019 was a testament to it.Nearly 1.5 billion people or 22 per cent of the global population comes under the BIMSTEC and has a combined gross domestic product (GDP) of $2.7 trillion. The website also added that in the last five years, BIMSTEC’s members were able to sustain an average 6.5% economic growth despite the global financial crisis.With a focus on intra-regional cooperation, the BIMSTEC has also formed a platform with the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) member countries.(With ANI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-bimstec-meet-jaishankar-says-intra-regional-tourism-badly-hit-by-covid19-101617279228895.html
01-04-2021||India||People must elect their representatives on basis of character, calibre: Naidu||Vice President M Venkaiah Naidu on Thursday said people should elect their representatives on the basis of '4Cs' -- Character, Conduct, Calibre and Capacity and not other considerations.Unfortunately, the other 4CsCaste, Community, Cash and Criminalitywere replacing Character, Conduct, Calibre and Capacity, which are essential for providing good governance, he said."Citizen-centric governance will come from governance-centric electorate," he said.He was speaking after releasing a book 'Suparipalana', the Telugu translation of "Echo T Calling: Towards People- Centric Governance," written by former Telangana Chief Secretary S K Joshi.The Vice President said good governance was essential to fulfill the aspirations of the people and in ensuring that various schemes were implemented effectively.Good governance was also equally important to fulfill the aspirations of the people."Happiness comes with good governance," an official release quoted him as saying.Describing elected governments as 'holders of public trust', Naidu advised them to act responsibly and serve the people conscientiously.He also called for streamlining government's efforts to make the ease of living better for all citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-must-elect-their-representatives-on-basis-of-character-calibre-naidu-101617279382663.html
01-04-2021||India||Cong releases list of 4.3 lakh alleged double voters in Kerala, EC says ‘clerical error’||With just four days left for the crucial assembly elections, Kerala opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala on Wednesday night released a list of over 4.3 lakh voters whose names allegedly appear multiple times in the voters’ list - a move that has left the Election Commission red-faced. The list of multiple entries was released through a website named ‘operation twins.com.’It carried a constituency-wise list of multiple entries - one can easily enter the district and a particular constituency to get the list of alleged double voters.While hearing a plea, the Election Commission had told the High Court on Wednesday that it found only 38,586 double entries and cited most of the entries as clerical errors. Later, the Court had upheld its views and asked it to take strict measures to curb the malpractice. “It took months to unravel this. It was a laborious job. We have no intention to delay or postpone the poll but we believe this is necessary for the existence of democracy in the country,” said Chennithala after releasing the website.He said he was shocked to hear the EC’s tepid response that out of three lakh suspected votes that were scrutinised, there were only 38,586 multiple entries. The ruling CPI(M) criticised the opposition leader’s decision and said it was a ploy to delay the poll in the state. “We find it is a serious breach of data. Personal information of many voters was leaked. We found that details came from a foreign country. We will investigate this after we assume power,” said senior party leader MA Baby.Chennthala, however, continued to ridicule the ruling party saying, “it was running after alibis after getting caught red-handed”. The EC said there will be a strict vigil this time to contain any bogus voting. Interestingly, many constituencies in Kerala usually witness a close fight and wafer-thin margins. In such cases, duplicate votes play a key role. The opposition leader had earlier alleged that government officials having allegiance to the left trade unions were behind the move. In north Kerala in party villages, complaints of bogus voting are rampant in every election. In most cases, voters were not even aware of having more than one vote leaving party workers to cast these double votes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-releases-list-of-4-3-lakh-alleged-double-voters-in-kerala-ec-says-clerical-error-101617279178122.html
01-04-2021||India||Govt withdraws order to cut interest rates, cites oversight; faces flak||Less than 12 hours after announcing sharp cuts in interest rates of small savings schemes, such as Public Provident Fund (PPF), senior citizen savings, Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme and Kisan Vikas Patra, the government withdrew the order on Thursday morning.Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Thursday morning tweeted that the order was an “oversight” and there would not be any change in the interest rates. “Interest rates of small savings schemes of GoI [Government of India] shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, i.e; rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn,” she said. While a spokesperson of the finance ministry did not respond to HT’s queries, one person who works in the ministry said the order to cut interest rates was issued after the “competent authority” had approved the proposal. “The bureaucracy acts on the basis of well-laid procedures and no decisions could be taken without proper approvals. The withdrawal appears to be due to political compulsion,” the person said. Two people with direct knowledge of the matter said, requesting anonymity, that the decision was taken fearing a political fallout in the ongoing assembly elections. Also Watch | Govt rolls back decision to cut interest rates on small saving schemesThe withdrawal, however, faced severe backlash from the Opposition on social media. “Really @nsitharaman ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI [government of India] schemes or election driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?” tweeted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra minutes after the order was withdrawn.Former minister of finance and external affairs Yashwant Sinha said the government had outdone even him in terms of roll-backs.“I am very sad today. I thought I alone had the monopoly of roll backs. This govt has outdone even me. Labour laws, small savings interest rates are a couple of examples. Roll Back Modi,” he tweeted.Congress leader Salman Soz also took a jibe at the inconsistency of decisions of the minister and tweeted: “I am joining BJP.” In another tweet, Soz said his earlier comment was an “oversight”.Congress leader P Chidambaram alleged that Sitharaman’s claim of the decision of lowering interest rates on small savings schemes being an “inadvertent error” is baseless, pointing out that such announcement “for the next quarter is a regular exercise”.“Announcement of interest rates on savings instruments for the next quarter is a regular exercise. There is nothing ‘inadvertent’ about its release on 31st March,” he tweeted.“The BJP government had decided to launch another assault on the middle class by slashing the interest rates and profiting itself. When caught, the FM is putting forward the lame excuse of ‘inadvertent error’,” he added.Chidambaram added that the current interest rate on saving schemes is still lower than the inflation rate and thus is “hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt”.“When inflation is at about 6 per cent and expected to rise, the BJP government is offering interest rates below 6 per cent hitting the savers and the middle class below the belt,” the Congress leader said.Trinamool Congress leader Derek O’Brien also took to Twitter slamming the PM Narendra Modi-Amit Shah combine, saying, “Egg on the face again. Because MO-SHA too busy throwing petals from trucks and cracking April Fool jokes of false promises at election rallies.”Trinamool Congress lawmaker Mahua Moitra cited Sitharaman’s statement and tweeted: “What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now-rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by ‘oversight’? Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is Fin Min of this country?”Congress leader Randeep Surjewala wrote Sitharaman has “no moral right to continue as a finance minister”. “Madam FM [finance minister], Are u running a ‘Circus’ or a ‘Govt’? One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order?”Gopal Agrawal, BJP’s spokesperson on economic affairs, responding to the Opposition’s sarcasm, said, “I appreciate the concern of FM Nirmala Sitharaman [regarding the] interest rate cut for small savings. Post Covid19, interest income is one of the main sources of income for the common man. Any reduction is uncalled for. Surely the FM will look into the faux pas on the issue by the ministry officials.”The office memorandum, issued on March 31, 2021 by the department of economic affairs (DEA) of the Union finance ministry said that the interest rates for “various” small savings schemes were revised “for the first quarter of financial year 2021-22 starting from 1st April, 2021 and ending on 30th June, 2021”. It also said: “This has the approval of competent authority.” HT reviewed the order issued late Wednesday evening. The interest rate on Public Provident Fund was lowered from 7.1% to 6.4%, and that on National Savings Certificates from 6.8% to 5.9% for the June quarter. The Senior Citizens Savings Scheme rate was cut from 7.4% to 6.5%. The rate on Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme, the highest paying small savings instrument, was lowered from 7.6% to 6.9%.“The politically sensitive Senior Citizens Savings Scheme (SCSS) saw its rate cut from 7.4% to 6.5%, which is a major political constituent and the government cannot afford to alienate this segment,” a second person said. According to the Wednesday order that was later withdrawn, the Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme, which was the highest paying small savings instrument, saw its rate cut from 7.6% to 6.9%. Also, the Kisan Vikas Patra (KVP) that has a tenure of 124 months would mature in 138 months, amounting to a rate cut of 6.2% from 6.9%. Other small savings products with interest rate reductions, according to the Wednesday order, included post office term deposits, post office savings accounts and post office monthly income scheme. The rates on post office term deposits were reduced from 5.5%-6.7% for tenures of 1-5 years to 4.4%-5.8%. The post office savings account saw its rate reduced from 4% to 3.5%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-withdraws-order-to-cut-interest-rates-cites-oversight-faces-flak-101617278457951.html
01-04-2021||India||India begins third phase of vaccination drive by including all above 45||India began the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive on Thursday by opening it up to people above 45 years, irrespective of comorbidities. This, experts said, will not only improve overall vaccination numbers, but will also help in slowing down disease transmission as the country grapples with the second wave of infection. India recorded its highest-single day rise in cases since October 2020, as per the Union health ministry data on Thursday.Union health ministry issued a statement on Thursday on including those aged 45+ in the vaccination drive which read, “This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the States/Union Territories on 31st March, 2021, to optimally utilise all Covid Vaccination Centres across the public and private sectors to ensure rapid increase in the pace and coverage of Covid vaccination. This decision is in line with the graded and pro-active approach employed by the Government of India along with the States/UTs for Covid-19 vaccination.”Earlier, explaining the process of registering for vaccine shot, a senior health ministry official who did not wish to be identified, said, “People who are eligible will be able to register, and book appointments, on the Co-Win portal and through the Aarogya Setu app from April 1, when the facility will be thrown open for the 45-plus category also. It will be a massive number, and we urge eligible beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated. Safety and efficacy of both the vaccines approved for use in India has been well established.”Also Read | Another session begins in Delhi, but schools still emptyCovid vaccines will be offered throughout the month of April, including gazetted holidays, at both the private and public Covid vaccination centres. The Centre has written to all states to make necessary arrangements for the same, aiming to exponentially expand the countrywide vaccination drive. Walk-in registrations will also be open, but only after 3pm.Since government-specified comorbidity isn’t a criterion anymore,a medical certificate from a registered medical practitioner is not required. Vaccination is being held in close to 50,000 centres across the country, of which about 6,000 are in the private sector.Earlier, only people 45 years and above with government-specified comorbidities, individuals aged 60 years and above, and healthcare and frontline workers were eligible for vaccination.However, around 88% of Covid-19 deaths in the country have been reported from the 45+ age group, prompting the government’s decision to open the drive further to include this age group as well.At least 65 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination began on January 16 with healthcare workers as the beneficiaries. Vaccination of frontline workers began on February 2. The second phase started on March 1 to also include people above 60 and those between 45 and 59 years of age with specific comorbidities. So far, first doses of vaccine have been administered to 8,260,293 healthcare workers, and 5,250,704 have got the second dose as well. As many as 9,174,171 frontline workers have taken the first dose and 3,945,796 of them have got the second dose as well.Meanwhile, amid the surge in Covid cases, India recorded 72,330 new infections within 24 hours, taking its total tally to 12,221,665.As per the Union health ministry data updated at 8am, the single-day rise in cases is the highest since October 11, 2020. The death toll rose to 162,927 with 459 single-day new casualties, the highest in 116 days. Maharashtra reported the highest daily new cases at 39,544, followed by Chhattisgarh with 4,563, and Karnataka reported 4,225 new cases.The country’s active caseload reached 584,055.Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, and Punjab account for 78.9% of the total active cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-third-phase-of-vaccination-drive-by-including-all-above-45-101617277677724.html
01-04-2021||India||Tirupathi temple board to get land in Jammu for temple, spiritual growth centre||The Administrative Council (AC), which met under the chairmanship of Jammu and Kashmir’s lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha, approved the proposal to allot 496 Kanal 17 Marla of land to the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for building a temple and allied infrastructure including pilgrims amenities complex, Veda Patasala (Vedas School), spiritual/meditation centre, office, residential quarters and parking.The land will be given on lease for a period of 40 years. Medical and educational facilities are also proposed to be built on the campus in future.TTD, a board established by the government under the TTD Act, 1932 is a charitable organisation with activities in the spiritual, cultural, social, and educational sphere. It hopes to tap the religious tourism potential in Jammu, the City of Temples, besides enhancing economic activities in the region. Once developed, the TTD infrastructure will be another religious centre of attraction in the region apart from the famous Mata Vaishno Devi shrine and Amarnathji Shrine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupathi-temple-board-to-get-land-in-jammu-for-temple-spiritual-growth-centre-101617276757905.html
01-04-2021||India||In the Tata-Mistry battle, how and why the court swung in favour of Ratan Tata||With its final judgment last week, the Supreme Court not only set aside set aside a tribunal’s 2019 order reinstating Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the corporate giant, Tata Sons, but also ruled all the questions of law in favour of Ratan Tata and the ­Tata Group. The five issues framed by the top court and their answers present an interesting chapter on interpretation of law, hinging on the change in dynamics of relationship between Cyrus Mistry and Ratan Tata, with the court describing Mistry as a man who set his own house on fire. A detailed reading of the judgment helps give a sense of why one of corporate India’s most bitter battles in recent years ended the way it did, in favour of Tata. Here are the five questions and their answers by the top court: One — Whether Tata Sons’ affairs were conducted in a manner prejudicial and oppressive to some members and that the facts otherwise justify the winding up of the company on just and equitable ground under Sections 241 and 242 of The Companies Act? Also Read | Tata values SP stake at over ₹94,000 croreThis turned out to be the most important question that swung the entire case in favour of Ratan Tata. A substantial part of the 282-page judgment was devoted to scrutinise and eventually negate the accusations relating to oppression and prejudice. The court answered this question in negative and cited a simple example: “If the company’s affairs have been or are being conducted in a manner oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of the SP Group, we wonder how a representative of Mistry’s Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) Group holding a little over 18% of the share capital could have moved up to the topmost position within a period of six years of his induction.” Referring to Sections 241 and 242 of the Act, the court underlined that scheme of the law provides for making an application to the National Company Law Tribunal when the company’s affairs are being conducted in a manner prejudicial to the interest of any member, public interest or interest of the company; or when it is oppressive to any member. It enumerated eight grounds on the basis of which Mistry alleged prejudice and oppression but noted that six of these grounds have be considered as settled since neither the appellate tribunal reversed the findings of the NCLT as regard to them nor had the SP Group assailed them in their appeal before the SC. Therefore, the court said, allegations relating to these must be rejected. These allegations included transactions with Siva and Sterling Group of Companies; the losses suffered by Tata Motors in the Nano car project; the acquisition of Corus Group Inc of UK; Air Asia transactions in which a deal was reportedly struck with Hamid Reza Malakotipour who was classified as a “global terrorist” by the United Nations; sale of a flat to Mehli Mistry and the grant of huge personal favours to the companies owned and controlled by Mehli Mistry, and dealings with NTT DoCoMo, which eventually led to an arbitration award for a huge sum of money. Also Read | Tatas win Mistry fight in top courtThe court then went on to focus on Mistry’s removal and existence of just and equitable grounds for winding up of Tata Sons, underlining that these were the only two issues that the appellate tribunal had specifically dealt with. Relying on case law and the statutory provisions, the court held that removal of a person from the post of executive chairman cannot be termed as oppressive or prejudicial. “It is an irony that the very same person who represents shareholders owning just 18.37% of the total paid up share capital and yet identified as the successor to the empire, has chosen to accuse the very same Board, of conduct oppressive and unfairly prejudicial to the interests of the minorities,” maintained the court, adding that the subsequent conduct of Cyrus Mistry in leaking his email and sending some documents to the Income Tax department enhanced the firepower of the management of Tata Sons “with regard to their claim relating to lack of confidence and trust”.About the existence of “just and equitable grounds”, which would justify winding up of Tata Sons, the top court noted that a winding up petition would hold water only if there is a breakdown in mutual trust and confidence impeding the management of a company. The lack of confidence, said the court, “must spring not from dissatisfaction at being out­voted on the business affairs or on what is called the domestic policy of the company”.It highlighted that winding up could be ordered when there is a “functional deadlock” leading to an inability of the company to function at Board or shareholder level, or where a company is a corporate quasi partnership and an irretrievable breakdown in trust and confidence between the participating members has taken place. “In the case in hand there was never and there could never have been a relationship in the nature of quasi partnership between the Tata Group and SP Group. SP Group boarded the train half­way (in 1965) through the journey of Tata Sons. Functional deadlock is not even pleaded nor proved,” ruled the court, rejecting Mistry’s contentions regarding winding up plea. It further noted that the NCLAT lost sight of the most important aspect that Tata Sons is a principal investment holding Company, of which the majority shareholding is with philanthropic Trusts — Sir Ratan Tata Trust and Sir Dorabji Tata Trust. “Therefore, NCLAT should have raised the most fundamental question whether it would be equitable to wind up the Company and thereby starve to death those charitable Trusts, especially on the basis of un­charitable allegations of oppressive and prejudicial conduct,” said the court, terming NCLAT’s findings as completely flawed. Here, the court once again reminded Mistry that “it was the very same complaining minority whose representative was not merely given a berth on the Board but was also projected as the successor to the Office of Chairman.” Two — Whether the relief granted, and the directions issued by the appellate tribunal, including the reinstatement of Mistry into the Board of Tata Sons and other Tata companies, are in consonance with the pleadings made, the reliefs sought and the powers available under Sub­section (2) of Section 242? Apart from underscoring that the scheme of Section 242 does not envisage reinstatement of a chairman or a director, the court wondered how NCLAT reinstated Mistry as the executive chairman of Tata Sons, despite there being no prayer for reinstatement either as a director or as an executive chairman. It further found fault with the judgment restoring his chairmanship for the “rest of the tenure” when there was no tenure left at all. It pointed out that the appointment of Mistry as executive chairman of Tata Sons with effect from December 29, 2012, was for a tenure of five years. The judgment of the NCLAT was passed on December 18, 2019, by which time, a period of nearly seven years had passed from the date of Mistry’s appointment. “Therefore, we fail to understand as to how the NCLAT could have granted a relief not apparently sought for (though wished for); and what NCLAT meant by reinstatement ‘for the rest of the tenure’. That the question of reinstatement will not arise after the tenure of office had run its course, is a settled position,” held the court. It also criticised the NCLAT for reinstating Mistry not only on the Board of Tata Sons but also on the Board of some other Tata group companies, “without they being parties, without there being any complaint against those companies under section 241 and without there being any prayer against them.” The court added that by virtue of the impugned order, Mistry was reinstated even on the Board of a few companies from which he had resigned. “NCLAT appears to have granted the relief of reinstatement gratis without any foundation in pleadings, without any prayer and without any basis in law. By doing so, the NCLAT has forced upon the appellant an executive chairman, who now is unable to support his own reinstatement... The relief of reinstatement granted by the Tribunal, was too big a pill even for the complainant companies (and perhaps Mistry) to swallow,” said the court, highlighting that even Mistry had pleaded that he was not looking to be reinstated. In law, the apex court, citing Sections 241 and 242 of the Companies Act, said that these provisions do not specifically confer the power of reinstatement, nor is there any scope for holding that such a power to reinstate can be implied or inferred from any of the powers specifically conferred. “It is interesting to note that at the time of his appointment in December 2012, what Mistry saw and acknowledged, was a ‘great learning experience he had under the direct guidance of Ratan Tata’, but at the time of departure in October 2016, what he saw was only a conduct for over 10 years, that was oppressive and prejudicial to the interests of the company and of the minority. The NCLAT failed to take note of this, while granting reliefs neither sought for nor feasible in law,” ruled the court. Three — Whether the appellate tribunal could have, in law, muted the power of the Company under Article 75 of the Articles of Association, to demand any member to transfer his ordinary shares, by simply injuncting the company from exercising such a right without setting aside the Article? Article 75 of the Articles of Association of Tata Sons relates to the company’s power of transfer of shares. It states that the company may, at any time, by Special Resolution, resolve that any holder of ordinary shares transfer his ordinary shares and that such member would be deemed to have served the company with a sale­ notice in respect of his ordinary shares. The court held that the NCLAT could not have muted Article 75, which has the effect of sending it into comatose, especially when Mistry and SP Group had not challenged its validity. The complainant companies, the court noted, did not make a grievance out of Article 75 on the ground that it had been misused in the past or that such misuse tantamount to conduct oppressive or prejudicial to the interests of some of the members. “No single instance even of invocation of Article 75, leave alone misuse, is averred in the main company petition or in the application for amendment. Therefore, NCLAT could not have and should not have made Article 75 completely ineffective by passing an order of restraint,” said the court. It also noted NCLAT agreed that it has no jurisdiction to declare any of the Articles of Association illegal but it neutralised Article 75 merely on the basis of likelihood of misuse, even though Section 241 provides for a remedy only in respect of past and present conduct or past and present continuous conduct. “NCLAT has stretched Section 241(1)(a) to cover the likelihood of a future bad conduct, which is impermissible in law. Section 241 is not intended to discipline a Management in respect of a possible future conduct,” ruled the court. About the history of the Article of Association, the court also highlighted that it was amended in its present form in September 2000 in the presence of and with the consent of Mistry. “A person who willingly became a shareholder and thereby subscribed to the Articles of Association and who was a willing and consenting party to the amendments carried out to those Articles, cannot later on turn around and challenge those Articles. The same would tantamount to requesting the Court to rewrite a contract to which he became a party with eyes wide open,” said the court, reversing NCLAT’s finding. Four — Whether the affirmative voting rights available to the directors nominated by Sir Ratan Tata Trusts and Sir Dorabjee Trust were oppressive and prejudicial? The affirmative voting rights, according to the SP Group, disabled the nominee directors from acting independently in the best interests of the company and its stakeholders and that once appointed, the loyalty of the nominee directors should be to the company and not solely to the Trusts which nominated them. Under Article 104B, the two Trusts, acting jointly, have a right to nominate one-third of the prevailing number of directors on the Board, so long as the Trusts hold at least 40% of the paid-up share capital. Further, Article 121 provides that matters, which require to be decided by a majority of the directors, shall require the affirmative vote of the majority of directors appointed under Article 104B. The court held that affirmative voting rights for the nominees of institutions, which hold majority of shares in companies, have always been accepted as a global norm. “So long as these special rights are incorporated in the Articles of Association and so long as they are not in contravention of any of the provisions of the Act, the same cannot be attacked on these grounds,” it said. Noting that around 66% of the equity share capital of Tata Sons is held by philanthropic Trusts including Sir Dorabji Tata Trust and Sir Rata Tata Trust that support education, health and livelihood generation, the court ruled that “there is nothing abhorring about the validity of the affirmative voting rights”. The court held that Tata Group was guided by the principle of “Corporate Governance” even without a statutory compulsion since it was not a listed public company, and this was evidenced by the fact that Mistry was the first one outside the Tata family to be crowned as the executive chairman and the Board of Tata Sons had many persons who could be ranked outsiders. “If the idea was to run Tata Sons purely as a family business, Ratan Tata need not have stepped down from the chairmanship. Today, nobody wants to step down from any office, except if afflicted by brain stroke or sun stroke,” said the court. It also reproached Mistry for calling Ratan Tata a “shadow director” in Tata Sons, saying that when the Board, of which Mistry was a chairman, had nominated Ratan Tata as chairman emeritus and recorded their desire of his support and guidance, it was not open to Mistry and the SP Group to call Ratan Tata a shadow Director. The apex court also shot down Mistry’s claim for a proportionate representation on the Board, saying it is neither statutorily or contractually sustainable nor factually justified since the SP Group boarded the journey only in 1980 when Mistry’s father was made a director. Further, it said, there was nothing to show a pre­existing relationship between the Tata Group and the SP Group before the incorporation of the company or any agreement in the nature of a partnership. And finally — Whether the re­conversion of Tata Sons from a public company into a private company was bad in law? While allowing the appeals of the SP Group, NCLAT had declared the action of the Registrar of Companies in issuing the amended Certificate of Incorporation as illegal with a further direction to the Registrar of Companies to make necessary corrections in the records showing the Tata Sons as a public company. The court commenced its adjudication by underlining that even SP Group does not dispute that Tata Sons satisfies the parameters of Section 2(68) of the 2013 Act that defines a private company — but contentions revolve around the procedure followed for reconversion. NCLAT held that Tata Sons ought to have followed the process of a special resolution and amendment of its Articles under Section 14 and 14(1) of the Companies Act. The court found NCLAT’s reasoning to be flawed. “What NCLAT failed to see was that Tata sons did not become a public company by choice but became one by operation of law. Therefore, we do not know how such a company should also be asked to follow the rigors of Section 14(1)(b) of the 2013 Act,” it noted. The court said that Section 14(1), primarily, deals with the issue of alteration of Articles of Association of the company but “Tata Sons wanted a mere amendment of the Certificate of Incorporation, which is not something that is covered by Section 14 of the 2013 Act.” It said that the NCLAT mixed up the attempt of Tata Sons to have the Certificate of Incorporation amended with an attempt to have the Articles of Association amended, while pointing out that Tata Sons satisfied the criteria prescribed in Section 2(68) of the Act by having restriction on the right to transfer shares, limitation on the number of members and prohibiting any invitation to the public to subscribe to shares/debentures. “The certificate is a mere recognition of the status of the company and it does not by itself create one. Once a new definition of the expression ‘private company’ came into force under section 2(68) of the 2013 Act, the only test to be applied is to find out if the company fits into the scheme under the new Act or not,” ruled the court. It was these five questions and the court’s detailed examination of the themes that swung the verdict in favour of Ratan Tata, bringing to an end a major acrimonious chapter in India’s corporate history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-the-tata-mistry-battle-how-and-why-the-court-swung-in-favour-of-ratan-tata-101617276897762.html
01-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times at 5 pm: BKU’s Rakesh Tikait says farmers’ protest to go on for 8 more months||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 5 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers' protest will go on for 8 more months, says BKU’s Rakesh TikaitBharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Thursday the agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws will have to go on for eight more months as it is a question of their rights and lands. The movement will pick up speed after May 10, as till then farmers will remain engaged in harvesting wheat crops, Tikait said. Read moreTwitter reacts after govt withdraws decision to lower small savings rateUnion finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comments blaming oversight for cutting interest rates on small savings schemes to an over four-decade low drew flak from the Opposition on social media. The comments came as the government rolled back its decision to lower the rates. Read moreStep inside Rajkummar Rao's home with calm decor, huge private spaces filled with booksActor Rajkummar Rao took fans on a tour of his beautiful abode in Mumbai, one that he recently bought. Having grown up in Gurgaon, in a joint family of 16 people, Rajkummar is now living in a sprawling house spread across two floors. In a new video for a paint brand, he has shared his journey of finalising the design and artefacts of the house. Read moreVicky Kaushal has breakfast of champions made with 10 eggs, oats and chocolate, hits gym after thatActor Vicky Kaushal has lately been sweating it really hard in the gym as he prepares for his upcoming role. From box jumps to horse riding, archery and a lot of weight training in the gym, Vicky Kaushal's routine includes various forms of exercises. Read more'Before him, I had never heard of it being spoken': Ishant credits Kohli for changing Indian cricket's 'system'It is no secret that Virat Kohli is responsible for bringing about a cultural change in the Indian cricket team. While MS Dhoni started the importance of fitness, Kohli took it forward to a whole new level – introducing the importance of what to eat and what not for cricketers to survive long in international cricket. Read moreHyundai, Tata Motors, Toyota eyeing NTPC's hydrogen fuel cell vehicle projectSeveral automakers including Hyundai, Tata Motors, Toyota, Ashok Leyland, and KPIT Technologies have shown their interest in India’s maiden and ambitious initiative to run hydrogen-powered fuel cell electric cars and buses. Read moreWoman finds daffodils she had ordered in fridge. Here’s how they landed up thereMost people, when they don’t receive an item they ordered, call up the provider to get their money refunded. This is exactly what Helen Newman did when she didn’t get the daffodils that she ordered. However, what happened next is a story which has now left people giggling hard. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5-pm-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-says-farmers-protest-to-go-on-for-8-more-months-101617274108746.html
01-04-2021||India||Yes Bank fraud: ED files charge sheet against Mumbai realty firm owners, others||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has filed a charge sheet in connection with its money laundering probe against Mumbai-based realty group Omkar Realtors and Developers linked to alleged illegal diversion of Yes Bank loan funds worth over ₹400 crore.In a statement, the central probe agency said the prosecution complaint (charge sheet) has been filed under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) before a special court in Mumbai.The charge sheet names chairman of Omkar Realtors and Developers Kamal Kishore Gupta, its managing director Babulal Varma, actor-producer Sachin Joshi (also the promoter of Viiking Group) and their companies.The ED had earlier raided the premises of Omkar Group promoters and arrested all three accused in the case.The central agency's case is based on an FIR of Aurangabad Police (Maharashtra) against Gupta and Varma on charges of cheating and diversion of Yes Bank loan funds of ₹410 crore which were taken for the redevelopment of Anand Nagar SRA (Slum Rehabilitation Authority) CHS."As per the terms and conditions of Yes Bank, the loan amount of ₹410 crore was to be utilised for the construction of rehab buildings at Anand Nagar SRA CHS, Wadala."However, instead of constructing SRA buildings, the whole amount of ₹410 crore was diverted by the accused to group companies," the ED claimed in its statement.Out of this ₹410 crore, an amount of ₹80 crore was further layered to Joshi and his Viiking Group of companies in the guise of service fee and investment."However, during the investigation, it was found that neither Sachin Joshi nor his companies were ever engaged in any such business and the said transactions were found to be sham," the ED alleged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/yes-bank-fraud-ed-files-charge-sheet-against-mumbai-realty-firm-owners-others-101617275458628.html
01-04-2021||India||Schools across Kashmir report fresh Covid cases, parents worried||At-least 50 students from two south Kashmir schools including 36 students in a private school in Kulgam district and 14 in a government school in Anantnag district were found infected with coronavirus along with a handful of teachers and staff during random testing drives in schools in Kashmir over the past couple of days. Concerned parents are now requesting the government to close the schools to safeguard children’s health.Apart from the two south Kashmir schools, which reported high number of infections among the students, two staff members of a prominent girl’s higher secondary school in Srinagar, a teacher and two students in two government schools of central Kashmir’s Budgam, a staff member and a student of a higher secondary school in north Kashmir’s Bandipora were also reported positive for the disease.All the six schools which reported fresh infections have been closed for various durations. Two schools in the city outskirts were already closed a few days back after their staff members tested positive.“These are scary reports and we don’t want the lives of our children to be at stake. I am confused whether to stop sending my child to school for the time being or to allow her to continue,” said Shameema, mother of a class-10 girl student in Srinagar.The schools were opened for the students of 9th to 12th classes from March 1, 2021 and for 6th to 8th classes from March 8, almost a year after they were closed in March 2020 owing to the pandemic. The government also allowed opening of primary schools after March 15. Fresh concerns are also triggered by rapidly rising Covid-19 numbers in the Kashmir valley, particularly in capital Srinagar. For the past six days, the Union Territory has reported over 200 cases daily, ranging from 210 cases on Friday last to 373 cases on Wednesday, which was the highest daily count in 103 days.Overall, the month of March saw 4,519 coronavirus infections in the UT, an increase of 133% compared to February, and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths.“Many schools have closed owing to Covid. The schools were opened after a year and now they have scheduled unit examinations next week. If we don’t send our wards they will miss their exams. There is too much tension. Government should close all the schools for the time being and postpone unit exams,” said Zubaida Noor, elder sister of a class-8 student.Most of the schools have asked the parents to send their wards on alternate days to maintain Covid protocols such as social distancing. Some schools have also decided to run two shifts in the day to reduce the class strength by half. Some schools have not yet opened primary classes.“What shall we do? We have given a consent letter to school that they won’t be responsible in case of any health emergency. If cases continue to rise, the government should think of closing schools or ensuring that standard operating procedures (SoPs) are enforced. It is not possible for small children to follow SoPs,” said Javaid Ahmad, whose child studies in class-1.Calls to director school education M Younis Malik and additional secretary school education department Nasir Ahmad Wani yielded no response.A senior official of the education department told a local daily on Wednesday that the government has issued fresh guidelines suggesting schools should prefer online classes.“The school education department will reiterate the government directions so that schools prefer online classes. We can put offline classes on hold,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/schools-across-kashmir-report-fresh-covid-cases-parents-worried-101617275587739.html
01-04-2021||India||Pakistan does U-turn on resuming trade ties with India||Pakistan on Thursday did a U-turn on a move for limited resumption of trade with India, with two federal ministers linking the normalisation of bilateral ties to the restoration of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status by New Delhi.A Cabinet meeting chaired by Prime Minister Imran Khan rejected a decision made by a government panel on Wednesday to allow imports of sugar and cotton from India to control prices and overcome a shortage.Pakistan’s interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed told reporters in Islamabad after the cabinet meeting that the move to permit imports from India was “deferred till Article 370 is not restored”. Speaking in Urdu, he added, “Till then, [imports of] cotton and sugar will not happen.”Watch | Imran Khan govt red-flags resumption of trade with India; rakes up Article 370Ahmed was referring to the Indian government’s decision of August 5, 2019, to scrap Article 370 of the Constitution, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and to split the state into two union territories.Pakistan foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi said in a video statement that the Cabinet deferred the move to import cotton and sugar from India so that there could be further deliberations on the matter.“At the same time, there was an impression that relations with India are moving towards normalisation and trade has opened up. There was a discussion on this and there was a unanimous opinion among everyone, including the prime minister, that it will not be possible to normalise relations with India till India reviews the unilateral steps it had taken on August 5, 2019,” Qureshi said.There was no immediate response from Indian officials to the Pakistan government’s decision. India had earlier rejected Pakistan’s stand on the changes in Jammu and Kashmir by saying it was an internal matter.Also Read | Pakistan green-lights sugar, cotton trade with IndiaThe Pakistani flip-flop came hours after human rights minister Shireen Mazari, known for her anti-India stance, tweeted that all decisions made by the ECC have to be approved by the Cabinet.“Just for the record – All ECC decisions have to be approved by cabinet & only then they can be seen as ‘approved by govt’! So today in the cabinet there will be a discussion on ECC decisions including trade with India and then the government decision will be taken!” Mazari said in her tweet.On Wednesday, the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of Pakistan’s Cabinet decided to allow imports from India at a meeting chaired by the country’s new finance minister, Hammad Azhar. The panel approved imports of up to 500,000 tonnes of sugar by the private sector and allowed imports of cotton up to the end of June to meet the needs of small and medium enterprises.If the ECC’s decision had been implemented, it would have led to the resumption of trade between the two countries after almost two years. Pakistan had unilaterally suspended trade with India in August 2019 to protest against the changes in Jammu and Kashmir.If the ECC’s decision had been implemented, it would have led to the resumption of trade between the two countries after almost two years. Pakistan had unilaterally suspended trade with India in August 2019 to protest against the changes in Jammu and Kashmir.Trade between India and Pakistan has invariably taken a hit whenever tensions spike between the countries, and this was also case when the 2019 Pulwama suicide attack triggered a military standoff.The move by the Indian and Pakistani armies to strictly adhere to the ceasefire on the LoC from February 25 was the outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two sides and led to a thaw in relations.In recent weeks, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa has spoken of the need to “bury the past and move forward”, while Prime Minister Khan has said India will have to take the first step for improving ties by addressing Kashmir, the only issue standing in the way of better relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pakistan-does-u-turn-on-resuming-trade-ties-with-india-101617275277949.html
01-04-2021||India||Farmers' protest will go on for 8 more months, says BKU’s Rakesh Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) spokesperson Rakesh Tikait said on Thursday the agitation against the Centre’s three new farm laws will have to go on for eight more months as it is a question of their rights and lands. The movement will pick up speed after May 10, as till then farmers will remain engaged in harvesting wheat crops, Tikait said.“Farmers can harvest their wheat crops till May 10 post which the agitation will pick up speed,” Tikait was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Farmers have been camping at several border points in Delhi for more than four months, seeking a repeal of the laws-- Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 -- which were cleared by Parliament in September last year.Despite several rounds of negotiation and repeated requests by the government, the farmers have remained determined that they would not stop protesting until the laws are completely rolled back and are also firm on their demand for a legal guarantee for the Minimum Support Price (MSP).आंदोलन अभी आठ महीने और चलाना पड़ेगा। किसान को आंदोलन तो करना ही पड़ेगा, अगर आंदोलन नहीं होगा तो किसानों की जमीन जाएगी। किसान 10 मई तक अपनी गेंहू की फसल काट लेंगे, उसके बाद आंदोलन तेज़ी पकड़ेगा: राकेश टिकैत, भारतीय किसान यूनियन के राष्ट्रीय प्रवक्ता #FarmersProtest pic.twitter.com/BgyNz5WPyxAll India Kisan Sabha (AIKS) general secretary Hannan Mollah told ANI on Wednesday that lakhs of protesters would march to Parliament in May. “Modi Government and Parliament are not listening to the farmers then it is our right to go in front of Parliament and raise our demand and we will decide sometime between the middle in the month of May,” he said. Pointing out that the march would be peaceful, he added that they (farmers) will go to Parliament to express their pain and grief before the citizens.Several strikes and marches have been staged by farmers across India since last year and the majority of them were peaceful. However, the farmers’ tractor rally on Republic Day ( January 26) in Delhi took a violent turn as protesters deviated from the designated route and entered the national Capital after breaking barricades and were also involved in incidents of vandalism. A few protesters reached the iconic Red Fort and hoisted religious flags on it. The Delhi Police has made multiple arrests in the case.In January, the Supreme Court suspended the implementation of the farm laws and appointed a committee on January 12 to examine these laws and further recommend changes. The committee on Wednesday submitted its report and the apex court will hear the matter on April 5. Speaking to Hindustan Times, one of the expert members in the committee Anil Ghanwat said that it is entirely up to the apex court to act on the recommendations given.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-will-go-on-for-8-more-months-says-bku-s-rakesh-tikait-101617274641017.html
01-04-2021||India||The story of Indian Railways and its tryst with privatisation||In a country of 1.3 billion, the Indian Railways plays an integral role running the world’s fourth largest rail network in the world—across 64,000 route km, ferrying nearly 23 million passengers per day in over 13,000 passenger trains daily. With a workforce of nearly 1.3 million, it is also one of the largest employers in the world.But the railways, in recent years, confronted with its dwindling finances, has been mulling ways of generating revenue through different streams, including the non-fare revenue segment, leasing out its vast pool of vacant land and, most importantly, opening doors for Public Private Partnership (PPP) for its trains and stations. It has felt the need to bring in private investment to upgrade its facilities and infrastructure, with an eye, also, on the competition as domestic airlines take away its AC class passengers and passengers increasingly opt to travel by road for shorter distances.But at its core, the 167-year-old organisation has largely functioned as a subsidised mode of travel for millions of Indians daily. On an average, the railways recovers about 57% of cost of travel and the remaining is given as subsidy—which means that the institution incurs 43 paise per rupee for each ticket as subsidy. This is not a traditional subsidy, but is instead cross-subsidised from the money railways makes from its freight operations. The unreserved segment has the maximum subsidy of about 43-45%.Also Read | No charging of electronic devices in trains at night: RailwaysAnd this is what has led to a fundamental question and animated debate—can the national transporter successfully coexist with a parallel network of private train operations and stations? The answer, perhaps, lies in a slew of recommendations made by several committees over the years and comparing the transition in other countries with similar structures such as China and Japan.The roots of current reforms In 2015, a committee led by then Niti Aayog member Bibek Debroy drafted a report for mobilisation of resources for major railway projects and restructuring of the railway ministry and Railway Board, giving suggestions for a complete overhaul of Indian Railways, including its 150-year-old governing body—the Railway Board. Its suggestion for the unification of the railway budget with the Union budget was implemented by the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in 2016.The committee noted that there was increasing recognition that the Indian Railways was no longer a monopoly and faced stiff competition from the road sector. It pointed out, “The cross-subsidisation of low passenger fares by artificially high freight rates has led to a shift in favour of road transport, for both freight as well as short distance passenger traffic. It needs to be recognised that most passengers are willing to pay higher fares, albeit only if accompanied by enhanced services.”The committee said that while it saw liberalisation—and not privatisation—for entry of new operators into railway operations as a viable option for encouraging growth and improving services, a regulatory mechanism to promote a healthy competition and to protect the interest of all stakeholders was an “essential pre-requisite”. It further noted: “It needs to be understood that this Committee does not recommend privatization of Indian Railways. It does, however endorse private entry, which is not ab initio but ab hine - as this is already part of the accepted Indian Railways policy - with the proviso of an independent regulator.”The Debroy committee said it preferred to use of the word “liberalisation” and not “privatisation or deregulation”, as both the are “apt to misinterpretation.”Opening up the sector The NDA government announced the plan for redeveloping the stations during its first tenure in 2016 by leveraging commercial development of spaces around them. In 2017, then Union railway minister Suresh Prabhu launched what he called the “largest transit-oriented development programme ever executed in India” for the redevelopment and complete overhaul of 400 stations. Prabhu envisioned bringing in private operators to emulate the airport model and leasing them out for a period of 45 years.Over two years later, in October 2019, Niti Aayog stepped in and its chief executive, Amitabh Kant, wrote to then Railway Board chairman VK Yadav about the delay in the implementation of Centre’s plan to redevelop 400 stations and suggested an empowered group of bureaucrats to oversee the redevelopment of 50 of them on a priority basis. “... ministry of railways was required to take up 400 railways station projects to develop them as world-class facilities. Despite the fact that the aforesaid commitment was given for last several years, actual implementation of the same has not happened except for a few isolated cases in which a few stations have been taken up [for redevelopment]...”The railway ministry, on July 1, 2020, began the formal process of allowing private trains on 109 routes—a process that aims to, for the first time, open up one of the government’s most prominent enterprises.Indian Railways plans to introduce private trains on its network in phases, with the first dozen due to start running in the 2023-24 financial year and all 151 by 2027. In its pre-bid meeting, Bombardier Transportation India, Siemens Limited, Alstom Transport India Ltd were among the 23 firms that evinced interest in running private trains in India.The Indian Railways is also considering having private companies operate 90 train stations and is exploring several options—including looking at the arrangements at India’s privately run airports—to determine how best to set up the security infrastructure at these, as HT reported last month. The Railway Board sought the opinion from all principal chief security commissioners of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and all zonal railways on how the security infrastructure for the 90 stations should be set up.The question of fares and pricesAr the heart of the debate against bringing in private players in what has so far remained an almost exclusive public sector preserve is the possibility of increase in prices for citizens.Will private operations lead to an increase in train fares that have remain largely subsidised in the country?There are three elements to this. One, the fares for private trains will be decided by the private concessionaire only, the railway ministry had clarified last year in its tender for 151 private trains to all the interested bidders. This means the prices will be determined by the market, which in turn means there is, indeed, a possibility of higher fares for these trains.However, the second factor is that the operation of private trains is being considered independent to the functioning of regular passenger trains. The ministry has clarified, on several occasions, that this would not impact regular fares.The third factor is the plan to levy a user fee as part of train fares, as the railways plans to raise funds for redeveloping railway stations and modernising infrastructure. The user fee to be levied by the national transporter for the first time is in line with the user development fee (UDF) paid by air passengers. UDF is charged at various airports and the rate varies from city to city.In a press conference last year, then Railway Board chairman VK Yadav said: “We are going to keep a very small amount for the user charge.” Niti Aayog CEO Amitabh Kant too said private investment in Indian Railways will introduce competition and lead to fare reductions in the future. “We want railways to drive India’s growth story. In countries like Japan and South Korea the growth story was also driven by railway infrastructure. We are confident going forward that railways will contribute 1-2% towards India’s growth,” he said at the same press conference.Experts from the private sector believe that the government has both sound rationale for opening up the sector, and a way of cushioning the majority of passengers from fare hikes such a move may entail.Also Read | Railways is public property, will remain so: Piyush Goyal on ‘privatisation’ row“With reduced travel time for passenger trains due to freight traffic moving to dedicated corridors and improved amenities and travel comforts, private passenger trains are likely to compete primarily with budget air travel. With such trains likely to operate only on select routes, the government would continue to operate trains for the cost-conscious segments,” Arindam Guha, Deloitte India’s partner explained. He added that even with regard to modernised stations, much of the investment was likely to be recouped through the development of adjoining land parcels, insulating a large section of passengers from any steep increase in entry fees.The sources of opposition But this has not deterred the Opposition, which is concerned about the larger design and implications of the incremental shifts underway in Indian Railways.Several Opposition parties, during the budget session of Parliament, criticised the government’s plans for privatisation in the rail sector. They alleged that privatisation would favour only a few corporates and lead to a substantial rise in fares.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal stated that Indian Railways will “never be privatised” but added that private investment should also be encouraged to enhance passenger services and improve infrastructure. “Let me make it clear, the Indian Railways will never be privatised, Indian railways is India’s asset and will continue to remain so and belong to the people…If a railway line is installed should there not be the need to ensure good services to the passengers and higher speed trains? And in that if any private investment comes, I feel it should be welcomed,” Goyal said in Parliament earlier this month.In a written response to a Lok Sabha question on whether the government received representation from railway employees and representative bodies objecting to the move to allow the private sector to operate 151 trains, the ministry admitted both the recognised federations: All India Railway men’s Federation (AIRF) and National Federation of Indian Railway men’s (NFIR) had initially represented against the decision to permit operation of passenger trains through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) mode.“Thereafter, several meetings have been held with the Federations to explain the rationale behind this PPP initiative and the fact that the existing passenger train services shall not be affected by the operation of passenger train services through PPP mode,” the ministry said.It clarified: “These services to be operated through PPP mode shall be additional trains and are aimed at increasing the availability of train services to the public. As such, the interest of employees working for the operation of existing train services over Indian Railways will not be affected.”Global comparison As India debates the entry of the private sector in the railways, it is instructive to look at other examples for a comparative perspective.China’s rail network, the second largest in the world and the longest in high-speed rail, is run by a state-owned company—the China State Railway Group Company Limited. The company was created in March 2013 after China decided to dissolve its railway ministry and convert it into a joint-stock company under its finance ministry in 2019.In 2014, the government began pushing Chinese rail projects towards the private sector. The Communist Party of China subsequently drafted a reform master plan seeking to let market play a decisive role in fostering growth and creating jobs. In 2017, the China Railway Corporation said it would spin off some businesses to allow private investors to participate.In Japan, the trajectory was different. In 1987, amid demand for the reform of the Japanese National Railways (JNR), eight Japan Railway (JR) companies were created based on the geography and functions. JNR was privatised in 1987 and broken into six regional rail companies and one freight company. Currently, five of those companies—JR East, JR Central, JR West, JR Kyushu, and JR Freight—are in the black while the JR East, West, Central, and Kyushu are publicly traded.According to a working paper series by the Asian Development Bank Institute the socio-economy of Japan has undergone drastic changes with population aging and shrinking. “Had it not been for privatisations and resultant diversification and transformation of business models, they would have not been profitable and dynamic as today. The consequences from privatisation of JP (Japan Post) and JR are still evolving and could serve important references for developing countries on how to reforms of major SOEs could be done with structural reform and technology development.”The JRs subsequently ventured into commercial and real estate businesses, increasing its non-transport revenues substantially. JRs also have the Shinkansen bullet trains as their primary business and express trains that subsidise other smaller, unprofitable lines.“The JR companies have had to become extremely efficient on their most profitable lines (Shinkansen) due to competition from air travel. JR Central estimates that a Tokyo-Osaka trip takes 2 hours and 22 minutes on the Shinkansen, and 2 hours and 40 minutes on a plane, including travel time to the airport. This has helped the profitable JRs rely on little to no subsidies from the central government,” the Tokyo Review non-profit publishing platform wrote in 2018. But the paper acknowledged the costs of rail privatisation in Japan. “The government took on trillions in long-term JNR debt, putting a ¥14 trillion burden on taxpayers. Privatisation also cost tens of thousands of jobs.” Till 2019, six JR companies have obtained net profits and began exporting its technology and operating system.To take another example, in United Kingdom, the government subsidised National Rail to the tune of £4.2 billion in 2016-2017, and gave £5.7 billion in loans to Network Rail, the public body that manages the UK’s rail infrastructure.“As long as privatisation is done in a manner that it leads to competition and not just transfer of a public sector monopoly to a private sector monopoly, privatisation will be effective. Also, privatisation should lead to cost rationalisations and we should begin to see freight rates dropping. Railway transportation should be cheaper than trucking but high cost and service that requires further improvement, has pushed cargo to trucking, increasing logistics costs in the country and also increasing pollution. We strongly believe that privatisation will mitigate these issues,” said Jaijit Bhattacharya President, Centre for Digital Economy Policy Research.It is in this complex web—of a shift in international practices, enhanced revenue crisis, need to keep up with the competition and alternatives easily available to passengers, and an ideological make up which is open to involving the private sector in key areas—that explains the government’s willingness to open up what was once considered the most critical of India’s public enterprises, because of its daily mass interface—the Indian Railways. But precisely because of this daily mass interface, the need to come across as sensitive to pricing issues and to the more vulnerable segments who use the mode of transport, and the political importance of the railways that the government is keen to emphasise that it is opening up the sector, but not privatising it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-story-of-indian-railways-and-its-tryst-with-privatisation-101617274857901.html
01-04-2021||India||SC dismisses Bihar's plea, imposes cost of ₹20,000 for 'utter wastage' of judicial time||The Supreme Court has dismissed an appeal of the Bihar government and imposed a cost of ₹20,000 on the state for “utter wastage” of judicial time in a matter which was disposed of by the Patna High Court after the parties had jointly agreed for it.A bench of Justices S K Kaul and R S Reddy noted that state government has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the apex court against the September last year order of a division bench of the High Court which had disposed of its plea on “agreed terms”. “Thereafter the disposal is on those agreed terms. Despite this, an SLP has been preferred. We find this a complete abuse of process of court and that too by a state government, apart from being a utter wastage of judicial time,” the bench said.“We thus, dismiss the SLP with costs of ₹20,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Group ‘C’ (Non-Clerical) Employees Welfare Association within four weeks,” the bench said in its March 22 order.The apex court said it is open to the state to recover the cost from officers who were responsible for this “misadventure.”The division bench of the high court had dealt with an appeal filed by the state against the December 2018 judgement passed by a single judge in the matter.The counsel appearing for Bihar had argued before the division bench of high court that the state was aggrieved only with that part of the December 2018 verdict whereby direction was issued for enquiry to be conducted against a public servant subsequent to submission of the charge sheet.“After the matter was heard for some time, counsel jointly prayed that the appeal be disposed of on the agreed terms. Ordered accordingly,” the high court had said.“The observation made, reproduced supra, shall stand omitted to read that criminal investigation and the disciplinary enquiry shall proceed simultaneously,” the high court had said in its September last year order.A single judge of high court had in December 2018 delivered a verdict on a plea filed by the public servant who had challenged a June 2016 memo by which he was served the punishment of major penalty of dismissal from service under the Bihar Government Servant (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rule 2005.An FIR was lodged against him for alleged illegal acquisition of property which was disproportionate to his known source of income and later, he was put under suspension and a departmental proceeding was initiated.The single judge had set aside the order of dismissal contained in the June 2016 memo and had also quashed the enquiry report.It had remanded back the matter to the enquiry officer to conduct inquiry in accordance with law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-dismisses-bihar-s-plea-imposes-cost-of-rs-20-000-for-utter-wastage-of-judicial-time-101617270850386.html
01-04-2021||India||Mufti to challenge J&K HC dismissal of plea for intervention in passport case||After the high court dismissed former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti’s plea for intervention regarding the denial of a passport, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president is planning to challenge the decision.On Monday, Justice Ali Muhammad Magray dismissed the plea of Mehbooba Mufti in which she had demanded the intervention of the court after the police denied her a passport.The plea was dismissed after Assistant Solicitor General of India (ASGI) Tahir Majid Shamsi told the court that police had given an adverse verification report regarding the passport.A senior PDP leader close to Mufti said that she will challenge the decision. “The decision will be challenged and opinion is being sought from legal expert,” he said.Also Read | CID was wary of Mufti speaking against Centre abroad, says officialMufti said that the Centre is undermining the Constitution.“Under BJPs rule, Indian constitution is being undermined time & again. Only option & recourse left is the judiciary. Once they too decide to wash their hands off matters which involve our fundamental rights where does one go?” tweeted Mehbooba Mufti soon after plea was dismissed.Mufti was denied a fresh passport after J&K Police’s Criminal Investigative Department (CID) raised concerns that she could possibly issue statements against the Centre during her stay abroad, officials familiar with the development said.The PDP leader’s passport expired last year in May and both she and her mother Gulshan Nazir had applied for a fresh one in December. Mufti and her mother were planning to travel to Dubai to attend a family function in May, the officials cited above said. Besides Dubai, there was a possibility that the PDP leader would travel to the United States where her older sister resides, they added.While refusing clearance (of fresh passport), the officials cited above said, the CID referred to a few statements made by the former chief minister following the revocation of Article 370 and 35A in 2019, and her release from prison last year.In a letter to Mufti on March 26, the regional passport office had mentioned that the additional director-general of police, J&K CID, had not recommended the issuance of a fresh passport to Mufti.According to officials, the PDP chief’s passport was rejected by the CID wing after her name popped up during an investigation, suggesting her links with certain “anti-national people”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mufti-to-challenge-j-k-hc-dismissal-of-plea-for-intervention-in-passport-case-101617270717276.html
01-04-2021||India||Centre gains record GST revenue of over ₹1 lakh crore for the first time in March||The Centre on Thursday announced that the GST revenue of ₹1,23,902 crore during the month of March has been the highest since the introduction of the new tax regime. The GST revenue for the month is also 27 per cent higher than the revenue earned last year in the same month and shows the trend of recovery over the past five months.The GST revenue for March 2021 broke all record by crossing the ₹1 lakh crore mark as it recorded the GST revenue of ₹123,902 crore of which CGST amounted to ₹22,973 crore and SGST amounted to ₹29,329 crore and IGST of ₹62,842 crore (including ₹31,097 crore on import of goods). Cess of ₹8,757 crore (Including ₹935 crore on import of goods) is also included in the revenue collection.“GST revenues crossed above ₹1 lakh crore mark at a stretch for the last six months and a steep increasing trend over this period are clear indicators of rapid economic recovery post-pandemic,” the Union ministry of finance said on Thursday.Also Read | Twitter reacts after govt withdraws decision to lower small savings rateThe record high in the revenue comes after the growth rate in the first, second, third and fourth quarter of this financial year stood at (-) 41%, (-) 8%, 8% and 14% respectively, hence indicating recovery.Ladakh has contributed significantly to the rise in the revenue collection in March as the growth rate of the Union territory has reported to grow 1,527 per cent between March 2020 and March 2021. On the other hand, the Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Daman and Diu have recorded a negative growth rate of 33 and 97 per cent, respectively.The government also informed that the revenue from the import of goods for March 2020 was 70 per cent higher than that of the previous year and the revenue from domestic transactions including import of services rose 17 per cent on a year-on-year basis.The government has settled over ₹21,000 crore to CGST and more than ₹17,000 crore to SGST from IGST as a regular settlement with the settlement of ₹28,000 crore as IGST ad-hoc settlement in the ratio of 50:50 between Centre and states/UTs. After all the settlements, the revenue of the Centre and the states for the month of March stands at ₹58,852 crore from CGST and ₹60,559 crore from SGST.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-gains-record-gst-revenue-of-over-rs-1-lakh-crore-for-the-first-time-in-march-101617269028460.html
01-04-2021||India||CBI takes over probe in Walayar sexual assault, death of minor sisters||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered two cases in Walayar sexual assault and death of two minor Dalit sisters in 2017 in Kerala. The Kerala high court had ordered a CBI probe in the matter on March 19. The case had led to public outcry and protests in the state after the accused persons were acquitted by a trial court in October 2019. The older of the siblings, aged 13, was found dead inside their one-room hut on January 13, 2017 while the younger one, 9, was found hanging on March 4 the same year. They both were allegedly sexually assaulted.The state police’s crime branch conducted an investigation into the cases and arrested four persons. Two of the accused, Valya Madhu and Kutti Madhu, are girls’ mother’s close relatives while Shibu is a former co-worker of her parents. Pradeep Kumar, yet another accused, was a neighbour. In all, there were five accused in the case. The same year, a special court for Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) cases acquitted all the accused arrested in the case on the ground that the prosecution failed to prove the case against them. After public outcry, the state government, on November 18, 2019, removed the public prosecutor who handled the case.Ordering a retrial in the case in January this year, the Kerala high court had observed that there was “miscarriage of justice” and directed the accused to appear before the trial court on January 20.The judges observed that they have no hesitation in holding that the trial had been “lowered to the level of mock trials”. It also allowed the prosecution to seek permission from the trial court for further probe into the matter. The bench observed that the initial part of the investigation in the case was “utterly disgusting”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-takes-over-probe-in-walayar-sexual-assault-death-of-minor-sisters-101617270117583.html
01-04-2021||India||Lt Gen Manjinder Singh is new chief of staff at Western Command headquarters||Lieutenant general Manjinder Singh took over as the chief of staff, headquarters, Western Command on Thursday and paid homage to the martyrs at ‘Veer Smriti’ war memorial at the command headquarters.General Manjinder Singh is an alumnus of Sainik School Kapurthala, National Defence Academy and the Indian Military Academy and was commissioned into 19 MADRAS Regiment on 20 December 1986. In an illustrious career spanning over 34 years, he served in various sensitive operational sectors including important command and staff appointments. He has commanded a battalion in an intense counter insurgency environment in Jammu and Kashmir; an infantry brigade at the Line of Control (LoC) and an infantry division as part of the Strike Corps.During his service, the general has been an instructor at the Indian Military Academy (IMA) and the Indian Military Training Team at Bhutan. He has attended various prestigious courses such as the Defence Services Staff College, Higher Command and also had the distinction to attend the National Defence College at Thailand.For his exemplary leadership and devotion to duty towards the nation, the general was decorated with the Yudh Seva Medal in 2015 and Vishisht Seva Medal in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lt-gen-manjinder-singh-is-new-chief-of-staff-at-western-command-headquarters-101617268375917.html
01-04-2021||India||Ongoing Mahabharat in Bengal fiercer than real one, says Sanjay Raut||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday said the results of Assembly polls in four states, specially Assam and West Bengal, will decide the next course of national politics.Talking to reporters here, Raut said the BJP is in power in Assam, but the Congress has put up a tough fight.In West Bengal, even though the BJP has put all its might to defeat (Chief Minister and Trinamool Congress head) Mamata Banerjee, she has fought like a tigress and is "sure to emerge the winner", he claimed."We can also gauge the mood in Kerala and Tamil Nadu," the Rajya Sabha member said.Banerjee on Wednesday wrote a letter to non-BJP leaders, including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, saying time has come for a "united and effective" struggle against the BJP's alleged attacks on democracy and the Constitution, and that opposition leaders should try present a "credible alternative" to the people of the country.When asked about the letter, Raut said, "The results of polls in four states, specially Assam and West Bengal, will decide the next course of national politics. After the elections, the nature of alliances will be discussed and a clarity will be there."Even Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has received a letter from her, he said.Raut also said the "ongoing Mahabharat" in West Bengal is more fierce than the real Mahabharat."Prime Minister Narendra Modi had said the battle of Mahabharat was won in 21 days and we will fight the war against coronavirus in 18 days and win. But, we haven't," the Sena's chief spokesperson said.Raut said the entire country is watching the West Bengal polls and people of that are also intelligent."No doubt the battle is tough, but Mamata Banerjee will win," he claimed.Raut also said the "attack" on democracy in the country is not new."Whenever there is an attack, people and opposition parties have fought back. This is the strength of our democracy," he said.On differences among political parties in Maharashtra over the need for a fresh lockdown in the state, as it has seen a huge surge in coronavirus cases, Raut said there should be no politics over the fight against Covid-19."Whatever steps will be taken, will be in the interest of the state and its people," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ongoing-mahabharat-in-bengal-fiercer-than-real-one-says-sanjay-raut-101617265166852.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccinations to be carried out on all days of April, says Union health ministry||The Union health ministry on Thursday said that it will carry out Covid-19 vaccination every day in the month of April, including gazetted holidays, in a bid to speed up the ongoing inoculation drive.“In a significant step to exponentially expand the countrywide Vaccination drive, the Centre has decided to operationalize both public and private sector Covid Vaccination Centres (CVCs) on all days of month of April (from today till 30th April 2021),” the ministry said in a release.The Centre has widened the scope and extent of Covid-19 vaccination drive by rolling it out for those 45 years of age and above, irrespective of co-morbidities, from April 1. The ministry is said to have taken this initiative after detailed deliberations with states and union territories on March 31 in order to ensure maximum utilisation of the available resources in aiding the pace and coverage of the inoculation program.“This step has been taken after detailed deliberations with the States/UTs on 31st March, 2021 to optimally utilize all Covid Vaccination Centres across the public and private sectors to ensure rapid increase in the pace and coverage of Covid vaccination,” the ministry's release further stated, adding that “this decision is in line with the graded and pro-active approach employed by the Government of India along with the States/UTs for Covid-19 vaccination,”India has so far administered more than 6.5 crore vaccine doses in the ongoing countrywide Covid-19 inoculation drive. Along with vaccination of those 45 years and above, walk-in registrations have also been allowed after 3 pm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccinations-to-be-carried-out-on-all-days-of-april-says-union-health-ministry-101617267294344.html
01-04-2021||India||'Immensely humbled': Rajinikanth replies to PM Modi after winning Dadasaheb Phalke award||Actor Rajinikanth on Thursday expressed his gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the government of India for honouring him with the prestigious Dadasaheb Phalke award."Immensely humbled and honoured with your greetings and the most prestigious #DadasahebPhalkeAward award respected and dearest Shri @narendramodi ji. My heartfelt thanks to you and the government of india," Rajinikanth tweeted.The actor's response came after PM Modi congratulated him. "Popular across generations, a body of work few can boast of, diverse roles and an endearing personality...that's Shri @rajinikanth Ji for you. It is a matter of immense joy that Thalaiva has been conferred with the Dadasaheb Phalke Award. Congratulations to him," PM Modi said in a tweet.Rajinikanth also thanked Union information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar and the jury for conferring upon him the award. "My heartfelt thanks to the government of india, respected & dearest @narendramodi ji, @PrakashJavdekar ji and the jury for conferring upon me the prestigious #DadasahebPhalkeAward I sincerely dedicate it to all those who have been a part of my journey. Thanks to the almighty," he added.Earlier in the day, Javadekar made the announcement on his Twitter handle. "Happy to announce #Dadasaheb Phalke award for 2019 to one of the greatest actors in history of Indian cinema Rajnikant ji. His contribution as actor, producer and screenwriter has been iconic," Javadekar tweeted.Javadejkar further said, "India every year gives Dadasaheb Phalke award to a film personality. This year this selection has been made by a jury comprising Asha Bhonsle, Mohanlal, Biswajit Chatterjee, Shankar Mahadevan and Subhash Ghai."The award is named after the father of Indian cinema - Dhundiraj Govind Phalke - and was instituted in 1969. The award is conferred by the government of India for outstanding contribution to the growth and development of Indian Cinema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/immensely-humbled-rajinikanth-replies-to-pm-modi-after-winning-dadasaheb-phalke-award-101617264140503.html
01-04-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee's letter to non-BJP leaders symbolises her 'despair': Javadekar||Senior BJP leader Prakash Javadekar on Thursday said TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee's letter to non-BJP leaders symbolises her "despair" as she knows that not only is she losing from the Nandigram seat but her party is also going to be dislodged from power in West Bengal.In a letter to the non-BJP leaders including Congress chief Sonia Gandhi released by the Trinamool Congress(TMC) on Wednesday, Banerjee said the time has come for a "united and effective" struggle against the BJP's alleged attacks on democracy and the Constitution, and that opposition leaders should try present a "credible alternative" to the people of the country.Asked about the letter at a press conference where he announced the Dadasaheb Phalke award for Rajinikanth, Javadekar said, "Mamata Banerjee's letter sybolises her despair. She has understood that she is losing, not just herself in Nandigram, but the TMC is also going to be dislodged from power, and because of that she is even urging the Congress, which is fighting against her, to unite with her."This letter is about her survival, the Information and Broadcasting Minister added.He refused to answer another question on West Bengal polls, saying the press meet was for the Dadasaheb Phalke award.The letter by Banerjee came on the eve of the second phase of the Assembly polls in West Bengal in which she is locked in a fierce fight in Nandigram constituency against her protege turned adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP.Besides Sonia Gandhi, the letter has been sent to chief ministers Uddhav Thackeray(Maharashtra-Shiv Sena), Hemant Soren(Jharkhand-JMM), Arvind Kejriwal(Delh-AAP), Naveen Patnaik(Odisha-BJD) and Jagan Reddy(Andhra Pradesh--YSR Congress), NCP's Sharad Pawar, DMK's MK Stalin, Samajwadi Party's Akhilesh Yadav, RJD's Tejashwi Yadav, NC’s Farooq Abdullah, PDP’s Mehbooba Mufti and CPI(ML)’s Dipankar Bhattacharya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-s-letter-to-non-bjp-leaders-symbolises-her-despair-javadekar-101617265775678.html
01-04-2021||India||Travel from Delhi to Meerut in just 45 minutes. All you need to know about the new expressway||It will only take 45 minutes to travel from Delhi to Meerut in Uttar Pradesh as the much-awaited Delhi-Meerut Expressway was thrown open to the public on Thursday. Union minister of road, transport and highways Nitin Gadkari on Thursday announced the completion of the project, adding that the government fulfilled the promise of reducing the travel time between the two cities from 2.5 hours to just 45 minutes.“Delhi Meerut Expressway has now been completed & opened to traffic. We have fulfilled our promise of reducing travel time between Delhi - Meerut from 2.5 hours to 45 minutes,” Gadkari said on Twitter, along with a video of the project.Delhi Meerut Expressway has now been completed & opened to traffic. We have full filled our promise of reducing travel time between Delhi - Meerut from 2.5 hours to 45 minutes. #PragatiKaHighway pic.twitter.com/OgFyOJ5QLsHere’s all you need to know about the expressway:What opened for public on Thursday are the second and fourth phases of the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME). The first phase i.e. Akshardham to UP Gate of 14 km and 22-km-long phase 3 from Dasna to Hapur are already operational. The phase 2 of 19 km links UP Gate and Dasna and phase 4 of 32 km link Dasna and Meerut.The project has been developed at the cost of ₹8,346 crore.The 82-km-long expressway connecting the cities has 60 km of expressway and 22 km of national highway.Twenty four small and big bridges, 10 flyovers, three railway bridges, 95 underpasses and several pedestrian bridges have been constructed on the expressway.For the safety of the commuters, more than 4,500 lights and cameras have been installed on the entire road.Over 2.5 meters cycle corridor and 2 meters-wide footpath have been drawn alongside the roads on phase 1 and phase 2 of the expressway for the safety of the pedestrians and cyclists.In order to make the corridor a smart expressway, weather, travel and other details about the expressway will be provided to the commuters during their transit.The expressway will also be using the automatic number plate reader (ANPR) technology, which uses high definition high speed cameras to tax tolls without the need of the vehicles to stop, thus avoiding unnecessary traffic and saving fuel.The expressway will also reduce the time to travel from the national capital to the state of Uttarakhand. Besides, Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, cities in Uttarakhand like Haridwar and Dehradun will also not remain a faraway destination.Several exits and entry points have been provided in the expressway for smoother connectivity like the eastern peripheral expressway, Akshardham, Dundahera, Sarai Kale Khan, Dasna, Indrapuram and Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/travel-from-delhi-to-meerut-in-just-45-minutes-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-new-expressway-101617263676427.html
01-04-2021||India||Constable killed in terror attack on senior BJP leader’s house guard in Srinagar||A police constable died in a terror attack on a senior BJP leader in Srinagar on Thursday, said Jammu and Kashmir police. The cop was injured when the house guard of BJP leader Anwar Khan was attacked at Naugam. The constable later succumbed to the injuries received in the attack."One sentry Rameez Ahmad was critically injured in the attack. He succumbed to his injuries," said Srinagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Sandeep Choudhary.Soon after the attack, the police and army personnel launched a search and cordon operation in the area.This is the second attack by terrorists in Srinagar in the last one week and the third in Kashmir, resulting in the deaths of three CRPF jawans, two policemen and two councillors. Soon after these back to back attacks, IG Kashmir Vijay Kumar chaired a high level meeting to review the security arrangements in Kashmir, especially Srinagar, where several protected persons reside. SSP Srinagar Sandeep Choudhary also visited several hotels to review the security arrangements. IG Kashmir earlier admitted to security lapses in Sopore and suspended four policemen who were on duty when the attack took place in the office of Sopore Municipal Council on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/constable-killed-in-terror-attack-on-senior-bjp-leader-s-house-guard-in-srinagar-101617263289383.html
01-04-2021||India||Twitter reacts after govt withdraws decision to lower small savings rate||Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman’s comments blaming oversight for cutting interest rates on small savings schemes to an over four-decade low drew flak from the Opposition on social media. The comments came as the government rolled back its decision to lower the rates.“Really @nsitharaman ‘oversight’ in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI [government of India] schemes or election driven ‘hindsight’ in withdrawing it?” tweeted Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra minutes after the order was withdrawn.Really @nsitharaman “oversight” in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven “hindsight” in withdrawing it? https://t.co/Duimt8daZuThe interest rate on Public Provident Fund was lowered from 7.1% to 6.4%, and that on National Savings Certificates from 6.8% to 5.9% for the June quarter. The Senior Citizens Savings Scheme rate was cut from 7.4% to 6.5%. The rate on Sukanya Samriddhi Scheme, the highest paying small savings instrument, was lowered from 7.6% to 6.9%.Also Read | Hours after announcing it, govt withdraws cuts in rates for small saving schemesCongress leader Salman Anees Soz took a jibe at the inconsistency of decisions of the minister and tweeted: “I am joining BJP.” In another tweet, Soz said his earlier comment was an “oversight”.This tweet was due to an oversight. It is withdrawn. https://t.co/oYQ2JGlxMUTrinamool Congress lawmaker Mahua Moitra cited Sitharaman’s statement and tweeted: “What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now-rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by ‘oversight’? Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is Fin Min of this country?”What is the biggest April Fool’s joke here? That a now- rolled back small savings rate cut was issued by “oversight”? Or that Nirmala Sitaraman is Fin Min of this country?Congress leader Randeep Surjewala wrote Sitharaman has “no moral right to continue as a finance minister”. “Madam FM [finance minister], Are u running a ‘Circus’ or a ‘Govt’? One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order?”Madam FM,Are u running a ‘Circus’ or a ‘Govt’?One can imagine the functioning of economy when such duly approved order affecting crores of people can be issued by an ‘oversight’. Who is the competent authority referred in order?You have no moral right to continue as FM. pic.twitter.com/czRv5MY7O8In a tweet, former Union finance minister Yashwant Sinha said: “I am very sad today. I thought I alone had the monopoly of roll backs. This govt has outdone even me. Labour laws, small savings interest rates are a couple of examples. Roll Back Modi.”I am very sad today. I thought I alone had the monopoly of roll backs. This govt has outdone even me. Labour laws, small savings interest rates are a couple of examples. Roll Back Modi.Gopal Agarwal, spokesperson on economic affairs said, “I appreciate the concern of FM Nirmala Sitharaman, interest rate cut for small savings. Post COVID interest income is one of the main source of income for common men. Any reduction is uncalled for. Surely FM will look into the faux pas on the issue by the ministry officials.”(With inputs by Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitharamans-comments-blaming-oversight-for-cutting-interest-rates-draw-flak-101617262676922.html
01-04-2021||India||Theft in Mausi Maa temple near Jagannath Puri||Unidentified miscreants broke into a famous 14th century temple in Odisha’s Puri town late Wednesday night and decamped with ₹4,000, said police. The thieves stole the money from the donation box after entering the Mausi Maa temple, situated about 500 metres from the 12th century Jagannath temple, on Grand Road after cutting the lock on its main door."The robbers stole ₹4000 from the donation box. The initial report of ornaments and sarees being stolen from the temple is not true. We are investigating the incident," said Puri SP Kanwar Vishal Singh.Goddess Mausima, also known as Ardhasoshini, plays an important role during the annual Rath Yatra of Lord Jagannath. On the day of Bahuda Jatra, when the three chariots of Lord Jagannath, Balabhadra and goddess Subhadra are pulled back to the Jagannath temple, the chariot of Jagannath stops in front of Mausi Maa temple for a while. Here, Lord Jagannth accepts 'Poda Pitha', his favourite rice cake from Mausima, his aunt. The chariots ofBalabhadra and Subhadra are pulled to the main temple without any halt.In January this year, robbers broke into 13th-century Sri Gopinathdev temple at Kakudia under Pipili area of Puri district and stole old metallic idols. The robbers were arrested last month.Similarly, in December last year, at least 22 antique idols, some of them made up of Ashtadhatu alloy, were stolen from the 13th century Daksha Prajapati temple in Banpur town of Khurda district. The idols were made of ashtadhatu (alloy of gold, silver, copper, zinc, lead, tin, iron and mercury).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/theft-in-mausi-maa-temple-near-jagannath-puri-101617261924029.html
01-04-2021||India||8 states contribute over 84% to India’s daily tally of Covid-19 cases: Govt||Eight states continued to show a sharp rise in their daily Covid-19 tally, and accounted for 84.61% of the news cases recorded in the last 24 hours, Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Thursday. These eight states are: Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.India recorded 72,330 new cases of Covid-19 on Thursday, the highest single-day spike since October 11 last year. Maharashtra continued to be the worst affected state, reporting 39,544 new cases on Wednesday evening. With 4,563 cases, Chhattisgarh trailed close behind. Karnataka is at the third position with 4,225 cases, according to data released by the health ministry on Thursday.Click here for full coverage on coronavirusMaharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala also accounted for 83.01% of the 459 new fatalities recorded on Thursday. Maharashtra witnessed 227 fatalities, the highest number of deaths in the state since October last year, followed by Punjab (55) and Chhattisgarh (39).#Unite2FightCoronaMaharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh continue to report steep rise in Daily New Cases; account for 84.61% of new cases registered in the last 24 hours.https://t.co/zQSwBwxU93 pic.twitter.com/GxW5EwHf7gMaharashtraMaharashtra recorded 39,544 new cases of Covid-19 and 227 deaths on Wednesday. Capital city of Mumbai recorded 5399 new cases and 15 deaths. The total tally of cases in India’s worst affected state now stands at 28,12,980.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh recorded 4563 cases of Covid-19, its highest single day spike since the pandemic began. It is currently the second worst affected state in the country. Night curfews have been imposed in 22 districts of the state to tackle the recent surge.KarnatakaKarnataka recorded 4225 cases of Covid-19, its highest single day spike this year. The district of Bengaluru urban continued to report the maximum number of cases, contributing 2,928 cases to the state’s tally alone.PunjabPunjab recorded 2,944 Covid-19 cases, becoming the fourth worst affected state in the country. Chief minister Amarinder Singh while urging citizens to abide by Covid appropriate behaviour warned of stricter curbs if the state’s Covid-19 situation does not improve in a week.KeralaKerala reported 2653 cases of Covid-19, and a rise in positivity rate, which shot up to 5. 37%. The state also recorded 15 fatalities, taking the death toll to 4621.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu recorded 2579 new cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday evening. The state government has ramped up their test-track-treat protocol and extended the ongoing Covid-19 lockdown till April 30.GujaratGujarat recorded 2360 cases of Covid-19, its highest single day spike since the pandemic began last year. The state also recorded 9 fatalities.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh reported 2,332 new cases of Covi-19 infections, taking the state wide tally to 2,95,511. 9 fatalities were also recorded on Wednesday. The city of Indore contributed 643 cases to the state’s tally.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-contribute-over-84-to-india-s-daily-tally-of-covid-19-cases-101617261730869.html
01-04-2021||India||A year on, popular foreigner haunts in Goa remain abandoned||Willy D’Souza sits at a table inside his shack and stares listlessly at the few tourists walking along Arambol beach in north Goa.Around this time of the year, his shack is full and the beach teeming with tourists, most of them foreigners. This year, he stacked up his plastic chairs and deck beds in one corner of the shack, did not lay out any tables and, despite the board outside advertising the freshest fish, kept his kitchen closed. “These few tourists you see walking about, they do not come to stay. They are here to visit. They will spend a few hours at the beach and in the water and then head to another beach or back to their hotel,” D’Souza says. The pandemic hit Goa’s environment sector hard, but while the uptick in tourism towards the end of last year and early this year brought respite to tourism stakeholders, some of Goa’s beach villages that depend on foreign tourists more than others are yet to experience the recovery. Also Read | From Delhi to Goa: Restrictions in place to contain Covid-19 ahead of festivalsArambol and its neighbour Mandrem are popular haunts for foreign tourists, especially Russians and other Europeans, who make these once-sleepy fishing villages their home for six months or longer sometimes. Arambol village today is synonymous with those seeking an alternative lifestyle, low-impact holidaying, and peace and quiet away from the bustling beaches of Calangute and Candolim. The Arambol Community, as the collective of foreign tourists who stayed here long-term is called, even organises its own carnival and participates in community clean-up drives. After the nationwide lockdown was imposed late last March to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, tourists slowly left in relief flights that were arranged by their respective countries, the shacks shuttered and the village emptied out. One year later, while other, more popular beaches in Goa have seen businesses (that rely mainly on Indian tourists) reopen, in Arambol, life is not the same. The narrow lanes leading to the beach that were once teeming with foreigners now make for a smooth drive. The street shops and tattoo studios that have reopened see little footfall, and while there still are some foreign tourists around, locals say that they are the ones who are overstaying their visas or who don’t have any intention of going back, ever. The Union government’s decision to suspend tourist visas and keep fresh visas on hold has crippled villages like Arambol. Repeated representations to the Central government by the state’s tourism lobby to permit foreign tourists to arrive as part of air bubble arrangements are yet to be acceded to. “The government kept promising us that the charters will resume later in the season, and we set up our shacks hopeful of the arrivals, but till date nothing has been done,” D’Souza says. Today while the shacks and street shops have reopened, business is thin, but it is homestay and guesthouse owners who are counting their mounting losses. Also Read | CJI Bobde hails Goa’s Uniform Civil Code, says it is what Constitutional framers envisaged for India“I used to make around ₹15 lakh annually from my guest house,” Inacio Daniel D’Souza, also a resident of Arambol, says. A four-time member of the Arambol village panchayat, Inacio D’Souza has shuttered his 10-room guest house in March last year and is yet to reopen. He now survives solely from the income he earns from his liquor store. “There are around 500 guest houses and hostels in Arambol and the others too have suffered a similar loss. Only those who are running liquor shops have managed to revive some business, but the others have had to fall back on traditional occupations like fishing to sustain themselves,” Inacio D’Souza says. “To make matters worse for us, not only have we received no support from the government, but we also have inflation to contend with. The prices of everything have gone up,” Inacio D’Souza says. Down in south Goa, in Agonda and Palolem, two other beach haunts that are popular with foreign tourists, the situation appears to be a little better. “We were entirely dependent on foreign tourists who made up the bulk of our clientele. This year, thankfully, that gap has been partly bridged by tourists from within India. We are getting by with what’s available to us,” Stevie Rodrigues, a hotel and restaurant owner from Agonda, says. According to a survey commissioned by the Goa government and conducted by consultancy firm KPMG, the state’s tourism industry is roughly estimated to have suffered losses to the tune of ₹2,000- ₹7,200 crore due to the pandemic, and job losses in the range of 35-58%.Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to 8 million domestic tourists and more than 900,000 foreign touristsaccording to state government statistics. Foreign tourists are considered higher value tourists as they typically stay longer and consequently spend more. According to the survey, the industry’s direct contribution is estimated at 16.43% of the state GDP which is valued at around $10 billion and about 35% of the population is directly employed in the sector.March offered a glimmer of hope with Air India announcing that flights between Goa and Moscow would resume, but with Covid-19 cases back on the rise, stakeholders are sceptical. “Tourist numbers (from within India) that until about a week ago were quite decent, are beginning to fall once again. And if cases increase, they will fall further,” Rodrigues adds. But all is not lost for those once dependent on foreign tourists: just a few months ago, singer-songwriter Lucky Ali made Arambol his home for a few days and cheered the locals and tourists alike with an impromptu rendition of his song ‘O Sanam’. The video quickly went viral on social media, elevating the village’s standing as the go-to destination for offbeat, alternative tourism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-year-on-popular-foreigner-haunts-in-goa-remain-abandoned-101617261776976.html
01-04-2021||India||Govt announces rollback of decision to cut rates on small savings; Congress takes a jibe: 10 points||Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced on Thursday rolling back of the steep interest cut on small saving schemes such as Public Provident Fund (PPF) and National Savings Certificates (NSC) for the June quarter. Sitharaman said it was an oversight.The announcement gave ammo to the opposition which quickly attacked the government over the U-turn, saying it was done with elections in "hindsight".The government routinely announces interest rates for small saving schemes at the end of every quarter.Here are the latest developments on the government's decision to withdraw the interest rate cut:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rolls-back-decision-to-cut-rates-on-small-savings-oppn-reacts-10-points-101617260811086.html
01-04-2021||India||Highest single day Covid spike in Chhattisgarh, night curfew in 22 districts||Chhattisgarh recorded fresh 4,563 Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic, officials said. The state also recorded thirty-nine Covid-19 related deaths on the same day, taking the toll to 4,170. On the positive side, 1.22 lakh residents above the age of 60 were vaccinated on Wednesday, the state's highest single-day vaccination count.Raipur and Durg districts topped the list with 1,291 and 1,199 fresh cases reported respectively on Wednesday. Officials also said that with 38,420 samples tested on Wednesday, the overall test count in the state had reached 5,757,804.To deal with the sharp spike in the second wave of the disease, 22 out of the 27 districts of the state, including capital Raipur, have imposed a night curfew. Operations of all kinds of temporary and permanent shops will be allowed only between 6am and 9pm while restaurants, dhabas and hotels will be allowed to operate indoor dining facilities between 8am and 10pm. While in some districts shops will have to shut down an hour early at 8 pm, petrol pumps and medicine stores have been exempted from the restrictions.Raipur district administration has stated that all business establishments, including their employees and customers will have to wear masks and ensure strict compliance to social distancing protocol.Meanwhile, Chhattisgarh health minister T S Singh Deo has asked officials to increase testing to 40,000 samples per day and add more oxygen supply-equipped beds in Covid hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-covid-spike-in-chhattisgarh-night-curfew-in-22-districts-101617259314954.html
01-04-2021||India||Haridwar Kumbh 2021: NMCG develops infrastructure to stop sewage water flowing into Ganga||An ancient city located on the banks of River Ganga, Haridwar is expanding rapidly. Being a popular pilgrimage site, the city also witnesses a massive floating population as each day pilgrims come to bathe at the holy river to get rid of their sins.The number of visitors grows manifold during the festivals, especially the month-long Kumbh fair.The National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) has been tirelessly endeavouring to ensure that pilgrims get a cleaner Ganga at this holy site with no flow of sewage water.It has intercepted all major and minor sources of river pollution under the Namami Gange Programme.Rajiv Ranjan Mishra, Director General of National Mission for Clean Ganga said, "We added lots of new projects, in Sarai and in Jagjeetpur, and now 145 MLD capacities very much there in Haridwar, and 113 and 115 MLDs have actually been used. So we are fully geared up in Haridwar to meet any kind of sewage pollution, not even for the present load but even for the future"."Similarly, any flow coming from the Rishikesh side or Muni ki Reti, so all those projects have been completed. A few months back, the Prime Minister inaugurated all those projects. So, one thing is that we have kept Haridwar fully prepared to meet any kind of pollution load and keep river Ganga free from raw sewage entering into the river", he said.The key projects in Haridwar have included intercepting major drains falling into the river and diverting them to Sewage Treatment Plants.Kassawan Nullah, one of the biggest drains that would contaminate the river severely has been tapped entirely and diverted to the STP.Rozy Aggarwal, Executive Director (Finance) at National Mission for Clean Ganga said, "There was a very notorious Kassawan Nala which could have been by people when they were going from Delhi towards Haridwar. That Kassawan Nala, which used to drain sewage into Ganga in a couple of years back, has been completely stopped, and no sewage is now going to Haridwar and even upper reaches in Uttarakhand in the river Ganga, so that is a kind of preparation which we have done for upcoming Kumbh".Inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the tech-equipped expansion of 68 MLD STP at Jagjeetpur is instrumental in treating the sewage load that compounds during massive festive gatherings like Kumbh.Built at a cost of 230 crores, the STP achieved its current strength a few months ago.Another 14 MLD STP at Sarai, developed a little over a year ago under the Hybrid Annuity Model will add to the comprehensive campaign of protecting and rejuvenating the river.The Kassawan Nullah sewage is also treated at Sarai only.RK Jain, Project Manager, Uttarakhand Pey Jal in Haridwar said, "We have installed 68 MLD STP in Jagjeetpur and 14 MLD STP in Sarai under Namami Gange project. Not only this, but we have also tapped five polluted wastewater and 17 others. We usually witness Kumba Mela and other holy festivals in Haridwar, so to cater a huge population we have 145 MLD capacities to meet any kind of pollution".Yogesh Rathore, Plan Incharge at Sarai STP told ANI, "The filling and aeration process is being done by air followed by the settlement process. We then take it into sludge thickener and later by mixing chlorine, we release the clean water".To the Hindus, the Ganga is a sacred river, and any town or city on its banks is believed to be blessed.Haridwar is a paradise for the pilgrims who throng the Ghats of the river to attain nirvana.The government of India through the National Mission for Clean Ganga has not just been providing a cleaner and conducive holy site to them but working in the larger interest of all inhabitants along the course of the river.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haridwar-kumbh-2021-nmcg-develops-infrastructure-to-stop-sewage-water-flowing-into-ganga-101617259083541.html
01-04-2021||India||India's annual power usage falls for first time in 35 years due to lockdowns||India's annual electricity usage fell for the first time in at least 35 years in the fiscal year to March, a Reuters analysis of government data showed, mainly due to strict coronavirus-induced lockdowns across the country.Power generation fell 0.2% during the year 2020/21, compared with the previous year, an analysis of daily load despatch data from federal grid operator POSOCO showed, mainly due to the imposition of lockdowns that resulted in a decline in electricity production for six straight months ending in August.Demand for electricity has picked up since, and generation grew 23.3% in March from a year earlier, the data showed, making it the seventh consecutive monthly increase and the fastest since March 2010.Power generation in March grew much faster than the average increase in the last six months, mainly because India had imposed an intense nationwide lockdown in the last week of March 2020, resulting in a dramatic fall in power usage.Electricity demand has been steadily increasing this year due to a pickup in industrial activity and amid higher temperatures being recorded in March in North India, which could have led to higher use of air conditioning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-annual-power-usage-falls-for-first-time-in-35-years-due-to-lockdowns-101617258013864.html
01-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh to distribute booklets on Constitution among students||The Chhattisgarh government plans to distribute around 5.7 million booklets on the Constitution among class 1 to 12 students free of cost in the next academic to raise awareness about constitutionalism, officials aware of the matter said. The booklet for class 1 to class 8 will focus on the basic features of the Constitution.The officials said the printing of the booklets was going on and their distribution will be done before their inclusion in the school curriculum.At a special assembly session to mark Constitution Day in 2019, the Chhattisgarh government announced its plans to provide these booklets to students. Chhattisgarh Textbook Corporation chairman Shailesh Nitin Trivedi said the booklets will cost ₹8.40 crore. He added they are spending their profits on the booklets. “The students of today are leaders of tomorrow and it is very important for them to understand the constitutional values. Thorough knowledge of the Constitution will ensure their understanding of the functioning of democracy and strengthen their trust in it.”Also Read | Restrictions hit Chhattisgarh districts as state logs 3,180 new Covid-19 casesParivesh Mishra, a political commentator, said the Constitution came into force in 1950, but no organised effort has been made to educate the masses about it.“As the Bharatiya Janata Party came to power in many states, it tried to bring changes to school syllabus and textbooks. Interpretation of what the Congress sees as the core provisions like secularism became the prime targets,” Mishra said.Mishra said for the first time in Congress’s history, it has launched a department focussed on the 10-17-year age group. “The idea is to inculcate respect among them for the Constitution and the values that would make them responsible and informed citizens. A pilot project under the banner Jawahar Bal Manch is running in a few states including Chhattisgarh. The latest move of the Chhattisgarh government to make the study of the Constitution in schools mandatory seems an extension of the same idea and is laudable.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-to-distribute-booklets-on-constitution-among-students-101617256496554.html
01-04-2021||India||PM Modi pays tributes to Shivakumara Swamiji on his birth anniversary||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday paid tributes to late Shivakumara Swamiji of Siddaganga Math, a prominent Lingayat seminary in Karnataka, on his birth anniversary, and said his noble thoughts and ideals are deeply inspiring."I bow to His Holiness Dr. Sree Sree Sree Sivakumara Swamigalu on his Jayanti. His innumerable efforts to serve society and care for the poor are widely remembered. We are deeply inspired by his noble thoughts and ideals," Modi tweeted.The Swamiji, who was known as the 'Walking God' among his countless followers, had passed away in January, 2019 at the age of 111.Known as "trivida dasohi" for his triple sacraments - food, shelter and education - among his followers, Shivakumara Swamiji was considered as the incarnation of Basavanna, the 12th century social reformer, as he accepted all irrespective of their religion or caste.There has been a growing clamour from people of different walks of life, including politicians, for conferring "Bharat Ratna" on the late Swamiji.After Swamiji's demise, the then Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy had written to Modi urging him to confer the country's highest civilian order on the late seer.Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa also tweeted paying tributes to the Swamiji and said, "his life itself is a message, the path he walked is a path of achievement. Let his grace on the state, continue forever."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-pays-tributes-to-shivakumara-swamiji-on-his-birth-anniversary-101617254889639.html
01-04-2021||India||At 44.2 degree C, Bhubaneswar breaks 78 year record for temperature in March||Bhubaneswar on Wednesday registered the highest temperature recorded in the month of March with the mercury reaching 44.2 degree Celsius in the city for the first time since 1948, when it was first made Odisha's capital. The city’s previous high of 42.2 degree C was recorded on March 21, 2016, said officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre.Apart from Bhubaneswar, temperatures in 12 other cities in Odisha went past the 40-degree Celsius mark. Baripada, which recorded a temperature of 44.6 degree Celsius on Tuesday, the highest in the country, too sizzled at 43.6°C.In February too, Bhubaneswar's maximum temperature broke its last 58 years record as it soared past the 40-degree Celsius mark.Officials said the heat wave, which was likely to continue for another 24 hours was due to the influence of dry westerly winds prevailing in the lower levels and local heating and contraction of dry air near surface level.According to the Met department officials, heat wave conditions were likely to prevail at many places along with severe heat wave at isolated places in as many as 21 districts of the state including Sundargarh, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj, Deogarh, Bargarh, Angul, Dhenkanal, Sonepur, Boudh, Kandhamal, Nuapada, Balangir, Kalahandi, Nayagarh, Khordha, Cuttack, Jajpur, Bhadrak and Balasore.Earlier in March, the heat wave led to wildfires in Similipal tiger reserve of Mayurbhanj district, engulfing and endangering the flora and fauna in the park. According to officials, the forest fire spread to over 47 different areas under the south zone of Similipal forest range. On Tuesday, Baripada town of Mayurbhanj recorded 44.6 degree Celsius temperature, the highest in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/at-44-2-degree-c-bhubaneswar-breaks-78-year-record-for-temperature-in-march-101617254114420.html
01-04-2021||India||Most of India to experience heatwaves in April-June: What IMD said||As parts of the country experience a heatwave, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) has warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of India will be above normal between April and June. Here is all you need to know about the warning:• Scientists said the heatwave was being recorded in a very large area covering east, central, and northwest India in March. • This has happened quite early this year. • Over the past 10 years, heatwaves have occurred in April• They used to start mainly in May before that. • But this time, very high temperatures have been recorded in March also, mainly because of lack of rainfall, very dry air that gets heated quickly and leads to clear skies and direct sunshine.• The condition is expected to abate in two to three days due to strong westerly winds. Also Read | ‘It’s April, but feels like May-June’: Heatwave grips north India• Wednesday was a relatively pleasant day in Delhi, with a maximum temperature of 37.9°C, 6 degrees above normal. • But on Monday, the maximum temperature in the Capital touched 40.1°C, the highest in 76 years.• IMD said that above normal maximum or day temperatures (0.37° to 0.62°C above normal) are likely over most of the subdivisions of north, northwest, and few subdivisions of east-central India from April to June. • On Wednesday, heatwave conditions were recorded in most parts of northwest and central India with severe heatwave conditions in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan.• Maximum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4°C in most parts of northwest and central India during the next few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-india-to-experience-heatwaves-in-april-june-what-imd-said-101617253196642.html
01-04-2021||India||Priyanka Gandhi jabs Sitharaman over 'oversight' comment in order withdrawing cuts in rates for small saving schemes||After the Centre withdrew its order to slash interest rates for small saving schemes, Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi took a jibe at Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman's "oversight in issuing order" comment and asked her if the decision to revoke the order was taken in view of the ongoing state elections."Really @nsitharaman “oversight” in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven “hindsight” in withdrawing it?" tweeted Priyanka Gandhi.Really @nsitharaman “oversight” in issuing the order to decrease interest rates on GOI schemes or election driven “hindsight” in withdrawing it? https://t.co/Duimt8daZuSitharaman on Thursday morning made the announcement on Twitter. "Interest rates of small savings schemes of GoI shall continue to be at the rates which existed in the last quarter of 2020-2021, ie, rates that prevailed as of March 2021. Orders issued by oversight shall be withdrawn," she posted on the microblogging site.The rollback of the order, which would have dealt a severe blow to hundreds of millions of middle class depositors, comes as West Bengal and Assam vote in the second phase of assembly elections.Also Read | 'Issued by oversight': Govt withdraws order slashing rates for small saving schemesThe government on Wednesday announced a cut in the interest rates on small savings schemes, including National Savings Certificate (NSC) and Public Provident Fund (PPF), by up to 1.1 per cent for the June quarter.The rate of interest of the PPF scheme was cut to 6.4 per cent annually from 7.1 in the last quarter. This would have been the first time since 1974 that the PPF interest was brought down below 7 per cent.National Savings Certificate (NSC) was to earn 0.9 per cent less at 5.9 per cent.After the rollback, one-year term deposit scheme will earn a higher interest rate of 5.5 per cent during the first quarter of the current fiscal, while the girl child savings scheme Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana account will earn 7.6 per cent as against the reduced rate of 6.9 per cent.The interest rate for the five-year senior citizens savings scheme, which is paid quarterly, would be retained at 7.4 per cent.Accordingly, the interest rate on savings deposits will be restored at 4 per cent annually from the reduced rate of 3.5 per cent. Term deposits of one to five years will fetch interest rate in the range of 5.5-6.7 per cent, to be paid quarterly, while the interest rate on five-year recurring deposits will earn a higher interest of 5.8 per cent as against the reduced 5.3 per cent, news agency PTI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/priyanka-gandhi-jabs-sitharaman-over-oversight-comment-in-order-withdrawing-cuts-in-rates-for-small-saving-schemes-101617251265623.html
01-04-2021||India||Petrol and diesel prices hold steady after Tuesday’s cuts||Petrol prices held steady all over the country on Thursday, for the second consecutive day after Tuesday's cut. In the national capital Delhi, petrol rates are at Rs. 90.56 per litre and diesel continues to retail at Rs. 80.87 per litre. In Mumbai, petrol and diesel prices remained at ₹96.98 and ₹87.96.In Kolkata, rates for petrol and diesel stood at ₹90.77 and ₹83.75 respectively. Whereas in Chennai petrol retailed for ₹92.58 and diesel for ₹85.88, according to the Indian Oil Corporation (IOC). On Tuesday, ptrol price was cut by 22 paise and diesel by 23 paise a litre. Domestic LPG price was also cut by ₹10 per cylinder, on Wednesday. A 14.2-kg LPG cylinder will be priced at ₹809 from April 1 as against ₹819 it currently costs, IOC said in a statement.The domestic prices for petrol and diesel vary across states due to various taxes and levies by various state governments. Currently, Mumbai has the highest retail rates for both petrol and diesel. Central and state taxes constitute 60 per cent of the retail selling price in petrol and over 54 per cent in diesel.International Brent crude prices rose on Thursday after falling on Wednesday, buoyed by the upcoming OPEC+ meeting that has been scheduled later for the day and is expected to be held on the output curbs imposed on oil producing countries due to Covid-19 pandemic. "The most likely outcome of the meeting is no significant changes in production," Eurasia Group told Bloomberg. Brent crude prices settled at $63.05 a barrel, up by 0.5 per cent since Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/petrol-and-diesel-prices-hold-steady-after-tuesday-s-cuts-101617252325934.html
01-04-2021||India||Rajinikanth to receive 51st Dadasaheb Phalke award, says Javadekar||Actor Rajinikanth will receive the 51st Dadasaheb Phalke Award, the highest award in Indian cinema, Union minister Prakash Javadekar announced on Twitter on Thursday."Happy to announce #Dadasaheb Phalke award for 2019 to one of the greatest actors in history of Indian cinema Rajnikant ji. His contribution as actor, producer and screenwriter has been iconic," Javadekar tweeted.Happy to announce #Dadasaheb Phalke award for 2019 to one of the greatest actors in history of Indian cinema Rajnikant jiHis contribution as actor, producer and screenwriter has been iconicI thank Jury @ashabhosle @SubhashGhai1 @Mohanlal@Shankar_Live #BiswajeetChatterjee pic.twitter.com/b17qv6D6BPThe prestigious award is named after the father of Indian cinema, Dhundiraj Govind Phalke, and was instituted in 1969. The award is conferred by the government for outstanding contribution to the growth and development of Indian Cinema.The award is comprised of a Golden Lotus and a cash prize of ₹10 lakh."India every year gives Dada Saheb Phalke award to a film personality. This year this selection has been made by a jury comprising Asha Bhonsle, Mohanlal, Biswajit Chatterjee, Shankar Mahadevan and Subhash Ghai," Javadekar was quoted as saying by PTI."They unanimously recommended that superstar Rajinikanth be conferred with Dada Saheb Phalke award and we accepted it," the Union minister said.The south Indian superstar, who was earlier expected to launch a political party in January 2021, announced his decision to abandon his plan to foray into politics. On December 29 last year, Rajinikanth, citing his health condition vis-a-vis the coronavirus pandemic announced that he would not join politics. He had undergone a renal transplant in 2016 and is on immuno-suppressants.The 70-year-old, who has more than 160 films to his credit, was given the Padma Bhushan in 2000 and the Padma Vibhushan in 2016 by the government. He has also received several state and international accolades for his work as a south Indian icon.Many people hoped to see Rajinikanth contest the ongoing Assembly elections. A large number of the actor's fans gathered in Chennai urging him to join politics in January this year.Appealing to his fans, Rajinikanth said, "Some of my fans along with expelled cadres of Rajini Makkal Mandram have protested in Chennai against my decision of not entering politics. I have taken my decision, I appeal to everyone to not indulge in such things (protest) as it pains me."Rajinikanth, who completed 45 years in the film industry in August last year, will soon resume shooting for the upcoming Tamil film Annaatthe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajinikanth-to-receive-51st-dadasaheb-phalke-award-says-javadekar-101617252004814.html
01-04-2021||India||Huge increase of 72,330 in India's Covid-19 daily tally; 459 deaths in 24 hours||India recorded a huge spike of 72,330 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours which took the nationwide tally to 12,221,665, Union health ministry data showed on Thursday morning.The infection also cost the lives of 459 people in the said timeframe - up from 354 on Wednesday - which pushed the death toll to 1,62,927, the health ministry data showed.The number of active cases stood at 5,84,055, after a jump of 31,489 in the last 24 hours.The Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that a total of 24,47,98,621 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to March 31. Of these, 11,25,681 samples were tested on Wednesday, it added.Over the past few weeks, India has been recording a spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, which has been termed as the second wave of infection by the experts. Last week, the number of daily cases were close to 60,000, concerning the government.Though the number fell slightly this week - due to low testing during the festival of Holi - the Centre said that the situation is turning from bad to worse.The health ministry on Wednesday said that eight states accounted for 84.73 per cent of the Covid-19 cases registered in the country. Maharashtra continues to report the highest number of daily cases, it added.Maharashtra reported 39,544 new Covid-19 cases, 23,600 discharges and 227 deaths in a 24-hour period, according to the state health department data on Wednesday evening.According to the Delhi health department, the national capital reported 1,819 new coronavirus cases, 399 recoveries and 11 deaths. There are 8,838 active cases in Delhi.Punjab and union territory of Chandigarh are the other badly-hit regions. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting on Wednesday along with NITI Aayog Member (Health) Dr VK Paul, to review the status of Covid-19 in these two places and the public health measures taken for surveillance, containment and management of the disease by the health authorities.They asked Punjab government and Chandigarh administration to effectively implement the test-track-treat strategy against Covid-19, escalate testing till the positivity comes down below 5 per cent and ensure priority vaccination of eligible population groups in districts reporting high number of cases.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country surpassed 6.5 crore on Wednesday, the 75th day of nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive, health ministry data showed today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/huge-increase-of-72-330-in-india-s-covid-19-daily-tally-459-deaths-in-24-hours-101617248421599.html
01-04-2021||India||Election commission transfers 3 more police officials in poll bound Tamil Nadu||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Wednesday transferred three more Tamil Nadu senior police officials- H M Jayaram, inspector general (IG) Central, Dhinakaran, IG West and Arul Arasu, superintendent of police (SP) of rural Coimbatore, ahead of the assembly polls on April 6, citing ‘adverse inputs’.The three officers will be attached to the director general of police (DGP) headquarters while awaiting posting orders, which cannot be issued without the permission of the commission. New officers have been posted in their place.The development comes a day after the ECI transferred Trichy’s commissioner of police, J Loganathan to a non-election post and suspended the assistant commissioner of police (law and order) of Golden Rock Range, Tamilmaran.The orders come in the wake of reports of cash seizures from police stations in Trichy west, from where DMK strongman K N Nehru is contesting. Nehru has termed the reports as attempts to defame him. The party’s organising secretary R S Bharathi wrote to the election body on behalf of Nehru on March 28, claiming "rumours" of Nehru distributing money to police stations were being spread on social media and that officials allegedly subservient to the ruling party were indulging in such activities. Previously, the ECI had ordered the transfer of Trichy district collector and superintendent of police after ₹one crore in cash was seized in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/election-commission-transfers-3-more-police-officials-in-poll-bound-tamil-nadu-101617250521641.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19: India begins vaccinating persons older than 45 years from today||India has begun vaccinating its population that is 45 years and older, irrespective of comorbidities, against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), from Thursday, a step that experts say will not only improve overall vaccination numbers, but will also help in slowing down disease transmission.“People who are eligible will be able to register, and book appointments, on the Co-Win portal and through the Aarogya Setu app from April 1, when the facility will be thrown open for the 45-plus category also. It will be a massive number, and we urge eligible beneficiaries to come forward and get vaccinated. Safety and efficacy of both the vaccines approved for use in India has been well established,” said a senior health ministry official in the know of things, who did not wish to be identified.Walk-in registrations have also been allowed, but that option will open only after 3pm.Also Read | US plant ruins 15 mn Johnson & Johnson coronavirus vaccine dosesCurrently, Covid-19 vaccinations in the country are open for beneficiaries 45 years and above with 20 government-specified comorbidities, along with individuals aged 60 years and above, and healthcare and frontline workers.Vaccinations will be held in close to 50,000 centres across the country, of which there are about 6,000 in the private sector.The Union cabinet on March 23 took the decision to open up Covid-19 vaccinations for individuals who are 45 years old and above without comorbidities.There will be no need to produce any medical certificates from a registered medical practitioner as is the requirement currently.The need for opening up vaccinations for 45 plus category was felt because around 88% of deaths due to Covid-19 in the country have taken place in this age group, the health ministry announced last week.So far, at least 64 million vaccine doses have been administered in the country since the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination began on January 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-begins-vaccinating-persons-older-than-45-years-against-covid-19-today-101617249716198.html
01-04-2021||India||Mamata calls for united front against BJP: Here’s what she told political parties||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) leader Mamata Banerjee has written to Opposition parties urging them to unite against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its government. Here is all you need to know about her letter and what prompted it:• Banerjee’s letter dated March 28 was made public on Wednesday.• It said a recent law bestowing more powers to the lieutenant governor in Delhi was a “direct attack” on the country’s federal structure. • The letter suggested a meeting of Opposition leaders after the ongoing five-state assembly polls to chart a plan of action against the BJP.• It was written days before the second phase of polls in Bengal, where Banerjee is taking on her protégé-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in Nandigram. Also Read | Confident of his win from Nandigram, Suvendu appeals to people to vote• The BJP is aiming to dislodge the TMC for its first election victory in Bengal while Banerjee is gunning for a third consecutive term.• The letter was sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, DMK president MK Stalin, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti and CPI-ML’s Dipankar Bhattacharya.• It was also dispatched to six chief ministers: Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren, Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Andhra Pradesh’s Jagan Mohan Reddy and Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao.• Banerjee’s letter drew broad support from Opposition leaders but flak from the BJP, which said the move betrayed her nervousness about the ongoing polls.• TMC insiders said the underlying message was aimed at the consolidation of anti-BJP forces in the remaining phases of the eight-phase polls. • NCP said it extends full support to the TMC chief. • Shiv Sena also expressed solidarity with Banerjee. • Supriyo Bhattacharrya, principal general secretary of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha, said his party was repeatedly raising the same issue. • Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha called the letter very timely.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-calls-for-united-front-against-bjp-here-s-what-she-told-political-parties-101617249535999.html
01-04-2021||India||Centre tells Odisha not to use state logo on Pradhan Mantri Awas scheme houses||The Union rural development ministry has asked the Odisha government not to use the logo of the state-run housing scheme, Biju Pucca Ghar Yojana (BPGY), with the centrally-sponsored Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana-Gramin (PMAY-G) and sought the Central scheme’s implementation in the state its original form under the agreed funding pattern, setting up the stage for a fresh round of confrontation over the issue between the state’s ruling Biju Janata Dal (BJD) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the opposition.“The contribution of minimum State share from state resources is a commitment by the State Government for implementation of Centrally Sponsored Scheme and it does not confer the rights to the State Government for use of any other logo other than PMAY-G. This will also lead to misinterpretation of the scheme among the PMAY-G beneficiaries about the benefits of the scheme. ...The ministry had conveyed to the States/UTs in the past to use only the official logo of PMAY-G. The logo of BPGY is not permissible under the provisions of the PMAY-G,” Union rural development secretary Nagendra Nath Sinha wrote to Odisha chief secretary Suresh Mohapatra.PMAY-G, the flagship scheme of the ministry of rural development gives ₹1.3 lakh assistance to the homeless in Maoist-infested areas and ₹1.2 lakh in non-Maoist areas to build a minimum of 25 sq m of cemented house. Besides, the beneficiary avails 90/95 days wage through convergence with the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) and ₹12,000/- for construction of a toilet under the Swachh Bharat Mission. The assistance released to the beneficiaries is funded by the centre and the state in the ratio of 60:40.The BPGY was launched by the Odisha government in 2014-15 to convert all the mud houses to cemented ones. Like the PMAY-G, its beneficiaries get ₹1.2 lakh and ₹1.3 lakh assistance in non-Maoist and Maoist-affected areas respectively. Since 2017-18, Odisha has been using both PMAY-G and BPGY logos on the houses constructed under the Central scheme. Apart from contributing its 40% share, the Odisha government is providing ₹20,000 incentive to beneficiaries who build houses within four months of the release of the first instalment and ₹10,000 to those who build houses within six months.The BJD has responded to the letter by justifying the rebranding, claiming the Odisha govt was paying 50% cost for the houses under the PMAY-G scheme. "We are almost paying for 49% of the amount if the incentive is taken into account. So what is the problem with using the logo of BPGY on the house,” asked a BJD leader, who didn’t wish to be named.The BJP was opposing the use of the BPGY logo for PMAY-G houses since December last year and even tore off the stickers displaying the co-branding. BJP Mahila Morcha then filed an FIR against chief minister Naveen Patnaik accusing his government of using the BPGY logo for appropriating false credit for a Central scheme. "It's unfortunate that the state government is resorting to such publicity," said Pradipta Naik, a BJP leader.This fight seems to be a rerun of the controversy over the state government's logo on the ambulance service funded by the National Health Mission. Launched in 2013 with funding from the Centre, the scheme was projected by the state government as its own initiative during the last assembly elections. A year later, the state government was forced to rename Odisha emergency ambulance service to National ambulance service following much protest from the BJP and prodding by the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-tells-odisha-not-to-use-state-logo-on-pradhan-mantri-awas-scheme-houses-101617248739816.html
01-04-2021||India||Maharashtra sees 227 Covid-19 deaths, highest single-day toll since Oct 17||Maharashtra’s single-day Covid-19 toll rose to 227 on Wednesday, highest since October 17 last year when it saw 250 deaths. The last time the state saw more than 200 deaths in a day was on October 20, 2020, when it logged 213 casualties. The number of new cases in the state also jumped to 39,544 on Wednesday, after two days of comparatively lower numbers.The state government, in order to ramp up Covid-19 testing, has reduced RT-PCR test rates to ₹500 and antigen tests to ₹150 for private laboratories.On the rise in the number of deaths, Dr Tatyarao Lahane, director, Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), said many citizens tend to ignore the initial signs. “We have observed that many [people] just tend to neglect signs like headache or body ache. They are seen to test late once their condition deteriorates and many then succumb to the virus,” he said.He said although 167,078 tests were conducted in the past 24 hours, the government reduced the test prices as it wanted to increase test rates further. “We feel if test prices are slashed, it will encourage more people to test themselves,” said Dr Lahane.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-227-covid-19-deaths-highest-single-day-toll-since-oct-17-101617248095988.html
01-04-2021||India||'It's April, but feels like May-June': Heatwave grips north India||Many parts in north India have been reeling under a heatwave with the mercury touching 40 degrees Celsius-mark, especially in Rajasthan. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has predicted another heatwave over the plains by April 3."April has just begun but considering the heat, it feels like May-June have arrived," news agency ANI quoted a local as saying in Rajasthan's Jodhpur."As per doctors' advice, we are consuming a lot of cool drinks like buttermilk to get through this weather," another local told .The IMD has already warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of the country will be above normal between April and June. On Tuesday, it sounded a heatwave alert for parts of Telangana for the next three days.On Monday, the national capital recorded a maximum temperature of 40.1 degree Celsius, the highest temperature record in March in last 76 years.In fact, March was the warmest in the last 11 years, according to IMD. Kuldeep Shrivastava, Regional Head of IMD Delhi, said that the mean maximum temperature (MMT) for Delhi for March is 33.1 degree Celsius which is 3.5 degree Celsius above normal.The highest MMT of 34.1 degree Celsius was observed in March, 2010 according to IMD data.Talking about the situation in plains, IMD Director General Mrutunjay Mohaptra said there was pressure variation between the area stretching from the Gujarat coast to Haryana. In addition to this, there was transfer of heat from Rajasthan which was already reeling under the heatwave. "This led to the heating of plains," he said.Dust raising strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are very likely to prevail over Rajasthan, Haryana, Delhi, west Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, north Madhya Pradesh, east Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during March 31 to April 1, the IMD said.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/its-april-but-feels-like-may-june-heatwave-grips-northern-india-101617247555055.html
01-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: IMD warns of a warmer summer as heatwave grips states and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Heatwave grips states, IMD predicts a warmer summerEven as parts of the country experience a heat wave, the India Meteorological Department has warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of India will be above normal between April and June. Read More10-day sale of electoral bonds begins from todayThe 16th tranche of electoral bonds will be open for sale from April 1. The approval to the sale was given by the Union finance ministry on Tuesday. They will be available till April 10. Read MoreAung San Suu Kyi expected to appear before Myanmar court todayMyanmar's deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi is expected to appear for hearing before a court in connection with criminal charges imposed by the country's military that could see her permanently debarred from political office. Read More'Watched him for 2 years': Mike Hesson names 3 uncapped Indians who can help RCB win IPL 2021You won’t be questioned with frowned eyebrows if you don’t associate youngsters with Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) like you would with a Rajasthan Royals or a Sunrisers Hyderabad. Read MoreClip by Arunachal Pradesh CM that Anand Mahindra reshared sparks naming contestChief Minister of Arunachal Pradesh Pema Khandu recently took to Twitter to share a video detailing a journey that he took to reach Vijaynagar from Miao, in the state. Read MoreAditi Rao Hydari's Rs.13k crop top and pants proves all-black looks are timelessThere is no better outfit than a well-fitted all-black look and we know you agree with us. Read MoreAamir Khan's daughter Ira Khan says she piles up stuff as she battles depression: 'I crash when it gets too much'Aamir Khan's daughter, Ira Khan, who has been talking about her depression openly and creating awareness about mental health issues, has shared a new video about her struggles on Instagram. Read MoreWatch: AIMIM MP celebrates no lockdown with no-mask rally; BJP files complaintAIMIM leader Imtiaz Jaleel is under fire for Aurangabad procession. The procession was to celebrate scrapping of plan for Aurangabad lockdown. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-imd-warns-of-a-warmer-summer-as-heatwave-grips-states-and-all-the-latest-news-101617246392077.html
01-04-2021||India||10-day sale of electoral bonds begins from today||The 16th tranche of electoral bonds will be open for sale from April 1. The approval to the sale was given by the Union finance ministry on Tuesday. They will be available till April 10.Electoral bonds have been pitched as an alternative to cash donations made to political parties as part of efforts to bring transparency in political funding.The electoral bonds can be purchased by a person who is a citizen of India or incorporated or established in India, according to the finance ministry.The Supreme Court last month dismissed a plea seeking stay on the sale of these bonds in the wake of Assembly elections in five states and union territory of Puducherry. The court told petitioner, NGO Association for Democratic Reforms, that the sale of these bonds have continued “without any impediment” in 2018, 2019 and 2020.According to government rules, only the political parties registered under Section 29A of the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951) and which secured not less than one per cent of the votes polled in the last general election to the House of the People or the Legislative Assembly of a state, will be eligible to receive the electoral bonds.These bonds can be encashed by an eligible political party only through a bank account with the authorised bank.The government has authorised State Bank of India to issue and encash electoral bonds through its 29 approved branches. The 15th tranche of bond sale took place from January 1 to January 10, 2021.The opposition parties have criticised electoral bonds, calling the route of funding as "opaque". However, the Election Commission recently said that these bonds to not violate the model code of conduct, which is in place due to Assembly elections.The electoral bond scheme was notified by the government in 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10day-sale-of-electoral-bonds-begins-from-today-101617245100261.html
01-04-2021||India||Widespread rain in Andaman, Nicobar region; thunderstorms likely over N-E states||A low pressure area over south Andaman Sea is likely to bring widespread rain and thunderstorms over Andaman and Nicobar region and the northeastern states today, according to India Meteorological Department.A low pressure area is lying over south Andaman Sea and adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal. It is likely to become more marked over central parts of Andaman Sea and likely to concentrate into a depression over the same region during the next 48 hours. Under its influence, widespread rainfall is very likely over Andaman & Nicobar islands during the next five days and isolated heavy rainfall is likely today.Also Read | Sizzler of a March turns out to be the hottest in 11 years, says IMDThunderstorm with lightning and gusty winds are also likely over the islands during the next three days. Fishermen are advised not to venture into south Andaman Sea and the adjoining southeast Bay of Bengal today; into North Andaman Sea on April 2; into north Bay of Bengal and along and off north Odisha-West Bengal coast. Under the influence of strong lower level south-westerly winds from the Bay of Bengal and other favourable meteorological conditions, widespread rainfall with thunderstorm or lightning and gusty winds are likely over the northeastern region till Friday. Heavy rain is also very likely over Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya today. It may cause landslide or mudslide and inundation in low lying areas over parts of Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Meghalaya. The maximum temperatures are very likely to fall by 2-4 degrees C over most parts of northwest and central India during the next 2-3 days, leading to an abatement of heatwave conditions. Strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) is likely over parts of Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh during the next 48 hours and over Jharkhand and Gangetic West Bengal during the next 24 hours. “Heatwave conditions are unlikely for 2-3 days because of very strong westerly winds,” said K Sathi Devi, head,national weather forecasting centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-in-andaman-nicobar-region-thunderstorms-likely-over-n-e-states-101617245035968.html
01-04-2021||India||Assam polls: Candidate from Congress ally, BPF, joins BJP ahead of 3rd phase||With less than a week to go for the third and final phase of assembly polls in Assam, a candidate from Bodoland Peoples’ Front (BPF), a partner of the opposition Congress-led grand alliance, switched sides and joined the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) late on Wednesday night, said a senior BJP minister.“Official candidate of BPF and so called Congress-led alliance from Tamulpur LAC (legislative assembly constituency) Shri Ram Das Basumatary met me a short while ago. He has express(ed) his desire to join BJP and retire from the election,” Assam minister Himanta Biswa Sarma tweeted around midnight. The candidate, Rangja Khungur Basumatary, who is also known as Ram Das Basumatary, couldn’t be reached over phone to confirm the development.It is expected that Basumatary will formally join the BJP in front of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who is slated to address a poll rally at Kokrajhar, the headquarters of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR), on Thursday. It is also being speculated that 4-5 other BPF candidates might also switch sides.Election to the Tamulpur seat will take place on April 6 in the third and final phase. Besides Basumatary, there are 10 other candidates in the fray from the seat, the most prominent being Leho Ram Boro of the United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL), an alliance partner of the BJP.Basumatary can’t officially take back his candidature from the Tamulpur seat since the time limit for withdrawal of nomination papers for the third phase is over, but due to his retirement from the contest, it is likely to make things very easy for the UPPL candidate.BPF was earlier a partner of the ruling BJP-led coalition in Assam along with Asom Gana Parishad. But things soured between the saffron party and the BPF ahead of election to Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in December last year when BJP joined hands with UPPL to come to power in the council which administers four districts in lower Assam.For this election, BPF decided to join hands with the Congress-led ‘grand alliance’ which also has All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) as a partner. BPF, which won 12 seats in 2016, is contesting the same number of seats this time.There’s a keen contest between both the BPF and the UPPL in the four districts. While the UPPL is contesting from 11 seats, its alliance partner, the BJP, is contesting from 4 seats. Both parties will have ‘friendly contests’ in three seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-polls-candidate-from-congress-ally-bpf-joins-bjp-ahead-of-3rd-phase-101617242858177.html
01-04-2021||India||Maharashtra govt caps price of RT-PCR test||Maharashtra government has capped the price of RT-PCR test at ₹500 at collection centres, ₹600 at Covid centre, Quarantine centre or Isolation centre and ₹800 if the sample is collected from home.The price of RT-PCR has been capped for the sixth time.Maharashtra reported 39,544 new Covid-19 cases, 23,600 discharges, and 227 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state's health department on Wednesday.The total cases reached 28,12,980 including 24,00,727 recoveries and the death toll reached 54,649.At present, there are 3,56,243 active coronavirus cases in the state.The case fatality rate (CFR) in Maharashtra is at 1.94 per cent while the recovery rate is 85.34 per cent.Out of 1,97,92,143 laboratory samples, 28,12,980 have been tested positive for Covid-19 until today in the state.Currently, 17,29,816 people are in home quarantine while 17,863 are in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-caps-price-of-rt-pcr-test-101617242867992.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive for people above the age of 45 begins from today||All Indians above the age of 45 will become eligible for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine from Thursday. The government announced this last month in a bid to speed up the process of inoculating the people of the country.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Dr R S Sharma, CEO, National Health Authority (NHA) and Chairperson, Empowered Group on Covid vaccination chaired a high-level meeting to review the status, pace, and issues regarding Covid vaccination across the country.The nationwide vaccination drive was started by the government on January 16 with healthcare and frontline workers getting inoculated in the first phase. The next phase started from March 1 in which people above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities were allowed to take Covid-19 vaccine shots.According to the Union health ministry, advance appointments for vaccination can be booked through the Co-WIN website or by visiting the nearest vaccination center after 3 pm and getting on-site registration done.Bhushan said that those who want to go for on-site registration need to go to their nearest vaccination centre with an identity document. The document can be an Aadhaar Card, voter ID, bank passbook, passport and ration card.The decision to speed up the process of vaccination has been taken in the wake of a resurgence in the number of Covid-19 case in the past few weeks. India has been recording over 50,000 cases of the infection daily and the nationwide tally has crossed 12 million. The Centre said on Tuesday that the situation is turning from "bad to worse" and asked state government to ensure Covid-appropriate behaviour is followed.The recent surge is powered by Maharashtra and seven other states which, according to health ministry, account for nearly 80 per cent of the total cases. The rate of positivity and number of active cases is also higher in these states, the ministry said.India is using two Covid-19 vaccines for the inoculation drive - AstraZeneca-Oxford University's Covishield, which is manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII), and Bharat Biotech's Covaxin.An analysis done by HT projects that 50 million people will have received both shots of a vaccine by mid-May, after the opening of vaccination drive for all the people above the age of 45, if the country can keep administering an average of 4 million doses a day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-for-people-above-the-age-of-45-begins-from-today-101617242491029.html
01-04-2021||India||Factors at play in Bengal, Assam 2nd-phase voting||West Bengal and Assam – two of the four states going to the polls in this election cycle – will vote in the second phase of polling on Thursday. Thirty out of 294 assembly constituencies (ACs) in West Bengal and 39 out of 126 ACs in Assam will vote in this phase.After this round, over two-thirds of ACs in Assam and a fifth of West Bengal ACs will have voted.While Assam will vote in just one more phase on April 6, polling in West Bengal will take place in six more phases until April 29.Here are three charts explaining the importance of the second phase of polling in West Bengal and Assam.Where are the polls taking place?In West Bengal, all of Jangalmahal region, western districts of Purulia, Bankura, Jhargram and Paschim Medinipur would have voted after the second phase. All of Purba Medinipur district, which includes the high profile Nandigram assembly constituency (AC), would also have voted.Four ACs in South 24 Parganas, among the biggest districts in the state, which has 31 ACs in total, will also vote in the second phase.In Assam, the second phase of polling will include 12 districts in the state. This includes all three districts of Barak Valley (Karimganj, Hailakandi, and Cachar); Dima Hasao, Karbi Anglong, Marigaon, and a small part of Nagaon in Central Assam; Darrang and Udalguri in North Assam; and small parts of Kamrup, Nalbari, and Baksa districts in lower Assam.The political arithmetic in second phaseThe Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its allies (in Assam) won 3.3% and 72% out of the 30 and 39 ACs going to polls in this phase of elections in West Bengal and Assam in the 2016 assembly elections.While the BJP alliance’s performance marginally worsened in Assam in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections (it won one AC less than in 2016), it improved significantly in West Bengal. The BJP and its allies won 40% and 69% of the ACs in West Bengal and Assam in the 2019 elections.The All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) and the Congress, on the other hand, face a different set of challenges in this phase. The Nandigram contest between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her one time lieutenant Suvendu Adhikari, who has now defected to the BJP, epitomises the challenge the TMC is facing on account of defections to the BJP.The Congress, which is the leader of the anti-BJP alliance in Assam, will be hoping to gain from its alliance with the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) in the Barak valley region, which accounts for 15 out of the 126 ACs in the state.In the 2016 elections, the BJP won eight ACs in this region. In five out of these 8 ACs, the Congress or AIUDF played spoiler for each other paving way for a BJP victory.The Bodoland Peoples Front (BPF), which has switched from the BJP alliance to the Congress alliance in this election, might also have a role to play in this phase of election, although lesser than the last phase. It won all the four 2nd phase ACs it contested in 2016 assembly election, but didn’t contest any in the 2019 Lok Sabha election.Voter profile in the second phaseThe ACs going to polls in the second phase vary drastically in terms of composition of the electorate.For example, while the three districts in Barak valley in Assam are overwhelmingly Bengali speaking and also have a very high share of Muslims, a large part of Karbi Anglong’s population is made up of Scheduled Tribe (ST) groups.Similarly, Muslims have a share of 35.6% in the South 24 Parganas district, which begins voting in the second phase, compared to just 8.1% and 10.5% in the districts of Bankura and Paschim Medinipur, which also vote in this phase.The share of Schedule Caste (SC) and ST-reserved ACs voting in the second phase is 28% and 27% in Assam and West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factors-at-play-in-bengal-assam-2nd-phase-voting-101617223131719.html
01-04-2021||NA||LIVE: India says WHO report on Covid-19 origins an ‘important first step’||India on Wednesday recorded 72,223 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day rise since October 10. The country is ramping up vaccination drive, as it starts to inoculate individuals above 45 years of age from today.France is all set to undergo a third lockdown, President Emmanuel Macron announced on Wednesday. The World Health Organization report on the origins of Covid-19 was 14 countries including the US, the UK, Australia, Japan, South Korea and Norway was criticised for a lack of access to “complete, original data and samples.” The report detailed four possible scenarios for the outbreak, one of which, the theory of the virus leaking from a lab in Wuhan, was criticised by WHO's director general.Follow all the updates here:3,187 more Covid-19 cases reported from PunjabPunjab on Thursday reported 3,187 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike so far, and 60 more fatalities due to it. On March 26, the state had seen the maximum daily surge of 3,176 infections.Telangana health minister reviews rising Covid-19 cases, vaccinationWith the state witnessing a gradual rise in Covid-19 cases, Telangana health minister Eatala Rajender on Thursday asked health department officials to once again work in a warlike mode to contain the spread of the virus and ensure that necessary medicines and equipment are available in all hospitals, reported news agency PTI.Rajasthan's tally climbs to 3,34,499 with 1,350 new Covid-19 casesRajasthan's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 3,34,499 on Thursday with 1,350 fresh cases, while the death toll mounted to 28,222 as four more people succumbed to the disease, according to an official report cited by news agency PTI.India says WHO report on Covid-19 origins an ‘important first step’The ministry of external affairs on Thursday said the World Health Organization-convened global study represents an important first step in establishing the origins of the Covid-19 pandemic.Mumbai logs more than 8,600 new Covid-19 cases, 18 fatalitiesMumbai reports 8,646 new Covid-19 cases, 5,031 recoveries and 18 deaths on Thursday.Gujarat reports 2,410 new Covid-19 casesGujarat reports 2,410 fresh Covid cases, 2,015 recoveries, and 9 deaths in the last 24 hours, reports ANI.Delhi reports 2,790 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursDelhi reports 2,790 fresh Covid-19 cases (out of 78,073 tests), 1,121 recoveries, and 9 deaths in the last 24 hoursGoa logs 265 new Covid-19 cases, one death in last 24 hoursGoa reports 265 new Covid-19 cases, one fatality. Infection tally rises to 58,304, death toll 831. There are 1,716 active cases in the state at present, reported PTI.PM Boris Johnson says France Covid-19 situation sad and can hit UKPrime Minister Boris Johnson said on Thursday that the Covid-19 situation in France was very sad and experience had shown that the disease usually hit the United Kingdom a few weeks after it hurt France, reports Reuters.Kerala reports 2,798 new Covid-19 casesKerala reports 2798 new Covid-19 cases. Number of active cases now at 26,201; so far 10,96,239 persons have recovered from the disease.Uttarakhand reports 500 new Covid-19 casesUttarakhand reports 500 new Covid-19 positive cases including 236 cases in Dehradun and 149 cases in Haridwar today, taking the total number of cases to 1,00,911.Union minister Anurag Thakur receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccineUnion Minister Anurag Thakur receives the first dose of COVID-19 vaccine at Parliament House Annexe in New Delhi. pic.twitter.com/2V76i6ihObSweden reports over 8,300 Covid-19 casesSweden, which has shunned lockdowns throughout the pandemic, registered 8,304 new coronavirus cases on Thursday, health agency statistics showed, reports Reuters.Maharashtra: Nagpur registers 3,630 new Covid-19 casesNagpur District reported 3,630 new Covid-19 cases, 2,928 recoveries and 60 Death, in the last 24 hours, as per Civil Surgeon, Nagpur, reports ANI.Odisha logs 394 new Covid-19 casesOdisha's Covid-19 tally mounted to 3,41,311 on Thursday as 394 more people tested positive for the infection, the highest single-day rise so far this year, a health department official said, reports PTI.Pfizer-BioNTech say Covid-19 vaccine 91% effectivePfizer Inc and BioNTech said on Thursday their Covid-19 vaccine is around 91% effective at preventing the disease, citing updated trial data that included participants inoculated for up to six months, reported Reuters.Biden unveils community corps to promote Covid-19 vaccinationSeeking to overcome vaccine hesitancy, the Biden administration is unveiling a coalition of community, religious and celebrity partners to promote Covid-19 shots, reported AP.Sweden to vaccinate adults with first Covid-19 shot by Aug 15 instead of JuneSweden will start vaccinating its adult population by August 15 and not June, due to a shortage in vaccine doses, reported Reuters. "As the delivery forecast looks today, everyone over 18 should be able to have their first dose of the vaccine at the latest by August 15," Marie Morell, health care chief of the Swedish Association of Local Authorities and Regions told Reuters.Scientists develop new test to detect Covid-19 quickly and track variantsScientists have developed a new test named NIRVANA to test and track for new Covid-19 variants in less amount of time, reported PTI. Adding that within fifteen minutes the test effictively detects if the samples are negative or positive.Covid-19 vaccination drive to be carried out on all days of AprilCovid-19 vaccination drive in India will be held on all days of April, including on gazetted holidays, the government announced on Thursday. This has been done to amp up the ongoing country wide inoculation drive.Andhra Pradesh chief minister, wife get vaccinated against Covid-19Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and his wife YS Bharati take their first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine in Guntur. pic.twitter.com/ySxODENYjgAndhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jaganmohan Reddy and his wife YS Bharati got vaccinated against Covid-19 in Guntur, reported ANI.8 states account for over 84% of new Covid-19 cases#Unite2FightCoronaMaharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Punjab, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh continue to report steep rise in Daily New Cases; account for 84.61% of new cases registered in the last 24 hours.https://t.co/zQSwBwxU93 pic.twitter.com/GxW5EwHf7gUnion minister Piyush Goyal inoculated with first dose of Covid-19 vaccineUnion Minister Piyush Goyal takes his first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine at AIIMS Delhi. pic.twitter.com/6SqIgYm3ecIndia records 72,330 new cases of Covid-19, 459 deathsIndia recorded 72,330 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday, taking the country's total case load to 12.22 million. 459 fatalities were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 162,927.China reports 6 more Covid-19 cases in Yunnan provinceChina reported 6 more cases of Covid-19 infections in a southwestern city of Ruili in the Yunan province, which shares a border with Myanmar, reported the Associated Press. This takes the total tally of cases in the province to 15.Bappi Lahiri tests positive for Covid-19Singer Bappi Lahiri tested positive for Covid-19 and has been admitted to Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai for observation. Read MoreMadras HC orders exhumation and re-burial of Covid-19 victimMadras High Court on Wednesday ordered the exhumation and re-burial of the body of Dr Simon Hercules, who died from Covid-19 while treating patients. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-1-2021-101617240653224.html
01-04-2021||India||Madras HC orders exhumation and reburial of Covid-19 victim Dr Simon Hercules||After 11 months of his death, the Madras High Court on Wednesday ordered the exhumation of the body of Dr Simon Hercules, who had been treating Covid patients and fell victim to the virus in April last year. The remains should be exhumed from the Velangadu burial ground and re-buried at the Kilpauk Cemetery, Justice Abdul Quddhose gave the direction while allowing a writ petition from Simon's wife Anandi. All the Covid-19 protocols imposed by the Central and State governments from time to time will have to be necessarily followed while exhuming the body and re-burying the same at the Cemetery and while performing religious ceremonies by the family members, the judge said. Sufficient police protection shall be provided, both at Velangadu burial ground and Kilpauk Cemetery for the smooth operation of the exhumation and the re-burial process, the judge added. The Health Officer nominated by the Greater Chennai Corporation shall be present and supervise the exhumation. This is to ensure that all procedures are complied with and everyone present shows respect to the deceased at all times and public health is protected. The judge said that the death of Simon is a shocking one as the incident had given a go-by to all human values. His corpse was shunted from one burial ground to another due to the objections raised by heartless human beings for allowing the burial of the body of a Covid-19 victim. Ultimately, he was buried in a place where people belonged to another faith. The court, after examining the safeguards adopted in foreign countries, observed that till such time a legislation on exhumation comes in place in India, the same safeguards shall be followed while exhuming Simon's body. The exhumation should start as early as possible in the morning to ensure maximum privacy. Screens should be placed around the existing grave/burial plot to protect the exhumation from public view and to guarantee privacy. Workers must treat the neighbouring burial plots with care. Disinfectants and disposable protective clothing (including respiratory facemasks) must be made available to the workers and disposed of safely after the exhumation. All remains and pieces of casket, webbing etc., are placed in the new casket (shell). Videography of the exhumation and re-burial process shall be done. Allowing the petition, the judge quashed the April 24, 2020 order of the GCC Commissioner, rejecting Anandi's plea for exhumation of her husband's body and re-bury it at the Kilpauk cemetry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-orders-exhumation-and-reburial-of-covid-19-victim-dr-simon-hercules-101617241827299.html
01-04-2021||India||Coimbatore: Stones pelted at shops ahead of Yogi’s rally, BJP workers booked||Police on Wednesday registered a case against Bharatiya Janata Party workers for allegedly pelting stones at shops in Tamil Nadu’s Coimbatore ahead of Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath’s rally.In his complaint, Abdul Wahab of the Naam Tamilar Katchi alleged that the BJP rally was planned to instigate riots in the area.Also read | UP CM Yogi Adityanath says DMK, Congress failed to safeguard women“The rally was planned to cause riots so I’ve filed the case against Vanathi Srinivasan (the BJP candidate). It was prevented because the other group didn’t react,” Wahab said.Police officials said that many shop owners downed their shutters for their own safety. “We told them to re-open it ...,” a Coimbatore police officer said requesting anonymity.Makkal Needhi Maiam leader Kamal Haasan said, “We will defeat the riot specialists with unity.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/stones-pelted-at-shops-ahead-of-yogi-s-rally-bjp-workers-booked-101617235896890.html
01-04-2021||India||Pandemic impact: Gender gap in India, world over worsens||India has slipped 28 places to rank 140th among 156 countries, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia, according to the World Economic Forum report that also says the pandemic has rolled back years of progress towards equality between men and women world over.According to the Global Gender Gap Report 2021 released on Wednesday, India had regressed the highest in the sub-category of political empowerment (13.5 percentage points) with a significant decline in the number of women ministers (from 23.1% in 2019 to 9.1% in 2021).The country had ranked 112th among 153 countries in 2020 ranking.“Among the drivers of this decline (in India’s ranking) is a decrease in women’s labour force participation rate, which fell from 24.8% to 22.3%. In addition, the share of women in professional and technical roles declined further to 29.2%. The share of women in senior and managerial positions also remains low: only 14.6% of these positions are held by women and there are only 8.9% firms with female top managers,” the report said.Further, the estimated earned income of women in India is only one-fifth of men’s, which puts the country among the bottom 10 globally on this indicator, it said.In South Asia, only Pakistan and Afghanistan ranked below India. Among India’s neighbours, Bangladesh ranked 65, Nepal 106, Pakistan 153, Afghanistan 156, Bhutan 130 and Sri Lanka 116.Among regions, South Asia is the second-lowest performer on the index, with 62.3% of its overall gender gap closed.“Within the region, a wide gulf separates the best-performing country, Bangladesh, which has closed 71.9% of its gender gap so far, from Afghanistan, which has only closed 44.4% of its gap.“India is the third-worst performer in the region, having closed 62.5% of its gap. Because of its large population, India’s performance has a substantial impact on the region’s overall performance,” the report said.A longer waitThe pandemic has also added decades to the trajectory towards closing the gender gap, the report said.A range of studies have shown that the Covid-19 pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on women, who have lost jobs at a higher rate than men, and had to take on much more of the extra childcare burden when schools closed.The effects will be felt in the long-term, according to WEF, which found in its report that the goalposts for gender parity appeared to be moving further away. The organisation, which usually gathers the global elite in the plush Swiss ski resort of Davos each year, had found in its previous report, published in December 2019 right before the pandemic hit, that gender parity across a range of areas would be reached within 99.5 years.But this year’s report shows the world is not on track to close the gender gap for another 135.6 years. “Another generation of women will have to wait for gender parity,” the WEF said in a statement. The Geneva-based organisation’s annual report tracks disparities between the sexes in 156 countries across four areas: education, health, economic opportunity and political empowerment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pandemic-impact-gender-gap-in-india-world-over-worsens-101617228175636.html
01-04-2021||India||72,223 new cases in India, highest since October 10||There were 72,223 new infections of Covid-19 across India on Wednesday, the highest single-day increase in cases since October 10, as the second wave of the outbreak continued to soar to new heights. Deaths also picked up with 458 new fatalities reported in the country on Wednesday, highest in 116 days, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. In Delhi, 1,819 new infections were reported on Wednesday despite a significant drop in daily testing with new tests dropping from around 80,000 to 67,000 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/72223-new-cases-in-india-highest-since-october-10-101617225141099.html
01-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination drive widens, 50 million set for both shots by May 15||As all Indians above the age of 45 become eligible for coronavirus vaccines starting Thursday, HT’s projections show at least 50 million people will have received both shots by the middle of May, and over 100 million by mid-June if the country can keep administering an average of 4 million doses a day, a pace that could help India turn the tide against the building second wave of infections.Union health officials held a video conference with state officials on Wednesday to discuss preparations for the opening-up of the drive, suggesting administrators focus on improving coverage in underserved areas and focussing on ironing out teething problems that could occur. Experts have also called on the need to address vaccine hesitancy among people, especially in order to maintain and improve the pace of vaccination.According to HT’s analysis of the trends, the total number of people who have received at least one shot of the vaccine is set to surpass 300 million in early June. Vaccination numbers for the second dose will particularly pick up pace through the second half of April.These numbers are significant because India is in the grip of a second wave and case and death numbers are certain to rise through April in what is clearly going to be a race between the virus and the vaccine. India’s vaccine drive has seen a slow start, relative to the size of the country and the number of people that need to be vaccinated. Part of this can be attributed to vaccine hesitancy, but some of it is also because of the way the health ministry has chosen to go about the drive. Which is what makes April and May extremely important.Going by trends in developed countries and the number of people likely to have been infected in India (around 200 million, give or take a few tens of millions), around 10 days after 50 million people have received two doses, the result will make itself evident in the trajectory of the disease. Around 10 days after 100 million people have received two doses, it will be even more evident. Which is what makes April 1, when India throws open vaccination to anyone over the age of 45 years, a key milestone — not only in the country’s fight against the disease but also the prospects for the economy in the year ahead. Put simply, how well the next 45 days go could decide whether India grows at 12.5% or 7.5%, the two ends of the range predicted by the World Bank for the country’s growth in 2021-22.Also read | Mumbai reports 5,394 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, 616 buildings sealed“While results may vary depending upon different locations, if we manage to immunise around 30-40% of people in major cities, and assume that 45-55% of residents have already been infected there, we should be in a reasonable shape and begin to see results of the vaccination drive with slowing case rates,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, professor in the department of Gastrointestinal Sciences at Christian Medical College, Vellore, and one of the country’s topmost vaccine experts. “Of course, we need to keep in mind several caveats such as the duration of protection that being infected offers, emergence of new variants, etc,” she added.She said that far greater coverage may still be needed to cover rural areas as well, and that India must eventually look to include every age group in the vaccination ambit, even children.“In rural areas, we may need far greater vaccine coverage to see any difference in case rates, but ultimately our goal should be to get everyone immunised as soon as possible, including children.”HT’s calculations are based on data released by the health ministry till Tuesday night, and the projections assume a pace of at least 4 million shots being administered a day, with a second shot being administered at a gap of six weeks (or 42 days) after a person receives the first shot.A total of 62.4 million doses have been administered across the country till Tuesday night, with 53.4 million people having received at least one dose of the vaccine. A total of 9 million people have received both doses, and 44.4 million have received only a single dose, according to government data. These numbers remain significantly behind the government’s inoculation targets – the Centre has set a target of vaccinating over 300 million people by the end of July — a target that it will, most likely, miss.In the two-and-a-half months since the start of the vaccination drive on January 16, India has administered at least one shot to only 18% of this goal. So far, the country has managed to completely vaccinate (with both doses) only 3% of the 300-million target, while another 15% have received only one shot.HT’s vaccination projections are based on two assumptions. First, that the country will be administering 4 million doses a day on average from here on. While the current single-day record is just over 3 million doses (on March 16), the government has set a target of raising this to 5 million doses. The 4-million-a-day target seems especially achievable considering the inoculation drive will be further thrown open to everyone over the age of 45 years in the drive’s third phase starting Thursday. The second assumption is that everyone who has been administered the first dose of the vaccine will show up for the second dose in around six weeks.The projections show that second dose numbers will likely struggle to pick up pace through the first week of April as the final week for February (its corresponding six-week lag period) saw a low number of first shots being administered. This was because the first phase of the vaccination drive (which ended on February 28) started tapering off by the final week, and there also were three days of zero vaccination around that week – Covid vaccinations were suspended on February 21 in order to carry out the National Polio Immunisation Programme, and there were no vaccination the final two days of the month because officials were updating the Co-WIN platform for the March 1 launch of Phase 2.Beyond April 15, however, second doses appear set to take off as around that time the country will start reaping the benefits of the March 1 launch of Phase 2 of the vaccination drive. While the first batch of around 41,000 people under Phase 2 received their second doses on Tuesday, this group likely consists of people who received the Covaxin shot, which requires a four-to-six-week gap between doses. In contrast, those who received Covishield at the start of March will likely start coming in for second doses in another two weeks as this vaccine requires a six-to-eight-week gap between shots. A key number to note here is that Covishield shots outnumber Covaxin by around 10:1, so once people who were administered the former start showing up for second doses through late April and early May, it will give a massive boost to numbers.In the coming six weeks (till May 11), if everyone who has received one dose till Tuesday turns up at a vaccination centre to get their second shot, around 45 million people will have been completely vaccinated in the country. This boost is likely to push the number of fully vaccinated people to around 50 million by May 15. There is likely to be no supply constraint because the 120 million doses India has ordered from Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech (100mn from the former alone) will be delivered through April. Which means the success of the drive depends more on logistics, intent, and the willingness among people to take the jab (HT has launched a campaign exhorting them to do so).Watch | Covid update: Russia’s vaccine for animals; Covishield’s shelf life extended; USA deaths﻿Beyond May 11 (when the six-week jump from March 31 ends), the projection assumes that the current two-week average of new shots being administered (average of 1.56 million every day) is retained or that conversely, the number of people receiving their first dose beyond that time period remains a steady 2.44 million (based on our 4-million-a-day shot rate).This means the number of people who are fully vaccinated will cross 50 million around May 15, and 75 million by the end of May. The total number of people who have received at least one vaccine shot is expected to touch 300 million around the end of May with 225 million having received only one shot.By June 16, nearly 100 million are expected to be fully vaccinated across the country, while another 260 million will have received only a single shot – taking the total number of people to have received jabs in the country to around 360 million.To be sure, any vaccination projections are calculated estimates and may be subject to daily fluctuations as there is a wide time range (from four weeks to a maximum of eight) where people may return for their second shot, which may alter numbers at a daily level||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drive-widens-50mn-set-for-both-shots-by-may-15-101617224538784.html
01-04-2021||India||Mamata letter urges united anti-BJP front||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee urged Opposition parties to unite against the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and its government, writing letters to top leaders of non-BJP parties in the middle of a high-stakes election in the eastern state.Banerjee’s letter, dated March 28 but made public by the TMC on Wednesday, alleged that a recent bill bestowing more powers to the lieutenant governor in Delhi was a “direct attack” on the country’s federal structure. It raised seven other allegations and suggested a meeting of Opposition leaders after the ongoing five-state assembly polls to chart a plan of action against the BJP.“I am writing this letter to you, and to several leaders of non-BJP parties, to convey my serious concerns over a series of assaults by the BJP and its government at the Centre on democracy and constitutional federalism in India,” Banerjee said in the three-page document.The letter was written days before the second phase of polls in Bengal, where Banerjee is taking on her protégé-turned-rival Suvendu Adhikari of the BJP in the prestigious seat of Nandigram. The BJP is aiming to dislodge the TMC for its first election victory in Bengal while Banerjee is gunning for a third consecutive term.The letter was sent to Congress president Sonia Gandhi, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, DMK president MK Stalin, Samajwadi Party’s Akhilesh Yadav, National Conference’s Farooq Abdullah, Peoples Democratic Party’s Mehbooba Mufti and CPI-ML’s Dipankar Bhattacharya.It was also dispatched to six chief ministers: Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal, Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, Jharkhand’s Hemant Soren, Odisha’s Naveen Patnaik, Andhra Pradesh’s Jagan Mohan Reddy and Telangana’s K Chandrasekhar Rao.Banerjee’s letter drew broad support from Opposition leaders but flak from the BJP, which said the move betrayed her nervousness about the ongoing polls.Also read | 'SOS call', 'confession of defeat': What BJP leaders said on Mamata's letter“Democracy should be the last word in @MamataOfficial & @AITCofficial dictionary. Their cadre attack @BJP4Bengal candidates, intimidate voters, capture booths, block all hoardings and at the end leaders preach Democracy,” BJP general secretary (organisation) BL Santhosh tweeted.TMC insiders said the underlying message was aimed at consolidation of anti-BJP forces in the remaining phases of the eight-phase polls. “We want to show the Opposition is united,” a senior TMC leader said. The CPI(M)-led Left Front, which is fighting the Bengal polls in alliance with the Congress, was excluded from the initiative.In her letter, Banerjee alleged misuse of the governor’s office in non-BJP ruled states, misuse of central agencies like the Central Bureau of Investigation and Enforcement Directorate and withholding funds to non-BJP states, among others.“The BJP wants to make it impossible for non-BJP parties to exercise their Constitutional rights and freedom. It wants to dilute the powers of state governments and downgrade them to mere municipalities. In short it wants to establish a one-party authoritarian rule in India,” the letter read.Banerjee wrote that she would “wholeheartedly work” with these leaders and “all other like-minded political parties in the battle”.Referring to the passage of the National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Bill by Parliament, Banerjee said it was an “extremely grave” development. “With this law, the BJP government at the Centre has snatched away practically all the powers of the democratically elected government of Delhi, and vested them in the hands of the Lt Governor, a nominee of the Centre. The Lt Governor has been made the undeclared Viceroy of Delhi, acting as a proxy for the home minister and the prime minister,” she said. “You will also agree that what the BJP has done in Delhi is not an exception, but has increasingly become a rule.”Most opposition parties backed her.“We have received the letter and we fully agree with her,” said the AAP in a statement.Watch | ‘Mamata Banerjee & PM Modi practicing same politics of communalism’: Owaisi﻿NCP said they extend full support to the TMC chief. “In a way Mamata didi has sought support from all the opposition leaders. Pawar saheb was scheduled to visit West Bengal for three days starting from April 1 but could not do so due to ill health. We extend full support to the TMC and if health conditions improve, Pawar saheb will try to visit West Bengal in the last phase of the elections,” said party spokesperson Nawab Malik, referring to Pawar’s recent illness.Shiv Sena also expressed solidarity with Banerjee. “The opposition has to unit against the BJP to save the democracy and federalism of the country. There is no other alternative. And I think Uddhavji Thackeray has already laid the foundation of uniting the opposition against the BJP,” said Sena chief spokesperson Arvind Sawant.Supriyo Bhattacharrya, principal general secretary of Jharkhand Mukti Morcha (JMM), said his party was repeatedly raising the same issue. “We have been raising this issue since day one after coming to power in the state. And this is one of the primary reasons we decided to withdraw from Bengal polls and support TMC,” said Bhattacharya.Rashtriya Janata Dal MP Manoj Jha said the letter was very timely. “BJP is virtually berserk in destroying institutions and established democratic norms,” he said.Dipankar Bhattacharya of the CPI-ML said saving the federal framework was certainly a key concern. “All opposition parties should definitely exchange their views and respond unitedly to save the country from the growing crisis of the economy, democracy, federalism and constitutional rule of law,” he said. Mufti said it was imperative for the opposition parties to unite in order to protect democracy.The BJP said the letter was an expression of frustration. “This is a clear sign of frustration and an effort to keep herself relevant knowing very well that defeat in the assembly elections in imminent…At a time when elections are going on in the state she is writing to other leaders of uniting against the BJP. She had made such efforts earlier to but had failed,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice-president of the party’s Bengal unit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-letter-urges-united-anti-bjp-front-101617219199733.html
01-04-2021||India||UP woman gang-raped in front of husband: Cops||A 19-year-old woman was allegedly gang raped in front of her husband by three persons in a forest area in Agra district on Monday, police said on Wednesday, adding that one person has been detained for interrogation.In her First Information Report (FIR), the woman alleged that she was on her way to Agra city with her husband on a motorcycle when they were intercepted by three men on a bike. She added that they (couple) were dragged to a nearby forest where she was raped by the trio.The survivor also claimed that the accused thrashed the couple and warned them not to report the matter to anyone. The trio took away all the valuables and cash before fleeing from the spot, she said.On Tuesday, a case against two named persons and one unidentified person was registered under sections 376 (D) (gang rape), 506 (criminal intimidation) and 394 (hurt in attempt of robbery) of Indian Penal Code.While two of the accused were identified as Gauri Rajput and Monu, the identity of the third person is yet to be ascertained, police said.“A case of gang rape, loot and physical assault has been registered against Gauri Rajput and Monu, besides an unidentified person. A search is on for the third accused,” Satyajeet Gupta, superintendent of police (rural), Agra West, said.Police, however, claimed that the couple had initially complained of robbery after they dialed 112 on the day of the alleged incident. After they were told to report the matter at a police station, the couple complained of gang rape, loot and assault, police added.While the woman was sent for medical examination, one of the named accused has been detained for interrogation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-woman-gang-raped-in-front-of-husband-cops-101617217973655.html
01-04-2021||India||Hiran smothered to death, shows NIA probe||The National Investigation Agency’s initial findings in the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran reveal that he was smothered to death before being thrown into the Thane Creek, which is consistent with the findings of the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) which was initially investigating the murder, people familiar with the development said.“Several handkerchiefs had been stuffed in Hiran’s mouth and it appears his face had been covered ‘tightly’ with another big cloth, due to which he could not breathe. There was some struggle but he seems to have been overpowered,” said an officer at the agency who asked not to be named.The agency, however, doesn’t want to conclude anything till it receives a report from medical experts, who are currently examining the post mortem report along with other evidence.The post mortem report, based on an autopsy conducted on March 5, said that Hiran’s “mouth was closed, tongue within mouth” and “foul smelling blood tinged fluid (was) oozing from nostrils”. It added that there was “abrasion over face on left side at zygomatic area; abrasion over left nostril, upper part; abrasion over right side cheek along ramus of mandible up to chin on right side and abrasion over face 1 cm lateral to outer canthus of right eye”.Hiran’s body was recovered from the creek along Mumbra-Reti-Bunder Road on March 5.Also read | You were duty-bound to file FIR against Deshmukh, HC tells Param Bir SinghNIA investigations, about the motive of murder, have so far revealed that arrested Mumbai police officer Sachin Vaze decided to kill Hiran after the latter refused to take the blame for planting an explosive laden vehicle outside Antilla, the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani on February 25, as first reported by HT.The vehicle itself was in Hiran’s possession, had been borrowed by Vaze, who knew the former, and then returned in early February. Hiran reported the vehicle stolen on February 18.The agency is also sure that Vaze was physically present at the murder scene, which is suspected to be Gaumukh Chowpatty, but is gathering more evidence regarding his whereabouts at that time. Apart from Vaze, co-accused - Naresh Gour (a bookie) and Vinayak Shinde (a convicted Constable) and several officers of CIU (Crime Intelligence Unit) are being interrogated on this aspect but they have been giving contradictory statements, said a second NIA officer.The systematic destruction of evidence after Hiran’s murder was in “panic”, according to the first officer, as ATS had taken over murder investigation and NIA was knocking at the door over the explosives caseThe Central agency took over the Antilia bomb scare probe on March 8 and arrested Vaze on March 13. NIA officials claim that Vaze came up with the whole plan to restore his lost credibility by solving a sensational case in record time and prove his worth to his superiors, as exclusively reported by HT. Vaze was suspended from the force in 2004, for his involvement in a case of custodial killing, and reinstated only in June 2020“We are not rushing the probe. It’s clear that Vaze is the main conspirator in both the incidents. Those who helped him in Antilia explosive planting and then murder of Hiran are almost identified but we don’t want to jump to conclusion till we have joined every loose end. We will unearth the entire conspiracy very soon,” said a third NIA officer who asked not to be named.NIA officials said they want to understand how many in the CIU (Crime Intelligence Unit), which was then headed by Vaze, were aware of Hiran’s murder.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hiran-smothered-to-death-shows-nia-probe-101617217921067.html
01-04-2021||India||CM running ‘authoritarian’ govt: Karnataka minister in letter to Guv||Karnataka rural development and Panchayat Raj minister K S Eshwarappa wrote a letter to governor Vajubai Vala on Wednesday accusing chief minister BS Yediyurappa of interference by bypassing departmental rules and running an authoritarian government.In a strongly worded letter to Vala, Eshwarappa said that the chief minister had indiscriminately sanctioned funds to various MLAs and other persons in violation of rules.“I am in pain, to bring to your kind notice, some of the recent actions of our Respected Chief minister relating to my department, which amounts to direct interference in the affairs of ministers-in-charge of departments, in clear violation of Karnataka (Transaction of Business) rules, 1977 and also against the established practices and procedures relating to the affairs of the State administration,” Eshwarappa wrote.He mentions three such orders --allocations of ₹65 crore, ₹774 crore and ₹460 crore (all three road works) --in which the chief minister’s office (CMO) had put pressure on the principal secretary to issue government orders bypassing the minister.Eshwarappa said that he had stayed these orders “on the advice” of the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president [Nalin Kumar Kateel] and other senior leaders of the party.The minister said that he had registered his objections with the chief minister and that it was to no avail and hence had brought it to the notice of the Governor “these serious lapses and authoritarian ways of running the administration” by the chief minister.Also read | Review panel as Bengaluru accounts for over 60% of Karnataka’s Covid-19 cases﻿“I have kept pending all three above mentioned sanctioned orders (of ₹774, ₹460 , ₹65 crores) which have been issued without taking (the) concerned minister into confidence and also issued directions to the principal secretary not to give effect to the allocations of (the) Finance Department,” Eshwarappa said.Eshwarappa said that he has communicated these issues to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president JP Nadda, General Secretary (Organisation) BL Santosh and Karnataka incharge, Arun Singh as well.The letter has also given the opposition more ammunition to attack the government.“A senior BJP minister has made very serious accusations against CM Yediyurappa in a letter to the Governor. The CM must either immediately submit his resignation or must sack the minister if the accusations aren’t true. Karnataka’s BJP government has become a den of corruption,” DK Shivakumar, the state Congress president posted on Twitter.Eshwarappa could not be reached for comment.The developments come at a time when Yediyurappa already finds himself in a corner over the recent sexual harassment case involving Ramesh Jarkiholi, non-performance of his two-year-old government, cash crunch and growing calls for his removal among other problems.The three bypolls on April 17 have presented the 78-year-old with an opportunity to silence growing dissent and consolidate his position for the remainder of the two years in power.Meanwhile, the Karnataka HC vacated a stay on an order for quashing of an FIR against Yediyurappa who was accused of engineering defections that led to the collapse of the HD Kumaraswamy-led Janata Dal (Secular) or JD(S)-Congress coalition government in 2019.Yediyurappa is alleged to have lured opposition legislators, in an exercise termed “Operation Kamala”, with the promise of giving them plum portfolios and other monetary rewards.At least 17 legislators from the JD9S)- Congress coalition had defected and helped Yediyurappa to power after weeks and months of high drama in the southern state.“Main case challenging the FIR is still with the High Court but he (Judge) has only vacated the stay now,” said one person aware of the developments, requesting not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-running-authoritarian-govt-k-taka-minister-in-letter-to-guv-101617217854084.html
01-04-2021||India||Bengal, Assam to vote today in high-stakes second phase||Voting for the second phase of elections in 39 seats in Assam and 30 in West Bengal will take place on Thursday amid high security, even as all eyes were on Nandigram, where chief minister Mamata Banerjee is taking on her protégé-turned-adversary Suvendu Adhikari of the Bharatiya Janata Party.The Election Commission has imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in and around all polling stations in Nandigram and East Midnapore district, where the constituency falls, and additional security forces have been deployed as both the ruling Trinamool Congress and the BJP alleged that “outsiders” could try to create disturbance on the polling day, moving the Election Commission.“Goons from outside have come and have threatened villagers in places such as Gokulnagar, Boyal and Balarampur areas in Nandigram. We have informed the EC. We hope there would be free and fair polls in Nandigram,” Banerjee told reporters before leaving Nandigram on Wednesday morning.Jay Prakash Majumdar, the BJP’s state vice-president, said the EC will verify the allegations. “We have asked EC to ensure free and fair elections,” he said.BJP president JP Nadda said: “People of Nandigram will give a clear message that TMC will be vanquished from West Bengal.” Banerjee retorted: “In Nandigram, TMC would get 100 out of 100 votes.”A senior official of the poll panel said that around 650 companies of central forces will be deployed in the second phase to guard 10,620 booths across the 30 constituencies in West Bengal. In Nandigram alone, where there are 355 polling booths, around 22 companies of central forces have been deployed.There will also be aerial surveillance with helicopters, webcasting in at least 75% booths, 22 quick response teams, static surveillance teams and micro-observers. There will be one general observer and one police observer, too, for Nandigram, an Election Commission official said.Also read | Mamata letter urges united anti-BJP frontOf the 30 seats that are going to the polls on Thursday, 23 were won by the TMC in 2016. The Left won five seats, while the BJP and the Congress won one seat each.On Wednesday, the poll panel removed the sub-divisional police officer (SDPO) of Haldia and the circle inspector (CI) of Mahishadal in East Midnapore district.In Assam, prominent candidates in the second phase include Parimal Suklabaidya (Dholai), Pijush Hazarika (Jagiroad), Bhabesh Kalita (Rangia), all ministers in the BJP-led government, and the assembly deputy speaker Aminul Haque Laskar (Sonai).Over 7.3 million voters will decide the fates of 345 candidates (26 women) in 13 districts which will go to the polls on April 1. In the first phase, polling took place in 47 seats in 12 districts on March 27.The high-voltage campaign that saw bigwigs from the BJP and Congress touring the state several times in the past week ended on a damp note on Tuesday due to inclement weather.Click here to read full election coverageA day before the polling, Union home minister Amit Shah on Wednesday targeted the Congress for allegedly killing protesters during the Assam agitation, while Congress leader Rahul Gandhi blamed the ruling BJP of shooting at anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protesters in the state.“Congress, which fired at protesters during the Assam agitation to oust illegal immigrants, has no right to ask for votes. As if it was not enough, the party is now riding piggyback on Badruddin Ajmal’s All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF),” said Shah at a rally at Bijni in Chirang district of Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR). He addressed two more rallies at Hajo and Sonapur.Gandhi spoke of Dipanjal Das, the first of the five people killed in police firing at anti-CAA protesters in December 2019. “Dipanjal was an idea and truly representative of what Assam is. It was not as if one youth was shot at, it felt as if the police (under BJP rule) had fired upon Assam and its people. It was an attempt to murder Assam. I am beginning my speech with Dipanjal, as I feel it’s the most important issue,” Gandhi said while addressing a rally in Chaygaon. Gandhi addressed another rally at Barkhetri later.Most of the focus of the campaign in the second phase was in the three Bengali-majority districts of Barak Valley-Karimganj, Cachar and Hailakandi, which have 15 seats in total.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengal-assam-to-vote-today-in-high-stakes-second-phase-101617216893529.html
01-04-2021||India||Sabarimala stir looms over Kerala poll battle||With less than a week left for crucial assembly elections in Kerala the ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) is busy with its house-to-house contact programme to apprise believers of the “real situation in Sabarimala” even as people living around the revered shrine are disillusioned with the politics over the issue.Having learnt a bitter lesson in 2019 Lok Sabha elections, in which it lost all but one of 20 Lok Sabha seats in the state, the ruling CPIM-led Left Democratic Front is worried --- unrest in Sabarimala was cited as main reason for its rout in those elections.The hill temple and surrounding areas witnessed unrest in 2018 after the state government tried to implement the Supreme Court verdict that removed restrictions on women between the ages of 10 and 50 entering the shrine. The state witnessed five shutdowns and two persons died in violence that rocked the state. Both the Congress (its grouping, the United Democratic Front is the main opposition in the state) and the Bharatiya Janata Party sought to leverage the issue to their advantage .Chittar, a scenic village in Pathanamthitta district, at least 22 km away from the base camp for the Sabarimala temple , Pambha, is where the unrest against the verdict first began in 2018. People there say it was a spontaneous movement sans any political colour ; even Communists participated in the voluntary movement, they add.Also read | Kerala High Court upholds EC guidelines to prevent bogus votingInterestingly, the initial response of even the Congress and BJP was to welcome the verdict. Then Congress president Rahul Gandhi and senior leaders of BJP including O Rajagopal termed it “historic”.But as spontaneous protests broke out throughout the state, the parties were forced to change their position and stand with teeming believers.State Congress leaders reportedly sent an SOS to the party high command pointing out that the BJP would reap the benefits of opposing the verdict. “I can see enough validity in the argument that tradition needs to be protected,” Gandhi later said, explaining the change in his position on Sabarimala. “It was a swift political move that paid rich dividends for the Congress. Otherwise, the BJP would have hijacked the whole issue,” said political analyst Sunnykutty Abraham.The Congress won 15 seats in the Lok Sabha election; Gandhi himself was elected from Wayanad; he lost in his family’s pocket borough Amethi.The issue created deep fissures in the state.P Abhilash spent 53 days in jail after his arrest during a hymn-chanting session at Nilackkal, the second base camp of the temple in 2018. Once a Communist sympathizer he’s now in the BJP. “Since I was not identified with any political party nobody came to release me on bail. But I firmly stood with my faith,” he said.Another BJP worker, Jayaprakash Chittar, who was in the hardware trade for two decades, lost his business after 17 cases were foisted on him. “Though the court gave its verdict in 2018 it never asked the state government to implement it immediately with force. Communists are known atheists and we all believe the government tried to impose the order in haste,” he said.Another devotee K Aneesh said he spent six days in the deep forest surviving only on water to dodge the police. Last month, in a move clearly aimed at the elections, the government withdrew all cases, other than criminal ones, registered during the temple agitation. But the scars run deep.“My uncle Chandran Unnithan (57) sacrificed his life for the movement three years ago when stones were pelted on him during a hymn- chanting session in Pandalam. We hope his sacrifice won’t be wasted,” said his niece P Mini. Unnithan died after allegedly being targeted by a group of CPI(M) workers at a fasting venue in Pandalam in Pathanamthitta. He suffered serious head injuries and succumbed in a local hospital.Still, despite their continuing faith in tradition, and opposition to the verdict -- it will now be taken up by a Constitution Bench of the apex court, although it has not been stayed -- some of the faithful are wary of political parties. “During the 2019 parliament election, PM Modi said in Pathanamthitta that the Centre will intervene to protect tradition . Two years have passed since then. Despite the tall promises nothing has happened on the ground,” said Venugopalan Nair, a regular at the temple for the past five decades.Like some others, Nair would rather politicians leave the issue alone.Yet, Sabarimala tops the election manifestos of both the BJP and the Congress with the two rival national parties promising a special legislation to protect temple customs. The CPI (M) has tried to maintain a balance and said it will implement the final verdict only after consulting all stake holders and that the issue will now come up before a Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court.Watch | 'Don’t tell women what to wear, whom to love’: Priyanka Gandhi in Kerala﻿On Tuesday, when chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was asked about the temple issue, he said: “Why you are frequently asking this? Like opposition parties a section of the media also wants to fan it (the issue). Pilgrimage to the temple is going on peacefully for the last two years.”His reference is to the unstated compromise that has been reached regarding the temple. The tradition of barring women in the reproductive age group continues; the state government has not tried to enforce the ruling; and no one has really tried to insist that the ruling be enforced.“The opposition is bankrupt. They are raking up the temple issue because they don’t have anything else to talk. It is a ploy to turn believers against the government,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijyaraghavan . Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala hit back saying that devotees were dealt with brutally at many places. “The CPI(M) wants to create an impression that nothing happened at the temple. ” he said.G Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of Nair Service Society, a powerful socio-cultural body fighting for temple customs for many years, said that all parties were playing double game over the issue. “We have immense faith in the judiciary and we feel our customs and traditions will be protected,” he said.In the 2019 parliament election the Congress Party’s Anto Antony retained the Pathanamthitta seat defeating CPI(M) and BJP candidates. The CPI(M) represents Ranni assembly constituency where the temple is situated. In adjoining Konni seat, BJP state president K Surendran is contesting . Surendran is the lone candidate in the state contesting in two seats, Konni in Pathanamthitta and Mancheswaram in north Kerala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sabarimala-stir-looms-over-kerala-poll-battle-101617216892969.html
01-04-2021||India||UP CM Yogi Adityanath says DMK, Congress failed to safeguard women||Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday hit out at both the Congress and DMK, alleging that they have failed to safeguard women.He also slammed the two allies on dynasty politics.Referring to alleged derogatory remarks made by some political party leaders, including DMK MP A Raja,recently, Adityanath said this has proved that there would be no protection to women if these parties were voted to power.Addressing a rally here, seeking votes for Vanathi Srinivasan, BJP candidate for the Coimbatore south assembly constituency, he said the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi was always development of Tamil Nadu, both industrially and economically.If the BJP-AIADMK was voted to power, the state would get more funds for development activities, he said.The BJP-led government has sanctioned to Coimbatore city a defense corridor for manufacturing components for the sector, by which it will become self-reliant (Atmanirbhar) and result in generation of large employment, Adityanath added.The chief minister also thanked the people of Tamil Nadu for contributing nearly ₹120 crore for the construction of the Ram Mandir at Ayodhya.Adityanath earlier visited the Puliyakulam Lord Ganesha temple and offered prayers.From there he was led to the venue of the public meeting by 1,000 two-wheeler riders in a procession, covering a seven km distance.Vehicular traffic was paralysed on main roads during the period.Meanwhile, canvassing votes for party candidate G Pandurangan at Virudhunagar, Adityanath accused the DMK and Congress of following retrogressing approach to development.Only the BJP-led NDA alone can ensure more development to Tamil Nadu, he said.The vision of Prime Minister Modi was always for development of Tamil Nadu and voting the BJP-led NDA in the state in the April 6 assembly election will ensure more development to the state besides funds for infrastructure projects, he said.He alleged that whenever the DMK and Congress got the opportunity to rule, they indulged in corruption and perpetuated dynasty rule."In contrast Prime Minister Narendra Modi's vision for development has furthered the nation's prosperity and projected altogether a new and lofty image of new India globally," he said."You should send more MLAs from the BJP and AIADMK to the assembly so that the NDA can take the development vision of Modiji forward in Tamil Nadu," Adityanath appealed, while urging the people to reject the DMK-led combine.The UP chief minister, who commenced his speech in Tamil and switched over to Hindi, invoked the blessings of Lord Muruga for his party's victory in the elections."Vetrivel, Vetrivel, vetri vetri vetrivel," he chanted while concluding his speech and the huge crowd followed suit, reminiscent of state BJP's Vel yatra last year, taken out in protest against the alleged denigration of Tamil hymn Kanda Sashti Kavacham by an atheist group.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-cm-yogi-adityanath-says-dmk-congress-failed-to-safeguard-women-101617215985210.html
01-04-2021||India||States gear up for 3rd phase of vaccine drive; key to limiting 2nd wave: Experts||States readied new inoculation centres, stocked extra doses of vaccines and trained workers to deal with a possible surge of beneficiaries as India opened up Covid-19 immunisation to all citizens above 45 from Thursday, marking a critical milestone in the country’s fight against rising infections.Experts say the third phase of the drive – the first phase was aimed at frontline workers and the second at those above 60, or above 45 with comorbidities – is pivotal because picking up the pace of shots will determine if vaccinations can control the second wave of cases. Earlier phases were dogged by a slow rollout, teething problems, vaccine hesitancy and misinformation.The Centre asked states and Union Territories to identify low vaccine-coverage pockets, particularly in districts reporting a surge in new infections, and take corrective action. National Health Authority CEO and Empowered Group on COVID Vaccination chairperson RS Sharma and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan chaired a high-level meeting with health secretaries, mission directors of NHM and immunisation officers of all states and UTs. States were also asked to focus on vaccine storage and reduce wastage.In Maharashtra, which is driving the surge, officials said they didn’t immediately plan to add more centres to the 3,000 functional sites. The state has 33 million people above 45.“Against the capacity of inoculating more than 3lakh beneficiaries every day, our average vaccination is 2.5 lakh. This means we can take up additional number of beneficiaries from the new group from the phase starting from tomorrow. If needed we will increase the number of centres with the permission from the central government,” said an official from the health department.In Uttar Pradesh, vaccination will commence at all wellness centers, medical colleges, government hospitals, community health centres and primary health centres. The state has 4,500 vaccination sites, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health.Also read | Covid-19 vaccination drive widens, 50 million set for both shots by May 15Officials in Bihar said it was left with around 800,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine as it prepares to vaccinate 18 million people above 45. The state decided to increase vaccination centers from 1,700 to 2,500.“With 8 lakh doses of vaccine remaining, the Centre has committed to send additional 8 lakh doses of vaccine on April 2,” said Manoj Kumar, executive director, state health society, Bihar. Given the shortage, the state is rotating vaccines from underperforming cold chain points to districts where vaccine utilisation was more.Punjab said it will vaccinate on all seven days and use every government health centre. The state has around 7.5 million people above 45. Neighbouring Haryana said it plans to inoculate 200,000 people on the first day across 2,000 sites. In Madhya Pradesh, the state government set up 3,500 centres to inoculate 350,000 people daily. “We review the vaccination daily and if needed, the centers would be increased,” said Santosh Shukla, state immunisation officer. There are 14.5 million people in the state above 45.Uttarakhand said it will focus on the capital Dehradun and Haridwar, where the Mahakumbh is starting from Thursday. “We will be focusing on districts where more Covid cases are being reported like Haridwar and Dehradun. We have enough centres and if the need arises we will increase the centres,” said Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, Uttarakhand’s in-charge for immunisation. The state has 2.5 million people above 45.Also read | From today, vaccination drive opens to everyone above the age of 45 yearsAndhra Pradesh aimed to vaccinate 10 million people above 45 and state health commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar said the vaccination will be done in 1,500-odd primary health centres. In Telangana, shots will be administered at 935 vaccination centres. “Fifty lakh people above 45 are expected to get vaccinated from April 1,” director of state health G Srinivasa Rao said.Odisha’s director of family welfare Bijay Panigrahi said while vaccinating street vendors, meat and fish sellers, auto and bus drivers, school and college teachers, salon and barber shop employees and security guards will be prioritised. He said the state has 11.6 million people above 45. The state will vaccinate them at 1,200 sites.In Assam, no additional vaccination centers have been opened. The state has 4,948 government facilities and 289 private hospitals registered to vaccinate people. “The existing ones would be enough to cope with the demand. In coming days, we are planning to expand the vaccination drive to ensure that all eligible get vaccinated in the quickest possible time,” said Munindra Nath Ngatey, director, health services (family welfare), Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-gear-up-for-3rd-phase-of-vaccine-drive-key-to-limiting-2nd-waveexperts-101617215572844.html
01-04-2021||India||Bhagwat to address Kashmiri Pandits||After leading the millennium celebrations of Abhinavagupta, a 10th century thinker and a renowned proponent of Shaivism from Kashmir, the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh is all set to focus attention on two other personalities from the region, Shreya Bhatt, a 15th century vaid (physician) and King Lalitaditya of the Karkota dynasty who ruled from 725 AD for over three decades.Programmes to highlight the life and contribution of both Bhatt and Lalitaditya will held between April 12 and 14 and culminate with RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat addressing the members of the Kashmiri Pandit community through an online interaction.This is the first time that Bhagwat will be addressing members of the community, though he has previously interacted with a limited audience of Kashmiri Pandits during Shivratri celebrations in 2011 said a person familiar with the matter. The meeting is also significant because it comes almost two years after the Centre abrogated Article 370 that gave Jammu & Kashmir special status, and converted the erstwhile state into two Union Territories.“The idea is to bring together the members of the Kashmiri Pandit community who are scattered across the globe after their exodus from the (Kashmir) valley; to help them stay connected with their roots and culture and instil in them the resolve to return to their homeland,” said a senior Sangh functionary who asked not to be named.The programmes are being organised by the Jammu-based Sanjeevani Sharda Kendra, which was set up in 1997 as a socio-cultural organisation. The Kendra is inspired by the Sangh.AK Tickoo, vice chairperson of the Kendra said the programmes are being held to commemorate the memory of Bhatt and King Lalitaditya who were icons in Kashmir.“Two years after he ascended the throne, Sultan Zain-Ul-Abidin developed a dangerous boil that could not be treated by well-known Hakims from Central Asia. It was Shreya Bhatt who was successful in treating the boil. When the Sultan recovered and wanted to reward Bhatt the only thing he asked for was to allow Hindus to embrace their faith, lift restrictions on their rituals and rebuild the destroyed temples and libraries. In his honour we will mark April 12 as Samarpan divas (sacrifice day),” Tickoo said.April 14 will be designated as Shourya Divas (valour day) to commemorate the valour of Lalitaditya. “He fought valiantly against the Arabs and the Turks. He conquered vast parts of Central Asia and Tibet and his valour is easily comparable to that of well-known heroes of Indian history,” Tickoo said.A sankalp or a resolution will also be adopted on the occasion of the new year as per the Hindu almanac on April 12, which is celebrated as Navreh by Kashmiri Pandits. “Dressed in our traditional attire we will take the pledge of celebrating the new year next year in Kashmir. It is a resolve to keep the ties with our homeland,” Tickoo said.At least 60 Kashmiri Pandit organisations are participating in the event which is expected to be joined by over one lakh community members Tickoo said.The return of Kashmiri Pandits to Kashmir -- they were forced out under threat of massacre in 1989 and 1990 -- is an issue that has been raised by the Sangh and mentioned by the BJP in its manifesto. The programmes are in line with the Sangh’s efforts to build bridges with the community. “There is a perception that the BJP has been in power for over six years, but nothing has happened as far as the return of Pandits is concerned,” said a resident of the Jagati Township in Jammu that is home to Kashmiris who migrated from the valley.“There have been conditions that led to the exodus of the community not once but seven times. The community must strive to return to its roots and keep alive its ties with the homeland. This initiative is in line with Sangh’s support for the return of the KPs to the valley,” said a Jammu based Sangh functionary.Dr Agnishekhar Convenor of Panun Kashmir, an organisation that seeks a separate homeland for Pandits in the valley welcomed the opportunity to interact with Bhagwat.“From the day we were ousted (from the valley) we have been fighting for our return, rehabilitation and reversal of genocide. There has been a cultural genocide as well; our history and icons have been destroyed. It’s a good thing that the RSS is organising this function, but the members of the community have been conscious of what has happened and have been fighting for our return.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bbhagwat-to-address-kashmiri-pandits-101617215212866.html
01-04-2021||India||LPG price reduced, auto fuel rates may also be cut soon||State-run oil marketing companies reduced the cooking gas rate by ₹10 a cylinder from Thursday, and plan to cut prices of auto fuels in the coming days, with the fall being steeper for diesel compared to petrol, two people aware of the development said.The government-controlled Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), India’s largest fuel retailer, on Wednesday announced reducing the cooking gas price. “With a view to give relief to domestic LPG [liquefied petroleum gas or cooking gas] consumers, the price of Domestic LPG cylinder has been reduced by ₹10 per cylinder from ₹819 per cylinder to ₹809 per cylinder at Delhi effective 1st April 2021. The same reduction has been carried out in other markets,” it said in a statement.International oil prices are softening even as they remain volatile, but OMCs will reap some benefits of lower prices, and pass these on, the people added on condition of anonymity.Petrol and diesel prices peaked on February 27, with global prices hardening and the Centre and the states not willing to forgo on the tax revenue they earn on fuel by cutting duties. The prices were frozen on February 27, immediately after the Election Commission (EC) announced assembly elections in four states and a Union Territory. After keeping auto fuel prices frozen for 25 days, public sector retailers reduced petrol and diesel rates in three small doses by 61 paise per litre and 60 paise a litre, respectively since March 24.Also read | Petrol and diesel prices in your city, check today's rates herePetroleum secretary Tarun Kapoor said that although the international oil market is still volatile, prices of crude and petroleum products have softened from their peak in early March. “We are hoping that international prices would remain stable and would not go up so that the benefit can be passed on to the consumer.”Brent crude, which was trading below $60 a barrel until February 5, 2021, saw a strong rally to peak at $69.63 per barrel on March 11 because of a supply squeeze by the oil producers’ cartel, the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries and its allies, including Russia (together known as OPEC+). The cartel cut about one-tenth of global output in April 2020 after Brent crude plunged below $20 per barrel that month due to weak demand on account of a lockdown across many countries. But, OPEC+ did not raise output to push up price even as demand resumed.“Much will depend on OPEC+ as they would like choke supply to artificially push up oil prices. But that would not be so easy without losing their market share as many consumers are drawn to other oil producers offering better terms such as the US,” said one person mentioned above who has direct knowledge of India’s energy security matters. The ministerial meeting of OPEC+ is scheduled on Thursday to decide the output policy. A Reuters’ report quoting a research note of JP Morgan said OPEC+ would tread cautiously by largely rolling over its production cuts into May.A second person, who works for a state-run refiner, said state-owned oil marketers are a better placed to absorb some price volatility to keep petrol, diesel and cooking gas prices stable.SC Sharma, an energy expert and former officer on special duty at the erstwhile Planning Commission, said: “As per PPAC [Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell] Snapshot of February 2021; the overall refining margins for Indian refineries for the first nine months of FY 2020-21 are far better compared to the FY 2019-20.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lpg-price-reduced-auto-fuel-rates-may-also-be-cut-soon-101617215152877.html
01-04-2021||India||Heatwave grips states, IMD predicts a warmer summer||Even as parts of the country experience a heat wave, the India Meteorological Department has warned that maximum temperatures in most parts of India will be above normal between April and June.“We are seeing the heat wave being recorded in a very large area covering east, central and northwest India in March. It’s quite early this year. In the past 10 years we have seen heat waves occurring in April ; they used to start mainly in May before that. But this time, very high temperatures have been recorded in March also. This is mainly because of lack of rainfall, very dry air which gets heated quickly, clear skies and direct sunshine,” said K Sathi Devi, head, national weather forecasting centre.But the condition would abate in two to three days, she added, on account of “strong westerly winds.” Indeed, Wednesday was a relatively pleasant day in Delhi, with a maximum temperature of 37.9 degrees Celsius, 6 degrees above normal. But on Monday, March 29, the maximum temperature in the Capital touched 40.1 degrees Celsius (CHECK), the highest in 76 years.IMD also said on Wednesday that above normal maximum or day temperatures (0.37 to 0.62 degree C above normal) are likely over most of the subdivisions of north, northwest and few subdivisions of east central India during the following three months (April to June).Below normal day temperatures (0.16 to 0.44 degree C below normal) are likely only in some parts of Peninsular India, east, northeast and extreme north India, it added.Above normal minimum or night temperatures are likely over few subdivisions along the west coast and west India. However, below normal season averaged minimum temperatures are likely over few subdivisions of northwest, central, east and extreme north India.On Wednesday, heat wave conditions were recorded in most parts of northwest and central India with severe heat wave conditions in isolated pockets over West Rajasthan.Temperatures in excess of 40 degrees C were recorded in many parts of Vidarbha, Maharashtra, East Uttar Pradesh, West Madhya Pradesh, Jharkhand and Odisha; in some parts of West Rajasthan, Saurashtra, Kutch, Chhattisgarh, East Madhya Pradesh ; and in a few parts of East Rajasthan, West Uttar Pradesh, Gangetic West Bengal, Gujarat region, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Telangana, North Interior Karnataka, Rayalaseema and Tamil Nadu.Also read | Sizzler of a March turns out to be the hottest in 11 years, says IMDThe highest maximum temperature recorded on Tuesday was 44.6 degrees C at Baripada in Odisha. Bhubaneshwar recorded the highest temperature of 44 degrees C on Wednesday.Maximum temperatures are likely to fall by 2-4 degrees C over most parts of northwest and central India during the next few days, IMD said in its bulletin. Strong surface winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are likely to blow over parts of Punjab, Rajasthan, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh during next 48 hours, it added.But there’s no denying that the heat wave is early, experts said.“This year heat wave conditions have set in quite early. “There were hardly any western disturbances in January and February. In March there was an intense western disturbance but we still have a large deficiency,” said Kuldeep Shrivastava, head, regional weather forecasting centre.Western disturbances are cyclones originating in the Mediterranean that bring colder temperatures and, sometimes, rains, to parts of India.And the heat is likely to continue.There is a high probability (60 to 100%) of above normal maximum temperatures over most subdivisions of north, northwest and few subdivisions of east central India (Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Odisha), IMD said on Wednesday. There is also a 50 to 100% probability of most subdivisions of Peninsular India; few subdivisions of east (Gangetic West Bengal), northeast (Sikkim and Sub Himalayan West Bengal and Assam and extreme north India (J&K and Ladakh) experiencing below normal maximum temperatures, it added in its seasonal forecast based on predictions from the Monsoon Mission Coupled Forecasting System (MMCFS) model developed by ministry of earth sciences.The cooling effect of La Nina, a global weather pattern, started waning in March according to the meteorological department. La Nina conditions may completely weaken and turn neutral during April which could mean a harsh summer here.IMD’s monsoon mission coupled forecasting system has indicated the likely warming of sea surface temperatures (SSTs) over the central and eastern equatorial Pacific Ocean in April and May which indicates a transition of La Nina condition to the so-called ENSO neutral condition.“La Nina has started weakening. It was at its peak in January and February. La Nina is often associated with lower temperatures in India. But that is now unlikely during the rest of summer and monsoon months.Overall, we can say La Nina will phase out gradually,” DS Pai, senior climate scientist at IMD said last week.El Niño and the Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is a periodic fluctuation in sea surface temperature and the air pressure of the overlying atmosphere across the equatorial Pacific Ocean according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).ENSO has a major influence on weather and climate patterns such as heavy rains, floods and drought. El Niño has a warming influence on global temperatures, whilst La Niña has the opposite effect. In India for example, El Nino is associated with drought or weak monsoon while La Nina is associated with strong monsoon and above average rains and colder winters.According to IMD, a heat wave is recorded in areas where the normal maximum temperatures are in excess of 40 degrees Celsius when the actual maximum temperature is between 4 degrees C and 5 degrees C higher . For regions where the normal maximum temperatures are 40 degrees Celsius or lower, a hear wave is decalred when the actual maximum temperature is 5 degrees C to 6 degrees C higher. A heat wave is declared only when the maximum temperature of a station reaches at least 40 degrees C for the plains and at least 30 degrees C in the hills. Heat waves can also be declared when the actual maximum temperature remains above 45 degrees C or more for a day irrespective of normal maximum temperature.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/heatwave-grips-states-imd-predicts-a-warmer-summer-101617215092983.html
01-04-2021||India||CID was wary of Mufti speaking against Centre abroad, says official||Srinagar Former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chief Mehbooba Mufti was denied a fresh passport after J&K Police’s Criminal Investigative Department (CID) raised concerns that she could possibly issue statements against the Centre during her stay abroad, officials familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity.Mufti and her mother Gulshan Nazir planned to travel to Dubai to attend a family function in May, the officials cited above added. Besides Dubai, there was a possibility that the PDP leader would travel to the US where her elder sister resides, they said.The PDP leader’s passport expired last May and both she and her mother applied for new ones in December. On Monday, the former chief minister claimed that she was denied a passport on the grounds that it was “detrimental to the security of India”.While refusing clearance (of fresh passport), the officials cited above said, the CID referred to a few statements made by the former chief minister following the revocation of Article 370 and 35A in 2019, and her release from prison last year.“The CID feared that after getting the passport, Mehbooba Mufti would travel to some countries and her statements abroad could create problems; so her case wasn’t cleared,” said one of the officials.Also read | Mehbooba Mufti denied passport after J-K CID report cites national securityStating that travelling is a fundamental right of any citizen, PDP chief spokesperson Sukhail Bukhari said: “Whether she was planning to visit Dubai or elsewhere, it is her right.”On J&K CID’s concerns that Mufti could possibly make remarks against the government outside, Sukhail said: She (Mufti) has been asking for the restoration of Article 370 and 35A. What is wrong in that, she can make this statement anywhere.”In a letter to Mufti on March 26, the regional passport office mentioned that the additional director-general of police, J&K CID, had not recommended the issuance of a fresh passport to Mufti. The PDP chief moved the Jammu and Kashmir High Court but her petition was dismissed on Monday.“Under BJP’s rule, Indian constitution is being undermined time & again. Only option & recourse left is the judiciary. Once they too decide to wash their hands off matters which involve our fundamental rights where does one go?” she posted on Twitter on Wednesday.According to the officials, the PDP chief’s passport was rejected by the CID wing after her name popped up during an investigation. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is already probing a case of money distribution to militants via PDP youth president Waheen ur Rahman Parra , one of Mufti’s aides who has been detained in the matter.Last week, Mufti was questioned by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Srinagar for five hours in connection with the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cid-was-wary-of-mufti-speaking-against-centre-abroad-says-official-over-passport-row-101617213832792.html
01-04-2021||India||NIA raids activists in Andhra, Telangana||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday conducted raids at the premises of several Adivasi, Dalit and human rights activities in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for their alleged links with Maoists, people familiar with the development said.Among those being raided till late night include Chilika Chandrasekhar (general secretary of Andhra Pradesh Civil Liberties Committee), a senior lawyer in Hyderabad and an organisation involved in human rights work.HT had reported exclusively on Sunday that the central anti-terror probe agency has booked at least 64 persons – mostly activists and a journalist – under Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA) and sedition for helping Maoists in their activities. This is NIA’s second case against activists after Bhima-Koregaon probe, in which several activists like Sudha Bhardwaj, Anand Teltumbde, Professor Hany Babu MT, Father Stan Swamy have already been arrested for allegedly being part of Maoists’ frontal networks to increase their influence.The prominent activists named in NIA First Information Report are – Chilika Chandrasekhar, VS Krishna, Human Rights Forum (HRF) coordinator for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh – who has been speaking against Andhra’s anti-Naxal force – the Greyhounds – for allegedly raping 11 tribal women in 2007 in the Vakapalli incident; and Duddu Prabhakar (a prominent Dalit activist).Chandrasekhar told HT – “The NIA team is at my residence in Guntur without presence of any intermediary. My wife is at home alone. They have not allowed anybody to see anything”.It was not clear if Krishna’s premises were also being searched by the agency. Prabhakar is currently in jail after he was arrested by Andhra Pradesh police few weeks ago.Also read | NIA takes over Andhra probe against activistsA NIA officer, who didn’t want to be named, said most of the 64 accused named in the FIR are being raided to collect evidence on their involvement in the conspiracy. This officer added that the agency wants to unearth the entire ‘urban-naxals’ network.The latest case was registered by Andhra Pradesh police on November 23 last year after the arrest of a TV journalist from Visakhapatnam, Pangi Naganna (30). It is alleged that Naganna worked as a courier for Maoists and had been passing information to the ultras inside the jungle about police movements and as instructed by Maoist leaders he was involved in instigating villagers to stop the forces from combing operations, obstruct police from entering villages, revolt against police parties and hold rallies against the government. Revolutionary Maoist literature, press notes, medicines, wire bundles and other incriminating material was said to have been recovered from his bag at the time of arrest.During his interrogation, Naganna said he facilitated meetings between Maoists and civil society organisations.It was on the basis of Naganna’s confession that the state police had named VS Krishna as well as Akkiraju Haragopal – a senior Central Committee member of the CPI (Maoist). The state police had further alleged that Krishna had assured Haragopal of spreading Maoist ideology in urban areas. Haragopal too is named as an accused in NIA case.It is further alleged that Chilika Chandrasekhar also met Maoists, according to Naganna’s confession.Telangana Civil Liberties Committee president G Laxman confirmed that the NIA sleuths, along with the Andhra Pradesh police, raided the residence of V Raghunath, high court advocate and vice-president of civil liberties committee at Dilsukhnagar in Hyderabad.“The searches have been going on since 6 pm. The NIA authorities seized the laptop and the computer of Raghunath and inspected them,” Laxman said and condemned what he described as illegal raids by the NIA on the advocates and other rights activists and writers.(with inputs from Srinivasa Rao Apparasu)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-raids-activists-in-andhra-telangana-101617213772713.html
01-04-2021||India||Pakistan green-lights sugar, cotton trade with India||The Pakistan government paved the way for resumption of limited trade relations with India by allowing imports of sugar and cotton from the latter on Wednesday, almost two years after commercial ties were snapped.The green signal for the imports from the Economic Coordination Committee (ECC) of Pakistan’s Cabinet reflected a recent thaw in relations between New Delhi and Islamabad after the armies of the two sides recommitted themselves to a ceasefire along the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir last month.Pakistan’s finance minister Hammad Azhar, who was appointed to the position by Prime Minister Imran Khan only on Tuesday, told a news conference in Islamabad that the move will allow the country to cope with the rising price of sugar and a shortage of cotton.The Cabinet committee approved imports of up to 500,000 tonnes of sugar by the private sector and allowed imports of cotton up to the end of June to meet the needs of small and medium enterprises.“Following an increase in the price of sugar, we allowed imports from across the world but the prices around the world are also high, which means imports aren’t possible. In our neighbouring country India, the price of sugar is lower than the price in Pakistan,” Azhar said, speaking in Urdu.“So we have decided to allow trading in sugar with India, [with imports of] up to 500,000 tonnes by the private sector,” he added.The difference in the price of sugar in the two countries is estimated to be 15% to 20% and the imports will help cover a minor shortfall and reduce prices. “The benefits will go to the poor of Pakistan,” Azhar said.Also read | We too want peaceful ties, Imran tells ModiNoting that there is great demand for cotton in Pakistan as textile exports had increased and last year’s crop wasn’t good, Azhar said: “We had allowed cotton imports from around the world but not from India, and this makes a difference to SMEs or the smaller industries. The bigger firms can import cotton from Egypt or other countries and even at expensive prices, but this is needed by SMEs”.“Today, on a proposal from the commerce ministry, the ECC decided that we will open imports [of cotton] from India till the end of June.”Azhar sidestepped a question from a reporter on the resumption of trade ties with India without addressing the Kashmir issue by saying: “If the burden on the ordinary man is reduced by trading with some country, there is no loss in it.”On the Indian side, Pakistan’s decision will benefit growers and merchants in Punjab, which has for long had trade relations with the neighbouring country and was a key supplier of vegetables, fruits and other agricultural products. Trade has invariably been hit whenever tensions spiked between India and Pakistan, and this was also case when the 2019 Pulwama suicide attack triggered a military standoff.Pakistan’s National Security Committee had unilaterally suspended trade relations with India in August 2019 after New Delhi scrapped Jammu and Kashmir’s special status.The move by the Indian and Pakistani armies to strictly adhere to the ceasefire on the LoC from February 25 was the outcome of behind-the-scenes contacts between the two sides and led to a thaw in relations.In recent weeks, Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa has spoken of the need to “bury the past and move forward”, while Prime Minister Khan has said India will have to take the first step for improving ties by addressing Kashmir, the only issue standing in the way of better relations.After Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for an atmosphere of trust and devoid of terrorism for better relations between the two sides in a message sent to his Pakistani counterpart on Pakistan Day on March 23, Khan responded by saying that his country desires peaceful and cooperative ties.“Creation of an enabling environment is imperative for a constructive and result-oriented dialogue,” Khan said in his response sent to Modi on Monday.Though external affairs minister S Jaishankar didn’t meet his Pakistani counterpart on the margins of the Heart of Asia ministerial conference in Tajikistan on Tuesday, both sides have dialled down the rhetoric amid indications that more steps are likely to be taken to normalise relations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pak-green-lights-sugar-cotton-trade-withindia-101617213652680.html
01-04-2021||India||After Sopore attack, authorities take stock of security for Amarnath Yatra||Officials in Kashmir have been asked to review security preparedness in view of the upcoming Amarnath Yatra, after two councillors and four security personnel were killed in separate attacks over the last week.Kashmir inspector general of police (IGP) Vijay Kumar on Tuesday held a review meeting through video conferencing with range DIGs and district SSPs of Kashmir zone.“IGP Kashmir was briefed by the officers about the overall security scenarios in their respective areas and the security measures being adopted to counter the challenges. IGP Kashmir urged upon the officers to revisit the existing security deployments including checkpoints/nakas at strategic locations, surprise nakas, limited surprise CASOs in crowded places,” a police spokesperson said.The IGP directed officials to strategise police deployments on a day-to-day basis in view of the Amarnath Yatra, the spokesperson said. The annual Amarnath Yatra will begin in June and the government is expecting nearly 600,000 pilgrims.Also read | No infiltration attempts reported from LoC along North Kashmir in last 3 monthsA police official and two councillors were killed in an attack in Sopore on Monday afternoon. Last week, militants attacked a CRPF convoy in Lawaypora on the Srinagar-Baramulla national highway. Three CRPF officials were killed in the attack.The officials have been asked to formulate SOPs so that all proactive measures, including cordon and search operations, placing cut-off points on exit routes, use of drones, are adopted immediately.Kumar also directed the officers to review the existing security deployed with protected and vulnerable people.On Wednesday morning, the senior superintendent of police in Srinagar, Sandeep Chaudhary, conducted a tour of hotels in Srinagar, where protected persons are accommodated.“More CCTV cameras and centralised surveillance of such guards is being enhanced to ensure safety of protected persons. Men deployed on guards were briefed to stick to SOPs very strictly and remain alert round the clock,” the police spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-sopore-attack-authorities-take-stock-of-security-for-amarnath-yatra-101617213653248.html
01-04-2021||India||Farmers’ body plans to hold march to Parliament in May||The Samyukt Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of 32 farmers groups, on Wednesday said that thousands of farmers, protesting against the three agricultural laws, will march to Parliament in May in a fresh push towards a repeal of the central laws.Unveiling its plan for the agitation for the next two months, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha said it will continue its movement from camps along the borders of Delhi and undertake a series of protests, including blocking expressways leading to the national capital.“A Parliament march on foot has been planned within the first fortnight of May. This programme will be completely peaceful. People will come in their vehicles from their villages to the borders of Delhi and then walk to Parliament. The exact date will be announced soon,” Gurnam Singh Charuni, a key leader of the farmers’ body said at a press conference here.Farmers, labourers, women, people from Dalit, Adivasi and Bahujan communities, and unemployed youth will take part in the march to Parliament, Charuni said. The farmers also plan to block the KMP expressway on April 10 for 24 hours.Also read | Watch: Farmers dance, sing to celebrate Holi at Ghazipur borderThousands of farmers have been camping at Delhi’s borders since November last year, seeking a repeal of the new farm laws, which they say will erode their bargaining power, weaken a system of assured prices, and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by agri businesses.The government has maintained that the laws aim to ease restrictions on farm trade by setting up free markets, allow traders to stockpile large stocks of food for future sales and lay down a framework for contract farming.Farm unions and the government have failed to resolve the deadlock over the new legislation despite 11 rounds of negotiations.“Special precautions will be taken so that what happened on January 26 will not be repeated,” Charuni said.A tractor march by the protesting farmers on Republic Day this year turned violent as protesters pulled apart barricades, clashed with police and stormed the Red Fort. The Samyukt Kisan Morcha then said that the violence was a conspiracy to tarnish the agitation.For the march to Parliament in May, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha plans to constitute a committee to control protesters and deal with police action during the protest.Among other plans to intensify their protests, the farmers said they will blockade offices of the Food Corporation of India on April 5 and observe Samvindan Bachao Divas (Save Constitution Day) on April 14, the birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-body-plans-to-hold-march-to-parliament-in-may-101617213592776.html
01-04-2021||India||Assembly elections: Facebook to curb hate speech in India||Facebook on Wednesday announced its plans to remove any content found to be in violation of the policy it has formulated to check hate speech in view of elections in four states and the Union Territory of Puducherry. It cited experiences from the earlier elections and added Facebook is now taking steps to enhance civic engagement, combat hate speech, limit misinformation, and remove voter suppression.The first phases of staggered elections in West Bengal and Assam were held on March 27. Kerala, Tamil Nadu, and Puducherry will go to the polls on April 6. The election results will be declared on May 2 following the conclusion of the remaining seven-phase polls in West Bengal and two more rounds of polling in Assam.Facebook, which counts India as its biggest market with 400 million users, said it has invested in a proactive technology to detect and reduce the distribution of content in violation of the policy. It added the social media firm is also deploying technology to identify new words associated with hate speech.The company has also pledged to reduce the distribution of content from the accounts found to have repeatedly violated its policies. It added it has partnered with eight third-party fact-checking organisations to tackle misinformation during elections.Also Read | US lawmakers, tech CEOs face off over disinformationThe fact-checkers will provide people with additional context about the content they see on Facebook including in Bengali, Tamil, Malayalam, and Assamese, the main languages of the regions where elections are being held.According to its policy, any content offering to buy or sell votes in exchange for cash or kind will be removed. Additionally, it will also remove explicit claims such as “you will contract Covid-19” if you vote or “do not go to vote as everyone will get the disease”.“Facebook recognises its role in creating an informed society. Thus, it will also be reminding people to exercise their right to vote. Facebook has come up with Election Day reminders in order to give voters accurate information and encourage voters,” the company said in a blogpost.The firm also plans public education campaigns and digital literacy training to stop the spread of misinformation.Facebook has been under fire for allowing hate speech. The opposition Congress in August last year sought a parliamentary panel probe into Facebook’s alleged favourable treatment to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). This came following a report in the Wall Street Journal that said Facebook and WhatsApp had refused to bar a BJP lawmaker even as he wrote hateful posts. This was allegedly done to protect social media company’s “commercial interests”.Twitter too introduced new guidelines last week to contain the spread of false news. It shared tips for users to ensure that they are getting accurate information.Both social media intermediaries have also signed a voluntary code of ethics with the Election Commission to help in ensuring free and fair polls.The government in February introduced new rules to regulate social media content and making companies like Facebook more accountable to requests for quick removal of posts and details on their sources.(With inputs from Malavika PM)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-elections-facebook-to-curb-hate-speech-in-india-101617182992138.html
01-04-2021||Today's||In Afghanistan, India must embrace the role of peacemaker||Some say, it is a place where conflict is endemic and peace will remain elusive. Others say, these are times of great power rivalry, and hence, the prospects of those engaged in the new great game cooperating are dim. Yet, peacemaking is in the air in the heart of Asia. In other words, there is a surge of diplomacy, to address the dilemmas that Afghanistan is confronting.The United States (US) secretary of state Anthony Blinken’s missive to Afghanistan’s President Ashraf Ghani laid out the Joe Biden administration’s wish-list for an accelerated peace process. It set off a rush for peace and reconciliation. In early March, Zalmay Khalilzad, the US special envoy for Afghan reconciliation, launched a diplomatic offensive. He has engaged interlocutors in Kabul, Islamabad, Doha and Moscow in a renewed bid to end the US’s longest war. On March 17, United Nations (UN) secretary-general Antonio Guterres appointed Jean Arnault from France as his personal envoy on Afghanistan and regional issues. On March 18, the first meeting in 2021 of the extended troika of Russia, the US, China and Pakistan along with Afghan government and Taliban representatives was hosted in Moscow and endorsed the call that the Taliban not pursue its spring offensive.On March 20, US defence secretary Lloyd Austin visited Kabul to, “listen and learn”. On March 23, Blinken shared Washington’s “initial thinking” about Afghanistan with North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) allies in Brussels. On March 30, the ministerial meeting of the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process was convened in Dushanbe, bringing together 15 participating countries from the region, 17 supporting countries from beyond the region, and 12 regional and international organisations. More diplomacy is in store — including an intra-Afghan meeting in Turkey.This frenetic activity is fanned by the timeline agreed to by the Donald Trump administration in Doha on February 29, 2020, for the withdrawal “from Afghanistan of all military forces of the United States, its allies, and coalition partners, including all non-diplomatic civilian personnel, private security contractors, trainers, advisors, and supporting services personnel within fourteen months.” Biden has acknowledged that it would be “hard” to meet the May 1 deadline, but when asked if US troops will be in Afghanistan next year, he clarified, “I can’t picture that being the case.”Notwithstanding the Taliban’s inability to meet key commitments made by them in the Doha Agreement — reducing violence, severing links with al-Qaeda and engaging in meaningful intra-Afghan negotiations — the US has proposed an ambitious endgame template. This includes a 90-day reduction in violence to create an environment conducive to reaching a negotiated political settlement; the establishment of an inclusive interim Afghan government with the Taliban for a transitional period, in exchange for a cease-fire; new institutional arrangements to be worked out with the present constitution serving as an initial basis for intra-Afghan negotiations.The hectic efforts to not leave behind a wreckage after years of global investment in Afghanistan’s stability are understandable. India, too, has invested much in terms of peace-building in the post-2001 phase. While, previously, it has been part of large groups, for the first time, it has been invited to join a select group of six countries in peacemaking efforts. Ministers from Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran, India along with the US — states that have the capacity to play important roles in Afghanistan — will meet on a UN platform. This concerted approach to peacemaking in Afghanistan is similar to the P5+1 format for Iran and six-party talks for North Korea.In the classical peace continuum, spreading across the spectrum of activities from preventive diplomacy to peacemaking and from peacekeeping to peace-building, India has tended to be risk-averse and keep away from peacemaking roles in internal conflicts following its experience in Sri Lanka. Peacemaking, even of the collective variety, is never easy. It requires weighing in on difficult trade-offs relating to contentious issues among parties to the conflict. It can lead to deeper involvement in issues that India prefers not to get involved in.Also it, willy-nilly, means engaging all key players. In this case, it will inevitably mean the Taliban also, something that India has steered away from, thus far. Successful peacemaking requires substantive engagement. India will have to reconcile to the new realities of such responsibilities. This does not mean jettisoning interests, friends or the values that India has stood for in Afghanistan. It, however, means that rather than only voicing support, Indian diplomacy needs to be nimble in forming partnerships on specific issues to support the Afghan people with those having similar interests. More of quiet diplomacy and less of public diplomacy.Obviously, there are risks. The rush to peace can stoke concerns and result in responses similar to when there is a rush to war. Also, the chances of a successful outcome to a peacemaking endgame involving so many moving pieces are uncertain. Nevertheless, for India, turning away from Afghanistan is not an option. The alternative to trudging along the tortuous peacemaking road, in the company of fellow travellers and adversaries, is to inertly accept the subversion of Afghanistan, with all its consequences experienced in the 1990s.As diplomats jocularly put it, “If you are not on the table, you are on the menu”. It is time for India to earnestly move in concert to support peacemaking in Afghanistan. Not for no reason is it said: “Blessed are the peacemakers”.Syed Akbaruddin is a retired diplomat who served as India’s permanent representative to the United NationsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-afghanistan-india-must-embrace-the-role-of-peacemaker-101617286919914.html
01-04-2021||Today's||In Kerala, the politics of identity and BJP’s rise will affect UDF and LDF||The slogan of the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) in Kerala, in this election, is urappaanu LDF (LDF for sure). As of now, the LDF indeed seems set to retain power, thanks to its relatively positive governance record. If this happens, it will mark a new turn in politics in a state which has traditionally alternated between the Marxist-led LDF and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) for the last 40 years. A change in this voting pattern will impact social and communitarian life in Kerala.Traditionally, the Left has been supported by the Nairs, Ezhavas, Dalits and some of the economically backward communities and groups, cutting across religious lines. The UDF has relied on a coalition of the economically powerful Syrian Christians, Muslims and a section of the Nairs. Beneath the veneer of a progressive political ethic are religious sentiments, which often decide voting patterns.In the past, the church has had an uneasy relationship with what it considered a godless Left. However, a few decades ago, the Left’s animosity towards the Christian community shifted to the Muslims in north Kerala who had emerged as a powerful constituent of the UDF.It is in this political landscape that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has emerged as a significant force over the last decade. Slowly, a sizeable chunk of the Nairs and a large section of the Ezhavas have aligned with the BJP, making a huge dent in the political base of both the Fronts, particularly the Left.But a significant development is the unexpected support that the Left is getting from the Syrian Christians. The genesis of this lies in the clash between two sections of the Syrian church — the Orthodox and the Jacobites — over the possession of church properties. A recent Supreme Court (SC) verdict went in favour of the Orthodox. The Congress decided to wait and watch while the Left mediated on behalf of the Jacobite church. This has gained it some goodwill in the community.Similarly, the heads of the Syrian Catholic church, who had traditionally backed the UDF, have decided to align with the Left.In the run-up to the assembly elections, the Left was able to pull the Syrian Christian-dominated Kerala Congress out of the UDF. The reason cited by the Kerala Congress for this shift was the so-called “love jihad” by Muslim men against Christian women. The decision was clearly based on anti-Muslim sentiment, which has helped the LDF expand its political base among the Christians while also becoming more politically attractive to traditional Hindu voters.The Congress, too, has been trying to expand its Hindu base. When the SC decision to allow women to enter Sabarimala temple triggered a backlash among conservative sections of the Hindus, the party opposed the court verdict in the hope that it could shed its reputation as a party of the minorities. However, here it came up against the BJP, towards which conservative Hindus are veering. In the process, the Congress runs the risk of neither gaining ground among the conservative Hindus, nor getting support from liberal Hindus.This election is crucial primarily for the Congress because a loss would mean a shift in its Hindu vote to the BJP, and not its traditional rival, the Left. The BJP would then emerge as a major opposition party. If the Congress is defeated, the Left-of-Centre buffer zone it represents will be eroded. The people would then have two clear choices — the Left, which caters to the Christian and Muslim minorities, and the BJP which represents hardline Hindu politics. As the Left moves to accommodate the minorities, it will have to cede a large part of its Hindu vote base to the BJP. As minority votes are concentrated in a few districts, the possible consolidation that the Left hopes for may not be enough to tilt the political balance in its favour. The decline of the Congress in the long-run will mean that both the LDF and UDF will be diminished, leaving the space wide open for the growth of the BJP.Burton Cleetus teaches modern history at the Centre for Historical Studies, JNUThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-kerala-the-politics-of-identity-and-bjp-s-rise-will-affect-udf-and-ldf-101617286918639.html
01-04-2021||Editorials||The fight for gender equality | HT Editorial||India has slipped 28 places to rank 140 among 156 countries in the World Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2021, becoming the third-worst performer in South Asia. According to the report, India has closed 62.5% of its gender gap. Among India’s neighbours, Bangladesh is ranked at 65, Nepal at 106, Pakistan at 153, Afghanistan at 156, Bhutan at 130, and Sri Lanka at 116, making the region the second-lowest performer on the Global Gender Gap Index (GGGI). GGGI is based on four parameters: Economic participation and opportunity, educational attainment, health and survival, and political empowerment.The world has fared the worst on the economic participation and opportunity sub-index. India has only closed 31.6% of the gap on this sub-index. Interestingly, this gap is not just seen in unskilled/low-skill segments but is equally pronounced in high-skill job segments. There is also a deeper problem. According to the Periodic Labour Force Survey 2018-19, the female labour force participation rates among women aged above 15 years are as low as 26.4% in rural areas and 20.4% in urban areas in India. A 2018 report of the NITI Aayog, which reviewed the performance of states on Sustainable Development Goals, showed all states performed poorly on gender equality.Both supply and demand factors, economists point out, contribute to the low levels of employment of women — from domestic responsibilities to the lack of demand for their labour to inadequate support infrastructure. There has also been movement out of agriculture into informal and casual jobs. These challenges have now been exacerbated by the pandemic, which is likely to have a scarring effect on women’s future economic opportunities, risking inferior re-employment prospects and a persistent drop in income. Over the years, legal reforms, gender-responsive social protection and public service delivery systems, quotas for women’s representation, and support for women’s movements have made a difference. It is now more important than ever to scale up these gender-positive recovery policies and practices, and provide enabling conditions for women to be employed, including better and safer transport, provision of hostels, and social security. Women’s participation in the economy must improve substantially, as must India’s record on other parameters. The country’s development potential will remain unmet if half its citizens are excluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-fight-for-gender-equality-hteditorial-101617286978592.html
01-04-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: Citizens must take the jab | HT Editorial||Anyone above the age of 45 can now get a coronavirus vaccine in India. The wait for these doses began on March 2, 2020, when the outbreak was confirmed to have taken hold in the country. For most of the 162,981 lives lost (as on March 31, 2021) to Sars-Cov-2 since then, these injections would have meant a shot at survival. The correlation has been clear in countries such as Israel and the United Kingdom, where high per capita vaccinations have led to a sharp drop in not just fatalities but also hospitalisations in age groups given doses on priority. Real world data reinforces what multiple clinical trials have shown repeatedly — the coronavirus vaccines are a safe and effective tool to combat the pandemic.For India, the scale of the challenge is much bigger than other countries because of its sheer size. A data-based analysis, published in this newspaper on Thursday, has shown that at an average rate of four million doses a day, it will take till mid-June to fully inoculate 100 million Indians. In a country of over 1.3 billion people, even that might not be enough to turn the tide against the second wave on its own. But it will undoubtedly help in lowering the fatality ratio, which, in turn, will reduce the load on hospitals and, ultimately, make the pandemic less lethal, help keep cities open, and bring back some semblance of normalcy.These gains are clear and they far outweigh any risks that may be exaggerated by misinformation and unscientific beliefs. While the government must be more aggressive in its vaccination approach, citizens have a crucial role. The more Indians step up, the quicker these gains will fructify. Take the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-citizens-must-take-the-jab-hteditorial-101617286921468.html
