04-04-2021||Noida||To crack down on fake call centres, Noida police launch helpline||Noida: The Noida police have released a phone number for the public to inform about suspicious activities by call centres as a way to crack down on fake establishments.The move is aimed at curbing the increase of cyber crime in the Gautam Budh Nagar district.“There are several fake establishments in the district that are running unauthorised call centres and duping the public on the pretext of jobs, property, insurance etc. The number of such centres is beyond comprehension. Our move is aimed to thwart their operations and to reduce the number of people being duped in such cyber crime cases,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Rannvijay Singh.Police said people can call on 8595902511. If people receive any dubious calls promising jobs or discounts on properties or any other pretext, they should immediately inform on this number, said officers.“The identity of the callers will remain anonymous and they will be rewarded for sharing important tips. There are several call centres running from business parks and industrial areas under many police station jurisdictions in the city. These tips will help us track these,” said Singh.The Noida police busted two major fake call centre operations allegedly running from Sector 58 police jurisdiction in the last three months. The suspects were allegedly duping people on the pretext of admission to MBBS programmes, and offering them distribution rights for dry fruits and spices in the other incident.Over 70 fake call centres have been busted in the district in the past 18 months, said officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/to-crack-down-on-fake-call-centres-noida-police-launch-helpline-101617560951401.html
04-04-2021||Noida||GB Nagar admin faces shortage of Covid-19 vaccine as only 8,000 doses left||NOIDA: With only about 8,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccine on hand after the inoculation on Saturday, the vaccination drive in Gautam Budh Nagar may be hampered from Tuesday. The district administration, however, has sent the requisition of 10,000 vials of vaccine to the state headquarters, officials said. GB Nagar district magistrate Suhas LY said that with the present stock, the vaccination could be possible till Monday. “We are left with 6,000 doses in the main vaccine store of the district. Besides, around 2,500 doses are available with different hospitals. These doses will be enough for vaccination in the district till Monday. If the next lot of vaccine doesn’t arrive in the district on time, the inoculation drive may be hampered from Tuesday,” he said. The DM, however, said that he has informed the state headquarters about the critical stock of vaccine in the district. “The higher authorities have assured to provide adequate number of vials on time. The vaccination drive in the district is going on in full swing. From April 1, we have vaccinated more than 8,000 people every day. I hope we’ll achieve our target of vaccinating 162,000 beneficiaries in April,” Suhas said. He further said that state government has now decided to conduct a focused vaccination drive beginning April 8 for people above 45 years belonging to different professional groups. “Under the focused drive, journalists will get their jabs on April 8 and 9, while bank and insurance employees will be vaccinated on April 10. The dates to inoculate auto-rickshaw and bus drivers, besides street vendors, have been mandated for April 15 and 16, while advocates and judicial officials will get their shots on April 20 and 21,” he said. Meanwhile, with 61 new Covid-19 cases reported in the district in the past 24 hours, the overall count of positive cases went up to 26,384 on Sunday. According to the daily health bulletin released by the state control room, a total of 25,809 people have been cured and discharged so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gb-nagar-admin-faces-shortage-of-covid-19-vaccine-as-only-8-000-doses-left-101617560831383.html
04-04-2021||Noida||Noida police shut down 200-odd spa centres in city||Noida: After three prostitution rings allegedly running through some spa centres were busted in the last two months, Noida police have shut down the operation of all such establishments in the city till further orders.Police officials said that they are working to develop ethical guidelines for such establishments. Noida has over 200 spa centres in the city, said police.“There are no separate licences for owners to run spa centres. Illicit activities are taking place in most of these establishments. In order to better control the situation, we have shut down all the spas in the city until further notice,” said Kumar Rannvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.The officials said that most of these places advertise online for illegal services while also rely on word of mouth publicity. All the raids in the last two months have been conducted using decoy customers, they said.All the spas will be investigated before they are allowed to resume services, said police. Singh also said that if owners start work without the due process, action will be taken against them and also against the local police who have been tasked to ensure that they remain shut. On February 3, 12 spa centres in a mall in Sector 18 had been raided by Sector 20 police following which four people were arrested and a case of human trafficking was also registered as the women working at these establishments had alleged that they were being forced into prostitution against their will.On February 16, five people, including four women, had been arrested by Sector 24 police for allegedly luring victims on the pretext of providing escort services and then robbing or extorting money from them.On April 1, another spa was raided in a mall in Sector 61 from where 13 women were rescued while 10 people, including a female manager, were booked and sent to jail.Following the raids in February, Noida police had begun to crack down on all establishments providing illicit services. All the people arrested earlier for running such operations are also being questioned while more such groups are being identified, police said, adding that action is also being taken against people using such facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-police-shut-down-200-odd-spa-centres-in-city-101617560832041.html
04-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad to implement token system for entry at public places||Ghaziabad: Aimed at controlling Covid-19 spread, the Ghaziabad administration has chalked out a plan to regulate gathering at malls, multiplexes, restaurants and other commercial establishments, and has directed for initiating a token system. The district officials said that the system will be put in place within a week. Considering the emergence of new cases, the district administration on Sunday directed the officers to hold meetings with the groups of different stakeholders and implement the token system. “The token system will help regulate overcrowding in places like malls, restaurants, multiplexes and others. The owners at their respective establishments will also have to create a waiting area and allow a group of people inside only when the same number of people makes an exit. The tokens will also have estimated time of visit. The system will be implemented this week once we conduct meetings,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. Ghaziabad has been witnessing a rise in Covid-19 cases in the past few days. According to the state control room figures, the district reported 19, 73, 55 and 63 new cases in the first four days of April, respectively. “We have also directed that all such places must ensure adherence to Covid protocols. Outside the establishment, we have also directed for putting up a display system about number of people inside and estimated time in which those waiting outside will be able to move inside. In the waiting area, there will be strict adherence to social distancing and other protocols,” Pandey added. Likewise, the Gautam Budh Nagar district officials have also decided to act tough against such public places if they do not adhere to Covid protocols. “Our teams are visiting different sites and checking if there is adherence to Covid protocols. If we find that there is violation, strict action will be taken up against such establishments,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate of GB Nagar. No further registrations for healthcare, frontline workers The officials said that they have stepped up surveillance, testing and contact tracing activities while they have also stepped up vaccination coverage. In Ghaziabad, it is being taken up by the 93 Covid vaccination centres (CVCs), including 57 of government facilities, while in GB Nagar it is taken up with the help of 90 CVCs, including 51 government centres. The officials said that they have received directions that there will be no fresh registrations of healthcare workers (HCWs) and frontline workers (FLWs) on the Co-Win portal with immediate effect and they have stopped any further registrations. “The directions were issued by the Union ministry of health and it is done as many ineligible beneficiaries were getting registered at some Covid vaccination centres and getting vaccinated. The directions were issued by the ministry to different states, including Uttar Pradesh,” said an officer from the Ghaziabad health department. The directions issued by the ministry on April 3 said, “Various inputs were received from different sources that in some CVCs, some ineligible beneficiaries are being registered as HCWs and FLWs and getting vaccinated in complete violation of the prescribed guidelines. There has been 24% increase in HCW database in past few days... it has been decided that no fresh registrations in categories of HCWs and FLWs will be allowed with immediate effect.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-to-implement-token-system-for-entry-at-public-places-101617560771422.html
04-04-2021||Noida||UP rolls out guidelines for containment zones, directs for strict surveillance||Ghaziabad: Amid the rise in Covid-19 cases in the state, the Uttar Pradesh government has issued fresh guidelines for creating containment zones and directed for bringing them under tight surveillance. The guidelines said that an area within a radius of 25 metres will be a containment zone in case of emergence of single Covid-19 case while 50-metre radius area will be a containment zone in case of two or more cases and will be considered as a cluster. The new directions will be applicable for all 75 districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, and also has details about the containment guidelines for high-rises. The directions issued on Saturday night by UP chief secretary RK Tiwari said that an estimated 20 houses (in 25-metre radius area) will be contained and put under surveillance in case of emergence of a single case while 60 houses (in 50-metre area) are likely to fall under zones having more than one cases. For the high-rises, the guidelines said that in case of emergence of one Covid-19 case, the entire floor will be contained while the entire tower will be contained if multiple cases are detected. As per the previous directions in October 2020 for containment zones in high-rises, one floor was to be contained in case of one positive case and respective floors were to be sealed in case more than one floors received positive cases. The latest guidelines have also defined that the containment area will be removed from the list of containment zones if it has no new case for 14 days from the date of sample collection of the last positive patient. “As of now, the guidelines have not detailed any restriction on movement of people in and out of containment zones, but directed for strict surveillance. We will get the guidelines implemented at the earliest after meeting with our departments. Also, for public places like hotels, restaurants, gyms, clubs and others, we are considering strict regulation if they are found violating Covid protocols,” said Suhas LY, district magistrate, GB Nagar. Ghaziabad officials said that the teams will be deployed in containment zones and conduct door-to-door surveillance to find out suspected cases. “Also, we scan for people having Covid-like symptoms like cough, cold, fever, etc. All the details of such persons will be sent to the health department and there will be 100% testing of suspected cases,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate of Ghaziabad. “The guidelines have stressed on surveillance and testing. For testing, we have chalked out six dedicated teams for containment zones while we have one dedicated team each for every containment zone to carry out surveillance activities,” Pandey added. The guidelines also said that sample collection of suspected cases must be taken up within 24 hours and the local administration, on the basis of recommendation of the chief medical officer, can also take up more activities of surveillance based on local conditions. In his October 2020 directions, the UP chief secretary had said that micro containment zones would be defined in case one house has one or more Covid cases. It also said that in addition to the house having Covid patient, one house each on either side will also be included in the micro containment zone where testing was directed to find out cases of infection. In case of cluster where multiple houses had positive cases, the directions said that containment area was to be extended to one house adjacent to the last affected house.Till last year before the micro containment zones came into picture, the containment zones had strict perimeter control with sealing of entry/exit points with the help of tapes or sticks. The entry of residents was also restricted expect in cases of medical emergencies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-rolls-out-guidelines-for-containment-zones-directs-for-strict-surveillance-101617560772006.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Cycle tracks, footpath repairs expected to streamline traffic at Rezang La Chowk||In a move to decongest Rezang La Chowk, one of the city’s worst traffic bottlenecks, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority has constructed a 1.1-kilometre cycle track, repaired footpaths and shifted electric cables below the surface, to set up traffic signals at short notice for traffic management purposes as well as for installing streetlights, as part of its redesign plan.“The construction of cycle tracks and footpaths is completed. Work on markings, installing relevant signage is pending, which will be completed within the next 15 days. The redesign is part of GMDA’s long-term plan of providing cycling and pedestrian tracks across major intersections and junctions,” said Jitender Mittal, chief engineer, GMDA.Mittal said that the GMDA is also compacting the roundabout by a small margin and aligning its geometrics to ensure proper dispersal of traffic at all ends. “The roundabout is marginally wider at one end, due to which dispersal of traffic is not equal from all ends. We will be reducing the width of the roundabout for better traffic management,” said Mittal.Mittal said that electrical cables were placed underground to erect traffic signals. “We did not want to excavate any part of the road again and wanted to finish all utility works under a single project. Electrical cables have, thus, been placed for both streetlights and traffic signals. The streetlights are already functioning, and the traffic signals and their poles will be erected on short notice, whenever it is required as a traffic management solution,” said Mittal.The redesign was done by GMDA in collaboration with World Resources Institute (WRI) and Raahgiri Foundation.“Despite having a high number of pedestrians and cyclists accessing the junction, Rezang La Chowk did not have even a single pedestrian amenity until now. The redesign was, hence, carried out to address the issues of non-motorised transport as well as for better traffic management,” said Sarika Panda Bhatt, co-founder, Raahgiri Foundation.Rezang La Chowk in Palam Vihar derives its name from a war memorial inaugurated at the junction in December 2012 to honour 114 martyrs, a large majority of them from Haryana, who died defending the high-altitude pass near Ladakh in 1962.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/cycle-tracks-footpath-repairs-expected-to-streamline-traffic-at-rezang-la-chowk-101617560172711.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Manesar factory owners, residents concerned over maintenance activities||Factory owners and residents of industrial areas and villages under the jurisdiction of the newly formed Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) expressed concern over maintenance activities, alleging that while the MCM is yet to be equipped to provide services, contracts for existing activities undertaken by other agencies ended on March 31.Industry owners on Sunday said that with fresh contracts being put on hold, the authorities must ensure that the new corporation area is not left struggling due to this confusion.Pawan Yadav, president, IMT Manesar Industrial Association, said that all tenders of HSIIDC expired on March 31, and HSIIDC has not carried out any re-tendering process as the MCM has taken over the maintenance. “The situation is tricky as the corporation is not yet ready to manage this huge area. In industrial sectors alone, 3.5 lakh (350,000) people work daily. The population in villages is also large and without services, things will go bad,” he said.However, officials of MCM and HSIIDC dismissed concerns over a dire situation and said they are working with stakeholders to ensure basic services are delivered without a hitch.Manish Sharma, commissioner, MCM, said that they held a detailed discussion with residents on Sunday and decided that existing operations in villages, residential and industrial sectors will continue. “There is no shortage of resources and workers who were providing these services are continuing to do their job, and they are being paid accordingly. In some areas, due to the change in the situation, there have been instances where the workforce has become lax, but we are going to strictly enforce monitoring. We are also evaluating the performance of agencies in different areas,” said Sharma.The HSIIDC, meanwhile, will meet factory owners on Tuesday and will propose to continue maintenance in industrial sectors. “Till the time MCM gets ready to take over maintenance, we will provide maintenance services as usual. A meeting is scheduled on Tuesday and a decision in this regard will be taken,” said Subash Vats, estate officer, IMT Manesar, adding that deploying contractors to start work won’t take more than a couple of days.The MCM includes 29 villages, 12 large industrial sectors of HSIIDC and sectors 75 to 95 along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) and Dwarka Expressway.Locals also said the tenure of the panchayats of the villages is also over and these have neither funds nor authority to carry out maintenance, cleaning or sanitation work.Factory owners said that the authorities should ensure that the public does not suffer due to lack of communication between MCM and HSIIDC. Manoj Tyagi, general secretary, IMT Industrial Association said that before operationalising the MCM, the government should have designed the structure of the civic agency and hired the staff to execute operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/manesar-factory-owners-residents-concerned-over-maintenance-activities-101617560171923.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||MCG demolishes 200 illegal structures along Southern Peripheral Road||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) demolished at least 200 illegal structures in an anti-encroachment drive along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR) on Saturday evening. The MCG carried out the drive on both sides of the nine-kilometre stretch between Vatika Chowk and Kherki Daula toll on National Highway 48 (NH-48).According to the MCG officials, the violators had constructed illegal tea stalls, tobacco stalls, houses, construction material shops, among other small-time stores — mostly temporary structures — along the stretch on the MCG land and the government green belts.“Such structures were demolished with earthmovers under heavy police presence. More than 100 police officials from three police stations in sector 50, sector 65 and Badshahpur were present during the drive. However, there were no major incidents of violence or resistance by the violators. The violators were let off with a warning that FIRs will be registered, and legal action will be taken against them over future encroachments,” said Rajiv Yadav, sub-divisional officer (SDO), MCG.The MCG will execute more such drives at different parts of the city for reclaiming the civic land throughout April, Yadav added.While the MCG has executed anti-encroachment drives along Vatika Chowk, it was for the first time that the civic body carried out such a large-scale drive on the SPR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-demolishes-200-illegal-structures-along-southern-peripheral-road-101617560171316.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Environmentalists raise concerns over waste dumping in forest||Environmentalists and citizens alleged that the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) dumped waste in forest land near Mohtabad and Pali villages in Faridabad on Saturday night, to reduce the volume of legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill ahead of a hearing in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) this week. Locals alleged that plastic and household waste under the garb of refuse-derived fuel (RDF) was dumped in the forest land, which is a crucial leopard habitat. The site also has boards stating that it was a temporary site for storing RDF. Despite several attempts, Vinay Pratap Singh, the commissioner of MCG could not be reached for comment till the filing of the copy. Officials of the forest department and the Municipal Corporation of Faridabad (MCF) said that they did not allot the space to MCG for the temporary storage of RDF. Yashpal Yadav, the MCF commissioner, said, “Last month, the MCG had sought support from us for temporary storage of RDF and we had allotted a site near Pali crusher zone. But later, we learnt that a case is underway in the high court regarding the said land, so we gave orders that no more waste will be dumped there. After that, we had informed MCG that we are looking for alternative land, but no land has been approved by us so far.” Raj Kumar, divisional forest officer for Faridabad, said, “I learnt about RDF being dumped on Aravalli forest land near Pali-Mohtabad late on Saturday evening and I sent a team for inspection. The team was not able to locate the area and on Sunday, I did not get any further update. I will be checking with the authorities concerned and action will be taken accordingly.” The NGT is scheduled to hear a matter regarding the remediation of legacy waste of Bandhwari landfill on April 7. On March 9, the NGT, while hearing a case on clearing of legacy waste from Bandhwari landfill site, said that it was giving a last opportunity to authorities for ensuring meaningful action on the ground level. Environmentalists and residents said that the area where the waste was dumped is a crucial wildlife corridor, and is frequented by leopards. Sunil Harsana, a resident and wildlife researcher who visited the site on Saturday night, said, “Around 8.30pm on Saturday, I learnt that eight trucks of waste from Bandhwari landfill was being taken to the forest land for dumping. I reached the site around 11pm when I saw that solid waste, including plastic, was dumped at two to three different sites almost one kilometre inside from the main road.” “This area is a key habitat of leopards found in this landscape as it has old mining quarries where the big cat finds shelter, food and water. If waste is dumped here, then there will be regular movement of vehicles leading to disturbance,” he said. Vaishali Rana, a city-based environmentalist, said that a 2017 report by the Wildlife Institute of India had shown that the said landscape has a presence of over 30 leopards. “Since the past one month, waste is being dumped inside forest areas in different parts of Gurugram and Faridabad as the authorities have to tell the NGT that they have taken action to clear the legacy waste at Bandhwari. But this is being done without any permissions or clearances… because it is inside the forests, it goes unnoticed by most people, but that does not mean it is not harmful to the environment,” she said. The NGT, on March 9, asked the MCG to submit a future action plan that must provide for placing information about day-to-day progress on the website and to ensure processing of current waste at a different site. The court also asked the secretary of urban development/local bodies and the commissioner of MCG to be present in person or through videoconference with a report of meaningful action during the next hearing, scheduled for April 7. The Bandhwari landfill receives around 2,000 tonnes of waste every day from Gurugram and Faridabad. Municipal solid waste from both these cities is being dumped at the site since 2015. As per a report by the Central Pollution Control Board submitted to the NGT in September 2020, the height of the dumpsite increased to 36 metres from 27 metres (recorded by CPCB in February 2020) and the total waste dumped stood at 3.1 million tonnes, approximately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/environmentalists-raise-concerns-over-waste-dumping-in-forest-101617560113363.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Factory associations want review of job reservation law||Industrial associations and factory owners based in Manesar and Gurugram on Saturday reiterated their objections to the 75% job reservation law, slated to come into effect on May 1, as they are apprehensive about the job situation that has already been affected by the pandemic. They said that the government should make the law flexible by adopting suggestions made by industry leaders and associations.Manmohan Gaind, secretary of the Manesar Industries’ Welfare Association, said this law is regressive in letter and spirit and that their association would challenge it in the court once the rules are notified. “This is an attempt to introduce reservations in the private sector through the back door. We will oppose this law as it is regressive in character. The industries in the Gurguram-Manesar industrial belt are already suffering due to the impact of Covid-19 and this reservation will hit it further,” said Gaind. Last month, the Haryana governor green-lit the Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, which provides for 75% reservation in jobs that have a salary of less than ₹50,000 per month in private companies, societies, trusts, limited liability partnership firms, partnership firms, etc., based in Haryana. The quota will initially be applicable for 10 years, as per the bill. The move to reserve jobs in the private sector did not go down well with local industries, particularly small and medium enterprises, which primarily depend on migrant labour for production. “A huge amount of revenue is generated by the operation of small and medium enterprises but this law will ensure that their operations, which are dependent upon migrant labour, become unviable. There is fear among locals that the existing jobs and industry, which are somehow thriving and surviving in this industrial belt, will shift to neighbouring Rajasthan and Noida,” Pawan Yadav, president, IMT Manesar Industrial Association. Factory owners also claimed that the negatives of this law were so profound that neighbouring Punjab has started attracting investment by stating that they have no local reservation laws. “I saw an advertisement about it in which it was mentioned that there is no reservation there,” said a unit owner, requesting anonymity. Local industry leaders said that the law needs to be reviewed thoroughly and feedback needs to be incorporated to ensure that it is not misused to harass the industry. “We don’t want another era of licence permit raj in the state. The government must be flexible with the rules,” said JN Mangla, president, Gurgaon Industrial Association.Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Friday, while announcing that the new law job reservation law would be applicable from May 1, said that the government was not averse to making changes. “The jobs which require technical skills would be exempted from reservation. We are holding discussions with the industry and feedback would be incorporated into the rules,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/factory-associations-want-review-of-job-reservation-law-101617560114059.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Spot check reveals signs of mining in Aravallis||After allegations of illegal mining in Gurugram surfaced, a spot check of the Aravalli forests at Teekli village, near Sohna Road, by HT showed fresh signs of stones being mined, with tractor tracker marks dotting the route and makeshift bridges in place for vehicles.Almost two kilometres inside the forest, a large hole was noticed on one particular hill, where holes made by drilling for blasting the rock using dynamite were also visible clearly. On the ground, large stones and loose sand was spotted along the way. Anil Kumar, Gurugram’s mining officer said, “I will be sending my team to this particular location for an inspection. Our vigilance team is strong, but I am not denying that something like this might be happening illegally. Our team will inspect, check on what scale it is being done and action will be taken against those responsible.” While coming out of the area, the team also noticed two tractors without any registration number plates going inside the forests. When asked, the drivers said that they were going to a nearby village. While the tractor marks extended for almost two kilometres, the makeshift bridges were made using sacks of construction and demolition waste. Gurugram’s deputy commissioner Yash Garg also said that the administration will take action after inspecting the area. On April 2, HT had reported that a group of environmentalists claimed to have found evidence of large-scale stone mining in the Aravallis near Gurugram. Talking about the area where the makeshift bridge had been made, Prabhat Verma, an avid hiker who showed the trails to the HT team, said, “Even until one month ago, this area had not been mined and these were flatlands. But now, this temporary bridge has been made with 20-30 metre pits on both sides of the bridge where loose sand material is getting accumulated.” “These tractor tyre marks clearly indicate that the mined material is loaded on the vehicles and taken out either in dark or in early morning hours,” Verma said, adding that trees were cut to level the land. Another environmentalist who accompanied the HT team, requesting anonymity, said, “I visited this place first around six months ago in November, when this hole existed, but the roots of the trees on the edge of the wall were not exposed. Only with regular mining and loosening of the soil can the roots get exposed. Even on the opposite side, a hollow cave-like sign has developed on the rock that was not present earlier.” In 2009, the Supreme Court had banned mining in the sensitive mountain range, considered to be the oldest in the country and a rich quarry for construction stones and sand. The ruling applied to the Aravallis in Faridabad, Gurugram and Mewat. In October last year, the Haryana government appealed for resuming mining in Gurugram and Faridabad, based on the 2009 order. The Aravallis are considered to be the lungs of the Delhi-NCR region and also support a rich biodiversity that includes leopards, sambhar, fox, jackals and palm civets, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/spot-check-reveals-signs-of-mining-in-aravallis-101617560112665.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||HDMA puts ceiling on gatherings amid surge in Covid cases: Officials||With more than 1,100 Covid-19 cases detected during the weekend in Gurugram, and a rapid surge in other districts, the Haryana Disaster Management Authority (HDMA) has put a ceiling on gatherings. Only 200 people will be allowed in indoor spaces and over 500 outdoors, and organisers of the gatherings will have to take permission from the district administration in advance for the same, said the officials.According to the order issued by the state administration on Sunday, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 people at functions in indoor spaces. Only 50 persons will be allowed at funerals.“Organisers of social, academic, sports, cultural, religious, political, functions and other congregation, and other gatherings will have to take permission from the district magistrates. The magistrates will give permission after seeking necessary No Objection Certificates (NOCs) from the department concerned and the police. If violated, action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), 1860,” as per the order.The district, for the second consecutive day on Sunday, showed a high surge in Covid-19 infections with at least 555 cases, after reporting over 606 cases on Saturday. The total number of active cases in the city is about to hit 3,000, with 367 deaths recorded so far.On Sunday, the daily positivity rate was at 9%, and the weekly positivity rate was at 7.4%, according to the district health bulletin data. At least 6,006 tests were administered, including 872 rapid antigen tests, to curb the spike in the city. The health department has increased the overall testing, Testing will be further increased in the urban areas of the city, according to the health officials.“The majority of cases are reported in urban areas of the city. Therefore, testing has been increased in the micro-containment zones to control the transmission. The cases have to be controlled in these areas to prevent clustering and large outbreak areas,” said Dr Jai Prakash, district surveillance officer.The active case count has hit 2,972, while the total tally has reached 64,953. Out of the total active cases, 197 are admitted in hospitals, at least five in district Covid-19 care centres, and 2,770 are in home isolation. At the state level, too, over 1,900 cases are detected every day, which takes the active case count to almost 12,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hdma-puts-ceiling-on-gatherings-amid-surge-in-covid-casesofficials-101617560111990.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination to be speeded up in private offices, factories||Private hospitals and the district health department will hold vaccination camps in at least seven premises of offices and industries on Monday to speed up vaccinations after the state administration permitted tie-ups with companies last week.“The target is to further accelerate the vaccination, though Gurugram has done the highest vaccination in the state. With such camps, we can cater to a large number of office-going staff above 45 years. The health team, along with the chief medical officer, will meet the industrial association in Manesar on Monday to check the preparations,” said Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer. However, he did not disclose the location of the site.“Overall, on Monday, there will be 160 government vaccination centres and at least 56 private ones, including camps in condominiums, community centres and offices,” said Singh.On March 31, the district health department allowed private hospitals to coordinate with companies for holding vaccination camps on office premises. Representatives of hospitals said they have received requests from multiple companies even before the announcement by the health department. Camps were held in at least three offices on April 1 and 2 by two private hospitals.The first camp was held at Industrial Development Association (IDA) in Sector 37 on April 1, wherein 80 people took the vaccine shot, while on the second day, at least 300 people in two offices were administered with the vaccine, according to hospitals.“Since the vaccination has opened for everyone above 45 years, we have been receiving good response. On April 2, at least 110 employees of an automobile company took the shot. On Monday, vaccination camps will be set up in at least three different offices like Bestech and AVL India Private Limited,” said Dr Sushila Kataria, head and director, internal medicine, Medanta Hospital.Max, Artemis and Narayana hospitals are also likely to hold at least one camp each on Monday.So far, over 148, 000 people in the prioritised age groups and 30,000 healthcare and frontline workers have been inoculated in the district. On Sunday, 1,544 people above 45 years took the vaccine shot, as per the health department data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-to-be-speeded-up-in-private-offices-factories-101617560111360.html
04-04-2021||Other||BJP govt responsible for 400 deaths due to illicit liquor: Lallu||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh (UP) Congress Committee president Ajay Kumar Lallu attacked the state government over illicit liquor trade and related deaths. He alleged the BJP government was responsible for nearly 400 deaths in four years caused due to illicit liquor consumption in the state. He alleged illegal liquor manufacturers and smugglers were running a parallel business of over ₹10,000 crore and the government was either shying away from acting against them or doing just lip service to them in the name of initiating effective action against them. “The honourable High Court on April 12, 2017, had ordered stringent measures such as Gangster Act, life imprisonment against illegal liquor traders. But the state government had failed to check illegal liquor manufacture, trade, and deaths in the state capital and the areas and districts nearby. Liquor mafia was earning crores of rupees by smuggling illegal liquor from other states also,” the UP Congress chief said at a press conference in Lucknow. “The state has a nexus of excise department, police, and liquor mafia and in their greed for money they are distributing death,” he said. The UPCC president said the government made tall claims but so far has not able to punish even a single liquor mafia. After every tragic incident, the government makes a readymade statement that “toughest of action will be taken after investigation report come in”. “However, in reality one never gets to know about those tough actions,” he said. Giving district wise and date wise incidents of hooch tragedies in the state in four years, Lallu said that from time to time, the liquor mafia also had attacked police. Dheeraj Gurjar, the national secretary of Congress, at the press conference demanded an independent judicial probe into all the illicit liquor deaths in the state in four years and file murder cases against the culprits.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-govt-responsible-for-400-deaths-due-to-illicit-liquor-lallu-101617559871336.html
04-04-2021||Other||Samajwadi Party founder member Bhagwati Singh passes away||Lucknow: Founder member of the Samajwadi Party (SP) and former UP minister Bhagwati Singh died here on Sunday. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and SP national president Akhilesh Yadav expressed grief over his demise. The 89-year-old veteran socialist leader died at a degree college in Lucknow’s Bakshi ka Talab area where he was staying, according to family sources. The last rites of Singh will not be done as he had pledged to donate his body to the King George Medical University, the sources said. Chief minister in his condolence message expressed grief over the demise, prayed for peace to the soul and strength to the family to bear the loss.Expressing grief over Singh’s death, SP chief Akhilesh Yadav said in a tweet, “May God give peace to the soul, and strength to the family to bear the loss”. Akhilesh Yadav and many other SP leaders and workers went to Bhagwati’s Lucknow residence and paid their last respects to the mortal remains. Singh was considered to be close to SP patron Mulayam Singh Yadav. Samajwadi Party cancelled a Akhilesh Yadav’s press conference in Lucknow scheduled for Sunday afternoon. The speaker HN Dixit and Rashtriya Lok Dal national secretary Anil Dubey also condoled the Singh’s death. (With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/samajwadi-party-founder-member-bhagwati-singh-passes-away-101617559691337.html
04-04-2021||Other||October-like high: UP reports 31 deaths, 4164 new Covid cases||LUCKNOW: Death among Covid patients in Uttar Pradesh touched October 2020 like high as the state reported 31 fresh fatalities on Sunday, a 121% rise in just 24 hours and the highest death toll in one day this year. The state’s covid case-load reached 625923 with 4164 new cases while death toll reached 8881. Death tally was last reported to be above 30 on October 15, 2020 when 36 fresh fatalities were reported in one day. But gradually they came down and on February 27, there was no death for the first time this year. Lucknow reported maximum 8 deaths, Kanpur 3, Prayagraj 4, Varanasi 2, Ghazipur 2, Rae Bareli 2 and Gorakhpur, Agra, Barabanki, Lakhimpur-Khiri, Shahjahanpur, Deoria, Etawah, Sitapur, Farrukhabad and Bahraich one each, according to the state health department data. A health department officer said to check fatality, chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Sunday directed the officers to monitor the condition of the patients in home isolation regularly and said they should be immediately admitted to hospital if they became critical. The rapid response team should collect regular feedback from the patients. The officers should also ensure adequate beds, ventilators and oxygen in the Covid hospitals, he said. Fresh cases went up by 26% while active cases increased by 19% in 24 hours in the state. “Of the total active cases, 10665 are in home isolation and 434 in private hospitals, while remaining are admitted to government covid facilities,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health in a press conference on Sunday. Till now, 601440 patients had been discharged after recovery, he said. Prasad said that people coming from states such as Kerala and Maharashtra would go through screening and sampling. “The gram nigrani samitis and mohalla nigrani samitis have been asked to monitor movement of people in their respective areas and ensure those coming are tested,” said Prasad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/octoberlike-high-up-reports-31-deaths-4164-new-covid-cases-101617559271326.html
04-04-2021||Other||Barabanki police quiz four Mukhtar aides in Mau||LUCKNOW The Barabanki police on Sunday interrogated four aides of Mafioso-turned-MLA Mukhtar Ansari during their visit to Mau to investigate the case related to a luxury ambulance used by him for transportation to court and other places while being lodged in jail, said Barabanki police officials.Sharing information about the investigation, Barabanki police spokesman Satyendra Pandey said a team led by inspector, city kotwali, Pankaj Singh visited Shyam Sanjeevani hospital in Mau on Sunday. He said four aides of Ansari identified as Shoaib Ahmad Qidwai alias Bobby, Sayyed Feroz Hasan, Farooq Mukhtar and Kashish Waqeel were interrogated in this connection.A senior police official privy to the investigation said the four people were questioned for over five hours in a closed room. He said they were interrogated on the basis of information revealed during the priliminary investigation with the hospital authorities.The ambulance was fraudulently registered in Barabanki district since December 2013 in the name of Dr Alka Rai, the owner of a private hospital in Mau, the cops said. On Thursday, the Barabanki police had registered an FIR against Dr Rai after the documents of the Uttar Pradesh registration bullet-proof luxury ambulance, used to transport gangster-turned politician Mukhtar Ansari to a Mohali court in Punjab on Wednesday, were found to be fake.The FIR was lodged with the city kotwali police of Barabanki district on the complaint of Barabanki assistant road transport officer (ARTO) Pankaj Singh.On Saturday, the Barabanki police constituted a special investigation team (SIT) to probe the case. The SIT has been formed under the supervision of an additional SP rank officer who will thoroughly investigate each and every aspect of the case. Two teams were constituted to assist the SIT. One of them was sent to Mau while the other was sent to Punjab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barabanki-police-quiz-four-mukhtar-aides-in-mau-101617559031401.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Physical classes for students up to Class 9 suspended till April 18 in J&K||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday announced that physical classes in all schools for students up to Class 9 will be suspended till April 18 in the wake of the surging virus cases in the Union Territory. Physical classes for students from Classes 10 to 12 will also be suspended for a week, from April 5 to 11, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha said in a tweet. Schools had opened on March 1 in a staggered manner, a year after they were closed owing to the pandemic. While Classes 9 to 10 had started attending school from March 1, students of Classes 6 to 8 were opened on March 8 and primary schools been allowed to open after March 15. The decision to suspend physical classes comes after at least 90 students from different Kashmir schools, including 33 students in a government higher secondary school in Budgam , 36 students in a private school in south Kashmir’s Kulgam district and 14 in a government school in Anantnag district tested positive along with a a number of staff and teachers over the last week. At least 10 schools had to closed last week after infections were detected among students and staff during random testing drives. With schools becoming hotspots, parents had requested the government to close all schools. Students were getting the infection, despite schools asking parents asking them to send their wards to the school on alternate days to maintain pandemic protocols. Some schools had also decided to hold two shifts a day to reduce the class strength by half. The government also said that all gatherings for social and customary functions will be restricted to 200.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/physical-classes-for-students-up-to-class-9-suspended-till-april-18-in-jk-101617558911973.html
04-04-2021||Other||Done with both doses of vaccine? Lucky ones to get gifts from govt||LUCKNOW: People who have taken their second dose of COVID-19 vaccine now have a chance to win gifts from the state government the lottery for which will be conducted on April 7, the World Health Day.“In districts where over 25,000 beneficiaries took their second dose, some lucky ones will have a chance to win four gifts while in districts between 25,000 and 50,000 beneficiaries will have 6 gifts in the district lottery. Districts with even more beneficiaries with two doses will distribute gifts to more via lottery,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference on Sunday.“We had kept counterfoil after second dose and it has details of the beneficiaries,” said Prasad.“Details of both the vaccinations were mentioned on the card and now lottery will be conducted by the health department with the details about the beneficiaries mentioned on cards such as name mobile numbers,” he added.The list of beneficiaries with second dose is being collected from between January 16 to April 3. The lottery is being conducted on the basis of token that has been collected from the vaccination cards that beneficiaries were issued on the day they got their first dose.“Exercises such as focused vaccination for different professional groups such as teachers, shopkeepers that will begin from April 8 and lottery for those vaccinated with two doses will certainly build confidence among people and boost vaccination percentage in the state,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general association of international doctors.“All the eligible people who are yet to take their COVID-19 vaccine dose should get it. It is being seen that people are talking about myths but instead they should go and get their vaccine doses,” said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary, information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/done-with-both-doses-of-vaccine-lucky-ones-to-get-gifts-from-govt-101617558791325.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 vaccination drive: More than 59,000 people inoculated in Delhi on Sunday||Over 59,000 beneficiaries, including more than 40,000 in the 45-59 age group, received shots of Covid-19 vaccine in the national capital on Sunday, and only one of them reported adverse events, officials said.It was the first time that the vaccine jabs were given on a Sunday as well.According to official figures, the number of people who received the jabs till 6 pm was 59,125, including 56,074 who received the first dose of the vaccine.On Saturday, over 80,797 beneficiaries, the highest daily figure so far, had received the shots.The first dose was given to 15,656 people, aged 60 and above, and 40,031 in the age group of 45-59 years on Sunday.A total of 3,051 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine.Those inoculated on Sunday included 231 frontline workers and 156 healthcare workers.The Centre had on Saturday directed states and Union Territories to stop fresh registrations of healthcare and frontline workers as some ineligible beneficiaries, under this category, were getting their names enlisted for the vaccination against Covid-19 in violation of rules.The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, which will cover 65 lakh people aged above 45 in the national capital, began on Thursday.The vaccination centres, both at government and private facilities, have been operating from 9 am to 9 pm.Only registered beneficiaries are given the vaccine shots between 9 am and 3 pm, while the unregistered ones can take the jab from 3 pm to 9 pm. They need to carry their Aadhaar card or any other valid identity proof.The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive is being carried out across 192 health facilities, including 136 private hospitals, in the national capital.The vaccines are being administered for free at government hospitals and health centres, while up to ₹250 per dose is being charged at private health facilities.Delhi recorded 4,033 coronavirus cases on Sunday, the highest daily count this year, even as the positivity rate rose to 4.64 per cent from 4.48 per cent a day ago, according to the health department.Twenty-one more people died due to the disease, the highest since January 1, when an equal number of fatalities were reported.The number of cumulative cases stands at 6,76,414 and the death toll is 11,081.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-vaccination-drive-more-than-59-000-people-inoculated-in-delhi-on-sunday-101617557115007.html
04-04-2021||Other||UP panchayat polls : AAP releases first list of 309 candidates||Lucknow The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Sunday released its first list of 309 candidates for the upcoming panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh. The list comprises 17 outgoing gram pradhans, 11 zila panchayat members, two doctors, six ex-block development committee members, eight former gram pradhans and seven ex-zila panchayat members. The list also has 54 farmers, 23 housewives and four lawyers among others. The three-tier panchayat polls in the state will be held in four phases on April 15, 19, 26 and 29. “The Kejriwal government has done an unprecedented work in Delhi. In panchayat polls in Uttar Pradesh, we will apprise people of this work,” Sanjay Singh, AAP Uttar Pradesh incharge, told media persons while releasing the list in Ghaziabad. “In the UP panchayat polls, voters will reject BJP and will vote for AAP candidates. During its last four years in office, the Uttar Pradesh government has failed on all fronts, especially law and order,” claimed Singh. He also raised last year’s Hathras gang rape and murder case and killing of eight cops in Kanpur. Singh said farmers will teach BJP a lesson in panchayat polls by voting against the candidates supported by it. Rajendra Gautam, a cabinet minister in the Delhi government, said the panchayat polls will herald change in Uttar Pradesh. The AAP has been strengthening the party’s cadre base from Vidhan Sabha to block levels in UP for the past several months. Moreover, the party is also planning to field its candidates on all 403 assembly seats in Uttar Pradesh in the next year assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-panchayat-polls-aap-releases-first-list-of-309-candidates-101617558611328.html
04-04-2021||Other||New permit rules:Now, tourist vehicles can ferry individual passengers too||Lucknow: The new All-India tourist permit rules that became effective from April 1 have allowed tourist vehicles to transport passengers individually also and not necessarily in a group apart from enabling them to deposit the tax online centrally rather than pay the same individually to the states concerned on the borders.The new provisions named ‘The All India Tourist Vehicles (Authorisation or Permit) Rules, 2021’ may, however, take some time to be fully operational in UP, like in most other states, with the National Informatics Centre (NIC) developing the requisite system.“The new all-India permits rules have been notified coming into effect from April 1 but it may take some time for the new system to be fully operational before the NIC in Delhi makes necessary changes in the software,” transport commissioner Dheeraj Sahu said. The new rules, he said, had several important provisions to benefit transporters engaged in the tourism sector. The most striking feature of the new rules, according to another senior transport official, is that now any transporter with an all-India tourist permit can freely take passengers individually from different locations to different destinations. “Though the same has not been explained in as many words, its interpretation means the same,” he claimed.Till now, a transporter could ferry tourists only in a group and not individually after obtaining a contract carriage permit that would be valid for the specified routes and for the specified number of days. “But now they can get permits on an annual basis and operate on any route across the country taking passengers from and dropping at different points,” said the officials. The rules themselves define the term ‘authorisation’ granted by the transport authority to enable tourist vehicles operator/ owner to ply tourist vehicles throughout the territory of India subject to the payment of taxes or fees, if any, levied by the state or Union territory through which it plies.Defining the scope and validity of authorisation or permit, the rules clarify the first authorization/ permit “shall be valid throughout India” and second the authorization/permit “shall be used for the transport of passengers individually or in a group, along with their personal luggage”.According to the rules any transporter can submit application along with the prescribed fee for the all-India tourist permit electronically through the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways’ website https://parivahan.gov.in/parivahan/.Liberalising the permit obtaining process the rules make it binding on the Transport Authority to issue the authorisation or permit within a period of thirty days from the date of receipt of application.“If no decision is taken by the Transport Authority within thirty days of receipt of the application, the authorisation or permit shall be deemed to have been granted and generated through electronic system,” rules say.The rules also provide that permit shall not be granted to a tourist vehicle after the completion of twelve years from the date of first registration of the vehicle but in case of a diesel vehicles registered in the National Capital Territory (NCT) of Delhi, permit this duration has been further curtailed to 10 years only.Also, the tourist vehicles which have been granted permit are required under these rules to prominently display the words ‘All India Tourist Permit’ on the rear left side of the vehicle in white letters in blue background along with the validity of the permit.Although the new policy’s stated objective is to promote the tourism and the transport sectors by encouraging transporters to buy and ply more tourist vehicles, the UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC has its own apprehensions with regard to certain provisions.“The provision allowing tourist vehicles to transport passengers individually will finish the sanctity of nationalized routes and eat into the revenue of country’s all state transport undertakings, including the UPSRTC because now transporters can get stage carriage permits to transport tourists individually even on the nationalized routes that are otherwise reserved exclusively for STUs,” a senior UPSRTC official pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-permit-rules-now-tourist-vehicles-can-ferry-individual-passengers-too-101617558431310.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro adding 120 more coaches to upgrade remaining fleet of 6-coach trains||The Delhi Metro is undertaking the conversion of its remaining fleet of six-coach trains into eight-coach ones by adding 120 additional carriages on Red, Yellow and Blue lines of the network, officials said on Sunday.The conversion is expected to be completed by the end of this year after which all trains on these three corridors will be eight-coaches, they said."The Delhi Metro is undertaking conversion of its remaining fleet of 6-coach trains into 8-coach trains by adding 120 additional coaches on the Red Line (Line-1 i.e. Rithala to Shaheed Sthal New Bus Adda), Yellow Line (Line-2 i.e. HUDA City Centre to Samaypur Badli) and Blue Line (Line-3/4 i.e. Dwarka Sec-21 to Noida Electronic City/Vaishali) of the Delhi Metro network," the DMRC said in a statement.By the end of this month, the process of converting all twelve six-coach trains on Yellow Line into eight-coaches will be completed thereby taking the total number of eight-coach trains on this line to 64, officials said.Subsequently, remaining nine six-coach trains on Blue Line and thirty-nine six-coach trains on Red Line will be converted into eight-coach trains by the end of this year taking the total number of eight-coach trains on these lines to 74 and 39 respectively, they said."Out of these 120 coaches, 40 coaches have been procured from M/s Bombardier and 80 coaches from Bharat Earth Movers Limited (BEML)," the statement said.This activity is being carried out to increase the carrying capacity of the three main corridors of the Delhi Metro -- Red (Line-1), Blue (Line-3/4) and Yellow (Line-2) Lines -- which contribute to almost 40-50 per cent of passenger utilisation every day.It is noteworthy to mention that these lines which were initially made operational under phase-I were built on broad gauge having provision of running trains up to eight-coach formation, it added.Rest of the lines (lines 5 to 9) and Airport Express Line, which were subsequently taken up in Phase-II and Phase-III are all built on standard gauge having provision of running trains up to six-coach formation only, officials said.The Delhi Metro currently has a fleet of 336 trains sets comprising 181 six-coach trains, 133 eight-coach trains and 22 four-coach trains across all its corridors, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-adding-120-more-coaches-to-upgrade-remaining-fleet-of-6-coach-trains-101617557646079.html
04-04-2021||Other||Punjab govt assures Mukhtar Ansari’s hand-over before Apr 8||LUCKNOW Citing poor health condition of Mafioso-turned MLA Mukhtar Ansari, Punjab’s additional chief secretary (ACS), home, in a letter written to UP ACS, home, Awanish Awasthi on Saturday has asked the UP government to make proper security and medical arrangements for Ansari’s transfer to Uttar Pradesh jail, said senior home and prison department officials here on Sunday. A senior home department official said the letter from the Punjab government assured Ansari would be handover to the UP government on or before April 8. He said the letter asked to arrange a good vehicle for Ansari considering his medical condition. He said Ansari had to be shifted from district jail, Rupnagar, Punjab to Banda district jail in UP where he was lodged before being shifted from here in January 2019. He said Ansari would be brought to Banda district jail by road. He said the letter also mentioned about assuring Ansari’s appearance in Mohali court in connection with the Punjab case on April 12 through video conferencing. A prison department official said necessary preparations were underway to bring back the BSP MLA from Mau to Uttar Pradesh. He said security arrangements had been tightened in and outside the Banda jail. Two additional police posts had been set up outside the jail, where a battalion of provincial armed constabulary had been deployed. On March 26, rhe Supreme Court had directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh police, saying it was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. The court had said the custody of Ansari be handed over to Uttar Pradesh within two weeks so as to lodge him in Banda district jail in the state. The apex court had also noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in various cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, lodged in Uttar Pradesh. Out of these, 10 cases were at trial stage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-govt-assures-mukhtar-ansari-s-hand-over-before-apr-8-101617558191350.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Rain, snow likely in J&K till April 7: MeT||The meteorological department has predicted rainfall and snowfall in the Union Territory from April 4 (Sunday ) to April 7 . “A fresh western disturbance, bringing winds from the Mediterranean, will cause light rain and thunder on April 4 and 5 and moderate rain and snow accompanied by thunderstorms and gusty winds on April 6 and 7,” the weatherman said. “The system is likely to cause heavy rainfall and snowfall, primarily in the upper reaches of Kashmir such as Gulmarg, Sonamarg, Baramulla, Bandipora, Kupwara , Shopian, Qazigund-Banihal axis,in the Pirpanjal range in Jammu division, and in Dras and Zanskar subdivisions of Ladakh,” meteorologist MH Mir said in a weather advisory to the divisional commissioners of J&K and Ladakh. The fresh precipitation may lead to temporary disruption of surface traffic mainly on the Jammu-Srinagar and Srinagar-Leh national highways, Leh-Manali highway, Mughal Road and Sadhna Pass on April 6 and 7.Mir said, “There is a possibility of landslides and shooting stones at vulnerable spots on the Jammu-Srinagar and Srinagar-Leh national highways.” The fresh western disturbance comes a week after the UT was affected by two back-to-back weather systems that had hit the region in the fourth week of March. After a relatively hot February, March had mostly remained cold and rainy with intermittent precipitation across Jammu and Kashmir.Although February witnessed a number of snow spells, the month also saw an abrupt increase in maximum temperatures. On February 22, Srinagar had recorded a maximum temperature of 18.6°C and Kupwara had recorded a high of 20.5°C.On Saturday, the day temperature in Srinagar was 19.8°C while the night temperature was 7.2°C. Kupwara recorded another high of 21.8°C. Mir, however, has predicted a drop in day temperatures. This year, Kashmir experienced the harshest winter in 30 years with temperatures plunging to record levels in January. On January 31, the temperature in Srinagar had plunged to minus 8.8 degrees, the lowest since the January of 1991.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/rain-snow-likely-in-j-k-till-april-7-met-101617558131955.html
04-04-2021||Other||No mask, no travel in buses, taxis, autos: CM||Lucknow People should be allowed to travel in auto-rickshaws, taxis and buses only while they wore masks, said chief minister Yogi Adityanath here on Sunday. “Mask is an important tool in fighting the war against Covid and ask people to compulsorily wear it. Make sure that shopkeepers also wear masks while doing business. Also ensure that all drivers of auto-rickshaws, taxis, and buses must wear mask at work. Use public address system to spread awareness about mask wearing and Covid protection and safety,” the CM said.He also asked the administration to form and activate “nigrani samitis” (monitoring teams) at panchayat and municipal levels from Sunday itself and speed up Covid vaccination across the state. The CM issued these instructions at a Covid review meeting he held at his official residence in Lucknow before he left for a campaign tour of poll-bound West Bengal. At the meeting, he reviewed Covid infection status in the state and its prevention, protection, treatment, and vaccination progress. He also directed to speed up vaccination process.“Form nigrani samitis at panchayat and municipal levels and activate them from today (Sunday) itself. Also in rural areas, apart from government officers, include members from Yuvak Mangal Dal (village youth volunteers’ group) and watchmen. Similarly, in the urban areas add members from Ccvil defence and voluntary organisations,” Yogi said.He said the “nigrani samitis” should keep an eye on people coming in from other states and they should also look out for any person with Covid-19 symptoms. “Be vigilant, map the cases so that cases could be known quickly and an infected person could be isolated. In case of any Covid positive case, trace and test at least 25 people in contract tracing exercise. Also increase RT-PCR testing. Do strategic sampling using RT-PCR technique,” the CM said.Yogi also said considering the current state of Covid infection, make sure that Covid hospitals had enough beds, doctors and paramedical staff. Senior doctors must regularly take rounds of the wards, he added.The CM reiterated that the integrated command and control centres should be made efficient and effective in each district and the respective district magistrate, police chief, chief medical officer must review Covid situation every morning at the Covid hospital and at the integrated control and command centre in the evening and strategies keeping in mind the scenario in the district.“Those under home isolation should be monitored regularly and in case any situation arises, they should be shifted to a Covid hospital. Those in home isolation must be provided medicines and treatment at home. Form rapid response teams according to the existing protocols and make them visit those in home isolation at least three times a day,” he said according to the statement issued by his office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-mask-no-travel-in-buses-taxis-autos-cm-101617558011324.html
04-04-2021||Other||Close to first wave peak: Lko reports 1129 cases||LUCKNOW: Th state capital inched closer to its first wave peak, with 1129 fresh Covid cases reported on Sunday. The total number of cases logged till date has now reached 89940. On September 18, 2020, there were 1244 fresh covid cases, the maximum when the first wave came. But the number of patients discharged this time is less compared to September 18, 2020 when 970 patients were discharged. On Sunday only 264 were discharged. During the day, director general, medical health Dr DS Negi also tested positive. “One of my staff tested positive so I got my sample tested as a precautionary measure and it came positive. I am in self quarantine,” said Dr Negi, who has received both the Covid vaccine doses.. Fresh cases were reported from Indira Nagar (73), Alambagh (32), Rae Bareli Road (22), Mahanagar (41), Hazratganj (32), Aliganj (39), Talkatora (41), Gomti Nagar (68), Chowk (59), Ashiyana (49) and Madiaon (29). During the day, 20640 samples were collected, the maximum in a day till now. “The recovery rate in Lucknow is 91.63%. It has come down from 94.09% on April 1,” said Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. In a late evening meeting of the health department, officials were directed to increase contact tracing and trace all the contacts of a positive case at the earliest. Efforts should be made to test 25 contacts of each positive case, they were told. The case positivity rate in Lucknow is about 4.13. Delay in reporting time LUCKNOW: With rise in Covid cases, waiting time for test reports has also gone up, ranging between one to two days, keeping the suspected cases apprehensive. US Chauhan of Balaganj got his sampling done on March 31 and the result came on April 2, while TK Mukherjee of Sharda Nagar is awaiting his report after giving sample on April 3. “The number of samples has gone up manifold in the past one week. Lucknow tested 16135 samples on April 2, 19845 on April 3 and 20620 on April 4. With increased sampling in the past one week, results might take a little time. We are working to bring down the result tim,” said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesperson for the office of the chief medical officer of Lucknow. The Lucknow health department has tested the highest number of samples among all the districts in the state. Till now, over 21 lakh samples have been tested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/close-to-first-wave-peak-lko-reports-1129-cases-101617557771242.html
04-04-2021||Other||STA meeting today: May grant permits to pvt buses for contentious Meerut-Ambala route||Lucknow: The State Transport Authority (STA) may grant the state carriage (permanent) permits to private operators to ply buses on the contentious Meerut-Ambala via Muzaffarnagar, Saharanpur, Yamuna Bridge route, in its meeting here on Monday, people dealing with the issue revealed. “There are around 30 items on the agenda for Monday’s STA meeting but the most important one is about the consideration of the applications received for grant of permits to private buses for the Meerut-Ambala route,” they said. “The UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) has serious objections to grant of permits to private operators for this route and once it also took the issue to court, getting the move stalled,” they added. As per the proposal that is to be taken up in the meeting on Monday, the permits are to be issued to the private operators for this entire route, barring between Muzaffarnagar to Yamuna Bridge, the 70 km patch that is the nationalized one where the UPSRTC alone can get stage carriage permits to ply. “Our contention is that since the 70 km Muzaffarnagar-Yamuna Bridge patch is an intrinsic part of the same route for which the STA proposes to grant permits for private operators, it is natural that private buses will use the entire route, including the 70 km nationalized patch once they get the stage carriage permits,” said a UPSRTC employee union leader preferring anonymity. “Our hunch is that permits to private operators may be given for more similar routes in the state, especially for 26 prime routes in western UP once the move for the grant of permits for the Meerut-Yamuna Bridge route succeeds,” he said, adding “We will opposed any such bid.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sta-meeting-today-may-grant-permits-to-pvt-buses-for-contentious-meerut-ambala-route-101617557531291.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K L-G visits hospital to enquire about Farooq Abdullah’s health||Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha visited SKIMS hospital on Sunday to enquire after the health of National Conference (NC) president and Srinagar MP Farooq Abdullah, who is undergoing treatment for Covid.Sinha, who met Farooq’s son and NC vice president Omar Abdullah at the hospital, instructed the doctors to provide the best treatment to the MP. The L-G also offered to shift the senior Abdullah to another facility or hospital for better monitoring and care.“In Srinagar, I met Omar Abdullah at SKIMS Hospital, Soura. Enquired about Farooq Sahab’s health and instructed the doctors to provide best treatment. I pray for his long and healthy life,” the L-G tweeted.Omar Abdullah expressed gratitude to Sinha for visiting the hospital and offering to shift his father, and said the NC president is getting the best possible care at the SKIMS.“Thank you for your visit to enquire after my father @manojsinha_ ji. We are grateful for the offer to shift my father, the doctors & other medical staff at SKIMS Srinagar are amongst the best anywhere & my father is getting the best possible care,” he wrote on Twitter.The octogenarian tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. He was kept in home isolation initially, but doctors on Saturday decided to shift him to a hospital for better medical care.People close to the NC leader said Farooq was ‘immuno-compromised’ because his kidneys had been replaced. In 2014, he underwent a successful kidney transplant after his wife, Molly, donated her kidney.Besides different terms as a Lok Sabha member, Farooq has been the chief minister of Jammu and Kashmir thrice – 1982, 1986 and 1996. Many leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi had taken to twitter to wish Farooq a speedy recovery.“Praying for the good health and speedy recovery of Dr. Farooq Abdullah Ji. Also praying for your and the entire family’s good health @OmarAbdullah,” PM Modi had said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jklg-visits-hospital-to-enquire-about-farooq-abdullah-s-health-101617557352655.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K sees highest single-day spike for third day in a row||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 573 new Covid cases on Sunday, the highest single-day hike this year, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 33,012. Jammu and Kashmir has been logging over 500 cases per day for three days — the highest count in four months. The highest single-day spike in virus cases immediately before Sunday had been reported on December 3 when the UT had detected 582 cases. Three patients — one in Jammu and two in Kashmir — succumbed to the infection on Sunday, taking the death toll to 2,008. Of the new cases, 451 are from Kashmir division while 122 are from Jammu. Officials said with 208 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 92 in Jammu, 84 in Baramulla district, 41 in Budgam, 37 in Kulgam and 18 in Bandipora. Eight districts reported single digit cases while two districts in Jammu saw no infections. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily since March, reached 3, 955, officials said. There are 3,033 active cases in Kashmir division, of which 1,526 are in Srinagar. Of the 922 active cases in Jammu division, 661 are in Jammu district. As many as 1, 27,049 people have recovered from the infection so far, taking the recovery rate to 95.51%. Over 6.21 million Covid tests have been conducted in the UT, so far. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections, an increase of 133% against February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-sees-highest-single-day-spike-for-third-day-in-a-row-101617556691897.html
04-04-2021||Other||Not negotiating for any post with anyone, says Sidhu||Former Punjab cabinet minister and cricketer Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday said that he was not negotiating for any post with anyone. Sidhu’s statement comes amid conjecture that he may leave the Congress, as his talks with chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh for a return to the cabinet have remained inconclusive. “My opponents have been spreading lies that I am negotiating for returning to the state cabinet. I have never negotiated with anyone for any post in any party. Even my son left the post of assistant advocate general and my wife didn’t accept the chairmanship of a board, even as these were offered to them. I am into politics for Punjab and not for personal gains,” Sidhu told reporters on the sidelines of a press conference he held on the direct system of payment of farmers. Sidhu had quit the cabinet in June 2019 after a change in portfolio from local government to power. Since then, the Congress high command has been working for his return to the government and the party hierarchy. Efforts of successive All-India Congress Committee (AICC) general secretaries have not yielded result. Sidhu has not joined any party poll campaign since leaving the cabinet, even after being named a star campaigner. On March 18 this year, he had met the CM at his residence, where Amarinder said he had asked Sidhu to join the cabinet. Dodging questions on the functioning of the CM and the state government’s performance, Sidhu said “It’s not you or me, who have to judge the policies and the functioning of the Punjab government. It is the public, which has to pass the final judgement. The government will regain power, if its policies are good.” ‘CENTRE BLACKMAILING PUNJAB’ On Centre’s mandate of making direct payment to farmers for their produce, Sidhu claimed that the BJP was trying to divide Punjab’s farmers and the timing of the directive raised eyebrows. “Union minister Piyush Goyal is patently wrong when he says that the Punjab revenue department has complete information about land record of farmers in the state,” he said, adding that as per data collected by National Sample Survey for 2012-13, more than 24% (almost one-fourth) of land under cultivation in the state is under tenancy. These tenancy contracts are oral/unwritten in nature. “It is, therefore, not practical to implement direct payment in Punjab. If today, the sale of wheat crop is allowed only with ownership rights, over 24% of growers in the state will not receive payment,” he claimed, adding, “This amounts to economic blackmail by the Centre to force farmers and the Punjab government to withdraw their agitation against the three farm laws.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-negotiating-for-any-post-with-anyone-says-sidhu-101617556331966.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Covid mutants are spreading fast in Maharashtra, lockdown can contain it, says Dr Shekhar Mande, director-general CSIR||PUNE Curbs on the movement of people can help stop the spread of the virus, which has mutated into a more transmissible avatar in Maharashtra and other states of the country, said Dr Shekhar Mande, director-general of the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). His remarks came on Sunday when the Maharashtra government imposed new restrictions, including complete lockdown on weekends. Mande, while speaking to reporters in Pune via video conferencing, said one of the mutants seen in Maharashtra is a matter of concern for health authorities.“The state has seen double mutation with two variants E484Q and L452R. The E484Q mutation has been detected in Maharashtra before and L452R was found in patients in California in the United States and is most likely to have transmitted here after people travelled from the US to India,” he said.“We have asked the state government to monitor L452R mutant, which is causing concern. On this, I am in constant touch with state government,” said Mande, adding people not following rules is another reason besides mutation of virus for the rapid spread of Covid infection in Maharashtra. When asked if there is a concrete study to show lockdown do work, Mande said, “The lockdown has shown it contains the spread as people stay indoors. Even if the virus spreads, it only affects the family members and it will not spread outside. If you see the last year’s lockdown in India, the spread of the disease was quite slow in the country to compare to other countries including Italy where the explosion of Covid was witnessed.” Mande, however, said there is a need to balance between restrictions and saving the economy. “There are side effects of the lockdown too as it affects economy adversely which leads to job loss. So we need to look for the balance while imposing the lockdown. Possibilities need to be seen whether full or partial lockdown can be imposed,” he said On the effectiveness of vaccines, especially when the virus is mutating, Mande said there is little evidence that the vaccine would not work on the mutants. “There are two divergent views that have emerged in the scientific literature in last one or two months that some vaccines are acting less effective on mutants, but it has been challenged by some who say that vaccine is equally effective on mutants,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-mutants-are-spreading-fast-in-maharashtra-lockdown-can-contain-it-says-dr-shekhar-mande-director-general-csir-101617555551224.html
04-04-2021||Other||Dhanbad: Covid test for medical college hostel inmates after 6 students test positive||Authorities of Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College Hospital (SNMMCH) in Dhanbad on Sunday ordered Covid-19 test of all hostel inmates after six MBBS students of institution tested positive, officials said.SNMMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar said, “After one student was recently found infected on April 2, testing of other students was conducted on Saturday, in which five more tested positive. Therefore, a direction has been issued to conduct RT-PCR test of all hostellers.”Besides the MBBS students, all sanitation workers and other hostel staff will also undergo Covid-19 test.The college authorities also banning exit of students from campus till their Covid-19 test was completed. “There is no panic like situation among other students. The order has been issued in wake of the rising infection ratio,” said the principal.Meanwhile, district sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Surendra Kumar imposed Section 144 of CrPC in four containment zones of Dhanbad--Master Pada, Dhowatand, Hill Colony and Digwadi ward,and number 41 in Jamodavo of Tata Steel.Deputy commissioner Umashankar Singh also directed to conduct Covid-19 test of residents of the four containment zones, said Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme (IDSP) officer of district Dr Rajkumar Singh. “Besides, it has also been directed to make an area a containment zone within 12 hours of any resident testing positive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-covid-test-for-medical-college-hostel-inmates-after-6-students-test-positive-101617555131161.html
04-04-2021||Ranchi||Two-time Jamtara legislator Bishnu Bhaiya dies of Covid-19||Two-time legislator from Jharkhand’s Jamtara assembly seat, 59-year-old Bishnu Prasad Bhaiya died at a Ranchi hospital late on Saturday night after testing positive for Covid-19, officials said on Sunday.Bhaiya was suffering from chronic kidney disease and was admitted to Bhagwan Mahavir Medica Superspecialty Hospital on April 1 in a serious condition. ”He was admitted to the hospital in a critical condition on April 1. He was a patient of chronic kidney disease. When his Covid-19 test was conducted after admission, he was found infected with coronavirus. He died late on Saturday night,” said public relation officer of the hospital, Anand Srivastava.Chief minister Hemant Soren (CM) and political leaders from across party lines expressed deep condolences over his demise, and termed it as a big loss for the state.According to the legislator’s family members, Bhaiya was admitted to critical care unit of Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) on March 16. However, he was discharged from the hospital before the festival of Holi.The CM, along with water resources minister Mithilesh Thakur, visited the hospital on Sunday and met Bhaiya’s family members. “I shared a political as well as family relation with him. His demise is a big loss for me and the state,” Soren said.The CM also showed concern over the soaring Covid-19 cases in the state. “Even though we have vaccines, we should not take this pandemic lightly. We should not leave any stone unturned in taking precautions,” he said.“I will like to appeal to the people of the state to cooperate in dealing with coronavirus. Follow all guidelines issued by the government. Use mask and maintain social distancing. The solution to the problem lies with the common people. The government can only guide them,” he said.Bhaiya was elected MLA from Jamtara seat twice in 2005 and 2009. In 2014, he lost to Congress’ Irfan Ansari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/twotime-jamtara-legislator-bishnu-bhaiya-dies-of-covid19-101617555071164.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab reports over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases and 51 deaths in last 24 hours||Punjab reported over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases - after a gap of two days - and 51 fatalities in the last 24 hours, according to a bulletin from the state government on Sunday. With this, the state's tally reached 251,460 and the death toll climbed to 7,083, data from the bulletin showed. There were 2,705 new cases on Saturday, 2,903 cases on Friday and 3,187 cases on Thursday.The active caseload in Punjab currently stands at 25,314 cases and as much as 2,955 patients were discharged on Sunday, taking the overall recoveries to 219,063.Also read | Maharashtra logs record 57,074 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai's tally rises by 11,206Among the districts, Ludhiana topped the list with highest number of new cases on Sunday (446), followed by Jalandhar with 387 cases, SAS Nagar with 329 cases, Amritsar with 271 cases and Patiala with 213 cases.In terms of total active cases, the top five worst affected districts in Punjab are SAS Nagar (3,592 cases), Jalandhar (3,284 cases), Amritsar (3,278 cases), Ludhiana (2,834 cases) and Patiala (2,517 cases).Currently, the state government has created 12 containment zones across eight districts and 91 micro containment zones in 13 districts to check the spread of the disease.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry on Sunday flagged Punjab as one among 12 states and union territories (UTs) *that have witnessed an increase in the daily new Covid-19 cases. The other states are Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, with Delhi being the only UT in the list.Also read | Delhi reports 4,033 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest one-day spike this yearUnder the vaccination drive, 412,160 healthcare and frontline workers have been administered the first dose and 115,290 have received second dose. Also, 651,363 first doses and 6,536 second doses have been administered to people above 45 years of age.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, earlier in the day, convened a high-level meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the country as India reported a fresh spike of over 93,000 new cases. During the meeting, it was decided that central teams would be sent to Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh owing to the disproportionate number of deaths in these states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-reports-over-3-000-new-covid-19-cases-and-51-deaths-in-last-24-hours-101617554495526.html
04-04-2021||Patna||Munger-Mirzachowki NH-80 stretch set for facelift||The Munger-Mirzachowki stretch of National Highway (NH 80), which remained in deplorable conditions for nearly a decade, is all set for a facelift with the Union ministry of road transport and highways (MoRTH) approving ₹1043.69 crore scheme to strengthen it with paved shoulder. Currently, this stretch of NH 80, running 108km, is 5.50 to 7 metres wide. However, the proposed plan will make it 10 metres wide that includes paved shoulder for extra space on traffic. This is an important route to connect eastern Bihar with Jharkhand and Bengal via Bhagalpur and Sahebganj. Additional chief secretary, road construction department (RCD), Amrit Lal Meena, who was recently in Delhi, said that the entire stretch of NH 80 from Munger to Mirzachowki will be made with concrete material to ensure its durability. “All the bridges in the way will also be renovated and strengthened. The strengthening work will not require land acquisition, as the RCD has sufficient unused patch of land on both sides,” said Meena. Officials of RCD said that the work will be executed in two sections, from Muger to Bhagalpur (50.87km) and then Bhagalpur to Mirzachowki (57.25km) at the cost of ₹477.54 crore and ₹566.15 crore respectively. The construction firms, which will rebuild the stretch, will be given the task to maintain it for ten years after completion of the project, including two years within the award of work. The RCD had prepared the detailed project report (DPR) for strengthening of the road after chief minister Nitish Kumar instructed them to go for a complete makeover of the road after he made an aerial survey in January 2019. The NH wing of RCD will execute the project, the tenders to rope in reputed construction firms will be publicised in the next few weeks. Meanwhile, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has floated the expression of interest from reputed firms to build a four-lane greenfield road project, parallel to NH 80, from Munger to Mirzachowki. The new road is around 5km sought of the existing alignment of NH 80. Officials said that raiyyats of the land being acquired for the greenfield project were being paid the compensation for acquisition. About the projectTotal length of road: 108km Project cost: ₹1043.69crore Proposed width of road: 10 metre with paved shoulder Classification: Concrete Segments: Two (50.87 km and 57.25km) Executing agency: NH wing of RCD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mungermirzachowki-nh-80-stretch-set-for-facelift-101617554951176.html
04-04-2021||Other||RJD leader shot dead in Katihar||Six armed bike-borne criminals shot dead 55-year-old RJD leader Nirmal Bubna outside his residence near Kali Mandi at Bathora in Salmari town areas under Azamnagar police station late on Saturday evening. Police said that armed criminals opened fire at the leader when he was walking outside his house. He was rushed to a local PHC where he was declared brought dead.Katihar superintendent of police (SP) Vikash Kumar and sub divisional police officer (SDPO) Prem Nath Ram rushed to the house of the leader along with police forces and started investigation. “All the roads to West Bengal were sealed after the incident and raids are being carried out to nab the killers” SP said.The leader is said to be very close to Tejaswi Yadav and was all set to contest from Kadwa in last assembly polls. However, the seat went to the Congress.Congress leader Sunil Yadav while attacking government for deteriorating law and order situation demanded immediate arrests of the killers. On the other hand, JD-U MLA from Barari Vijay Singh has also demanded immediate arrests of killers.Senior RJD leader Arun Kumar Yadav from Purnia said, “The government has lost its moral ground to run the state.”Bubna’s involvement in liquor trade before 2016Before prohibition was enforced in Bihar, RJD leader Nirmal Bubna was allegedly involved in liquor trade in the area. Soon after the ban was imposed on sale and purchase of liquor across the state in 2016, he shifted to textile trade. “He had earned huge wealth in a short time and had a political ambition,” a senior police officer, wishing not to be quoted said. “His role in illegal liquor trade can’t be ruled out as the reason behind his killing,” a police officer said. The RJD leader’s name also cropped up in the killing of son of district board member in Salmari two years ago. He served six years in jail.Till filing of the report, no FIR was lodged in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rjd-leader-shot-dead-in-katihar-101617554891789.html
04-04-2021||Patna||Nawada hooch case: SHO, S-I axed, seven FIRs lodged||A three-member team, comprising IG (prohibition), excise commissioner and joint excise commissioner, dispatched from here to Nawada on April 2 for looking into the recent deaths in the central Bihar district after alleged consumption of spurious liquor have on Saturday accepted that the deaths were caused due to poisonous liquor, besides administrative loopholes and negligence. Excise commissioner B Kartikye Dhanji said that prima facie evidences suggest that the deaths were caused due to consumption of poisonous liquor and nobody will be spared for the same. “On the basis of intelligence inputs, simultaneous raids and searches, team members found spurious liquor as the reason behind their death”, said Dhanji, adding that they are waiting for further details of four autopsy reports for hooch confirmation. Meanwhile, town station house officer (SHO) T N Tiwari and sub-inspector (S-I) Nagendra Prasad weresuspended on Sunday while chowkidar Vikas Mishra was axed on Saturday on charges of dereliction of duty. Besides, seven FIRs were lodged with the town police station in this connection while eight persons have been detained for interrogation.Nawada DM Yashpal Meena said the administration has suspended the SHO and the chowkidar over dereliction of duty. Besides Nawada, two deaths, suspected to be from hooch poisoning, have also been reported from Begusarai and five from Rohtas during HoliIG Amrit Raj said that samples of liquor from the villages have also been collected after raids and they would be also sent for forensic analysis to know if they were poisonous. He said on his directions, a separate special investigation team (SIT) has been formed by the DM and SP to probe the cases registered in connection with the deaths. “Another SIT is already looking into the overall matter,” he added. Over 15 persons fell ill after consuming spurious liquor on Holi. The officials also met the victims who are being treated at the Nawada sadar hospital. They listened to all public representatives and assured them for appropriate action in the matter. Dhanji said that they would submit their finding report to the State government on April 5, following which strict actions can be taken in the case. Three-member team of officials, IG Amrit Raj, Dhanji and Krishan Paswan, was dispatched to Nawada on the directive of chief minister Nitish Kumar for looking into the deaths of 16 persons including an 18-year-old after alleged consumption of spurious liquor. Four persons lost their vision after consumption of spurious liquor. In the autopsy report of 18-year-old Akash Kumar from Gondapur village, heart attack was mentioned as the reason for his death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/nawada-hooch-case-sho-s-i-axed-seven-firs-lodged-101617554891171.html
04-04-2021||Patna||Bihar Judicial Services exam postponed||The Bihar Judicial Services (BJS) examination which were to be held from April 8 to 13 by the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC) have been postponed after requests from students seeking cancellation due to increasing Covid cases.As the corona cases reported increase in Patna, aspirants had made several groups on multiple social media platforms, including WhatsApp, Facebook and Twitter to launch a drive for cancellation of the examination.Aspirants had tagged governor Phagu Chauhan, chief minister Nitsh Kumar, health minister Mangal Pandey, BPSC chairman R K Mahajan, HRD principal secretary Sanjay Kumar and other officials on social media platforms and demanded to postpone the BJS mains exam in the wake of Covid-19 cases in Patna.An aspirant K P Singh had tweeted while tagging the chief minister, “Please don’t be the reason of our death, save us from corona and cancel the exams.” Another candidate Ajay Trivedi said, “BPSC’s stubborn attitude will make us fall prey to Covid. Keeping in consideration the increase in cases, the commission should delay the examination for now.”Yet another aspirant, Kumar Gaurav had tweeted, while requesting the CM “Please sir consider our request to postpone the Bihar judiciary mains.” “The BJS exam takes place in two shifts which is almost six hours a day. We have to be outside from morning to evening in a situation when Covid cases are rising rapidly. It is not safe to travel to Patna and staying here in a hotel for the exam duration and eat outside food,” said aspirant Ashish Sharma. Following the flood of requests, the BPSC official site uploaded the update regarding cancellation of the exam.Some students, however, expressed unhappiness after the exams were postponed, citing wastage of time.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-judicial-services-exam-postponed-101617554831149.html
04-04-2021||Patna||Spike in Covid cases: Patna-AIIMS caps OPD patients to 50 per department a day||Patna’s All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has restricted outdoor patient department (OPD) consultation of new patients to 50 per department per day to reduce crowding on its premises in view of recent spike in coronavirus (Covid) cases. Bihar recorded 836 cases on April 2 that was more than double the cases reported a week back, taking the number of active cases to 2,942. The state health department had also requested the AIIMS to increase the number of beds for Covid-19 patients, seeing the sudden spike in cases after Holi. Owing to unavailability of beds, the AIIMS-Patna has been refusing to admit Covid-19 patients since last three days. “We are not able to accommodate any Covid-19 patients for the last three days as all our beds are full. Ninety-five beds for Covid-19 patients in our institute were occupied till yesterday. We are increasing the number of beds to 110, following the state health department’s request,” said Dr Sanjeev Kumar, nodal officer for Covid-19 at AIIMS-Patna. The AIIMS had reduced the bed count for Covid-19 patients to 40, with 20 beds each in ward and the intensive care unit (ICU), early this month. However, cases have spiked after Holi, prompting the state government to request the AIIMS to increase the same. “We are adding 10 beds to the existing 20 in the ICU for Covid-19 patients. The remaining 80 beds will be in wards. We cannot increase any further beds at this point of time because we also need to cater to non-Covid patients, who are admitted at our hospital,” added Dr Kumar. “We had gone down to only 17 Covid admissions at our institute early last month, but there has been a sudden surge in cases after Holi. People should support us by following Covid appropriate behaviour like wearing mask, social distancing and hand sanitising. We cannot afford to lower our guard,” said Dr Kumar. Meanwhile, state health minister Mangal Pandey said, “The civil surgeons have been directed to do full testing in micro-containment zones where new cases have been detected.” He said the health department was making arrangements to treat those found positive during random testing at public places, including airport, railway station and bus stands. However, passengers at airport, railway station and bus stand were still callous and not taking the government advice on following Covid appropriate behaviour seriously. Pandey said Covid-19 cases had increased in 11 states, including Maharashtra, Punjab and Delhi. In Bihar, too, cases had gone up in the last 10 days and the curve was on the ascendancy. Expressing concern over the spurt in Covid-19 cases in the state, Pandey appealed to the people to not only follow Covid appropriate behaviour but also take vaccination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/spike-in-covid-cases-patna-aiims-caps-opd-patients-to-50-per-department-a-day-101617554772338.html
04-04-2021||Other||‘He recently built a house...’: Kin of soldier who died in Chhattisgarh encounter||Bheema Sodhi, elder brother of Sodhi Narayan - a jawan of the district reserve guard (DRG) who was among the 22 security personnel who got killed in an encounter with Maoists in Chhattisgarh on Saturday - said the family was in deep sorrow. Sodhi said his family was not afraid of Maoists.“We were five brothers and four are serving as policemen, fighting the Maoists. We are saddened and mourning the loss of my brother but we are not afraid. The locals and villagers are very angry after the attack as many young tribals from the village joined the security forces in the last few years,” Sodhi said. Sodhi Narayan is survived by a wife and four children. According to Chhattisgarh Police, 22 security personnel lost their lives in a Naxal attack at the Sukma-Bijapur border and around 31 sustained injuries while fighting the rebels.Soldier of the newly formed CRPF’s Bastraiya Battalion, Somiaya Mandavi, was also among the brave personnel who laid their lives in Saturday’s fierce gunfight. He recently bought a house for his family in his native villages. Somaiya was a native of Awaapalli and joined the force five years back. CRPF’s Bastraiya Battalion comprises young soldiers of the Bastar region and had been very successful in conducting combing operations because of their knowledge of the local topography.“He got married three years ago and had a 10-month-old son. Saumaiya recently built a house and was planning a housewarming party on his return in a few weeks,” said Shankar Mandavi, his brother. Shankar also said that it was because of his brother they could move into a permanent house from a hut. “When he joined the force, it changed the fortune of our family. We don’t know what will happen to us now,” he said.Also read: Chhattisgarh Maoist attack - CM rules out intelligence failureThe forces recovered 22 bodies of the security personnel from the encounter site while the body of a CoBRA soldier is still missing. Police said out of 22 jawans who got killed, eight were from the district reserve guard (DRG), seven from CoBRA, six from the special task force (STF) and one from the ‘Bastariya’ battalion of the CRPF. The CRPF personnel who lost their lives in the encounter were from Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu Kashmir and Andhra Pradesh. “The news of Shaheed Bablu Rabha and other brave soldiers attaining martyrdom while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh is deeply saddening. The entire Assam mourns this loss & our thoughts and prayers are with his family members,” Gaurav Gogoi, Congress leader from Assam, tweeted. Chief ministers of several states, including Uttar Pradesh CM Yogi Adityanath and Assam CM Sarbanda Sonowal, also mourned the death of the brave soldiers.Local administrative officials in these states said that the families would get the bodies of their beloved on Monday. The deceased soldiers will be cremated with state honours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/he-recently-built-a-house-kin-of-soldier-who-died-in-chhattisgarh-encounter-101617553872217.html
04-04-2021||Other||Pune district reports 12,472 fresh Covid positive cases on Sunday||PUNE Pune district reported 12,472 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours on Sunday, as per the state health department.Nine deaths were reported in the district, with three each in Pune rural, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), in the last 24 hours.In the Pune district, there are a total of 5,76,758 Covid cases. Of this, 4,86,958 patients have recovered. There have been a total of 8,483 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 81,317 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has so far reported 2,98,268 Covid cases and 4,782 deaths till Sunday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,46,251 cases so far, and a total of 1,392 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural reported 1,32,239 total cases so far and 2,260 deaths due to Covid. As per the state Health department, 27,508 patients were discharged on Sunday in Maharashtra taking the total to 25,22,823 in the State. The recovery rate in the state is 83.8%.Across Maharashtra, 57,074 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Sunday and 222 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.86%.The state health department stated out of 2,05,40,111 laboratory samples, 30,10,597 have been tested positive till Sunday. That is 14.66% patients till Sunday.Currently 22,05,899 people are in home quarantine and 19,711 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-reports-12-472-fresh-covid-positive-cases-on-sunday-101617551591072.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Students face difficulties getting daily meals due to strict restrictions||Rakesh Kulkarni and his roommates staying in a PG hostel at Sadashiv peth are facing difficulties finding a dinner meal due to the newly imposed restrictions in Pune district, followed by the statewide strict restrictions and the weekend lockdown. From Saturday, night curfew began in Pune from 6 pm and the challenges for most students like Kulkarni who have arrived in the city for studies rose. As most of them are dependent on hotels and food mess, they used to get a tiffin or have dinner at a hotel but now as the curfew starts at 6 pm, they are unable to go out and get the meals. “Yesterday when I went to my regular mess to get tiffin on Tilak road, I was stopped by one policeman and he shouted at me and told me to go back to room. We are here for studying and now our parents also fear to allow us to stay in Pune. It has been already a difficult situation for us from the last one-month, delayed exams, financial burden and now these strict restrictions,” said Kulkarni. In Pune city, there are different types of private coaching classes, right from school level boards’ classes, 10th and 12th board subject classes, entrance exams classes and competitive exams classes. As Pune is known as an educational hub in the country thousands of students from across the country and from foreign countries come to Pune. They join these classes or go to study circles for studying, stay in PG rooms or rent flats and also eat outside in hotels and mess. So, an entire financial eco-system is dependent on these private classes and study circles. Prajakta Dahiphale who stays in a rented flat in the Bharati Vidyapeeth area is caught in a similar situation. Dahiphale said, “As we are students, we are all dependent for our daily meals on either the hotels or regular mess. We do cook at home, but it is difficult to do it daily and now going out in the evening to bring tiffin is just not working out for us and we cannot afford to order online food daily and waste our money in it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-face-difficulties-getting-daily-meals-due-to-strict-restrictions-101617551411157.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Katraj Zoo animals get coolers, sprinklers to beat the heat||With temperatures on the rise, the Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park authorities in Katraj have installed foggers, sprinklers and coolers for animals lodged inside. This year, a special swimming tank has been prepared for the elephant. Also, sprinklers and foggers and water coolers have been put across important locations to keep the zoo environment cool. Rajkumar Jadhav, director, Rajiv Gandhi Zoological Park, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) said, “We have put in place sufficient cooling systems to help the animals survive the heat wave conditions. We have foggers, sprinklers, and water coolers inside the enclosures for all animals including tigers, lions and leopards. This time a dedicated swimming pool has been constructed for the elephant.” The zoo authorities will maintain a close surveillance on each of the enclosures of the animals and relief will be provided to animals who get restless, uncomfortable and fatigued. Foggers cum water coolers will maintain the body temperatures of all the animals lodged in the zoo, they informed. The zoo authorities will be giving herbivorous animals seasonal fruits like watermelons and cucumbers while carnivorous animals will be subjected to a reduced diet structure of meat for easy digestion. Besides, plenty of drinking water is being provided to all the animals as part of anti-heat measures. Along with coolers, hay curtains are being installed in the enclosures to help animals beat the heat and also to ensure there is no change in behavioural pattern. For free ranging animals, sprinklers have been installed and resting places made in the open. Jadhav maintained that the management will take utmost care of the animals so that they remain untroubled. “Various animals have been provided with coolers housed near their cages. The coolers run round the clock and give them respite from the heat and also the cages are also equipped with exhaust fans to beat the heat,” he added. The zoo has remained closed to the public since March 14. On any normal weekday, the zoo sees 5,000-10,000 visitors while on weekends, the number would rise to 12,000-18,000 visitors. The zoo currently has 448 animals and about 100 staffers who keep the zoo guarded and take care of animals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/katraj-zoo-animals-get-coolers-sprinklers-to-beat-the-heat-101617551171012.html
04-04-2021||Pune||7 cases of theft solved by Chaturshrungi Police||The Chaturshrungi police have detected the criminal behind as many as seven thefts which took place in different shops under their jurisdiction over the period of seven months. A team under the guidance of zonal deputy commissioner Pankaj Deshmukh had received a tip off that an accused name Sonya who had burgled a wine shop in Wadarwadi area was making merry with the looted cash. Based on the information, the police arrested Ravindra Jitendra Sarode (21) and his associate Mangesh alias Sonya Vijay Chavan (24). On their sustained interrogation, the duo revealed about their involvement in seven offences during the past few months. All the theft related offences were committed under the jurisdiction of Chaturshringi police station. Senior police inspector Rajkumar Wakchoure, the investigation officer in the case said that cash estimated to be worth ₹20,300 has been recovered from their possession. The crime branch officials have appealed to all shopkeepers to install CCTV cameras to ensure that the establishments are kept away from thieves. It may be recalled that two beat marshals on night patrol duty attached to the Chaturshringi police station were suspended by the then zonal deputy commissioner Namrata Patil on charges of dereliction of duty after they were caught on CCTV cameras fleeing from robbers in Aundhgaon. One of them was charged for leaving his colleague at the spot where robbers had committed a robbery and were rushing out of the targeted building while the second cop was charged for not using his SLR rifle during the situation despite being brandished with weapons by robbers. Since then the crime branch and local police have been intensely scanning the area for robbery suspects and kept the crime on tight leash.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/7-cases-of-theft-solved-by-chaturshrungi-police-101617551110962.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs record 57,074 Covid-19 cases, Mumbai's tally rises by 11,206||Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike of 57,074 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) while its capital Mumbai also reported a jump of 11,206 cases, according to figures released by the state’s health department on Sunday.With the cases rising by the day, Maharashtra’s infection tally has crossed three million and the toll due to Covid-19 has gone up to 55,878 with 222 fatalities recorded in the last 24 hours. Mumbai now has a total of 4,52,681 confirmed cases.The spike comes on a day when the Maharashtra government announced tougher norms to control the spread of the viral disease. Monday onwards, the state will witness a night curfew starting 8pm and ending 7am the following day. During the day time, Section 144, which prohibits the gathering of more than five people, will be put in place. Maharashtra will also observe complete lockdown on weekends starting Friday evening, state minister Nawab Malik announced earlier in the day.The Maharashtra government has also ordered the closure of all theatres and multiplexes till April 30. Hair cutting salons, beauty parlours, and spas have also been barred from would conducting business. The citizens are also not allowed to visit parks and playgrounds. Eateries across the state can also provide only takeaway services, no dine-in facility will be available.While the government offices will operate at 50% of their capacity, private offices have been asked to provide their employees with work from home facilities. Schools and colleges will remain shut and only class 10 and 12 examinations would be allowed.Public and private transport will be allowed to operate but there must be no standing passengers in private and public buses and outstation trains. Two passengers can travel in autorickshaws in addition to the driver. In the case of taxis, half of the permitted passengers would be allowed besides the driver. There are, however, no such restrictions on local trains.Meanwhile, the Centre reviewed the Covid-19 situation across the country in a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has ordered that a central team comprising health specialists and clinicians be sent to Maharashtra and two other states in view of the high caseload and deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-record-57-074-covid-19-cases-mumbai-s-tally-rises-by-11206-101617550993303.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Two women among three arrested for murder||The Crime branch unit IV officials have arrested three persons including two women in connection with the brutal murder of a criminal in Lohegaon. Acting on the information that a woman and two of the assailants were escaping in a white swift car engraved with a slogan ‘lady don’, a team of crime branch officials under police inspector Rajnish Nirmal reached the spot and apprehended the accused. The woman identified as Shabnam Hanif Shaikh, Mohammad Hussain Mohammad Sharif Qureshi and Saleem Murtiza Shaikh, all residents of Lohegaon were arrested in connection with the murder, Nirmal said. According to Nirmal, the accused collaborated and killed another person identified as Sumit Jagtap. Shabnam had a previous enmity with the deceased and settled scores with him by taking help of the other two accused in murdering him. The fourth accused identified as Sunny Gade is still at large and will be arrested soon, he said. A murder related case has been lodged at Vimantal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-women-among-three-arrested-for-murder-101617551051034.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Warje-Malwadi gang booked under MCOCA||The Pune police have continued their crackdown on organized criminal gangs operating in the city and booked gang number 24 under their ongoing operation. The gang led by criminal Gaurav Pasalkar in Warje Malwadi along with three other members of the criminal organization were booked on Sunday. The four gang members have been accused of attacking Vikas Vishnu Janale with sharp weapons and even threatened to kill. For the said criminal act, the accused were booked under stringent sections of the Indian Penal Code and the arms act. Police inspector Shankar Khatke had prepared a proposal seeking invocation of MCOCA against the accused and it was vetted and approved by all senior officials. Following in principle approval for the proposal, a gazette notification was issued to the effect, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/warjemalwadi-gang-booked-under-mcoca-101617550151001.html
04-04-2021||Other||Resident doctors at Sassoon up in arms against Covid situation||Pune – With the number of Covid cases on the rise in Pune district, the Maharashtra Association of Residents Doctors (Mard) Pune, have started feeling the heat and workload pressure. Trainee doctors from the B J Medical College and Sassoon Hospital have immediately demanded the recruiting of a new team of doctors, nurses, cleaning staff and required manpower, to treat Covid patients. These doctor students want the new staff brought in immediately so that they may be released to continue their regular academics, as most are into their final year of medicine.“We are working tirelessly for the last one year, fighting against the Covid-19 pandemic, but the state government knew that the second wave will come, and there is no preparedness for it. Now suddenly, when numbers are increasing, we are given extra duties and the burden of Covid, while senior doctors just come for a round and go away. Our demand is for new recruitment of doctors and other necessary staff at Sassoon immediately,” said Mard Pune president, Dr Vijay Jadhav.There are 450 such trainee doctors doing their master’s degree in different specialisations from BJ Medical College. Another doctor, Dr Dnyaneshwar Jamkar, secretary of the association, said, “Last month 50 doctors tested positive. There is a shortage of basic medical equipment, medicines and other things like the PPE kits given to us are of very poor quality. We are working round the clock by risking our lives and at the same time our education has gone for a toss. We would get the degree, but there won’t be any practical knowledge. If our demands are not listened to we are planning to go on strike soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/resident-doctors-at-sassoon-up-in-arms-against-covid-situation-101617549370952.html
04-04-2021||Bangalore||Expert predicts 6,500 Covid-19 cases daily in Bengaluru by April 20||Experts have predicted that continued negligence to maintain social distancing and following other safety protocols in Bengaluru is likely to send the rapidly evolving Covid-19 crisis into an uncontrollable spiral. “At this rate, #Bengaluru will have ~6500 daily cases by 20th April. Even if 10% of them require hospitalization, the health system will run out of capacity in (a) few days. We need action now, not tomorrow. Stay home people, wear masks if going out and get (a) vaccine when eligible,” epidemiologist Girdhara R Babu said in a tweet on Sunday.Babu, who is a professor at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) and member of Karnataka’s technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19, said that most of the congregations are preventable and measures that could have been taken at a local level are fast evolving, necessitating national level mitigation. He said that this was a “conservative estimate” and not a pessimistic approach.Even if 10% of those testing positive each day require hospitalisation, the system will collapse, he added. Bengaluru reported 2,787 new Covid-19 infections on Saturday, taking its active case count to 28,098. The active case count in Karnataka approached the 40,000-mark as 4,553 fresh infections were reported across the state. Also read: Karnataka cinema halls to cap seating capacity at 50% from WednesdayMysuru, about 125 kilometres from Bengaluru, reported 260 new cases while the situation in Bidar, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru, Bengaluru Rural, Hassan and Dharwad, among other places, also deteriorated, as per the data from the daily bulletin of the health department. There were 93 new infections in Ballari, 147 in Bidar, 155 in Bengaluru Rural, 83 in Dakshina Kannada, 100 in Dharwad, 104 in Hassan, 170 in Kalaburagi and 107 in Tumakuru, data showed. “While the lockdown in 2020 was mostly unavoidable, the impending one in 2021 is mostly preventable,” he added. The predictions come at a time when Bengaluru and several other districts of Karnataka have seen a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, indicating that the second wave of infections was spreading faster than what was seen the first time since March 2020. The area of concern remains the rapidly surging positivity rate in the state. On Saturday, the positivity rate remained at 3.79% while 331 people were in the intensive care units of various hospitals in the state including 158 in Bengaluru alone. The state government is hoping the Covid-19 vaccination drive to contain the spread of the virus. However, Babu said vaccination can prevent Covid-19 from turning serious or fatal but doesn’t guarantee immunity from the virus. He said that those who have got both doses of the vaccine should continue to wear masks as they are not immune from the virus and can spread it further. The Karnataka government has vaccinated 43,55,893 people across categories. In a brief statement on Sunday, the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) said that on request from Karnataka, the Government of India is making an emergency supply of 15.25 lakh doses to the state. The statement added that the state has 7 lakh vaccines and that it inoculated 2.5 lakh people on Saturday alone. “Karnataka will receive 15,25,500 doses of Covid-19 vaccine tomorrow in two consignments. One consignment of 5,25,500 doses will arrive at Belagavi by road and another consignment of 10,00,000 doses will arrive at Bengaluru by air through a late evening flight,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health, family welfare and medical education minister said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/expert-predicts-6-500-covid-19-cases-daily-in-bengaluru-by-april-20-101617547151526.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi government says overwhelming support from youth for 'Switch Delhi' campaign's last leg||The last leg of the eight-week-long 'Switch Delhi' campaign for promoting the adoption of e-vehicles gained "overwhelming support" from the city youth, Delhi government said on Sunday.Hundreds of youth in Delhi took the 'Switch Delhi' pledge to make their first vehicle an electric one, it said.Various events were organised on the eighth week of the campaign for creating awareness among youngsters about the monetary and environmental benefits of electric vehicles witnessed various events.Vrikshit Foundation, led by a group of students, conducted a wall painting event. Let Me Breathe, an environment storytelling platform, created awareness on social media about the electric vehicle movement, the statement said."I strongly feel that switching to an electric vehicle is a much-needed change that is required today. It is important for the youth to turn this campaign into a mass movement," said Trisha Pavagadhi, student and member of Enactus Hansraj.The campaign was launched by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in February announcing that his government will ensure that within the next six months only electric vehicles are hired by its different departments.The Delhi government notified its electric vehicle policy in August 2020 that aims to increase the number of such vehicles to 25 per cent of total vehicle registrations in Delhi by 2024.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-government-says-overwhelming-support-from-youth-for-switch-delhi-campaign-s-last-leg-101617545120826.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police deploys ‘Jaguar Highway’ patrolling teams to tackle street crime||The Delhi Police has deployed ‘Jaguar Highway’ patrolling teams at vulnerable stretches in the north district in a bid to curb street crime, officials said.The initiative has led to the arrest of 21 criminals till March 15, they said.According to police, 16 thieves, two robbers, two people with illegal arms and a snatcher have been nabbed by the patrolling staff."To curb street crime in north Delhi, a new initiative of deploying Jaguar Highway Patrol Teams at vulnerable stretches, especially Outer Ring Road, was introduced on December 26 last year. The teams have been deployed at their designated stretches in three shifts, which keep patrolling the area round-the-clock,” a senior police officer said."These patrolling teams also keep a tab on PCR calls related to their designated routes and nearby area, and reach the spot instantly. These teams also check suspects by implementing 'roko-toko' strategy," he said.The officer said they have chosen Outer Ring Road as it is usually easy for criminals to escape via this route after committing the crime.The patrolling staff has so far checked 19,786 vehicles. A total of 3,808 vehicles were checked in January, 10,346 in February and 5,632 till March 15, the officer said, adding that 709 vehicles have been impounded this year so far.According to police, 463 vehicles have been deposited under section 66 of the Delhi Police Act (police to take charge of unclaimed property) this year. This number was 304 in 2020.The number of calls about street crime has come down due to this initiative. The strategy is effective as criminals know the stretch where strict patrolling is done and they avoid taking that route, police said.Although robbery incidents have marginally gone down, snatching cases have seen a sharp decline as compared to last year in six police stations -- Kotwali, Kashmiri Gate, Civil Lines, Timarpur, Wazirabad and Burari -- which cover Outer Ring Road of the district, police said.In January this year, there were 26 calls of robbery and 83 calls of snatching. In the previous year, the number of robbery calls were 28 and snatching calls 172, they said.Similarly, in February 2021, police received 31 calls of robbery and 98 calls of snatching. In 2020, the number of robbery and snatching calls were 33 and 140, respectively, police said.Police have received 13 calls of robbery and 43 calls of snatching till March 15. In the previous year, the number of robbery and snatching incidents were 27 and 77, respectively, they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-deploys-jaguar-highway-patrolling-teams-to-tackle-street-crime-101617544997412.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Lockdown fine but Maharashtra govt should help the poor: Fadnavis||Senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Sunday appealed to the people in Maharashtra to follow the restrictions and the weekend lockdown announced by the state government to tackle the spread of Covid-19 cases.The Leader of Opposition in the Legislative Assembly also said the government should focus on providing financial aid to the poor and the middle-class people following the restrictions.He said the state government had collected arrears to the tune of ₹5,000 crore from the people for defaulting on the payment of electricity bills."The government should stop this (collecting the arrears) now," the BJP leader told reporters.The state government on Sunday announced a weekend lockdown in the state from 8 pm on Friday to 7 am on Monday.Apart from the weekend lockdown, strict restrictions will come into force from Monday 8 pm onwards under which shopping malls, bars, restaurants, small shops will be open only for take-aways and parcels. Government offices will be allowed to function only at 50 per cent of their capacity."Lockdown or a partial lockdown is okay. We will support the government, but it should also focus on providing financial assistance to the poor and the middle class," Fadnavis said.Citing experts, Fadnavis said a new and more infectious strain of coronavirus affects the lungs of patients fast."Awareness should be created about the nature of the precautions that need to be taken by the people because of the new strain of the virus. Why Maharashtra is the worst affected?" he asked.Talking about the "new strain", the former chief minister said that initially no symptoms are seen in the infected people, but then the infection spreads fast. Fadnavis also said the Centre had helped all states, including Maharashtra, in tackling the pandemic."At the same time, the state government should stop blaming the Centre for its failures and stop playing politics on this issue," he said.Fadnavis said workers of the BJP will help the people in registration of vaccination."When the chief minister calls us seeking our cooperation, we agree to it. But, at the same time, the government should stop playing politics and stop blaming the Centre for its failures," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/lockdown-fine-but-maharashtra-govt-should-help-the-poor-fadnavis-101617544218278.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi restaurants, night clubs fined for not following Covid-19 guidelines||Several restaurants, night clubs and hotels here have been fined and face cases for not maintaining social distancing and serving hookah, police officials said on Sunday following a two-day special drive to crackdown on those violating Covid-19 safety guidelines.The drive, in which people were also fined for not wearing face masks and spitting in public areas, was conducted in places with high footfall, including markets, on Friday and Saturday.Giving details about the drive in the New Delhi district area, a senior police officer said that FIRs were registered against the owners of Jain Chawal Wala at Connaught Place, Informal Restaurant at Janpath, Classic Chicken Restaurant at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Marg and Choice Chicken Corner Kalina at Gole Market for not observing Covid-appropriate behaviour.The cases were registered under Indian Penal Code sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) Vikas Kumar said.They also have been booked under Section 3 of the Epidemic Diseases Act, he said.Besides them, nine persons were fined ₹2,000 each for not wearing masks in the Khan Market area and three others for the same reason at the Ashoka Hotel in Chanakya Puri, Kumar said.According to police, in the South East district, 10 FIRs were registered and 330 people fined for not wearing face mask, not maintaining social distancing and spitting in public places.Several night clubs, including the M House Club and Bar and Roar Night Club at Eros Hotel in Nehru Place, were fined for not maintaining social distancing and serving hookahs, Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R P Meena said.Municipal corporations and the excise department have been asked to cancel their licenses, he said.Besides the Epidemic Diseases Act, they have been also booked under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act, Meena said.He said a case has also been registered against Boken Cafe for not following Covid-19 protocols.Restaurants in the New Friends Colony sub-division like Brijwasi, Al Nawaz, Al Jawahar, Zehra Al Noor and Al Bake were also fined and booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the police said.In separate data shared by police, on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, 173 people and establishments were fined.Out of these, 13 were banquet halls owners, 58 restuarant owners and three night club owners, they said.Delhi has been seeing a surge in cases over the past few days.It recorded 3,567 COVID-19 cases on Saturday and the positive rate continued to rise to 4.48 per cent from 4.11 per cent a day ago while 10 more people succumbed to the deadly virus.The national capital has seen an increase in cases with 3,594 cases being reported on Friday, the highest daily count this year, 2,790 cases on Thursday, 1,819 cases on Wednesday and 992 cases on Tuesday, according to official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-restaurants-night-clubs-fined-for-not-following-covid-19-guidelines-101617544221302.html
04-04-2021||Kolkata||Abhishek Banerjee got ₹900 cr from coal, cow smuggling, alleges BJP; releases ‘proof’||Bharatiya Janata Party leader Suvendu Adhikari, who contested against chief minister Mamata Banerjee at East Midnapore district’s Nandigram assembly seat on April 1, released an audio clip at a press conference on Sunday and claimed that Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew and TMC’s youth wing president, received ₹900 crore from rackets that smuggled cow, coal and sand. “We have heard that ₹400-500 crore is being used by the TMC in the ongoing polls. This money came from the smuggling of coal and sand. Central agencies will probe these but the people of Bengal have to decide during the remaining six phases of polling whether they want a corrupt government. The operations started in 2012-13. Initially, Abhishek Banerjee used to get ₹15-20 crore a month. Later, the amount increased to ₹35-40 crore. Inspector Ashok Mishra used to carry the money to him with a police escort. Anup Majhi used to run the operation,” said Adhikari.The BJP claimed the audio clip contained a conversation between Kolkata-based businessman Ganesh Bagaria and Vinay Mishra, the absconding general secretary of the youth wing of the Trinamool Congress (TMC). Bagaria and Mishra are suspects in the multi-crore coal smuggling scam that central agencies are probing. Mishra is suspected to have fled to a foreign country. Amit Malviya, head of the BJP’s national information technology cell, who was also present at the press conference, alleged that the rackets were involved in human trafficking as well. In the audio clip, the veracity of which was not independently verified by HT, one man could be heard telling the other that money from the coal scam went to Abhishek Banerjee.Also read: On Mamata’s Nandigram claims, EC replies ‘allegations factually incorrect’The BJP released the clip less than 12 hours after the Enforcement Directorate (ED) arrested Ashok Mishra, an inspector of the West Bengal police who was posted in Bankura district. “He has more evidence, which will be released later,” said Adhikari. Without naming TMC’s poll strategist Prashant Kishor or i-Pac, his company, Adhikari said, “The agency hired by the TMC is also being paid from these illegal funds.” It is alleged that illegally mined coal, worth several hundred crores of rupees, has been sold in the black market over several years by a racket operating in the western parts of West Bengal where the Eastern Coalfields Limited runs several mines. Several ECL officials have already been grilled by central agencies. Majhi has been summoned thrice for interrogation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). He will be grilled again on Monday. The sub-divisional police officer of Radhunathpur in Bankura has also been summoned. In the last two months, the CBI and the ED have grilled more than a dozen police officers, businessmen and suspected members of the coal smuggling racket. None of the agencies has made any official statement on these investigations till now. On Sunday, too, no official commented on the audio clip. The CBI has already questioned Abhishek Banerjee’s wife Rujira Naroola, her sister Maneka Gambhir, the latter’s husband Ankush Arora and his father Pawan Arora in the coal smuggling case. Earlier, several cow traders and Border Security Force officers were grilled by the CBI in the cow smuggling case. On November 6, the CBI raided properties and offices owned by Majhi at 18 locations in the state. Union home minister Amit Shah had lunch at a tribal home in Bankura district on that day as part of his two-day trip to Bengal. Since then, the BJP is campaigning on this issue, saying the TMC is hand in glove with the coal mafia. In December, the CBI raided three residences of businessman and youth TMC general secretary Vinay Mishra. Ever since the probe started in September, the BJP has been alleging that the money from the illegal sale of coal and cow was whitewashed through shell companies and siphoned into the funds of the ruling party.Dismissing the fresh allegations made on Sunday, Bengal’s deputy parliamentary affairs minister Tapas Roy said, “Why is the BJP making these allegations in the middle of the elections? They brought similar charges in the past as well. It had no effect. This, too, will prove to be a futile attempt.”Other opposition parties upped the ante against the TMC. “People need to know how the TMC is getting money to hire helicopters for the ongoing campaign. Didn’t the chief minister know anything about this largescale corruption,” said CPI(M) leader Sujan Chakraborty, the outgoing MLA from Jadavpur in south Kolkata. “The chief minister cannot shake off her responsibility. The truth must be revealed,” said state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/abhishek-banerjee-got-rs-900-cr-from-coal-cow-smuggling-alleges-bjp-releases-proof-101617544211607.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Son says 73-year-old Covid patient mum dies searching for hospital bed||The acute scarcity of beds was amplified on with the death of 73-year-old Covid patient, a resident of Ramwadi.According to her 37-year-old son, the woman died in the car while he was struggling to find an oxygen bed for her for almost 15 hours.Hospitals allegedly refused to admit her citing unavailability of the beds on Thursday. She ultimately died on April 2, on her way to another hospital.“I am her only son and there was no one else to take her to hospital but me. I thought I would get admitted to the same hospital as my mother, but even after visiting several hospitals, I could not get a bed for her. Her oxygen level kept dropping and she took her last breath near the Kharadi bypass signal, when we were going to the next hospital,” said the son.Also read | Maharashtra govt announces weekend lockdown, oppn backs stricter Covid-19 curbsHe is currently admitted in Rising Medicare Hospital, Kharadi.Pune Municipal Corporation officials said that they are not aware of this incident, but admitted shortage of beds. “I am not aware of this particular incident. I will try to take more information. We will have more beds available by Monday,” said Manisha Naik, assistant medical officer, PMC.The head of Shree Hospital Kharadi claimed that the hospital already has Covid patients on the waiting list and because of the full occupancy, they can not accept new patients. “On Sunday, by the afternoon I had to transfer seven Covid patients because we do not have beds available. There are 46 allotted in beds in our hospital for Covid and all of them are full. This is not a government hospital. We cannot accept a patient if we do not have space. There is already a waiting list for Covid beds,” said Dr Shrihari Dhorepatil, managing director, Shree hospital, Kharadi.“Currently all our Covid beds are occupied. Even if there is a vacancy it is getting occupied immediately. When a Covid patient arrives our doctors do the check-up. If we have availability we take the patient. Otherwise, we immediately transfer,” Dr Vinod Bharati from Rising Medicare Hospital Kharadi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/son-says-73-year-old-covid-patient-mum-dies-searching-for-hospital-bed-101617542950694.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra shuts cinema halls, theatres to bring Covid-19 wave under control||Maharashtra, the state worst affected by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), on Sunday moved to impose restrictions and shut down cinema halls, theatres and multiplexes for public access until further notice to bring the surging viral infection rate under control.Shortly after the state cabinet meeting on the worsening situation in the state, minority affairs minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik confirmed that Maharashtra will witness a weekend lockdown starting from 8pm on Friday to 7am on Monday.The state, which accounts for India's 58.19% of the cases, will see strict restrictions in force from 8 pm tomorrow, under which shopping malls, bars, restaurants, small shops will be open only for take-aways and parcels.Government offices will be allowed to function only at 50% of their capacity, Malik said.The night curfew in Maharashtra will continue and prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 of CrPC will be enforced during the daytime during the week, Malik added. Essential services will be exempted from the night curfew.Film and television shootings will continue if there is no crowding. Parks and playgrounds will also be closed, he said.Industries and production sector, vegetable markets will function with standard operating procedures (SOPs) and construction sites will operate if there is accommodation facility for workers, Malik told PTI.Maharashtra, where the country's financial capital Mumbai is located, reported 49,447 new Covid-19 cases and 277 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department on Saturday.As many as 37,821 people have recovered from the disease in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 24,95,315.The active number of Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 4,01,172. With the new deaths in the last 24 hours, the fatalities have mounted to 55,656 in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-shuts-cinema-halls-theatres-to-bring-covid-19-wave-under-control-101617539199896.html
04-04-2021||Other||‘Over 20 security personnel die in U-shaped Maoist ambush’: Chhattisgarh Police||Many security personnel got trapped while at least 23 lost their lives in what the police described as a U-shaped Maoist ambush in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Saturday. Maoists fired indiscriminately from two hilltops, police said. “The security personnel were caught unaware and were at a disadvantageous position as rebels kept firing from the top of the hills on two sides. It was a U-type ambush,” said a police officer. “Despite that, they valiantly fought back and the encounter continued for more than three hours till late Saturday evening,” the officer added. Police officials familiar with the development said that the entire Maoist operation was led by the commander of battalion number-1, Madvi Hidma, who held training for the encounter for the past two weeks and was waiting for security personnel to enter the Terrem jungles.The officials did not rule out the possibility of a trap laid by Hidma by providing false intelligence input to security forces about his presence in the jungles. The security personnel were looking for Hidma, a top Maoist commander, for years. There was intelligence input that Hidma was present in the area for the past 17 days, a police officer said. On Friday, at about 11 pm, around 1,700 security personnel from different camps in Bijapur and Sukma districts started one of the biggest combing operations to nab Hidma.On Saturday, a team of about 450 security personnel reached Jeera gaon, Jonaguda and Tekulgudam villages. They were ambushed around noon, police officials said. Sources familiar with the encounter said the force got trapped in their ‘killing area’ in the three villages. The villages where the encounter took place were vacated by the Maoists. “Tactically, the Maoists targeted the commanders of the security forces,” said an intelligence officer. The security forces tried to hide in the empty huts but were subsequently killed. Also read: The 22 soldiers who were killed in Chhattisgarh Maoists attackAnother police officer said the apparent reason for the Maoist attack was the Chhattisgarh Police’s plan to open a security camp in Silger village just ahead of Terrem. The region is considered a core area of Maoists. The camp would have cut a crucial Maoist corridor connecting Bijapur to Sukma and the rebels would have lost control over the region.“Hidma called over 300 armed cadres from different parts of Bastar who gathered close to the encounter spot,” said a police officer, adding that most of them were armed with automatic rifles. The officer said the presence of so many Maoists in the area was to lure the security forces inside the forest. “Hidma planned to lure security forces but for 15 days the security forces did not reach the area. He was getting desperate,” the officer said.Learning about his desperation, the police officer said, the Chhattisgarh Police decided to take Hidma head-on as elimination of the best Maoist battalion would have been a major setback to the rebels in the bastion. “We had information about their strength but somewhere there was a lack of strategic planning. We also underestimated the efficiency of the Maoists. It seems that they trained extensively in the terrains,” a senior Chhattisgarh police officer said, requesting anonymity.The officer said that the encounter would force the security personnel to have a strategy re-think as the forces cannot provide Maoists with any more strategic advantage in the encounters.What could have averted the damage? Senior officials of Chhattisgarh Police believe the specialised anti-Maoist security forces (COBRA, DRG, STF) should have been used at a much larger scale for such specific intelligence operations. The striking force didn’t have enough personnel hence the Chhattisgarh Police personnel were outnumbered. “Ambush sites were not adequately covered by the security forces, which should be the priority,” a senior official said. “Madvi Hidma led the batallion-1 and was grossly underestimated in the planning of operations by the security forces. The other reason behind high casualty was the field commanders getting targeted by the Maoists. Bullet injuries to CRPF CoBRA and District Reserve Guard (DRG) field commanders led to total disarray in command and control,” said the official, adding that specialized commanders and troops from the DRG and the STF from adjoining districts should have been involved in this important operation. Who is Madvi Hidma? A 38-year-old battle-hardened Maoist commander was the mastermind of the ambush on security forces. Hidma reportedly got guerilla warfare training in the Philippines and was said to be the mastermind behind the attack with other Maoists. Hidma, also known as Hidmalu and Santosh, is also believed to have carried out several attacks in the last decade. Considered one of the most dreaded Maoist leaders in Bastar, Hidma was born in Purvati village of south Sukma. He has built up a reputation as a ruthless rebel leader who runs a network of dedicated informers across the region. He belongs to the Muriya tribal community of Bastar region. His village is still out of bounds for the police. “Bastariya muriya tribals are brutal and aggressive and Hidma has already established himself as a master strategist and successful operational commander. His promotion will further motivate him and his team,” said another police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/over-20-security-personnel-die-in-u-shaped-maoist-ambush-in-villages-chhattisgarh-police-101617541691421.html
04-04-2021||Other||PCMC runs vaccination camps in housing societies to increase numbers||PUNE To speed up the vaccination process, the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has set up vaccination camps within housing societies.The Pimpri Chinchwad Housing Society Federation had requested the same of PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil.A vaccination camp has already been organised at the Parks street society, near Kalewadi. All residents above the age of 45 were vaccinated.“Societies should have 400 residents above the age of 45, only then the camp will be set up. The vaccination programme will continue at other places as it is going on,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.One such camp was also organised at Shivnagri, Bijlinagar, in Chinchwad.“Residents of five societies got the vaccination at the camp,” said Radhika Natu, resident of Bijlinagar.Salve added, “We will continue such initiatives in the coming days.”The PCMC is aiming to vaccinate 25,000 residents on Monday.“Our priority is to give vaccination to super- spreaders, which includes vegetable vendors and employees working in public transport. We will be organising special buses for people from slum areas. All our centres in PCMC will be operating from 8am to 8pm. I urge people to get vaccinated and follow all the norms,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) does not have any plans to take its vaccination drive to housing societies yet.“There are no such instructions from the government as of now. I will check with PCMC on how they are organising camps in societies,” said Vikram Kumar, PMC Commissioner.“There are strict restrictions imposed in Pune to stop the spread of Covid and at the same time our focus is now on increasing vaccination. We are planning to give jabs to people above the age of 45 at public places, where super-spreaders are present. This is also to increase the speed of vaccinations, and cover as many people getting the vaccine,” Kumar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pcmc-runs-vaccination-camps-in-housing-societies-to-increase-numbers-101617541090622.html
04-04-2021||Other||Lockdown fears spark mega-crowds at Market Yard||PUNE Massive crowds were seen at the Market Yard vegetable and grains market on Sunday, as fears of another total lockdown gained traction in the city.Traders have demanded the district administration allow shops to be open till 8 pm, including the loading and unloading of supplies.“We are completely ready to supply required vegetables, grains and groceries to the public, but we need more time. Looking at the increasing crowds, it will be good if traders are allowed to operate till 8pm,” said Popatlal Oswal, president, Poona Merchant Chambers.“Now along with the common public, retail traders are coming to Market Yard to purchase stock. We need more time in the evening to unload goods at the shops,” Oswal said.Rohan Nalawade, a regular shopper at Market Yard, said, “There was massive crowd on Sunday, but there was no proper social distancing and safety measures taken by public. There is a need to keep more vigilance and take strict action on violators.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-fears-spark-mega-crowds-at-market-yard-101617540430581.html
04-04-2021||Other||Civic chief reappoints finance committee to prioritise spending||PUNE The Pune municipal commissioner has reappointed a finance committee to control unnecessary spending against the backdrop of an increase in Covid-19 cases in the city. The finance committee will operate under the chairmanship of the commissioner.Last year, the committee was operational as per state government directives, under which civic bodies are allowed to spend only 40 per cent of budgetary allocations on priority works. The state also instructed the committee to keep a tab on wastage of money. The committee included an additional commissioner, a zonal commissioner, and a chief financial officer (CFO).After the annual budget of ₹8370 crore for the financial year 2021-22 was passed, commissioner Vikram Kumar decided to scrap the financial committee in February.Now the committee has been reformed and will meet every Monday to review work orders and tenders.Kumar stated that all department heads should submit proposals to the committee. Kunal Khemnar, additional municipal commissioner, said, “The commissioner scrapped the committee as last year’s financial period was almost over and a new budget was drafted. However, in the current situation, the commissioner has reformed the finance committee. The committee will decide priority of work. Last year, we had given priority to monsoon work, health, water, road, drainage, sanitation, repair and maintenance work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/civic-chief-reappoints-finance-committee-to-prioritise-spending-101617538990571.html
04-04-2021||Other||Pune’s CFR at 1.9%: docs point to better Covid treatment and awareness||PUNE Though daily Covid cases are on the rise, the case fatality rate (CFR) for Pune city is at 1.9 per cent. During the peak last year in September, the CFR was 4.62 per cent.Doctors attribute this drop to awareness about Covid and timely treatment of critical patients. Experts also emphasised that high risk patients should get vaccinated to limit the severity of Covid-19.Speaking about the number of deaths per day, Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief of the health department at the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), said that as on April 4, the CFR for Pune city is 1.9 per cent.“If we see the last peak, every day the deaths were as high as 60, and the number of cases went as high as 2,000. This time, though the number of cases have gone up to 4,000, the deaths are limited. Deaths reported every day have not crossed 40 as of now. This is the reason for the lower CFR,” said Wavare.He added that though the deaths are low as of now, there is a possibility that the number may increase.“Citizens should wear masks and follow social distancing all the time. Taking vaccination is also an important part to keep oneself safe. Moreover, if anyone shows symptoms, they must isolate themselves at home and avoid crowded places. Getting tested is also important to ensure that you and your loved ones are safe,” said Wavare.Though the CFR is less for Pune city, the doubling time of cases is now at 49 days. Doubling is the period needed for a number of cases to double. The daily positivity rate in the city is at 19.84 per cent.At least 20,000 tests are done every day in the city and there are 3,84,236 beneficiaries who have been vaccinated since January, as per the PMC.Dr Mahesh Lakhe, consultant - internal medicine and infectious diseases, Columbia Asia Hospital, Pune, said that the increase in cases has been very sharp and sudden this time.“The ongoing second wave has so far had a low case fatality rate indicating that this is a less virulent wave. At the same time, given the fact that we have now been one year into the pandemic we also have a better understanding of treatment modalities and preventing complications,” said Dr Lakhe.“Since in most cases fatality happens after 15 days, we might well witness an increase in CFRs in the coming weeks. The only way to keep fatality rates low is early diagnosis and intervention among seriously ill people. Increasing testing numbers and ensuring that all diagnosed get medical attention immediately can keep fatality rates low,” said Dr Lakhe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-cfr-at-1-9-docs-point-to-better-covid-treatment-and-awareness-101617537310600.html
04-04-2021||Other||6pm curfew leaves night school students with no option but to commute on foot||PUNE: With curfew timings currently imposed from 6 pm onwards, students of the Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate (SSC) boards, who are attending night school in the city, are facing various challenges. Primarily, in the view of the curfew, transport to and from school is a major issue.In addition to the restrictions, many students who are single parents, are losing jobs and struggling to put food on the table for their families. Pradnya Deshmukh, a 32-year-old single parent who works as a house help, said that she walks to her night school every day.“I have two daughters and I want to complete my education. I haven’t decided what I want to pursue, post Class 10. I am very focused. Everyone in my family works in the police and has respectable jobs. I wanted to continue my studies so that I can work and support my family,” said Deshmukh.Deshmukh is a student of the Poona Night High School and Junior College.“I walk to the school as I live nearby, but there are other students who have to commute from far away. Because of the curfew, it is difficult now,” said Deshmukh.Maruti Shinde, another student of Class 10, said that he cannot study during the day due to his job at a hotel.“I work at a restaurant at Dhankawadi and I am the sole earner in my family. I have two children and a wife to support. I don’t get a single day’s leave from work. It is difficult to study, but I am determined. The ongoing curfew makes it more difficult as commuting is a problem,” said 42-year-old Shinde.Usha Jagtap, a 32-year-old student of Class 12 said that she does tailoring work at home and takes tuitions to sustain her family. She is the sole earner in her family.“This lockdown is a challenge for students like us who are preparing for the board exams,” said Jagtap.Avinash Takawale, principal, Poona Night High School and Junior College, said that these students struggle with online education.“They have performed well when taught offline. And we are conducting their regular tests so that they have a habit of writing for three hours. This lockdown and curfew has forced a lot of students to travel on foot to the school. On behalf of the school, we have tried our best to help them,” said Takawale.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/6pm-curfew-leaves-night-school-students-with-no-option-but-to-commute-on-foot-101617536650450.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Minor fire breaks out in Mumbai's Jumbo Covid centre, doused; no casualties||A minor fire broke out at Dahisar Jumbo Covid centre in Mumbai on Sunday, officials said. Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot and the fire was soon brought under control, officials confirmed.No injuries and casualties were reported. The fire was extinguished using the fire fighting equipment at the covid centre, officials said.The fire was caused due to a short circuit, Mumbai fire brigade control room officials said. According to the preliminary visuals accessed by HT, people were seen being evacuated from the Covid-19 centre on a stretcher."Due to the fire, 50 patients from F Hangar and 49 patients from G Hangar were shifted to C Hangar by the staff present at the spot," Deputy Commissioner of Disaster Management cell Prabhat Rahangdale said.The Maharashtra government opened jumbo facilities across Mumbai city last year as an additional health infrastructure to treat Covid-19 patients. Built to ease the burden on health care infra in the state, the hospitals have 7,000 beds and also house Covid-19 vaccination centres.At present, the BMC is running five jumbo Covid care facilities in Mumbai - at Byculla, Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC), Nesco grounds (Goregaon-East), Mulund and Dahisar. Though the general ward at the jumbo care centre at Mahalaxmi has been discontinued, the intensive care unit (ICU) at the facility is still functional.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/minor-fire-breaks-out-in-mumbai-s-jumbo-covid-centre-doused-no-casualties-101617534696934.html
04-04-2021||Other||Bed shortage at PCMC’s YCM hospital sees oxygen support given to patients seated on chairs||PUNE Oxygen support is being provided to Covid patients at the Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital (YCMH), Pimpri, seated in chairs.This is because the hospital is facing a bed shortage in the wake of a spike in Covid cases.On Saturday, PCMC recorded 2,463 new cases and 19 Covid-related deaths.YCMH has a total of 400 beds, of which 55 are ICU beds and 180 are oxygen beds; all of which are currently occupied. “With cases rising we are facing a shortage of beds. Patients, who are complaining about breathlessness, are being provided with oxygen support on chairs. We don’t want them to suffer,” said Dr Rajendra Wable, dean, YCMH hospital.In PCMC, Covid patients are admitted to the Covid care unit at the auto cluster at Balnagri; the Jijamata hospital in Pimpri; the Bhosari Hospital; and the administration has also started the Jumbo Covid care centre at the Annasaheb Magar stadium, which is an 816-bed facility, of which 400 beds are currently functional.“All 200 oxygen beds and 60 ICU beds are currently occupied. The administration will increase beds in the coming days,” said a doctor, on request of anonymity, who is working at the Jumbo Covid care centre.“The number of functional beds will be increased at the Jumbo Covid care centre,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer, PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bed-shortage-at-pcmc-s-ycm-hospital-sees-oxygen-support-given-to-patients-seated-on-chairs-101617536290395.html
04-04-2021||Other||PMC to raise demand for 5 TMC of water from Mulshi dam||PUNE Against the background of the inclusion of 23 villages in the Pune city limits, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has prepared a proposal to raise a demand of five thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water from the Mulshi dam for Pune city.During the inauguration of the Bhama-Askhed water supply project recently, deputy chief Minister Ajit Pawar had instructed a committee to submit a report on drawing water from the Mulshi dam, which is 40km away from Pune city.Suresh Jagtap, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have prepared a proposal. It will be put before the standing committee, after which, it will be passed by the general body meeting. Then it will be sent to the state government for approval. We need extra water against the background of an increase in population in the city, with reference to the inclusion of 23 villages in PMC limits.”Manisha Shekatkar, executive engineer, water supply department, said, “We will raise a demand for 5 TMC of water quota from Mulshi dam for the city. The state water resource department has already started work on an appointing a committee to check the feasibility of the project.”A senior official of the PMC water supply department, speaking anonymously, said, “We have prepared a preliminary proposal. The Khadakwasla irrigation division of the water resource department wants to reduce the 2.5 TMC water quota from Khadakwasla dam, as the city is getting that much water from the Bhama-Askhed dam. If that happens, we will need 5 TMC from Mulshi dam.”Pune district has not been drawing water from the Mulshi dam. The Mulshi dam is controlled by a private company, Tata Power, which utilises the water for hydroelectricity generation. The hydropower project located in Mulshi was established in 1927.During the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) rule in the state, the then chief minister, Devendra Fadnavis, had formed a 12- member committee headed by retired irrigation secretary Avinash Surve, to study the issue and submit a report to the government.Surve said, “We will complete the report by the end of April or by May 15. We are awaiting two reports, one from the Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company (MSEDCL) and the other from the Tata Power company. For this project, state government will have to approach the water tribunal and convince them of the need for drinking water.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-to-raise-demand-for-5-tmc-of-water-from-mulshi-dam-101617535150444.html
04-04-2021||Bhopal||MP to restrict movement of people from Chhattisgarh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan||The Madhya Pradesh government will restrict the movement of people from neighbouring Chhattisgarh to curb the spread of Covid-19 and a lockdown will be enforced in isolated areas whenever needed, MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday.Talking to reporters here, Chouhan said they have already sealed Madhya Pradesh's areas bordering Maharashtra."There will now be restrictions on movement from Chhattisgarh. Those who need to come for necessary and unavoidable work will be allowed on humanitarian grounds and transportation of goods will continue," he said, citing the spread of Covid-19 in the neighbouring states.Chouhan said patience is needed to control the pandemic."I will go out with a loudspeaker on my vehicle at 6 pm on Monday and appeal to people to maintain physical distance and wear masks," the chief minister said.Maharashtra on Saturday reported 49,447 new Covid-19 cases, the highest rise in a day so far, taking its tally to 29,53,523.Besides, Chhattisgarh recorded 5,818 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, its highest single-day spike, taking the count of infections in the state to 3,63,796, as per official figures.Chouhan said those coming to MP from these states for necessary and unavoidable work were being screened.If found necessary, they will be kept in isolation, but the general movement of people will not be allowed."They are our brothers and sisters, but we have to take such measures to control the spread of the coronavirus," he said.The CM said more than 3,000 fresh cases of coronavirus were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday.He also said there will be a limited lockdown in the affected areas whenever needed, but there will be "no lockdown in the entire state".He urged social workers and religious leaders to run a public awareness campaign to check the spread of the viral infection.Chouhan noted that a three-day lockdown is going on in Chhindwara and two-day restrictions are in place in Betul."I don't want such lockdowns because this affects businesses and employment. Our priority is to protect the people without a lockdown," he said.Chouhan said the BJP is likely to announce an awareness campaign on Sunday under which its MLAs, MPs and other leaders will appeal to people to use masks and maintain social distancing to defeat the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-to-restrict-movement-of-people-from-chhattisgarh-shivraj-singh-chouhan-101617532915012.html
04-04-2021||Pune||How I beat a personal lockdown||With the city entering a mini lockdown, a few of our shows have been cancelled. Shows in Mumbai too are staring at cancellation and by the time this article is published, I suppose they will be called off. Of course, we are assuming that they are still on unless expressly told otherwise, and are continuing our rehearsals and marketing in whichever way possible. It is heartbreaking to say the least, but we respect the fact that safety comes first. A few years before, when we weren’t introduced to the term “lockdown” and theatres weren’t shut by law, I went through a personal lockdown of sorts. I had recently quit Chartered Accountancy and had taken to theatre and films with a thirst I haven’t experienced since. I was away from all this and hadn’t directed a play for quite sometime. I remember that I directed six plays in eighteen months! All of them were full-length plays – two acts each. Most of these plays were made on a commercial basis since I needed to earn something. It wasn’t much but it kept me from asking my parents for financial support. This was the first time that I had taken up theatre as my profession and not just a hobby. Up to this point I had enjoyed the support of many of my peers and seniors, who were pursuing theatre passionately, but they weren’t financially dependent on it. I started noticing that some of them weren’t happy with the artistic choices in the plays. A few of these plays were age-old Sangeet Natak and some of these friends even opposed the very thought of presenting an archaic text. I think I had experimented with the form and staging but it wasn’t working for them. I vividly remember one of them coming up to me immediately after an opening show, hug me tightly, whisper “I am very disappointed” in my ears and leave without a discussion. So, after eighteen months, I was back to where I started. In fact, at that time, I felt as if I was probably in a worse position than I was in while pursuing Chartered Accountancy! I was confident that I wanted to pursue theatre and films and nothing else and suddenly I wasn’t sure if I had made the right choice. Maybe I wasn’t cut out for it and should go back to the stability being a CA offered. And with these thoughts began my self-imposed lockdown. I stopped doing anything new. I feared the reactions of these friends. Things continued like this for nearly a year. I directed one play but did not stage it publicly. We just performed it in front of a limited audience in our rehearsal hall and that was it (It was wrong on my part, for the cast that gave me their time for rehearsals and I regret that decision now). After nearly a year I watched two plays in a matter of weeks – “Piya Behrupiya” directed by Atul Kumar and “Stories in a song” directed by Sunil Shanbag. And watching these plays turned out to be therapeutic for me. The most important thing I noticed was the clarity and confidence in the direction. These weren’t commercial plays but both the directors knew exactly what they were doing and there was no pretence in that. They had embraced their form and were honest and unabashed about the fact that they were entertaining! Both the shows enjoyed full houses and were being enjoyed by everyone. At the curtain call I involuntarily stood up to give them a standing ovation and realized that I was not alone. Everyone was on their feet! And I remember those as extremely cathartic moments. I had just found the way and the will to do what I wanted. And no amount of words or counselling would have had this effect! The current times are depressing, but for me they are not even close to my personal lockdown. So, to anyone reading this - maybe you don’t need to hear this but still bear with me – hang in there! This too shall pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/how-i-beat-a-personal-lockdown-101617532631650.html
04-04-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Madhya Pradesh to limit movement of people from Chhattisgarh||The Madhya Pradesh government will restrict the movement of people from neighbouring Chhattisgarh to curb the spread of Covid-19 and a lockdown will be enforced in isolated areas whenever needed, MP chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday.Talking to reporters in Bhopal, Chouhan said they have already sealed Madhya Pradesh's areas bordering Maharashtra. "There will now be restrictions on movement from Chhattisgarh. Those who need to come for necessary and unavoidable work will be allowed on humanitarian grounds and transportation of goods will continue," he said, citing the spread of Covid-19 in the neighbouring states.Chouhan said patience is needed to control the pandemic."I will go out with a loudspeaker on my vehicle at 6 pm on Monday and appeal to people to maintain physical distance and wear masks," the chief minister said.Maharashtra on Saturday reported 49,447 new Covid-19 cases, the highest rise in a day so far, taking its tally to 29,53,523.Besides, Chhattisgarh recorded 5,818 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, its highest single-day spike, taking the count of infections in the state to 3,63,796, as per official figures.Chouhan said those coming to MP from these states for necessary and unavoidable work were being screened.If found necessary, they will be kept in isolation, but the general movement of people will not be allowed."They are our brothers and sisters, but we have to take such measures to control the spread of the coronavirus," he said.The CM said more than 3,000 fresh cases of coronavirus were reported in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday.He also said there will be a limited lockdown in the affected areas whenever needed, but there will be "no lockdown in the entire state".He urged social workers and religious leaders to run a public awareness campaign to check the spread of the viral infection.Chouhan noted that a three-day lockdown is going on in Chhindwara and two-day restrictions are in place in Betul."I don't want such lockdowns because this affects businesses and employment. Our priority is to protect the people without a lockdown," he said.Chouhan said the BJP is likely to announce an awareness campaign on Sunday under which its MLAs, MPs and other leaders will appeal to people to use masks and maintain social distancing to defeat the coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-madhya-pradesh-to-limit-movement-of-people-from-chhattisgarh-101617531944491.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Private labs overcharging for RT-PCR tests, citizens say||PUNE With Covid cases rising in the city – more citizens are getting tested for the coronavirus infection at private labs in the city. However, citizens are complaining that they are being overcharged by private labs for the RT-PCR test. According to the fixed government rates, the RT-PCR test at labs should be charged ₹500 while tests conducted at home should cost ₹800. “Recently I had taken the service of one of the private pathology labs to test my family after I tested Covid positive and the lab charged ₹1,000 per person and the hospital where I tested positive, they charged ₹1200,” said Kinjal Yadav, a resident of Shivjai raje housing society, Hadapsar. “We are charging as per government rates either you come to our lab or we visit your home to offer service,” said a doctor from Krsnaa Diagnostics. “People should raise questions before taking the test. There are some labs in the city that may charge extra in regards that a person is not aware, and he/she is visiting the lab in a panic mode. The law says labs should strictly follow according to the government circular,” said Dr Vijay Natarajan, chief executive officer at Symbiosis University Hospital and Research Centre (SUHRC). Dr Natrajan added, “People should raise their concerns to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) or the Pune police if such a thing is happening at labs.” Gunjan Khiwsara, a Keshav Nagar resident said, “One month back when I did a test in Yavatmal, the doctor charged ₹1400, while in Pune last week when my husband did the RT-PCR test in a private lab he was charged ₹900.” With record-breaking Covid positive cases in Pune for the past week, more people are approaching for the test at the labs now. “The PMC has also increased tests at their centres while the rush has also increased at private labs. Few people complained of overcharging while they visited our hospital for the test, but we are charging normal rates,” said Purnima Rao, Sahyadri Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/private-labs-overcharging-for-rt-pcr-tests-citizens-say-101617532210320.html
04-04-2021||Dehradun||Centre deploys NDRF choppers, team to tackle Uttarakhand forest fires, CM Rawat calls meeting||The Centre on Sunday rushed teams and helicopters of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to control the forest fires raging in Uttarakhand, Union home minister Amit Shah said, even as chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat called an emergency meeting to take stock of the situation. “I called the chief minister of the state Shri.@TIRATHSRAWAT to get information about the forest fire in Uttarakhand. The Centre has directed @NDRFHQ teams and helicopters to be deployed to the government of Uttarakhand to control the fire and prevent loss of life,” Shah’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, said.उत्तराखंड के जंगलों में आग के सम्बंध में मैंने प्रदेश के मुख्यमंत्री श्री @TIRATHSRAWAT से बात कर जानकारी ली।आग पर काबू पाने और जानमाल के नुकसान को रोकने के लिए केंद्र सरकार ने तुरंत @NDRFHQ की टीमें और हेलिकॉप्टर उत्तराखंड सरकार को उपलब्ध कराने के निर्देश दे दिए हैं।After the virtual emergency meeting, chief minister Rawat said they hope to control the fires. "We asked the Centre to give us two choppers to take control of the fire situation. We have been given the same. We are hoping to douse fire using choppers today," chief minister Rawat said, according to news agency ANI.State minister Harak Singh Rawat said that the fire has broken out in 964 places across the state and that four people and seven animals have died, according to news agency ANI. The minister also said that 2 people have been injured in the forest fires. “Weather made it challenging for the state government. The chief Minister and I are monitoring the situation separately. We'll try to douse the fire with helicopters,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Forest fires are generally reported in Uttarakhand from February to June, with a peak in fire incidents in May and June when temperatures spike triggering the blaze. According to officials, forest fires started in many districts in winters and hill districts like Nainital, Almora, Tehri and Pauri have reported most of the incidents.Under fire from experts and opposition parties in the state, who have accused the government of "not focusing" to tackle the situation, state forest department officials have said that the number of forest fire incidents are increasing this year due to "change in climatic conditions." Officials have also said that the department is fully alert and prepared to fight the forest fires. "Forest fires have increased in the last one week because of strong winds and no rainfall. It is also due to the rise in temperature with less rainfall and snowfall during the winters,” Maan Singh, the chief conservationist of forest (fire and disaster management), told HT.Also read | Early summer, lack of rain spark firesForest fires this year have affected more than 1290 hectares of forest land, compared to 172 hectares in 2020. According to a reply sought under the Right to Information (RTI) Act, the Uttarakhand government said that more than 44,554 hectares of the forest area has been damaged in forest fires Since the formation of the state in 2000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/centre-deploys-ndrf-choppers-team-to-tackle-uttarakhand-forest-fires-101617528606794.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Spike in Covid-19 cases due to increased testing, says Sanjay Raut||Maharashtra is witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases as testing is being conducted on a large scale, said Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday."The main reason behind a large number of Covid-19 patients in Maharashtra is that the testing is being conducted on a large scale. That is not happening in other states. For that Maharashtra is being appreciated.... even the world is appreciating us," said Raut while addressing the media in Mumbai.When asked about the possibility of lockdown in the state, Raut said, "Nobody likes lockdown. Even the chief minister and the Prime Minister do not like it but some decisions have to be taken in case of emergency. Sometimes tough decisions have to be taken for the security of the country and the state."He further urged all political parties to come together and cooperate with the government.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new Covid-19 cases in India at 49,447, the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare said on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-spike-in-covid-19-cases-due-to-increased-testing-says-sanjay-raut-101617528700027.html
04-04-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Karnataka cinema halls to cap seating capacity at 50% from Wednesday||Karnataka government has extended the implication of its order regarding 50 per cent seating capacity in cinema halls and it is to be applicable from April 7.Karnataka government announced yesterday that order capping seating capacity in theatres at 50% would now be applicable from April 7, following a request from the Kannada film industry."Under clause 10 of the order, seating allowed in the cinema hall was restricted to a maximum of 50 per cent of the seating capacity. The Karnataka Film Chamber of Commerce has made a request to CM to allow cinema halls to run due to the fact that advance online bookings have been made because of the non-receipt of advance notice. It is now, decided that the said restriction will be made applicable with effect from 7th April 2021," the order from the Karnataka government read.A huge crowd was seen outside Bengaluru's Veeresh theatre last night, amid rising Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-karnataka-cinema-halls-to-cap-seating-capacity-at-50-from-wednesday-101617525819655.html
04-04-2021||Kolkata||'Creating communal tension Mamata's policy': Dharmendra Pradhan||Ahead of the third phase of polling in West Bengal, Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan on Sunday said Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee is scared with the support people are showing to BJP and accused her of doing minority appeasement in the state. He alleged that creating communal tension has been her policy.Speaking to media in Kolkata after offering prayers at Dakshineshwar Kali Temple, the senior Bharatiya Janata Party leader said, "The Chief Minister of West Bengal is scared with the support people showed to BJP in the first two phases. They will do the same in this phase too. She has resorted to using abusive language.""On the one hand Mamata Banerjee considers 'Jai Shree Ram' as abuse, and on other hand, she is asking the minorities to vote for her. Creating communal tension has become her policy," he added.Pradhan is in Kolkata for campaigning before the third phase of polling said people of Bengal voted for BJP in the first two-phase and will do the same in the third phase.He also talked about petrol, diesel prices in the country and said with a decrease in crude oil prices in international markets, fuel prices in India have also started reducing now and they will reduce further in the coming days."Petrol, diesel and LPG prices have started reducing now and they will reduce further in the coming days. We had stated earlier also that we will transfer benefit from the decrease in crude oil prices in the international market to the end customers," he said.Pradhan also held a roadshow in Kolkata today, before the campaigning for the third phase ends in the evening.Polling for the first two phases of the West Bengal polls was held on March 27 and April 1 respectively. The next phase of polling will take place on April 6. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/creating-communal-tension-mamata-s-policy-dharmendra-pradhan-101617525977946.html
04-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand monitoring Covid-19 situation carefully: Health minister Banna Gupta||Jharkhand health minister Banna Gupta has said that the state health department is on alert mode and monitoring the Covid-19 situation very carefully."Jharkhand health department is monitoring the Covid situation in the state very carefully. We are on alert mode and analysing as to what more necessary steps need to be taken. In future, any decision will be taken in a high-level meeting headed by the Chief Minister," the Jharkhand health minister told ANI over the phone."As of now the situation in the state is under control. We are taking all precautions. Special precautionary measures are being taken at entry points of the state in bordering areas. Trains coming from Mumbai are being monitored. Hospitals have been instructed to be fully prepared and have necessary arrangements." he further added.Though the cases of infections have been rising, recovery rate of Jharkhand is a little satisfactory. It is 95.46 per cent, more than 2 per cent against India's national recovery rate 93.40 per cent. As on April 3, a total of 1513220 persons have been administrated the first dose of vaccine in Jharkhand and 261614 inoculated with the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-monitoring-covid-19-situation-carefully-health-minister-banna-gupta-101617525645869.html
04-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: 70 new cases push Noida's active caseload to 434||Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar recorded 70 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday pushing the district's infection tally to 26,255, official data showed.The active cases in the district continued its upward trend and reached 434 from 399 the previous day, according to the data released by the UP Health Department for a 24-hour period.Also, 27 patients got discharged during the last 24 hours in Guatam Buddh Nagar with the overall recoveries reaching 25,730 in the district, the fifth highest in the state, the data showed.Gautam Buddh Nagar has a death toll of 91 with a mortality rate of 0.34 per cent. The recovery rate of patients reached 98 per cent on Friday, the statistics showed.Meanwhile, the number of active COVID-19 cases in UP reached 14,073 from 11,918 on Thursday while the overall recoveries reached 5,99,827 and the death toll reached 8,836 on Friday, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-70-new-cases-push-noida-s-active-caseload-to-434-101617525415176.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Covid-19: In a first, Pune records over 10,000 new cases in 24 hours||Pune added over 10,000 COVID-19 cases for the first time in a day on Saturday, taking the district's tally to 5,62,335, an official said.The day saw 10,827 cases being registered, while 66 patients died and 3,293 people recovered, he added.Of the new cases, Pune city accounted for 5,720, Pimpri Chinchwad 2,832 and the rest were in the district's rural and cantonment areas, he said.The caseload in Pune city is 2,83,819, while it is 1,47,546 in Pimpri Chinchwad and 1,30,970 in rural and cantonment areas.The death toll in the district stands at 10,163.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-in-a-first-pune-records-over-10-000-new-cases-in-24-hours-101617525027182.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Maximum temperature to reach 36 degrees Celsius, new 'heatwave' unlikely||Delhi's maximum temperate is expected to settle around 36 degrees Celsius, news agency PTI reported on Sunday, citing the India Meteorological Department (IMD). The national capital recorded a minimum temperature of 14 degrees Celsius on this day, which is five notches below the season's average, according to IMD. A day ago, on Saturday, the Met department informed that Delhi's minimum temperature had dropped to 11.7 degrees Celsius, the lowest in the month of April in at least 12 years.Last year, the lowest minimum temperature for the month of April in Delhi was 14.4 degrees. Records show that April's minimum temperature was 16.2 degrees Celsius in 2019, and 17.6 degrees Celsius the year before that. Delhi had recorded 10.7 degrees Celsius on April 2, 1965, -- the all-time record, according to IMD data.Delhi is likely to have clear skies throughout the day, although the agency noted that weather conditions might turn partly cloudy towards the afternoon or the evening. The relative humidity has been recorded at 49%, PTI reported.The national capital is unlikely to witness a new "heatwave" for at least another week, the agency reported earlier in the day, citing an official at Skymet Weather. Delhi had marked a maximum temperature of 40.1 degrees Celsius on March 29, making it the hottest March day in 76 years.However, cool, northerly winds subsequently led to a sharp dip in Delhi's minimum temperature, as per Mahesh Palawat of Skymet Weather. The higher reaches of Western Himalayas have been witnessing snowfall and the adjacent areas in the plains are receiving rain intermittently since March last week due to successive western disturbances, Palawat said. On the other hand, strong winds have reduced Delhi's pollution levels and "allowed the infrared radiation to escape back to space", PTI quoted Palawat as saying.Delhi's air quality remained in the "moderate category" on Sunday, with the Air Quality Index (AQI) clocking 156 at 10:05 in the morning. An AQI between zero and 50 is considered ''good'', 51 and 100 ''satisfactory'', 101 and 200 ''moderate'', 201 and 300 ''poor'', 301 and 400 ''very poor'', and 401 and 500 ''severe''.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-maximum-temperature-to-reach-36-degrees-celsius-new-heatwave-unlikely-101617519945276.html
04-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan has immense potential in the field of solar energy: Ashok Gehlot||The Rajasthan government has taken many important steps towards making the state self-reliant in the energy sector while special attention is being paid to develop renewable energy sources, chief minister Ashok Gehlot said on Saturday. Gehlot was speaking after virtually inaugurating a 220 KV grid substation in Chattargarh, Bikaner from his official residence in Jaipur.Rajasthan has immense potential in the field of solar energy and the government is working towards providing electricity to every village in the state, he said.The state government has released 1.81 lakh new agricultural connections in two years. In this year’s budget, 50,000 new agricultural connections have been announced. A provision has been made for installing 50,000 solar pumps, he said.He said farmers can increase their income by selling solar power to the government by installing solar panels on their vacant land.He asked the farmers to take advantage of the subsidy given on the scheme and put solar panels in their vacant fields.Energy Minister BD Kalla said power generation capacity in the state has reached 23,000 MW and the state government is giving a subsidy of ₹16,000 crore to farmers every year on agricultural power connections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-has-immense-potential-in-the-field-of-solar-energy-ashok-gehlot-101617522643761.html
04-04-2021||Patna||Bihar govt issues fresh restrictions amid spike in Covid-19 cases||The Nitish Kumar government in Bihar on Saturday came out with a number of fresh restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19, which has seen a country- wide surge in the recent past.Guidelines were issued by the state's home department after a high-level meeting, chaired by Kumar, reviewed the situation in Bihar.Reopening of schools and colleges, which were scheduled on April 5, shall now be deferred till April 11 and all institutions have been directed to reschedule tests and examinations accordingly, the department said in a release.Deployment of additional police force at bus terminuses, railway stations, vegetable markets and eating joints to ensure social distancing and prevent overcrowding has also been ordered.The communication stated that entry of stray visitors inside government offices shall remain restricted, while public transport vehicles will be allowed to ply, with the number of passengers not exceeding 50 per cent of total capacity, till April 15.Holding of all functions, except marriages and funerals, at public places will be barred and the maximum number of people allowed at a wedding must not exceed 250. Not more than 50 persons will be allowed to attend a 'shraaddh', the release said.The district administrations concerned have been empowered to enforce COVID protocols like compulsory wearing of face masks and social distancing, the home department missive said.Bihar has been witnessing a spike in instances of fresh cases. The state now has 2,942 active cases, a more than two-fold rise since a week ago.The number of new infections reported in the last 24 hours stood at 836.The spurt has caused the recovery rate in Bihar, which was more than 99 per cent till recently, to drop to 98.31 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-govt-comes-out-with-fresh-restrictions-amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-101617522473127.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Mumbai: People flock to Shivaji Park despite increase in cases||Despite an alarming situation in Maharashtra due to increasing Covid-19 cases, people were seen playing cricket at Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Park in Mumbai on Sunday.People in the park were seen flouting social distancing norms, and many were also seen without masks.Mumbai on Friday reported 9,090 fresh Covid cases in the last 24 hours. As many as 5,322 people have recovered from the disease in Mumbai in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of recoveries to 3,66,365.The active number of Covid cases in the city stands at 62,187. Mumbai recorded 27 Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 11,751.Meanwhile, Maharashtra reported 49,447 new Covid cases and 277 deaths in the last 24 hours. According to the state health department, 37,821 people have recovered from the diseases in the last 24 hours taking the total number of recoveries in the state to 24,95,315.The active number of Covid cases in the state stands at 4,01,172. With the new deaths in the last 24 hours, the Covid death toll mounts to 55,656 in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-in-mumbai-people-flock-to-shivaji-park-despite-increase-in-cases-101617520025290.html
04-04-2021||West||West Bengal BJP accuses TMC candidate from Falta of distributing money||West Bengal BJP has lodged a complaint with the state's Chief Electoral Officer against Sankar Kumar Naskar, a TMC candidate from the Falta Assembly seat for allegedly distributing money to voters in the constituency. The BJP has demanded the cancellation of his candidature.The letter from the West Bengal BJP read, "This is to bring to your attention that on April 2, Sankar Kumar Naskar candidate of All India Trinamool Congress (TMC) from AC-144 Falta was found distributing money to voters at Sahararhat More, influencing them to cast votes in his favour and to cause wrongful gain to his party. The said candidate on the same day was also found distributing money at Mallickpur Bazar area, which is around 4 km away from Sahararhat More."Click here for full election coverage"It is requested that Sankar Kumar Naskar having violated provisions of the Model Code of Conduct, the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the Indian Penal Code and the instructions issued by the Commission, his candidature from Falta Assembly Constituency thus be disqualified and an FIR to be logged against him," the letter added.Polling for the first two phases of the West Bengal polls was held on March 27 and April 1 respectively. The next phase of polling will take place on April 6. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/west-bengal-bjp-accuses-tmc-candidate-from-falta-of-distributing-money-101617515684855.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 in Mumbai: More beds to be operationalised for patients||In the wake of an alarming spike in COVID-19 cases, the Mumbai civic body on Sunday said it has decided to make more beds operational in medical facilities treating patients of the viral infection in the city. On Saturday, the city reported 9,108 new cases of coronavirus, the highest spike in a single day."We have operationalised an additional 3,000 beds in dedicated COVID-19 health care centres and dedicated COVID-19 hospitals under the Municipal Corporation of Greater Mumbai (MCGM) in last seven days," civic commissioner I S Chahal said in a statement.Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"The number of beds available on our real-time live dashboard for allotment has gone up from 12,906 to 15,971," the official said.Chahal further said 4,160 beds were vacant for allotment on Saturday night."We areoperationalising an additional 3,000 beds (including 400 in ICUs) in the dedicated COVID-19 health care centres and dedicated COVID-19 hospitals in the coming seven days," he said.Chahal also noted that some patients were becoming critical by waiting for their choice of a medical facility for hospitalisation.Hence, he appealed to patients not to wait for hospitalisation."They should occupy beds wherever available for immediate treatment if they aresymptomatic, as the treatment protocol is similar everywhere and well established now. Abundant beds are available in other hospitals," he said.Chahal said they have also operationalised 30 CCC-2 (COVID-19 care centres) facilities for asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in the last seven days with a capacity to accommodate 4,600 patients."Another 18,300 beds in CCC-2 facilities are available in reserve with us," he said.The CCC-1 facilities are set up mostly in hotels and halls and do not have 24-hour monitoring facility, while CCC-2 are government facilities where doctors and nurses are available round-the-clock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-beds-to-be-operationalised-for-covid-19-patients-101617515339547.html
04-04-2021||Lucknow||Lanco power plant in Sonbhadra: 13 workers injured in shuttering crash||Thirteen workers, including five who received serious injuries, were hurt after a tin shuttering crashed on them during maintenance work at Lanco thermal power plant in Uttar Pradesh’s Anpara in Sonbhadra district on Sunday morning, said police. The condition of five seriously injured labourers, who were under treatment at a hospital in Singrauli, was said to be stable.A senior plant official said that unit 2 of Lanco power project was closed on March 22 for maintenance, which was being done by skilled workers. During early hours on March 4, the tin shuttering suddenly fell, injuring 13 workers, who were rescued and rushed to the primary health centre on the premises of the power project.The official quoted above, who didn’t wish to be named, said that eight workers were discharged from the hospital after primary treatment as they received minor injuries. Five others, who suffered serious injuries, were undergoing treatment at a hospital in Singrauli.The seriously injured workers were identified as Dharmjeet, 25, Shivam, 20, Vivek, 34, Sandeep Kumar, 25 and Shiv Kumar, 27.Superintendent of police, Sonbhadra, Amarendrar Prasad Singh confirmed that the crash occurred during maintenance at the Lanco power plant. He added that a team from Anpara police station was on the spot and the situation was back to normal at the crash site. No worker was currently trapped at the spot, he added.UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath has instructed government officials to ensure the injured get the best possible treatment at the hospital. He has also instructed additional chief secretary, Power, to probe the incident, fix the responsibility and take effective action immediately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/lanco-power-plant-in-sonbhadra-13-workers-injured-in-shuttering-cras-101617515290301.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||At 11.7 degrees Celsius, Delhi records lowest min temperature in April in 12 yrs||Delhi recorded a minimum of 11.7 degrees Celsius on Saturday, which is the lowest in the month of April in at least 12 years, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD).Cool, northerly winds led to a sharp dip in the minimum temperature in Delhi, said Mahesh Palawat, vice president (Meteorology and Climate Change) at Skymet Weather, a private weather forecasting agency.He also said there are no chances of a "heatwave" in Delhi for another week.The higher reaches of Western Himalayas have been witnessing snowfall and the adjacent areas in the plains are receiving rain intermittently since March last week due to successive Western Disturbances, he said. "The skies over Delhi have remained mostly clear over the last few days, while strong winds have reduced pollution levels. It allowed the infrared radiation to escape back to space," Palawat said.   The Safdarjung Observatory, which provides representative data for the city, recorded a minimum of 11.7 degrees Celsius, seven notches below normal.The weather station at Lodhi Road recorded a low of 10.6 degrees Celsius, which was 7.4 degrees Celsius below normal, the IMD said. The lowest minimum temperature for the month of April was 14.4 degrees Celsius last year, 16.2 degrees Celsius in 2019 and 17.6 degrees Celsius in 2018.The city had recorded 10.7 degrees Celsius on April 2, 1965 -- the all-time record, according to IMD data.Minimum temperatures fell appreciably in Punjab and Haryana, too. Chandigarh registered a minimum of 12.3 degrees Celsius, Hisar 10.4 degrees Celsius and Karnal 9.5 degrees Celsius.   The maximum temperature in the capital is likely to increase to 38 degrees Celsius by Monday, the IMD said.On Monday, Delhi reeled under a "severe" heatwave, as the maximum temperature shot up to 40.1 degrees Celsius, making it the hottest day in March in 76 years. PTI GVS RHL||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-11-7-degrees-celsius-delhi-records-lowest-min-temperature-in-april-in-12-yrs-101617498811396.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 cross-border smugglers held with 8kg heroin in Hoshiarpur||Police on Saturday arrested three cross-border smugglers and recovered 8kg heroin from them on the Mahilpur-Phagwara road near Hoshiarpur district’s Thuana village. The contraband was hidden in a cavity of a Toyota Fortuner SUV that was intercepted on a tip-off that heroin smuggled from Pakistan was being brought for further supply. The accused were identified as Sukhwinder Singh, alias Sukhi, a resident of Channanwal in Barnala district, Manpreet Singh and Jagdeep Singh of Balbera in Patiala. One of the accused is believed to have links with militant Daya Singh Lahoriya. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said, “Eight packets carrying 1kg heroin each were recovered from a nook inside the bumper of the SUV (HR 26 CD 0072). Sukhwinder Singh has several drug smuggling cases registered against him and was out on bail. He has links with Lahoriya and Amrik Singh, a drug smuggler from Patiala. “It has emerged that Sukhi developed contact with Pakistan-based narcotic smugglers during his visit to the neighbouring country as a pilgrim and started illicit trade of heroin. In 2007, 4kg heroin and four pistols were recovered from him at Sandhwa Bet’, the SSP added. The three were being questioned for their links, he said. Also, the CIA staff recovered 5kg poppy husk and ₹20 lakh drug money from Surinder Singh, Phumman Singh and Shinderpal Singh, all residents of Bilga, Jalandhar. A case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered at Dasuya.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-cross-border-smugglers-held-with-8kg-heroin-in-hoshiarpur-101617479296333.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC grants bail to 5 excise officials, seven others in 2020 tax evasion case||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has granted bail to 12 persons, including five excise officials, who were booked by the Punjab vigilance bureau in a multi-crore tax evasion case in 2020. The excise officials are Japp, alias Japsimran and Varun Nagpal, Ram Kumar, Satpal Singh Multani and Vishavdeep Singh Bhangu. The other accused are Shiv Kumar, Vishwa Nath, Jasmeet Singh, alias Prince, Sukhwinder Singh, alias Shinda, Ranjit Kumar, alias Gogi, Kamal Kumar Ahuja, alias Rocky, Harshdeep Verma, alias Harshdeep Singh and Ishu Sharma. They all are into transport business. The FIR was registered on August 21, 2020, by the vigilance bureau. It was alleged that the officials caused huge losses to the state exchequer in connivance with private transporters. Tax evasion was allegedly committed through transporting goods of traders in and out of Punjab by paying less or no tax. It was argued that the prosecution of officials was not maintainable since sanction to prosecute them was not obtained. It was also submitted that the matter was already investigated and the challan presented. In the case of others, the court was told that challan was presented and there was no need to keep them in judicial custody. The bench of Jaishree Thakur granted them bail taking note of the fact that sanction to prosecute the officials was not obtained even as they were in custody since the registration of the FIR. No useful purpose would be served in keeping them behind the bars any longer, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-grants-bail-to-5-excise-officials-seven-others-in-2020-tax-evasion-case-101617479290846.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Firing over gurdwara control in Tarn Taran, Congress sarpanch among 4 booked||Four persons, including a Congress sarpanch, allegedly opened fire at the house of their rival over the control of a local gurdwara at Chabhal Khurd village in Tarn Taran district on Friday night, police said. A case of attempt to murder was registered against sarpanch Harpreet Singh alias Happy Latha, Dhanbir Singh, Gurpreet Singh and Ajmer Singh, all residents of the same village, an official said. Nearly 10 rounds were fired in the alleged incident that took place at around 10pm, the official added. The complainant, Baljinder Singh, said, “Latha, Dhanbir, Gurpreet and Ajmer were carrying a .315 bore rifle, a .12 bore double-barrel rifle, a revolver and a sword. They fired at my house with an intention to kill me. The bullets hit the walls. I saved my life by fleeing from the backdoor of the house.”Deputy superintendent of police Sucha Singh said the two parties have been at loggerheads over the control of the village gurdwara and its 13 acre land for some time. Besides section 307 (attempt to murder), sections 148 (rioting with deadly weapons) and 149 (every member of the unlawful assembly) of the Indian Penal Code were included in the first information report (FIR) registered at the Chabhal police station after preliminary investigation, the DSP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firing-over-gurdwara-control-in-tarn-taran-congress-sarpanch-among-4-booked-101617479289825.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC imposes ₹1 lakh fine on Moga woman for fake rape allegation||The Punjab and Haryana High Court has imposed a penalty of ₹1 lakh on a Moga woman for levelling fake rape allegation against a local Congress leader. The bench of justice HNS Gill said the “proceedings initiated are false and frivolous and it is clear that an attempt was made not only to abuse the process of law but also overawe the authorities”. The court said it was a fit case for imposing an exemplary cost upon the complainant, a health department employee, who was directed to pay the fine amount to the Institute for the Blind, Sector 26, in Chandigarh. The FIR was registered against Congress leader Varun Joshi on June 2, 2020. She alleged that Joshi used to visit her office and eventually started raping her. She also claimed that her mother paid ₹4 lakh to the accused who started demanding more money saying he had objectionable photos of her. The woman moved the high court seeking a CBI probe into the matter after the police probe gave Joshi a clean chit. In June last year, the HC directed the police to record her statement. In October, the director general of police (DGP) was asked to constitute a special investigation team (SIT) which called for cancellation of the FIR. The SIT claimed that the woman and Joshi were in a consensual relationship and the dispute arose only when her husband came to know of this. The matter escalated to the extent of divorce and this is when the woman approached the police, the SIT concluded. The call location of the woman and the accused were different on the day of the alleged rape, it was found. Besides, the two stayed together in a hotel on different dates with the woman’s consent for which the hotel manager also testified, the court was told.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-imposes-rs-1-lakh-fine-on-moga-woman-for-fake-rape-allegation-101617479288856.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid-19 curbs, Tarn Taran civil surgeon, SMO threw Holi bash||Caring two hoots for Covid-19 restrictions imposed by the Punjab government amid rise in cases of infection, Tarn Taran civil surgeon Dr Rohit Mehta and civil hospital senior medical officer (SMO) Dr Swaranjit Dhawan held a function on March 27 to celebrate Holi by throwing a dance party. The party was organised near the civil surgeon’s official residence on the civil hospital premises where more than 50 people, including doctors and nurses, gathered without wearing masks. District medical commissioner Dr Bharti Dhawan, district psychiatrist Dr Isha Dhawan and epidemiologist Dr Kawaljit Singh were also present.In the third week of March, chief minister Amarinder Singh had ordered a slew of curbs, including a ban on all social gatherings in the state’s 11 worst-hit districts, except for funerals and weddings (with only 20 persons in attendance) and closure of all educational institutions. A video of the party has surfaced wherein the civil surgeon and the SMO are seen applying colours on others. Also, no one is seen observing social distancing norms. A message inviting the doctors and staff of the civil hospital was circulated on WhatsApp before the party. Though SMO Dr Dhawan acknowledged that the event was organised, he did not comment further. The civil surgeon didn’t respond to several calls and a text message. When Tarn Taran deputy commissioner Kulwant Singh was contacted, he asked the civil surgeon to talk to HT. “The function was organised by Dr Dhawan. I went there for only 5 minutes,” Dr Mehta said. A source said, “The party organised by the civil surgeon and the SMO went on for at least 3 hours. A Lohri function was also organised in a similar manner.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-19-curbs-tarn-taran-civil-surgeon-smo-threw-holi-bash-101617479229333.html
04-04-2021||Other||For second day in row, J&K sees 500+ Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 501 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 32, 439, health officials said on Saturday. With two fresh fatalities in Jammu division, the UT’s death toll reached 2,005.For the last two days, Jammu and Kashmir has been seeing over 500 daily cases, the highest daily count in almost four months. Of the new cases, 393 are from Kashmir division while 108 are from Jammu. Officials said with 207 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 89 in Baramulla district, 69 in Jammu, 35 in Budgam and 14 in Kathua. Eleven districts reported single digit cases while Kishtwar district in Jammu saw no infections. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily since March, reached 3, 574, officials said. There are 2,734 active cases in Kashmir division, including 1,407 in Srinagar. Of the 840 active cases in Jammu division, 589 are in Jammu district.On Saturday, 140 patients were discharged from various hospitals, including 109 from Kashmir and 31 from Jammu. As many as 1, 26,860 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 95.78%. Over 6.16 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union territory so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections, an increase of 133% from February, and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths. “Of the total 1, 32, 439 cases that J&K has seen so far, 13,615 were travelers,” said a government spokesman.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/for-second-day-in-row-j-k-sees-500-covid-cases-101617479109079.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||SAD to hold statewide protests against Amarinder govt’s policies on April 5||Chandigarh The Shiromani Akali Dal on Saturday said it will hold protests against the Capt Amarinder-led Congress government in all assembly segments across Punjab on April 5 over rising power tariffs, higher taxes on fuel and law-and-order situation. The decision was taken by the party in a meeting of its core committee, the highest decision taking body of the SAD. Party chief Sukhbir Singh Badal presided over the meeting. “The protests will focus on the back-breaking hike in power tariffs from ₹5 to ₹10 per unit, unbearable state taxes accounting for the bulk of the hike in the prices of diesel and petrol and the denial of post-matric scholarship to SC students,” said a party statement. The protests will also focus on the “total breakdown” of the law-and-order machinery in the state, it said. Sukhbir Badal’s principal adviser Harcharan Bains said the party condemned the alleged attack on farmer leader Rakesh Tikait and sought a judicial probe into it. Some people on Friday had thrown stones at a cavalcade of Tikait, damaging his car’s rear windshield when he was going to address a rally in Rajasthan’s Alwar district. Bains said the party’s core committee slammed the Centre for its missive to the Punjab government over the use of bonded labour in its border villages. A resolution describing it as “an attempt to defame state farmers” was also passed. The party also condemned Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh for maintaining a “conspiratorial silence over the home ministry’s malicious communication”. A resolution was also passed, accusing the chief minister of “abdicating his constitutional obligations for the maintenance of peace, communal harmony and law and order”. The SAD core committee also delegated full powers and authority to the party president to take all decisions with regard to the forthcoming elections of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sad-to-hold-statewide-protests-against-amarinder-govt-s-policies-on-april-5-101617479051366.html
04-04-2021||Other||Meritorious schools application date for Classes 11, 12 extended to April 30||The Society for Promotion of Quality Education for Poor and Meritorious Students of Punjab has extended the online registration deadline for Class-11 admission from March 31 to April 30 till 5pm. The decision comes in the wake of postponement of Class-10 exams due to surge in covid cases in the district. Class-10 students of government-aided schools and private schools affiliated to Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) and those belonging to below poverty line (BPL) families with smart cards are eligible to register. A general category student should have secured 70% and Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribe (SC/ST) student should have a score of 65%. The website to register is www.ssapunjab.org. There will be a common entrance test, which has not been conducted yet due to the coronavirus pandemic and schools being closed till October 2020. To date, 5,000 students have registered against 4,600 seats in Class-11 across the 10 meritorious schools in the state. For Class-12, 2,400 students already pursuing studies in government and other schools in Class-11 have shown interest in taking admission. Meritorious schools are in Amritsar, Bathinda, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Mohali, Patiala, Hakumat Singh Wala village in Ferozepur district, Ghabdhan village in Gurdaspur, Sangrur, and Talwara in Hoshiarpur. Punjab meritorious schools assistant project director Inderpal Singh Malhotra said, “We have extended the date to register online to give more time to students to apply. Students are not aware of the online registration process. District education officers can ask school heads to inform students. The entrance exam is likely to be held in the third week of May, after Class-10 board exams.”A government school English teacher, on condition of anonymity, said, “From our school, five students of Class-10 have registered online to get admission in a meritorious school. No one knew that for Class-12 too, students of Class-11 can apply.”According to state government directions, 10% seats are reserved for wards of parents from BPL families having smart cards. There is reservation of seats for disabled students, 10% for girls and 5% for boys. Another 20% is for girls students who belong to families of women-headed household. In case, these seats cannot be filled by students from earmarked quota, these would be given to and added to the general category.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meritorious-schools-application-date-for-classes-11-12-extended-to-april-30-101617478928927.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Soon, head to Delhi zoo to spot some unique tree species||In the coming months, the Delhi zoo will not just be a place to watch birds and animals, but also a spot to sight over 100 native and exotic species of trees, officials said. The National Zoological Park is working towards creating an arboretum on the zoo premises for visitors to see and learn about the different tree species in the capital.Considering that the park already boasts of some rare species such as the baobab tree or kalpavriksh, having a “tree point” seems right on par for the zoo to become an “inclusive natural space”.Ramesh Kumar Pandey, director, Delhi zoo, said an open space in the centre of the zoo premises, which was pretty much an abandoned space, is being planted with various trees and will be converted into a full-fledged tree point by this monsoon.“The idea behind this initiative is to elevate the status of the zoo from just a place for sighting animals and birds, to an inclusive natural space. The park which we are converting into the tree point already had around 29 tree species. We have already started planting more trees species there and, by the end of April, we will have a total of 60 tree species in the arboretum,” Pandey said.He said the plantation will be continuous and by the end of monsoon in Delhi, which is considered the ideal time for plantation, over 100 species of trees will be planted at the tree point.The Delhi zoo, which was shut for over a year due to the coronavirus disease pandemic, opened its gates to the public on April 1. The zoo was shut to visitors on March 18, 2020, a week before a nationwide lockdown that went on for 68 days. Although most services gradually reopened in the past few months, plans to get visitors back to the zoo were hit by cases of avian flu being reported earlier this year.Officials said once the tree point is developed, the zoo plans to conduct tree walks and educational trips to educate interested visitors about different species, the country from which they originate and how to differentiate between tree species.“For instance, a lot of people have not seen the semal tree, even though it is planted in huge numbers across the city, and some do not know how to differentiate the semal tree from a palash tree because both have red flowers blooming at this time of the year. People can come here and see these trees at different stages of the year -- when they bloom, when they are bearing fruits and when they shed leaves,” Pandey said.At present, the Delhi zoo is home to varieties such as semal, kachnar, palash, the golden trumpet, mango, bamboo and varieties of palm. Apart from the usually sighted trees, the Delhi zoo is also known to house some rare species that are not easily spotted outside its gates.For instance, the whole of Delhi has just four baobab trees, commonly known as kalpavriksh (Adansonia digitata). The zoo has three of them. It also has two of only four remaining winged calabash or gourd tree (Crecsentia alata) in Delhi.Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge of the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said it is important to have such spaces in the city where people can come and learn about the city’s rich ecology.“It is important to have such spaces within the city. At the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, we have over 40 unique flowering plants. It is imperative to preserve some tree species and that will happen only if people are aware of them,” Khudsar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/soon-head-to-delhi-zoo-to-spot-some-unique-tree-species-101617478519599.html
04-04-2021||Other||Flouting Covid norms at airport? Prepare to shell out ₹1K as fine||htmetro@hindustantimes.comMumbai Travelling from Mumbai and not following Covid-19 protocols? You could be fined at Mumbai airport. With effect from April 1, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has started levying a fine of ₹1,000 on passengers who refuse to comply with mandatory safety norms such as wearing face masks covering the nose as well as the mouth and maintaining social distance, among others, at the airport.The development comes after the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) issued a directive to authorities to keep vigil and fine passengers breaking Covid-19 norms.With the latest directive from the DGCA, marshals at airport will levy fines on any individual who refuses to comply with requests of safety protocols established in the wake of the pandemic.“In the event of further non-compliance, the violator will be handed over to the authorities for further action. CSMIA ensures stringent temperature screening of passengers and personnel before entry into the terminal, and regular sanitisation and disinfection of its premises, particularly at high-movement areas and touch points,” said an airport spokesperson.“CSMIA endeavours to conform to the highest standard of safety and security, and has adopted numerous precautionary measures to help and support the passengers, including providing an efficient transit to its travellers,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flouting-covid-norms-at-airport-prepare-to-shell-out-1k-as-fine-101617478148344.html
04-04-2021||Other||Indian Army soldier embarks on 4, 300-km run from Kashmir to Kanyakumari in 50 days||Exhibiting the indomitable spirit of the Indian Army, a soldier Naik Velu P of 60 Para field hospital, has embarked upon a 4, 300km run from Kashmir to Kanyakumari. If he succeeds, he will get his name entered in the Guinness Book of World Records. Velu P, the ultra marathoner was given a grand welcome by Brigadier KJ Singh, Commandant and all ranks at 166 Military Hospital in Jammu on Saturday. Later, Brigadier KJ Singh gave a flag off for his further journey to Samba and onwards. Naik Velu P would be running 70 to 100 kms per day and is determined to create a new record by covering this mammoth distance of 4, 300 kms in less than 50 days, said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand. He is travelling with a message of “Clean India- Green India” and will be an inspiration to the youth to be a strong contributor in “Fit India” mission, he added. The soldier has already won many ultra-marathons, Tuffman runs and stadium runs across India. Velu P was flagged off from 92 Base Hospital at Srinagar on April 1 with a heartwarming gathering of enthusiasts who accompanied him in his solo run for the initial 5 kms, carrying the national flag and boosting his morale. He has been representing Athletics Federation of India (AFI) in long-distance runs for the past four years and in the coming September, he will be representing India for the stadium run at the World championship at Romania, for which he had won a trial run of 24 hour stadium running held at Bengaluru. To his many splendid performances till date, in June 2020, he ran 1, 600 kms in 17 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/indian-army-soldier-embarks-on-4-300-km-run-from-kashmir-to-kanyakumari-in-50-days-101617478090279.html
04-04-2021||Other||NBC seizes multiple drugs after raids at actor Gaurav Dixit’s home in Mumbai||manish.pathak@htlive.comMumbai The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Saturday conducted a raid at Bollywood actor Gaurav Dixit house at Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri (West) and allegedly found multiple drugs and packaging material.Dixit lives with a foreign national, and the duo was not present at the house during the raid. NCB officials are on the lookout for them. The raid was conducted fallowing the arrest of actor Ajaz Khan, who purportedly revealed in his statement to the agency that he used to buy MDMA (Ecstasy) drugs from Dixit. “During interrogation, Khan revealed Dixit’s name and confessed that he used to purchase MDMA and other drugs from Dixit. After a preliminary investigation, it appears that Dixit supply drugs in Bollywood. A team of NCB visited at Dixit’s residence in Lokhandwala on Friday night but he was not present at home. We contacted one of his relatives and his house was raided. Multiple drugs such as hashish (charas), cannabis and MDMA were found in the fridge. We also discovered MD in the house,” said NCB zonal director Sameer Wankhede. The recovered drugs are worth ₹1.5 lakh. During the search, the agency also found the packaging materials of drugs at several places in the house. While the raid was going on, Dixit and his girlfriend, who’s a foreign national, were entering the building. But when they saw the police vehicle and learnt about the raid in their house, the duo fled from there,” said Wankhede. Khan was arrested on April 1 after his alleged link surfaced with an alleged drug peddler, Shadab Shaikh, who was nabbed by the agency from his residence in Andheri on March 25 following a raid. NCB found 61 grams of mephedrone and 160 grams of ephedrine from the spot.“During Shaikh’s interrogation, Khan’s name cropped up, and we found some incriminating evidence against the latter,” said Wankhede.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nbc-seizes-multiple-drugs-after-raids-at-actor-gaurav-dixit-s-home-in-mumbai-101617478088798.html
04-04-2021||Other||IIT-B launches novel fundraising campaign, collects ₹55L in 6 weeks||Mumbai In a novel initiative, the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) raised ₹55.41 lakh through a fundraising campaign. While donations from the alumni are a regular affair for the Institute of Eminence, this is the first time that it has made a dedicated effort to raise capital to fund various aspects of academics and research from its alumni network. Launched in February, Cherish IIT Bombay is the first-ever annual fundraising campaign of the institute. In its first chapter, the campaign, launched only in India, ran for six weeks, during which time IIT-B was able to connect with 164 alumni members, who donated a total of ₹55.41 lakh. “The main objective this time has been to connect them and also to inculcate a thought of donating every year,” said Suhas Joshi, dean, alumni and corporate relations, IIT-B. The funds raised will be used for the creation of under-graduate education laboratories, modernisation of lecture halls, establishing maker space of IIT-B and providing Young Faculty Awards, Joshi added. “The alumni network helps IIT-B in numerous ways, by supporting its initiatives to expand and maintain world-class infrastructure for a rapidly-increasing student base. The Cherish IIT Bombay campaign helped spread awareness about how the alumni can support the institute and contribute to their alma-mater for the causes close to their heart,” said Joshi. The next chapter of the Cherish IIT Bombay campaign will be launched on the Alumni Day – December 26 – and extend till March 31, 2022. The institute, in its 63rd year now, faces a deficit of around ₹100 crore annually, according to annual reports. It has been looking for ways to raise capital. In December 2019, HT had reported that the institute’s director, Subhasis Chaudhuri, had called an emergency meeting with the faculty to brainstorm on ways to generate funds. Faculty members had been asked to bring in sponsors and even offer infrastructures to be renamed after alumni in exchange for donations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitb-launches-novel-fundraising-campaign-collects-55l-in-6-weeks-101617478088282.html
04-04-2021||Other||After spending 11 years in jail, New Panvel teacher accused of 9-yr-old’s rape acquitted by Bombay HC||Mumbai The Bombay high court (HC) recently cleared a teacher from allegations of raping a nine-year-old student, after he spent about 11 years behind bars. The division bench of justice Sadhana Jadhav and justice NR Borkar set free the 39-year-old former biology teacher of a New Panvel school and junior college after noticing several discrepancies in the prosecution’s case. The alleged incident, according to the prosecution, took place on June 21, 2010. The Class 3 student said that when she went to the washroom along with a friend around 4.00pm, a male teacher obstructed her way and took her to the gents’ washroom, where another teacher held her hand and a third one teacher sexually assaulted her. The biology teacher was arrested the next day. He was prosecuted for the crime and convicted by an additional sessions judge at Alibag on November 23, 2013, and sentenced to life imprisonment. The next year he moved HC, through advocate Shine Kamaluddin Mohammed, against the verdict. On March 22, HC allowed his appeal, primarily after noticing that though the child was sexually assaulted by someone, there was no evidence to link the biology teacher to the heinous crime. HC noted that the child had initially disclosed to her parents that it was her drawing teacher who had sexually assaulted her, but when on the next day after the incident she went to the school with Kalamboli police for identifying the accused, she pointed at the photograph of another teacher, as the person who assaulted her. However, her mother maintained that she knew the other teacher and was sure that he would not commit such an act. The child was then shown the photograph of the biology teacher, who was arrested after the nine-year nodded in affirmative. HC, however, noticed that on the date of the incident, the biology teacher had been to the school at 7.30am, and left at 3.00pm, and nobody had seen him in the institute thereafter. Besides, HC also noted that the doctor, who had examined the child, had categorically opined that there was evidence to suggest she was habituated to sexual activity, and was taking some medication prescribed by a private gynaecologist, almost a year prior to the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-spending-11-years-in-jail-new-panvel-teacher-accused-of-9-yr-old-s-rape-acquitted-by-bombay-hc-101617478028826.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||₹26.8L taken out from Vaze’s joint account after arrest: NIA||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court extended the remand of Sachin Vaze till April 7 during a Saturday hearing of the suspended Mumbai police officer who is under arrest for his alleged role in parking an explosives-laden car outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February.Vaze is also being investigated for his role in the death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran who is linked to the SUV found parked outside Antilia with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threatening letter addressed to the industrialist. The Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad arrested two men, Vinayak Shinde (a former cop) and Naresh Gor (a bookie) for their role in the murder and named Vaze as the prime suspect in the case, before the NIA took over the probe on March 20.The federal probe agency informed the special court that Vaze, the former head of the Criminal Intelligence Unit of the Mumbai Crime Branch, had a joint account in the Versova branch of a private bank, which reportedly held a sum of ₹26.80 lakh. However, when the agency searched the branch on March 18, five days after arresting Vaze in connection with the security scare case, it found only Rs. 5,000 in the account. The NIA told the court that the duo owned a locker, which was found to be empty during their search.The probe agency did not reveal the name of the person whom Vaze reportedly held the account and locker with.Additional solicitor general Anil Singh representing NIA informed the court that the agency needs to interrogate Vaze in custody to find out as to who withdrew the amount from the bank.“It appears that there was some incriminating material and / or documents in the locker which were also removed, and the agency needs to find out as to who had withdrawn the money and removed contents of the locker and on whose instructions,” he said.Vaze’s counsel, Abad Ponda, told the court that the 49-year-old cop did not have any such bank account or locker.Ponda further challenged the NIA’s claim that a haul of evidence from Mithi river last month did not implicate his client.“Mithi river is an open place for the whole Mumbai and other parts. Anyone can come and drop anything into the river. They (NIA) are just claiming these as recoveries, and they are planting all those things in Vaze’s name,” the ANI reported Ponda as saying.On March 25, professional divers for the NIA recovered several items from the Mithi river including two CPUs, a laptop, a printer, 2 Digital Video Recorders and a set of registration number plates of a Maruti Eco stolen from Aurangabad in November 2020, all of which had been damaged before being thrown in the river.Singh said that the NIA needed to confront Vaze about this evidence, as well as 120 TB of data collected from several CCTV footage samples collected in the course of the investigation.Singh added that during the search at Vaze’s house at Saket Complex in Thane, NIA has recovered a passport of an unknown person and it was yet to be ascertained as to who that person was, how was he connected to Vaze.Singh said the agency has on April 2 seized one more luxury car, a white Mercedes, in connection with the crime. He, however, did not elaborate as to whom the car belonged and how it was connected to the crime.He added that the agency had raided in a club in south Mumbai where officials found a diary that indicated that some amounts were paid to Vaze and it was necessary to find out why the amounts were paid to the arrested police officer.The NIA is also probing Vaze’s reported extortion activities. This comes in the wake of a letter written by former Mumbai police commissioner, Param Bir Singh, who accused the home minister of running an extortion racket and setting a target for police officers, including Vaze, to collect ₹100 crore from establishments like shops.The senior advocate also opposed the prayer for extension of Vaze’s custody, contending that NIA was seeking extension of his remand 15 days after it invoked provisions of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), but not a single ground under anti-terror Act was mentioned in their remand application.On March 25, the NIA invoked sections 16 and 18 of the stringent anti-terror law, against Vaze. The two sections deal with conspiring to commit a terror act.Hiran’s body washed up ashore a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra on March 5, with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered by a scarf. All his belongings including a gold ring, chain, mobile phone, wrist watch and wallet were missing.Special court calls for Vaze’s detailed medical reportThe special NIA court on Saturday directed the federal agency to submit a detailed medical report, indicating whether Vaze required any treatment or surgical intervention after Vaze addressed the court and claimed that he had blockages in his heart, which required him to undergo an angiography and angioplasty.Vaze claimed to have suffered stroke-like symptoms last week.The directive came after Vaze himself addresses the court during hearing on his remand and claimed that he suffered a cardiac stroke on Sunday.His counsel, Ponda also submitted Vaze’s medical reports to the court on Saturday.The NIA, however, maintained that Vaze’s eco-cardiogram results were conducted and after perusing the reports, a doctor had opined that Vaze’s heart was working normally. It further told the court that Vaze was under supervision of a doctor.Vaze on Saturday met his brother Sudharm in the special NIA court and spoke to him for some time with permission of the court. Sudharm also handed over some clothes to Vaze and while stopping out of the court told news channels that he had “full faith in the NIA and our judicial system.”Sudharm Vaze had filed a habeus corpus petition in the Bombay HC last month challenging the legality of his brother’s arrest, after he was cooperating with the NIA in their investigation. Vaze has denied playing any role in the commission of the crime pertaining to the explosives case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/268l-taken-out-from-vaze-s-joint-account-after-arrest-nia-101617478028331.html
04-04-2021||Other||J&K bank’s ex-chairman held in illegal tender allotment case||Jammu and Kashmir Bank’s former chairman Parvez Ahmad Nengroo was arrested on Saturday in connection with a case of illegal allotment of tenders for housekeeping that led to a loss of crores of rupees to the bank, the anti-corruption bureau (ACB) said.“The case pertains to illegal allotment of tenders for housekeeping to a Mumbai-based company i.e, M/S SILA Solutions Pvt. Ltd. Proper tendering norms were not followed while alloting the tender,” said a spokesperson of the ACB. He further added that due to the lapses, improper ATM cleaning, undue addition of the management fee and other omissions and commissions detected during the course of investigation, and the J&K Bank has suffered losses worth crores of rupees from the date of award of contract.“Besides this case, chargesheets in connection with FIR 10/2019 of PS ACB Srinagar have already been produced before the anti-corruption court against Parvez Ahmad Nengroo. It is pertinent to mention here that on account of illegal appointments in JK bank, the bank suffered a loss of more than Rs. 250 crore on account of salary paid to these illegal employees over the period,” the ACB statement said. adding that further investigation in the case is in progress.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-bank-s-ex-chairman-held-in-illegal-tender-allotment-case-101617477909268.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Tough Covid-19 curbs Maha need of the hour’||With Covid-19 cases continuing to spike as never before, the Maharashtra government is inching towards a lockdown in a step-by-step manner, with stringent restrictions likely within a day or two. And if cases are not controlled, then a complete lockdown will be imposed, insiders in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government said on Saturday.“We are starting with stringent restrictions to control cases as the rise in cases is sharp. But if cases continue to rise with the same speed and if resources start falling short, then we will be left with no option, but to impose lockdown,” Rajesh Tope, state health minister told HT.Meanwhile, experts, too, said some tough decisions that will not adversely affect the economy needed to be taken by the administration. Putting more curbs on non-essential events like weddings and parties as well as non-essential activities such as morning and evening walks, and introducing staggered timings for offices to reduce peak-hour train and road traffic should be considered immediately, they opined. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already warned for a lockdown as the cases are rising sharply and there are concerns that the health infrastructure would crumble after a point of time.On Saturday, the state reached close to the 50,000 mark as 49,447 new cases were reported, which was also the highest in a day and it is likely that the daily cases will cross 50,000 in a day or two, the officials said.Senior officials said that Thackeray is of the view that the transmission of cases can be arrested only by imposing lockdown. However, consensus among the ruling parties is yet to be made — NCP and Congress are still not in favour of complete lockdown.On Saturday, the chief minister held various meetings with various sections of society, asking them for their support in the decisions to be taken by the state government as they will be in the interest of all.He said, “The entire state is going to face losses, but we have to give priority to life over work and thus it is imminent to take certain steps. We cannot ignore the current circumstances and make all the efforts to break the chain of the spread,” the chief minister said in a virtual meeting held with the owners of cinema halls, multiplexes and Marathi theatres.“We are not of the view to shut down this or that but to overcome the crisis in time we have to make efforts from now onwards,” he added.Thackeray also discussed the ongoing crisis owing to the pandemic with gym owners, and editors from the media industry on Saturday.“The chief minister has made up his mind to impose lockdown, but we were not ready for it. However, the situation is going out of hand and some harsh decisions have to be taken. We cannot allow the situation to be continued like this and lockdown will be the only alternative left before us in the coming days,” said a MVA minister, wishing not to be named.On Friday in his live address on social media platforms, Thackeray warned that the state’s healthcare infrastructure may be overwhelmed in the next two weeks and also appealed to political parties, industrialists and ordinary people to cooperate and obey safety guidelines.“I am not announcing a lockdown, but definitely warning about it. I am sure we can avoid a lockdown if we decide firmly about it. We will observe for the next couple of days, if people are observing protocol strictly. But in case no such solution is found, I cannot allow the situation to go out of hand,” he said.Experts, too, believe some tough decisions that will not adversely affect the economy need to be taken by the administration to check the rise in the number of cases in the city and the state. It should include curbing non-essential events like weddings, parties, non-essential activities such as morning and evening walks, and introducing staggered timings for offices to reduce peak-hour train and road traffic. Dr Rahul Pandit, who is part of the government’s Covid-19 task force said, “No one wants the economy to be hampered again due to a lockdown. But curbs can be put on non-essential activities, such as on morning and evening walkers, and on those who leave homes just for an outing, such as in parks or beaches. This will not affect any businesses, on those dependent on such business for their day-to-day income.” He also stressed on not allowing weddings to any social gatherings in the state.He further said, “If office timings can be staggered for even those 50% employees who are not working from home right now, then it will reduce load on local public transport. The shift of these employees should be determined at the interval of two hours, so that some employees can start work at 7am, others at 9am. In that case, those asked to start with a delay of two hours will work two hours more at the end of the day. Presently, local public transport gets very crowded during office hours around 9am and 5pm to 7pm.”Dr Avinash Supe, chairman of the state-appointed death audit committee, stressed on ramping up vaccination in the state, while Dr Pandit said the state must now start vaccinating all above the age of 18.Meanwhile, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis criticised Thackeray, saying lockdown cannot be a rule and can be imposed only in exceptional circumstances. Prime Minister Narendra Modi provided food grains and transferred money in the bank accounts of the common people before imposing lockdown. The state should also consider doing all the same before taking such a decision, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/tough-covid-19-curbs-maha-need-of-the-hour-101617477908229.html
04-04-2021||Other||Congress leaders meet CM over unequal fund allocation, Raut’s remarks on UPA chief||Mumbai Senior Congress leaders on Saturday expressed their unhappiness to chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray over the “unequal allocation” of development funds to their ministers in the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. Thackeray assured to resolve the issue, if any. The leaders, during the meeting at CM’s official residence Varsha, also raised an objection against the statement made by Shiv Sena’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut over the latter’s suggestion to make Nationalist Congress Party (BJP) chief Sharad Pawar as the chairperson of the United Progressive Alliance (UPA), a post currently held by interim Congress president Sonia Gandhi, party insiders said.It was also decided to constitute a coordination committee to review the common minimum programme on the basis of which the MVA government was formed. The committee will have national and state-level leaders from the three ruling parties — Sena, NCP and Congress.The delegation of Congress leaders, including state Congress president Nana Patole and public works department (PWD) minister Ashok Chavan, was led by party’s Maharashtra in-charge HK Patil. It was Patil’s first meeting with Thackeray after he took over charge of the state Congress unit.“We have brought to the notice of CM some concerns raised over the distribution of funds and how the departments handled by Congress ministers are suffering owing to want of funds. CM also expressed his concern about the issue and assured to look into it. He also said he will resolve the lapses, in case there are any,” Patil told reporters outside Varsha.On Friday, Patole had said that Congress ministers are getting an unequal share in fund allocation. “There is a discontent among Congress legislators over the distribution of funds. NCP and Shiv Sena [ministers] are getting more development funds,” Patole had said after attending a meeting of Congress ministers and leaders.Speaking over Raut’s statement on UPA leadership, Patil said, “With regard to Raut’s statement, I have received lots of complaints. But today in a news report, Raut said he didn’t mean that Sonia Ji be replaced. I think after this [clarification], there is no issue left.”Patil also said the party wants the common minimum programme to be reviewed. “He [Thackeray] said it will be reviewed at ministers’ level. Also, a committee, with two representatives from national and state level from each of the parties, will be set up. They will review its implementation and make improvements, if needed,” the Congress in-charge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/congress-leaders-meet-cm-over-unequal-fund-allocation-raut-s-remarks-on-upa-chief-101617477849420.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Starting today, civic body will vaccinate citizens on Sundays too||Mumbai, for a third consecutive day, reported its highest single-day spike with 9,108 cases on Saturday, along with 27 deaths, taking the tally to 441,475 and toll to 11,754. On Saturday, Mumbai’s active cases also crossed the 60,000 mark. With the increasing cases, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Saturday said that starting this weekend it will also vaccinate on Sundays and all its vaccination centres will be running in two shifts for the same.The Central government earlier last week told all state governments to conduct vaccination even on Sundays in order to ensure the vaccination drive picks up pace in the country.Sheela Jagtap, BMC’s immunisation officer, said, “All our vaccination centres will function on all Sundays up to April 30, and further going a decision will be taken at a later stage. From tomorrow, all vaccination centres will function even on a Sunday there is no decline in numbers there.”The BMC has 116 vaccination centres and till now, it has vaccinated 1,330,573 citizens so far. On Saturday, 44,500 citizens between 45 and 59 age group were vaccinated followed by 12,389 senior citizens. Overall, including frontline and health care workers, 64,186 were vaccinated on Saturday.Further, according to state health department’s data, city’s recovery rate is 83% with 367,899 recoveries, followed by mortality rate of 2.66%. There are 60,846 active cases in the city. The BMC has anticipated that the city will experience a scenario wherein daily, around 60,000 tests will be conducted in the city, followed by it reporting around 10,000 cases daily.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal last week said, “Assuming that the number of positives in due course of time in Mumbai increases to 10,000 cases per day with assumption that approximately 15% of these would be symptomatic, and further assuming that every symptomatic patient will require a bed, the total number of beds required to handle 10,000 cases every day for a period of six to eight weeks will be around 21,000 beds.”On Saturday, the BMC in a statement said, “Patients who are home isolated will be discharged from the civic body’s patient list after 10 days from symptom onset and if they have no fever for three consecutive days and their oxygen saturation is above 95.”Thereafter the patient shall be advised to isolate at home and self-monitor their health for a further seven days. There is no need for a test after the period of home isolation is over. This would mean that a patient would remain isolated for a total of 17 days. The BMC allows home isolation in case of a patient being asymptomatic, or has mild symptoms, or is elderly, or has comorbidities but with no symptoms, after evaluation from an assistant medical health officerMeanwhile, the BMC in a statement on Saturday appealed to citizens to behave in a Covid-19 appropriate manner in order to ensure the spread of Covid-19 is contained. The BMC also appealed to citizens to not take symptoms lightly and consult doctors or BMC clinics, in case of any difficulty. The BMC also said that over 2.4 million citizens have been fined in the last one year for not wearing a mask in which over Rs49 crore has been collected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/starting-today-civic-body-will-vaccinate-citizens-on-sundays-too-101617477848799.html
04-04-2021||Other||10-19 age group hit during second surge of Covid-19 infection||rupsa.chakraborty@htlive.comMumbai At a time when Mumbai continues to struggle with an unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases, it is facing yet another challenge — an increased rate of infection among children and teens.In February, a total of 12,312 patients in the age group of 10-19 got infected. In March, the number surged to 17,109 (including one death), which is as a 39% rise, as per the data provided by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). However, most of the patients are either asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic. According to public health experts, children are most vulnerable now because they are more exposed to outdoor activities, functions and gatherings, which was not the case earlier due to lockdowns.“It is a challenging job to keep children indoor for months. Now, they go outside to play and participate in social gatherings. Earlier, they were more protected. Now as parents also know that the infection rate is less among children, they have also put their guard down,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC.Although, most of the children recover in home isolation, the infection may prove fatal if a patient has underlying health conditions. At least 32 patients in the same age group have died across the city during the start of the pandemic.“We have hardly received any case where a child needed hospitalisation. But children ailing with tuberculosis and HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) have low immunity and there needs to be extra caution taken for them,” said Dr Bela Verma, head of paediatric department at Sir JJ Hospital.The same age group has been hit in other parts of the country too, such as Delhi. Dr Randeep Guleria, director of AIIMS (All India Institute of Medical Science), Delhi, said, “With the unlocking, children have started going out, which provides a suitable opportunity for the virus to thrive. Also, children often don’t follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, which makes them more vulnerable to acquiring the infection.”Public health officers also believe that the children are becoming a source of infection spreaders among family members, especially the elderly.“As soon as children enter home, they remove their masks without following proper sanitation. That’s when they end up infecting older family members. Then the cycle of infection keeps circulating,” said Dr Deepak Baid, in-charge of Covid-19 patients in Rajawadi Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1019-age-group-hit-during-second-surge-of-covid-19-infection-101617477848246.html
04-04-2021||Other||Ahead of MC polls, Anil Sharma trains guns on HP CM||Days after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur attacked his colleague and party legislator from Mandi, Anil Sharma, for not campaigning during the municipal corporation elections, the latter launched a counter-offensive and hit back at the government over lack of development in the town popular as ‘Choti Kashi’.Anil Sharma, who was the power minister in the Jai Ram cabinet, was compelled to give up his cabinet berth after his son Ashray Sharma contested on a Congress ticket during Lok Sabha polls. “Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is a decent man, but he is being misled by his cabinet minister Mahender Singh Thakur,” said Sharma.BJP did not include Sharma, a local legislator from Mandi, in the panel constituted for the municipal elections. But with no party member being able to match up to Sharma’s popularity in Mandi, the CM entrusted the poll responsibility to Jal Shakti minister Mahender Singh Thakur.“Jai Ram Thakur has begun lying in the company of Mahender Singh Thakur. He is making false claims on development of Mandi town,” said Sharma addressing the media in Mandi town. “Mahender Singh and Lok Sabha members had committed to remain resolute for the development of Mandi but nothing has been done so far. Who will trust them in future?” asked Sharma. “I will no longer remain silent. The CM allocated ₹3 lakh for the under-construction school in Kotli that has an estimated cost of ₹1.5 crore,” he said. Sharma also credited his own father for the development of Mandi. “Fifty years ago when my father contested elections from Mandi, there was no sewage plant and the town was dependent on manual scavenging,” he said. “Shankaumar jee is remembered largely as Paani waala Mukhya Mantri and Dhumaljee as Road waala Mukhya mantra, but Jai Ram jee is only known Seraj waala Mukhya mantra,” he said. Claiming that he was pushed to the margins, Sharma said, “I was not allowed to share the stage with him; there was no invitation for historic Shivratri mela. If my son made a mistake by contesting on a Congress ticket, then why am I being punished?”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-mc-polls-anil-sharma-trains-guns-on-hp-cm-101617477791476.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||NCP chief Sharad Pawar gets discharged from hospital, advised seven days complete rest||National Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, 80, was on Saturday discharged from Breach Candy Hospital, four days after he underwent an urgent endoscopic procedure for removal of a gallstone on Tuesday night. Doctors have advised him a seven-day complete rest. He will likely be operated for gallbladder surgery if all of his parameters come normal after 15 days.“Sharad Pawar saheb was checked by a team of Doctors today and his health is stable, he will be discharged from hospital today. He has been advised rest for 7 days and after 15 days if all his health parameters are stable, surgery on his gall bladder will be performed,” said Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister, in a series of tweets.He also urged party cadre and all well-wishers to refrain from visiting Pawar as he needs complete rest to recuperate. Pawar was looking fit as he walked up to his house and climbed stairs without any help after getting down from the car on Saturday afternoon.The former Union minister was diagnosed with stones in the gallbladder. On Tuesday night, he underwent an endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) procedure to remove one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct, causing blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas called pancreatitis.The veteran leader had been recovering at the hospital since then. From Thursday evening, he was allowed by the doctors to walk and have solid foods. Now, he will have to be operated for gallbladder surgery for which he will have to be admitted once again. This may take two weeks as he has swelling and inflammation in the pancreas. He was also suffering with jaundice, when admitted to the hospital, according to doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/ncp-chief-sharad-pawar-gets-discharged-from-hospital-advised-seven-days-complete-rest-101617477789909.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Public getting negligent because of low fatality rate’||Despite over a four-fold rise in active Covid-19 patients in Mumbai, the case fatality rate (CFR) has remained under 1%. Though it is a silver lining for Mumbaites, doctors believe it is leading to casual behaviour among the public who are violating Covid safety rules.Suryakanth Mishra, 62-year-old, who fought the virus for 12 days in an Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in SevenHills Hospital, Marol, succumbed to the infection on March 17. He was diagnosed with tuberculosis (TB) in 2017, but successfully recovered by the end of 2018. However, the infection had left his lungs damaged and scarred, which became an easy target for Sars-Cov-2, the virus that causes Covid-19.“Considering he was a TB survivor, he didn’t delay his diagnosis. As soon as he started showing symptoms, we did his Covid-19 test. But even before we could get the report, his oxygen saturation dropped below 85%,” said Pradeep Mishra, his son.Although the CFR has remained within 1%, due to the four-fold rise in Covid-19 cases, cumulative death rate increased by 91% in March compared to the previous month. In February, a total 111 Covid-19 deaths were recorded in the city, which increased to 212 in March.But doctors believe that because of the low fatality rate, the public have become careless and not following Covid precautionary measures like maintaining social distance, wearing masks and sanitising hands regularly.For instance, on Thursday, the city reported 8,646 new Covid-19 cases. But only 18 deaths were reported in the same 24 hours. On March 31, as many as 5,394 Covid-19 cases were recorded in the city with only 15 deaths.“The CFR in the second wave is still under control. But people shouldn’t take this for granted. People are irresponsible in their Covid-appropriate behaviour. If infection rate increases further, hospitals would run out of beds. Delay in treatment can contribute to rise in deaths,” said Dr Avinash Supe, in-charge of Covid-death committee.On March 1, the city had only 9,690 active cases which has now increased to over 51,000. As almost 10-15% of the newly infected patients require hospitalisation, over 80% of the Intensive Care Units (ICU) beds are occupied. The public health experts believe that soon, the city may face shortage of beds if cases keep rising further.As a precautionary measure, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has instructed all ward officers and hospitals to keep a detailed record of the deceased patients for analysis.“In June, when the mortality rate was over 5%, we initiated Mission Save Life. Now, again we have reissued the same guidelines. We have asked hospitals and civic officials to maintain records of the deceased like when the patient was detected, how long the deceased took to get admitted, what medicines were provided among others,” said Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, BMC. “If fatality rate increases, it would help us to understand the reason behind the deaths and make adequate changes in policies,” he added.In January, the positivity rate in the city was only 4%, which has now increased to over 20%. “We are focusing on three aspects— mass vaccination, increasing hospital beds and testing as much as possible. But the public needs to be more responsible. In fact, we are asking the beneficiaries who have taken the jab to keep wearing masks just as a precautionary measure,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, executive health officer, BMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/public-getting-negligent-because-of-low-fatality-rate-101617477788854.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Students of classes 1 to 8 will be promoted without exams: Edu min||As schools in several parts of Maharashtra remain shut due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, the state education department has decided to promote all students between Classes 1 and 8 to the next classes, based on a monitoring process.State education minister Varsha Gaikwad made the announcement on Saturday afternoon. “All state board students across Maharashtra state from Class 1st to Class 8th will be promoted to the next class without any examinations. A decision regarding students of class 9th and 11th will soon be taken,” stated a tweet by Gaikwad. “We could not open schools for Classes 1 to 4. Even schools for the higher grade could not open. Hence it has been decided to promote students this year,” she added. The department shall soon release a manual on promoting students to the next grade, as per which schools have to assess their performance.Principals welcomed the move. “We have made several representations in this regard and are happy that they have been accepted. Students should not be subjected to stress during the current situation,” said Prashant Redij, spokesperson of the Mumbai Principal’s Association. As per the RTE Act, students between Classes 1 and 8 are promoted on the basis of their continuous comprehensive evaluation (CCE) monitored throughout the year.The state education department allowed schools in the state to reopen for Classes 9 to 12 from November 23, 2020 and for Classes 5 to 8 from January 27, 2021. The final decision of reopening schools rested with the local authorities and schools in Mumbai, Thane and Navi Mumbai did not open. However, with the rising number of Covid-19 infections, even those in various parts of the state that had opened had to close down.Gaikwad said that even as schools remain shut, students are getting access to learning through TV, radio mobile phones and through various online channels of the education department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/students-of-classes-1-to-8-will-be-promoted-without-exams-edu-min-101617477789327.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Researchers from MU identify edible species of jellyfish on Mumbai shores||Researchers from the department of life sciences of the University of Mumbai (MU) have identified an edible species of jellyfish that washes ashore the coast of Mumbai. This is the first time that an edible species has been identified through a modern technique in India that is documented.Romil Dagha and Komal Kumari, with their guide Nisha Shah, assistant professor at MU’s life sciences department, set out to better understand and manage jellyfish blooms by accurately identifying species.In collaboration with Pavan Annam-Kumar, senior scientist, Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE), Mumbai, the researchers used molecular markers along with morphological characters to distinguish the jellyfish. Their work was published in the March issue of the Indian Journal of Geo Marine Sciences.“Every year we experience large swarms of jellyfish blooms, some of which possess venomous stings. Therefore, it’s important to identify all the different types of species. Jellyfish are difficult to identify, even for taxonomic experts. So we used a modern method of identification,” said Dagha.Using morphology and molecular markers, they identified Rhopilema hispidum from the Mumbai coast, an edible species that has a huge market in south-east Asian countries. Molecular studies help understand the species diversity across geography by comparing the markers with same species from different geography (in this case Malaysia).A total of nine individual jellyfishes were collected from Juhu beach, Mumbai, during September 2017. The morphological characters were observed and documented from fresh specimens following existing literature.“In India, previous studies on jellyfish have focused mostly on aspects of jellyfish stings, envenomation (exposure to a poison or toxin resulting from a sting) and toxicology of their venoms,” the study said. While previous studies have documented the Rhopilema hispidum from the Indian coast using morphological characters, studies on molecular identification of jellyfish are very limited.Molecular studies provide a confirmatory remark towards identification of any species. The partial gene sequence of ITS1 region obtained from this study will serve as a reference for identification of this species in future from Arabian sea, according to Dagha.“This study gives us confirmation of the presence of a new type of jellyfish off Mumbai shores. Jellyfish are notorious for occupying fish space in fisherman’s catch due to which there is a huge financial loss to them. But it is actually a hidden market opportunity for the Mumbai fish industry with huge demand for jellyfish in eastern countries,” he said.“This is the first time that the specimen is identified with molecular tools in India. Rhopilema hispidum is a common species in the Indo-Pacific, reported earlier from India from the east coast. This is also reported from Pakistan, and this study shows that it could be distributed both in east and west coast of India,” said A Bijukumar, professor and head of the aquatic biology and fisheries department of University of Kerala, who was not involved in the study,||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/researchers-from-mu-identify-edible-species-of-jellyfish-on-mumbai-shores-101617477788303.html
04-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records close to 50k cases, Mumbai close to 10K||Amid growing fears of stricter restrictions or a second lockdown in the state, Maharashtra on Saturday recorded more than 40,000 cases for the third day in a row with 49,447 — also the state’s highest single-day spike. The state also recorded more than 200 deaths, with 277 deaths recorded on Saturday. The state now has more than 400,000 active cases. The state’s tally has reached 2,953,523 with 55,656 fatalities.In the past three days (since April 1), the state has recorded more than 100,000 cases with 140,457 new infections.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageMumbai, which has been witnessing a sharp spike in cases also reported upwards of 9,000 new cases with 9,108 infections and 27 deaths on Saturday. The city’s tally is now 441,475 with 11,754 fatalities. Mumbai also has 60,846 active cases, second-highest in the state after Pune, which has 73,599 active cases as on Saturday.Other cities like Pune, Nashik and Nagpur also recorded 5,778, 2,459 and 2,854 new Covid cases on Saturday.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday, in his address to citizens said that he will be consulting experts before announcing stringent measures in the state in a day or two. He also held meetings with various groups to look at alternatives to a lockdown.“I am giving an indication for a complete lockdown, but not announcing it formally. If things do not improve visibly in a couple of days and if no other solution is found, we will have to announce another lockdown like it is being done globally,” Thackeray had said in his address.Experts have earlier said that the number of cases in the state is expected to rise for another two weeks before it hits a plateau.With the western state being the worst affected owing to the ongoing second wave in the country, sources said that there might be tighter restrictions introduced in affected areas. Dr Rahul Pandit, a member of the state-appointed task force, had earlier said that the government must look at restricting non-essential activities.“No one wants to economy to be hampered again due to a lockdown. But curbs can be put on non-essential activities, such as on morning and evening walkers, and on those who leave homes just for an outing, such as in parks or beaches. This will not affect any businesses, on those dependent on such business for their day-to-day income,” Dr Pandit had said. He also stressed on not allowing weddings or any social gatherings in the state.Owing to the rising cases in the state, school education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Saturday also announced that all state board students (class 1 to class 8) across Maharashtra will be promoted without conducting exams. She said that a decision regarding class 9 to class 11 will also be announced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-records-close-to-50k-cases-mumbai-close-to-10k-101617477728285.html
04-04-2021||Other||Himachal logs 418 fresh infections, four deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 418 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s tally past 64,838 while the death toll mounted to 1,047 after four more patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 104 were recorded in Kangra, 84 in Solan, 58 in Una, 40 each in Hamirpur and Shimla, 29 in Bilaspur, 25 in Mandi, 21 in Chamba, 13 in Kullu and four in Sirmaur. There are 3,441 active cases in the state while recoveries reached 60, 331 after 307 people recuperated. Shimla is the worst hit district with 11,063 cases and is followed by Mandi where 10,579 people have been infected to date and Mandi with 9,828 cases. Solan has 7,673cases, Kullu 4,578, Una 4,335, Sirmaur 4,031, Hamirpur 3,605, Chamba 3,065, Kinnaur 1,401 and Lahaul-Spiti 1,259. Boarding schools to remain open in stateThree days after chief minister Jai Ram Thakur’s announcement, the state executive committee (SEC), disaster management I, issued orders to keep all educational institutions schools, colleges, universities, institutions closed up till April 15, 2021 as a precautionary measure in wake of the surging Covid-19 cases. However, schools and institutions having residential facilities need not close their hostel facilities but must observe SOPs issued by the ministry of health and family welfare, Government of India, for Covid-19 prevention.In an order issued on Saturday, the SEC also said that all teaching and non-teaching staff will continue attending their respective institutions. Students of classes set to have examinations in the near future can visit the school or educational institute to clear any doubts, with a written consent of the parents/guardian. All coaching centres for competitive exams preparations and nursing, medical and dental colleges will remain open. The educational institutions that are earmarked as examination centres shall be properly sanitised prior to being used as examination centres, the SEC stated. All such schools/educational institutions also must appoint a compliance officer for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-418-fresh-infections-four-deaths-101617477669096.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Termination of service: HC awards up to ₹5-lakh relief to 16 Punjab financial corp ex-workers||Chandigarh The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed Punjab Financial Corporation (PFC) to give a compensation of ₹65,000 for each year of service to 16 of its former workers terminated in the past 20 years. The court, however, put a ₹5-lakh cap on the maximum sum a worker will be paid.The high court acted on the plea of the former workmen, who had sought directions that corporation be directed to reinstate them or in the alternative appropriate compensation be granted for illegal termination of their services. A Patiala tribunal though had refused orders for their reinstatement, but directed that they be compensated with up to ₹8,000 for each year of service rendered by them. They were appointed between 1984 and 1994 and were working as watch and ward staff duties. The corporation deals in taking over properties in the case of default in re-payment by loanees. All the workmen were employed to carry out watch and ward duties over such properties. The corporation had opposed reinstatement as well as award of compensation, stating that there was no relationship of master and employee between them. The court found that the workmen were not appointed against a regular post and they were appointed for watch and ward staff duty of the units. In view of this, the court said that they are not entitled to reinstatement. As of compensation, it said that the court is required to balance the interest of both the parties. While the corporation is spending the public money on the other hand, workmen were chucked out of service without following the provisions of the Industrial Dispute Act, 1947, have to be granted an appropriate relief. The orders of terminating the services of the workmen were passed without following the procedure under the law, the court held, directing that the petitioners will be entitled to compensation of ₹65,000 per year, subject to maximum cap of ₹5 lakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/termination-of-service-hc-awards-up-to-5-lakh-relief-to-16-punjab-financial-corp-exworkers-101617477488983.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wild Buzz: Embers of spring||In the Shivalik foothill jungles that loom over the tricity, fires have flushed the complexion of predominant tawny-olive flora. Blood-stained, tiger claw-shaped or parakeet beak-shaped flowers of the ‘flame of the forest’ tree have come to abundant bloom. They are beauteous beacons to behold. A raging pyre of spring’s last rites, these April ‘phools’ embody an eloquent dread of summer’s advancing inferno.The awkward looking tree with a crooked trunk and ungainly branches sports the most unusual flowers, whose elegance has inspired poets as exalted as Rabindranath Tagore and enriched India’s diverse folk cultures. In contrast to the tree’s rugged grey bark, the blooms are silken to touch but lacking in the gentle, esoteric whiff of a jungle flower. The palash, dhak or tesu is the state flower of Chandigarh and three states, though it is a rare spectacle to behold within the city’s green lungs. However, nature enthusiasts would do well to drive out just 30 minutes from the heart of the city to savour clumps of palash trees in the foothills. They are especially visible along dry, seasonal rivulets. If the human soul revels in the tree’s post-Holi exuberance, an astonishing diversity of birds, bees, butterflies and insects are attracted to its blooms by its riveting colour, edible petals and nectarine gifts. It is not unusual to come across langoors on this tree or a civet silhouetted against bloom and moon. What was missing from the repertoire of photographs was a leopard clambering aboard the tree. Though the Shivaliks enjoy a good representation of leopards, no photographer has chanced upon that vivid spectacle. It was, therefore, a definitive moment in the palash’s reputation as one of the most unconditional hosts when photographers recently discovered a leopard clan amid the blooms in the Jawai hills of Rajasthan. I take great delight in sharing a mesmerising image with Wildbuzz readers. Repeat offenceLast week, another Sambar died in horrific, blood-curdling contortions after it was impaled while attempting to jump over the crude, spear-tipped fence that cuts off Nagar Van from Uttar Marg, opposite Sector 5. In November, a fawn had similarly perished while attempting a leap within the Sukhna Lake Nature Trail over a speared fence. The fence, whose height varies between 5.5-7ft, is a death trap for young, infirm and old sambars or those who panic and misjudge the leap while seeking foraging pastures outside Nagar Van. These senseless deaths anguished a Chandigarh-based educationist, Divye Mathur, who saw both the dead sambars impaled in brutal fashion while out for a walk early in the morning. Flagging the issue on social media, he said: “What is the point of these sharp spikes? These poor creatures had to die in such a brutal manner just because this killer boundary has been installed. Has it been installed to save wild animals or to kill them? Everywhere else a net fencing is installed around wildlife areas not these spear tips,” Mathur, a Sector-8 resident, told this writer.The good news is that the forest and wildlife department is finally rectifying the issue. “On a trial basis, we are welding flat plates on top of the spikes so as to remove the threat, especially along routes frequented by animals. If it works, we will remedy the fencing more exhaustively,” chief wildlife warden Debendra Dalai told this writer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wild-buzz-embers-of-spring-101617477071419.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Pbi varsity V-C appoints new dean academic affairs, PUTA fumes||With Punjabi University going to hold its key syndicate and finance committee meetings on April 5, the varsity’s officiating vice-chancellor, senior IAS officer Ravneet Kaur, appointment professor Pushpinder Singh Gill as dean, academic affairs, on Saturday. Prof Gill replaced Prof Amritpal Kaur, who, along with 39 other officials, had tendered resignation last week from their respective posts, citing alleged discrepancies in the working of V-C. The working of the university has come to standstill as none of the officials attended their office post resignations. Even the varsity was unable to hold finance committee and syndicate meetings on March 30 for approving the annual budget for 2021-22 financial year. On Wednesday, the V-C appointed Prof Varinder Kumar Kaushik as new registrar for one year. “I have held three meetings with Prof Amritpal in past one week and asked her about negligence in performing her duties as dean academic affairs. I have not received any satisfactory explanation from her side,” the V-C stated in her order issued on Saturday. She added that former dean academic affairs has not attended her office since March 26 due to which the varsity failed to hold key meetings, including finance committee and syndicate. “We need to make certain instant changes as smooth functioning of the institution has been disrupted due to recent episodes. Moreover, in interest of the varsity, such negligent approach could not be tolerated,” the V-C said. Meanwhile, Punjabi University Teachers’ Association (PUTA) Nishan Singh Deol said they not only condemned the appointment but also the language used by the vice-chancellor while issuing written orders. “The language used is derogatory for the teaching community, especially for Prof Amritpal Kaur, who had done her duty with full responsibility and commitment. She tendered resignation due to autocratic approach of the V-C,” Deol said. “We are writing again to Punjab governor and chancellor of the varsity VP Singh Badnore seeking his immediate intervention as the autonomous status of the institution has been encroached. We are also considering legal options in order to challenge the recent appointments in Punjab and Haryana high court,” Deol said. Meanwhile, the PUTA appealed to chancellor that “orders that are derogatory, divisive, technically and legally non-tenable and violative of the University Calendar should be declared null and void and revoked with immediate effect”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pbi-varsity-v-c-appoints-new-dean-academic-affairs-puta-fumes-101617476949426.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guest Column: The battle of favourites||It is a truth universally acknowledged, that parents do not pick favourites among their children, even though their wards at different times may feel their sibling is the favoured one or vice versa. However, grandparents are free of any such compunctions, as the Punjabi saying goes ‘mool naalon, vyaaz payara’( interest is dearer than the principle), and as such blatantly love and pamper their grandchildren more than their own children.My wife and I came to this realisation when our first granddaughter was born in Canada. Our all-encompassing love for her brought us to Canada for a few months every year and when she turned two, we stayed with her for almost a year. As doting grandparents, we would make it a point to spend as much time as possible with her, happily volunteering to feed her, play with her, take her to the park and to the swings. Our bonding was so strong that when it came time to part, I felt choked with emotions. The idea of spending months without her seemed unfathomable. The toddler, however, mercifully, could hardly understand the pangs of separation. Treasuring memories Back in India, we would speak over the phone and visit Canada periodically and my yearning for her kept growing. Later, our grandson was born. However, we did not get to stay with him for long periods as we did with our granddaughter. He is equally dear to us but somewhere I have always had a special spot for my granddaughter. She grew up as a very playful and cheerful child. At times, we would miss her call and she would confidently leave a message on the answering machine. Those messages are a pleasure to hear even after all these years, making them one of my most treasured possessions. My grandson is not without endearing qualities. He is quiet, sharp and studious. A sensitive and emotional soul, he is happy to help with household chores and has a passion for baking and cooking. It is always a pleasure to indulge in long discussions on finances, cars, travel tourism, and sports with him. He wears his heart on his sleeve, once when we arrived for a surprise visit to Canada, he was moved to tears. Staking a claim Our granddaughter is his polar opposite, she is carefree, loves fast food and always finds excuses to not cook, and palm off household chores. She loves playing pranks on her grandparents but calls for us as soon as she spots a bug, spider or a fly. She recently celebrated her 16th birthday and received a new phone. She saved her number in my phone as ‘favourite grandchild’, clearly staking a claim. To reiterate her point, she has also fixed a ringtone which sings ‘favourite grandchild calling’ whenever she calls. As she is now eligible to get a driving licence, I have yet again volunteered to become her driving instructor as it gives me a chance to enjoy more of her magnetic personality. An intelligent child, she has picked up driving quickly, and I shall be sad once the lessons end. I have to concede that she is truly my favourite! (The writer, a former Chandigarh resident, is now based in Canada)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-the-battle-of-favourites-101617476888936.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Delay in test results hits fight against pandemic in Chandigarh||At a time when Chandigarh and its satellite cities are witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases, which is turning out to be even more serious than the first wave, people getting tested are ending up waiting for up to six days to get their reports. The delay is proving detrimental in the fight against the pandemic, as it not only hits timely isolation but also contact tracing and declaration of containment zones.Around 2,000 tests are being conducting daily in Chandigarh, up from 1,300 on an average when the cases were declining in early February. Earlier, most of the people were undergoing rapid antigen tests, which provide quick results but are not that reliable. After the Centre issued directions to bump up RT-PCR tests to 70% of the total, the authorities were caught off guard as the testing capacity could not be stretched beyond 900 samples. Considered the gold standard of testing, RT-PCR tests have a longer turnaround time. Earlier, while the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research was testing around 300 to 400 samples daily, Government Medical College and Hospital was conducting around 100 tests.To increase the capacity, the authorities roped in private players, but the system is still to be streamlined, which is evident from the fact that residents are complaining that they have to wait for anywhere between three to six days to get test results. Lokesh Sharma, 70, who provided his sample at the Civil Hospital in Sector 45 on March 29 had not received his report till April 2. “I was told there is a huge rush, and thus processing of samples is taking time,” he said. Ashwani Kumar, a resident of Sector 48 who got his test results after five days on March 27, said the claims of the administration that everything is on track are false. “You cannot blame people for everything. How can a person isolate himself if he has no idea of the infection status?” he said.The Centre had recently asked Chandigarh to effectively implement the test-track-treat strategy and escalate testing till the positivity comes down below 5%. At present, the weekly test positivity rate is hovering around 13%, among the highest in the country. Vijoy Kumar Singh, additional secretary and financial adviser, Union ministry of textiles, who is heading the central team sent to Chandigarh to assist the local authorities in containing the Covid-19 surge, said he was aware of the delay in test reports and the administration will be advised to bring down the turnaround time to 24 hours.Dr Ravi Gupta, medical superintendent of GMCH, said the lab at the hospital is functioning round the clock and all samples are being tested within 48 hours. Arun Kumar Gupta, UT health secretary, said the system is being streamlined and delays, if any, should be brought to the notice of the authorities. Meanwhile, a senior health official, who did not wish to be named, confirmed that the department was receiving complaints about delayed test results. “In the present scenario, reports should be made available within 16 hours, or at most within 24 hours. Otherwise, the infection will spread further,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/delay-in-test-results-hits-fight-against-pandemic-in-chandigarh-101617476708928.html
04-04-2021||Other||Weekend tourism sees a dip in HP amid second wave||Hoping for a revival after last year’s lull due to the lockdown, the tourism industry in Himachal is staring at more losses this season as the second wave of Covid-19 infections is spoiling people’s getaway plans.Officials of the state-run Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (HPTDC) said occupancy in most of their hotels has seen a major decline over the last two weeks. “Our occupancy is nearly 40% on normal days and goes up to 70% during the weekends, but this weekend, it has dropped to around 30%,” said Ashwani Soni, general manager of HPTDC. He added that over the last year, they have incurred a loss of around ₹40 crore owing to the pandemic. Tourism industry’s contribution to the state’s economy is around 7%. Majority of the weekend visitors to Himachal are from the neighboring states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Delhi and Chandigarh. Tourists from Haryana and Chandigarh prefer hill stations such as Kasuali and Chail over Shimla. But the pandemic-forced restrictions have meant that fewer tourists from Punjab are visiting the hills. “Himachal also sees a large number of tourists from Gujarat and Maharashtra in the months of March and April, but owing to the fresh surge in cases and travel restrictions, we have hardly been getting any visitors from these two states,” said Mohinder Seth, a Shimla-based hotelier and president of the Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association. Seth added, “The increased tourist flow in winter months had given us some hope but now, we are back to square one.” He further said that the industry received no help from the government and hoteliers are reeling under the burden of heavy bills in the form of water charges and property tax. “If the government does not extend us timely help, the industry will crumble,” said Seth. Vijay Inder Karan, a Dharamshala-based hotelier, said the occupancy which had reached 40-50% in December has again come down below 10%. “There are no advance bookings. We only get walk-in tourists,” said Karan.After the peak tourists’ season of December and mid-January, it is the Chaitra Navratri festival that attracts a stream of domestic holidaymakers from West Bengal and Maharashtra to the hill states in March and April. Foreigners start descending by June-mid for adventure tourism with the opening of high mountain passes after winter snowfall. In the fiscal year 2020-2021, a total of 32, 13, 379 tourists visited the hills, which comprised 31, 70, 714 domestic and 42, 665 foreigners. In 2019-2020, the number stood at 1, 72, 12, 107, of which 1, 68, 29, 231 were domestic travelers and 3,82, 876 foreigners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weekend-tourism-sees-a-dip-in-hp-amid-second-wave-101617476528962.html
04-04-2021||Other||Ahead of polls, UP Cong extends olive branch to disgruntled veterans||Lucknow: Uttar Pradesh Congress Committee (UPCC) has begun reaching out to ‘disgruntled’ and ‘expelled’ old guards of the party in order to give it a united face ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh. Besides having close interaction with the veterans, who were finding themselves neglected in the past, special efforts are being made to bring those to the party fold who were feeling ‘unhappy’ or had been ‘expelled’ in the recent past. “The Congress has begun making efforts to bring the party veterans back into its fold. They never went away from us. They are our leaders and will always remain with the party,” said a senior Congress leader, adding, “UPCC held a meeting of party’s former legislators and MPs last month. The party now proposes to hold a get together of former district and city party unit chiefs soon.” The Congress party’s move to expel 10 senior leaders, who held separate celebrations to mark birth anniversary of former prime minister late Jawahar Lal Nehru on November 14 in 2019, led to an apparent divide between UPCC president Ajay Kumar Lallu’s new team and the old guards. The expelled veterans though held separate programmes to mark the party’s foundation day on December 28, 2019, the divide continued to grow. While the party later revoked the expulsion of a senior leader, others are still waiting for such a gesture. Those aware of the development said efforts had been stepped up to bring all the partymen together following appointment of former MLA Satish Ajmani as the UPCC treasurer last month. It is learnt that the party high command is upset with the growing divide between the new team and the old guards and wants a united front ahead of the assembly elections. Ajmani though refused to comment those close to him said he had been contacting the old guards on day-to-day basis. UPCC president Ajy Kumar Lallu has also gone on record that the state Congress was working to bring all the partymen together, especially those who left the party for some reason. It is learnt that the high command was in favour of finding a middle path. “Those expelled on the charges of indiscipline are our senior leaders. A move to withdraw the expulsion may be made anytime if those expelled express regret for their conduct. We are moving close to finding a middle path,” said another leader. “We have heard that some senior leaders have taken up our case with the high command that is not happy with reports of a divide between the old and the new. We hope a decision in this regard is taken soon,” said one such party veteran.“The Congress has been facing a leadership crisis at the state level too. If the Congress is bringing them back, the party should also think about changing the situation that compelled the veterans to leave the party. Congress president Sonia Gandhi may also consider taking a call on changing the party’s leadership at different levels,” said SK Dwivedi, former head of department political science, Lucknow University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ahead-of-polls-up-cong-extends-olive-branch-to-disgruntled-veterans-101617476470687.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: When Dhoni, Irfan got their first chopper joyride||The year was 2006. I had embarked on a new career in civil aviation as a commercial pilot after prematurely retiring from the Indian Army. Little did I know that I would get a chance to take cricketing legends Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Irfan Pathan for a joyride on my helicopter.At the time, I was working for an air charter company whose major clients were political parties. Sometimes we flew great distances to reach the spot where we had been hired for a few hours. On one such occasion, I flew a helicopter from New Delhi to Guwahati. It involved a flying time of approximately eight hours with a night halt at Patna.The day after landing at Guwahati, we were ready for a day of flying to a few political meetings. Remarkably, we had been hired to fly members of the Samajwadi Party and Telugu Desam Party, who had little stake in the region as far as I knew. It turned out they had come to campaign in support of the Asom Gana Parishad, which was hoping to dethrone the Congress government. Everything went off smoothly and we were back at the Guwahati airport by late afternoon. The politicians went back to New Delhi in their chartered jet and we went back to our hotel as we could only start our return journey the next day.A hitch in the planHowever, on the day of our return, which was also happened to be the day of the one-day international between India and England, we had filed our flight plan for our trip to Patna and were just checking the aircraft when one of the air traffic controllers came running and requested us to help the organisers of the match who were in a fix . I told him that we had to fly back immediately to keep up with our schedule, but he requested us to wait for the cricket official, who was on the way to the airport.I relented and delayed our departure. Soon the man was with us. He told us that an overnight torrential downpour had rendered the cricket stadium at Guwahati unsuitable for the game, much to the disappointment of fans who had turned up for the match.The organisers wanted to hire our helicopter for an hour to try and dry the outfield by the downdraft of the hovering helicopter.I told him that it would be a useless endeavour as there was not enough time, but he told us that they wanted to show the restive crowd that all options had been exhausted before cancelling the match. They were afraid that the crowd would go on the rampage and cause extensive damage to the stadium if the match were to be cancelled. So, we decided to help them out provided they paid us ₹95,000. He immediately agreed to pay us the moment we landed at the stadium.Crowd electrifiedSoon, we were hovering over different wet patches, knowing as we did it that it was not going to work. The crowd, however, sent up a big cheer as the helicopter flew to different parts of the ground. After about 40 minutes of hovering, we got a signal to land back, and the engineer told us that a couple of cricketers wanted to get on board for a ride. On my approval, a stocky looking guy with long shoulder length hair and another lanky guy approached the helicopter. I recognised them as Dhoni and Pathan, who were both very promising and budding cricketers at the time.We resumed the hovering and the two of them were absolutely thrilled as this was the first time they had been on a helicopter. Finally, before ending the sortie, I decided to give them a treat. I took off and climbed up to 500ft and then did a speed run across the stadium, during which I dived down to 10ft above the ground and then did a pull up. I finally ended with a wing over before landing back. The two young lads were whooping with joy at the thrill of it all. Hands were shaken and after unloading them we went back to the airport. Our mission in aid of Indian Cricket was done. As predicted, the match had to be cancelled after another couple of hours.After refueling, we took off for our first port of landing, Bagdogra. As I flew back, I marvelled at our mission that was a win-win for all. We got an additional ₹95,000, the crowd was pleased with the effort, the organisers heaved a sigh of relief as the crowd did not riot and there were two happy cricketers who had the thrill of their first chopper ride. I had also done my bit for the sport that I loved so much!( The Gurugram-based writer is a Vir Chakra awardee)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-when-dhoni-irfan-got-their-first-chopper-joyride-101617476470252.html
04-04-2021||Other||Urbanisation bid crowds out Bengaluru’s cherished trees||Bengaluru: The ashwath kattes , pipal trees (sacred fig is their common English name) with either a shrine under them or a large platform around them (or both) are a common sight in some parts of Bengaluru, and are usually a good indication that the neighbourhood was originally a village. As Bengaluru expanded , it began adding villages within its limits. In her book ‘The Promise of the Metropolis’, author Janaki Nair writes that between 1901 and 1971 Bengaluru absorbed around 100 villages into the city structure and by 2020, the city added over 500 urban villages. The katees are a link to the old. Despite this expansion, the villages retained their old ways. One of them was Trees, especially banyan and pipal, have been culturally important in the city’s culture often acting as a glue for a community. “The ashwath kattes are an epicentre of sacred and social gatherings. People have been passing on this tradition to generations, even though the city has been expanding rapidly around them,” said Kiran Keswani, the co-founder of ‘veryday City Lab and researcher on the katte culture. The kattes are just a part of Bengaluru’s history with trees which dates backs to the inception of the city itself. AN Yellappa Reddy, a former forest official and environmentalist says Bengaluru’s founder Kempegowda encouraged his followers to build tanks and plant trees. “He introduced ‘udyana vanas’ (pleasure gardens) and ’pushpa vatikas’ (temple gardens) with trees from outside the city,” Reddy said. According to him, in 1760, Hyder Ali, the father of Tipu Sultan, envisioned Lal Bagh on the line of the Mughal gardens. “He introduced trees from Delhi, Arcot, Multan and even Lahore to the city,” Reddy added. This was continued by Tipu Sultan who added 30 more acres of greenery to the city and added to the variety with plants from Kabul, then Persia, and Mauritius. Gustav Krumbiegel, who took over as the botanist for Lal Bagh, introduced more exotic plants from Africa, Burma, Australia, Singapore, Russia and America. According to the horticulture department, today Lal Bagh has one of the largest varieties of trees in the world.Two mango trees planted by Tipu Sultan are still part of the city’s collection. But the expansion of the city has come at the cost of some old trees. A committee set up by the Karnataka High Court, on March 2, said that as many as 100 heritage trees can be saved if the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd (KRDCL) makes minor changes in the alignment of four road widening projects proposed in areas surrounding Bengaluru. This was one of many projects where a large number of trees were facing the axe in the city. A 607-page report submitted by an expert committee constituted by the High Court said that a majority of these trees are at least 50 years old and as tall as a two-storied building. In this case, the number of trees recommended for transplantation is 1,737. The report adds that while the forest department has approved the felling of 5,297 trees, the committee has found it necessary to cut only 1,721. Vijay Nishant, an environmentalist, who is also known as the tree doctor, said that during his surveys he found that recent development work has changed the ecosystem in the city. “We were used to trees blooming throughout the year in the 1990s but now, it has changed drastically because of tree cutting. We are conducting a survey to record what trees Bengaluru has lost over the years to make a case for cutting fewer trees.” According to Harini Nagendra, a Bengaluru based environmentalist and columnist for Hindustan Times, Bengaluru’s older trees had a diverse distribution with several large-sized species. “However, the newer trees in the city are less diverse. They are mostly small-statured with narrow canopies.” She added that the lack of variety has serious implications for the city’s ecology. “There is a need to protect large street trees on wide roads from tree felling, and to select an appropriate and diverse mix of large and small-sized species for new planting.” Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) in its budget has earmarked ₹214 crore in comparison to last year’s ₹84 crore for the maintenance of around 1,200 parks in Bengaluru. Another ₹39 crore has been allocated to the forest department and there are plans to plant a million saplings this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/urbanisation-bid-crowds-out-bengaluru-s-cherished-trees-101617475630855.html
04-04-2021||Other||Retired Tirumala priests back into service after TTD restores their jobs for life||Hyderabad The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD), which manages the Tirumala temple in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, issued orders restoring the services of several priests for their life-term on Saturday. The order restores the services of former temple head priest Dr A V Ramana Deekshitulu, who was forced to retire three years back on attaining the age of superannuation at 65 years, a spokesman of the TTD said. Deekshitulu confirmed to HT that he had received the orders and he would be taking over as the head priest of the temple again. “Along with me, at least 10 others of the Tirumala temple and other associated temples like Lord Padmavathi temple at Tiruchanur and Govindarajulu Swamy temple at Tirupati, have also got back their jobs,” he said. On May 16, 2018, the TTD, for the first time, introduced retirement rule for the priests, according to which all those who attained the age of 65 years would have to retire. The rule was brought in at the TTD board meeting following serious allegations of corruption in the temple administration made by Deekshitulu the previous day. Deekshitulu had alleged that the administrators of the temple were siphoning off the temple money and destroying its sanctity and demanded an open audit into the donations received and expenditure incurred by the TTD. He also alleged that precious ancient jewellery of the temple went missing and demanded that the TTD be brought under the purview of the Right to Information Act. Along with Deekshitulu, three other priests – Narasimha Deekshitulu, Srinivasa Murthy Deekshitulu and Narayana Deekshitulu – were also forced to retire. In their place, the TTD appointed four other priests. After the YSR Congress government came to power, chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy had done away with the rule of retirement for priests, following a high court order of December 2018, which said the retirement rule would not be applicable to the temple priests. The Jagan government issued an order in October 2019 stating that there would be no retirement for the priests of various temples on the basis of age. “A priest shall continue in the post till he is physically fit to perform his archakatvam (priesthood) duties,” the order said. However, the order was not made applicable to TTD, as it is governed by its own rules. As a result, Deekshitulu could not get back his post. Instead, the TTD appointed him as Agama advisor and also honorary chief priest. Now, with the new order, Deekshitulu will be re-joining the duties as head priest of the Tirumala temple. Of the remaining three main priests of the temple, Srinivasa Murthy died of Covid-19 on July 20 last year. The remaining two would also be getting back their jobs in the temple.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/retired-tirumala-priests-back-into-service-after-ttd-restores-their-jobs-for-life-101617475630249.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 300+ Covid cases after 6 months||For the first time since the first wave in September last year, the number of daily Covid-19 cases crossed the 300 mark in Chandigarh on Saturday. Noting the surge, wherein more than 250 cases are being reported daily for the past 10 days, the health department issued an advisory on Saturday, claiming that the present wave is more infectious and virulent and could send more people to hospitals with moderate to severe disease. The UT had touched the peak of 449 cases on September 13, while more than 300 cases were last reported on September 16. The same day the number of active cases had reached 3,171, the highest so far. With 310 people testing positive on Saturday, the number now stands at 3,162, just nine below the peak. However, during the first wave, the average positivity rate in September had shot up to 16%, which remained around 9% in March. Still, concern remains over the weekly positivity rate of 13%, which places Chandigarh among top three states and UTs. Meanwhile, the number of total cases has reached 27,853. While 24,309 patients have recovered, 382 have died, including a 74-year-old man from Sector 40 who was the lone fatality reported on Saturday. Even as cases are rising at a fast pace, only 28 deaths have been reported since March 1. In September last year, 106 deaths were reported. However, the impact of the heavy case load in September was seen over the next four months, as even though the number of cases were on a downward trend, fatalities kept going up till December.“The effect of the present surge will start to be seen in terms of fatalities in the next two weeks, and that is why immediate control measures should be taken,” said Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head of community medicine at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research. In its advisory, the health department has urged people to follow Covid appropriate behaviour, wear masks, maintain appropriate social distance, avoid crowding and wash their hands regularly. “For your own safety, get vaccinated. This will protect you from severe illness,” stated the release.Mohali clocks 360, P’kula 82 casesMohali district continues to report bulk of the cases in the tricity, with 360 people testing positive on Saturday. Panchkula reported a drop to 82 cases, which took the tricity’s total to 752, a day after 889 cases, the highest since the outbreak, had surfaced. At 3,529, Mohali has the highest number of active cases in the tricity, and Panchkula has the lowest with 1,033 people undergoing treatment. The numbers are among the highest in their respective states.Mohali’s total has reached 27,881, of which 23,910 patients have recovered and 442 have died, including two reported on Saturday. In Panchkula, 13,453 people have tested positive so far, of whom 12,266 have been cured and 154 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-breaches-300-mark-after-6-months-101617475570291.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi again reports over 3.5k new Covid cases, 10 deaths||Delhi reported over 3,500 new cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for the second day in a row, adding 3,567 on Saturday to take the total tally to 672,381, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The city also reported 10 deaths due to the infection.The fewer tests conducted on Friday – reported a day later in Saturday’s bulletin – resulted in an increase in the city’s positivity rate to 4.5%. There were 79,617 tests reported on Saturday as against 87,505 the day before, pushing the positivity rate up from 4.11%.The positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested – is an indication of the ongoing transmission in an area. Experts believe the transmission is under control if the positivity rate remains below 5%.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageDelhi’s positivity rate has remained below 5% for 122 days now, but its rise has experts worried.“This is a new wave of cases in Delhi and it is largely happening because people are not following Covid appropriate behaviour. Even with a 56% seroprevalence and many people having received the vaccine, there is still a sizeable chunk of people who are susceptible and this increase and decrease in cases will continue till there are. Also, we need to remember that this seropositivity is not uniformly distributed – it is high in slums and other densely populated areas and low in posh localities. Those who had been inside their homes for so long, started venturing out when the number of cases went down leading to the current increase,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor in the department of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The experts called for an increase in the pace of vaccination.“My thinking is that what we are seeing today is the impact of deeds done two to three weeks back. Whatever you may do now will not stop the escalation tomorrow. We need to stop all unnecessary gatherings and outings and we need to vaccinate more people,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at AIIMS.Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia also agreed, urging the centre to open up the vaccination drive. “The only way to swiftly break the chain of the COVID-19 virus is to vaccinate people of all ages. Mass vaccination, and not full-lockdown, is the way to defeat this deadly virus,” said Sisodia after he and his family received the first dose of Covaxin at the Maulana Azad Medical College associated with Lok Nayak hospital.“I request the Government of India to increase the supply of Covid-19 vaccine in Delhi and begin the vaccination drive for citizens below the age of 45, if we want to stop the spread of the virus. We aim to vaccinate all the citizens of Delhi by May 3 or 4, once the Delhi Government receives a good number of Covid-19 vaccine doses by the Central Government,” he said.Delhi saw a record number of immunisations on Saturday, with over 80,000 jabs being administered in a day for the first time. The increase was largely driven by people between the ages of 45 and 59 for whom the vaccination drive opened up on Thursday. Nearly 46,000 of the total shots were administered in this category on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-again-reports-over-3-5k-new-covid-cases-10-deaths-101617475211564.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination drive gets a boost in Chandigarh||The extension of Covid-19 vaccine to all above 45 years of age from April 1 has given a much-needed fillip to the drive in Chandigarh.In the previous weeks, the number of people vaccinated was seeing a constant decline, and dropped to 8,188 between March 20 and 26. However, in the following week (March 27-April 2), it went up to 9,559.Between March 1 — when along with senior citizens, people in the age group of 45-59 and having comorbidities were allowed to get the vaccine — and March 31, only 4,164 in the latter group had received the first dose. However, just within three days after the restrictions were removed, the number shot up to 10,113.The response among the seniors, however, is dwindling. In the first half of March, around 19,000 people took the jab, but the number in the latter half of the month dropped to around 12,000.A total of 88,299 doses have been administered in the city so far. The coverage among health-care workers stands at 52%; among the front-line workers from other departments, only 60% of the registered employees have been inoculated.The low response, when compared to the city’s daily capacity of inoculating 7,000 persons, has prompted the UT health department to start the exercise of mapping all households with members above the age of 45 years.As per the plan, dispensary-level health workers will cover the area under their jurisdiction to identify reasons of poor coverage and apprehensions among the people. The move is aimed at motivating people and allaying their fears.Dr Amandeep Kang, UT director of health services, said, “Vaccination is the key to break the transmission chain at the earliest. With vaccines, the severity of the disease will lower and mortality rate will come down.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-drive-gets-a-boost-in-chandigarh-101617475211049.html
04-04-2021||Other||TDP asks HC to monitor CBI probe into murder of CM Jagan’s uncle||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) on Saturday urged the Andhra Pradesh High Court to review the progress of the probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the murder of former MP YS Vivekananda Reddy, uncle of chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. YS Vivekananda Reddy was murdered on March 15 , 2019 at his house in Pulivendula.“Narreddy Sunitha, daughter of Viveka (as the former MP is better known), is going from pillar to post in New Delhi, seeking to know the progress of the investigation into her father’s death. It was unfortunate that she was pleading with the media in Delhi to investigate her father’s death,” TDP politburo member and general secretary Varla Ramaiah said.Ramaiah said it was unfortunate that no headway was made in the case even a year after the case was handed over to the CBI by the state High Court.He pointed out that soon after Viveka’s murder weeks before the assembly elections in the state, Jagan Reddy tried to gain political mileage by pointing an accusing finger at the then TDP government and filed a petition in the High Court demanding a CBI inquiry into his uncle’s murder. “But after he became the chief minister in May 2019, Jagan withdrew the petition in the High Court withdrawing his demand. Does it not mean he was aware of the killers?” Ramaiah asked.Also read: ‘Don’t trust SEC’ - TDP boycotts MPTC, ZPTC polls in Andhra PradeshHe requested the High Court to intervene in the matter and direct the CBI to expedite the investigation, in view of the growing suspicions among the people that the probe was being suppressed deliberately.On Friday, Sunitha told reporters in Delhi that she had met with the top CBI officials and requested them to speed up the investigation into her father’s death. She expressed several doubts over the slow progress of the probe and even alleged that some people were pressuring her to give up her fight for a speedy probe.“It was purely a political murder. So far, not a single person has been arrested or questioned. A key witness in the case died last year and we suspect he was murdered. If the investigation is delayed, there would be no further witnesses in the case in future,” she said.Sunitha said she was shocked when a senior police official told her not to press further on her father’s murder case. “He said such political killings are very common in Kurnool and Kadapa. He told me to forget whatever had happened and drop the case in the interest of my children’s future,” she said.“My father was an ex-MP and ex-minister. He was the brother of former chief minister YS Rajasekhar Reddy and uncle of present chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy. If the CBI cannot crack this murder case even after a year, what will become of the cases pertaining to the common people?” she asked.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tdp-asks-hc-to-monitor-cbi-probe-into-murder-of-cm-jagan-s-uncle-101617474729570.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ambala advocate faked stabbing to frame neighbours: Police||An advocate, who had been stabbed in his chamber in Ambala, had inflicted the injury on himself with the help of his relatives, to frame his neighbours, police said on Saturday. Salinder Mohan, 40, had reached the hospital with a knife lodged in his chest. The attempted murder had sent shock waves through the legal fraternity as advocates questioned their safety inside their chambers. In his complaint, Mohan, had accused two of his neighbours and some other men of stabbing him in his chamber over a property dispute. The incident had taken place in November. Investigating officer Sultan Singh said his neighbours, Raju and Gurcharan, had been arrested but they claimed that they had not been involved in the attack and that Mohan was trying to frame them. CCTV footage shows that Mohan’s relatives had attacked him on his say so. “Mohan was arrested, taken into remand and then sent to judicial custody, as per the court orders,” said Ram Kumar, Ambala City police station in-charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ambala-advocate-faked-stabbing-to-frame-neighbours-police-101617474610049.html
04-04-2021||Chandigarh||Random testing: 86 educators in Chandigarh have tested +ve since March 16||Eighty-six teachers and lecturers have tested positive for the novel coronavirus in Chandigarh since March 16 when the health department initiated random testing in different schools and colleges. The department has conducted 3,122 tests since March 16. The drive was kicked off at the Postgraduate Government College, Sector 11, where four people tested positive. The highest number of positive cases were found at Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), Sector 45, where 17 infections were detected, followed by GMSSS, Karsan, where 15 cases were detected and GMSSS Sector 22-A where 12 cases were detected. Six cases each were reported from GMSSS, Dhanas and Sector 52. Of 43 schools and colleges where tests were conducted, 20 reported zero cases.Though the health teams were also supposed to test students, none came forward for testing. “Students were required to bring a consent form duly signed by their parents, which they did not furnish. An announcement regarding the same was made on March 19. However, from March 23 onwards, all educational institutions were closed for students till April 5,” officials said.UT education director Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We are complying with the administration’s directions. Wherever a teacher was found positive, extensive contact tracing was carried out. Government teachers have been allowed to take up to 30 days of leave, in case they test positive. The institutions have also been sanitised.”UT Cadre of Educational Employees Union president Swarn Singh Kamboj said, “With cases increasing across the city, it was a good call to close schools for students. However, teachers should also be given a few days off.”“While teachers are following all protocols, some lapses cannot be avoided. Sometimes teachers eat together, which can cause the infection to spread,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/random-testing-86-educators-in-ut-have-tested-ve-since-mar-16-101617473830433.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Man held for vandalising temple over ‘grudge against god’||A 28-year-old homeless man was arrested for allegedly vandalising a temple in west Delhi’s Paschim Puri Pocket 2 near Punjabi Bagh on Saturday. The man allegedly told police that he attacked the temple to “settle a score with god”.The incident briefly caused tension in the area with visuals of the vandalism making their way onto social media. Police, however, quickly denied any communal angle in the incident.The temple that was vandalised was the Vaishno Mata Mandir, located near a residential colony in the locality.Police said the man, who they identified as Vicky Mal, had lost his livelihood during the Covid-19 lockdown last year.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam said the 47-year-old temple priest Ranjeet Pathak called the police at around 8.45 am and reported the vandalism. A police team was then immediately sent to the spot, he said.“The priest told police that he had locked the temple gates at around midnight on Friday,” said Gautam. “When he opened it on Saturday, he found statues outside the temple slightly displaced, and bricks and stones, which were not there earlier, on the floor inside.”Police said they scanned CCTV footage from nearby that showed a man outside the temple at around 12.30 am.“He was seen throwing bricks at the statue outside. He also climbed the gate and threw stones inside. He was there for about 20 minutes and then left the area. He did not enter the temple,” said a senior police officer, who did not want to be named. “We identified the suspect as Vicky Mal, who had no home in Delhi, and caught him from near Raghubir Nagar drain. He was wearing the same clothes as seen in the CCTV footage.”Additional DCP Gautam said they questioned Mal.“He told us that he had come to Delhi with his father some years ago and they were scrap collectors and sellers,” said Gautam. “However, their business failed during the lockdown and Mal’s father returned to Bihar, while he stayed back. As he had no source of livelihood and no place to live, he had a grudge against god for giving him the life of a homeless person and vandalised the temple.”Mal was arrested and booked under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) covering deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage reli­gious feelings and trespassing, at Punjabi Bagh police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-held-for-vandalising-temple-over-grudge-against-god-101617473410915.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||Police lodge two FIRs in constable’s wife suicide case||Two days after the wife of a Delhi Police constable allegedly died by suicide inside their home in Ghitorni and her two sons – aged three years and three months – were found unconscious in the bathroom of the house, the police have registered two cases in connection to the incident.While a case of dowry death has been registered against the constable and his family on a complaint received from the woman’s relatives, a second case of attempt to murder of the two children was registered against the constable’s wife. The constable has been removed from the police station where he was posted and has been sent to district lines till further orders, said deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh.The police have also requested the Delhi government to constitute a medical board to conduct the autopsy of the constable’s wife, whose body has been preserved at the mortuary of a government hospital.On Thursday evening around 8pm, the constable made two calls to the police to inform that the door of his flat was locked from inside and his wife had failed to respond to his repeated knocks and calls. A police team later reached the spot and broke open the door to find the constable’s wife hanging from a ceiling fan. The children were found unconscious in the bathroom with their mouth gagged with cloth and were rushed to a private hospital for treatment. While the condition of the younger child was serious, the elder son was stated to be stable.Police suspect the woman might have gagged and poisoned her kids, before hanging herself from the fan . No suicide note, however, was recovered from the house. The couple married in 2014 and lived in a two-bedroom flat.Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-lodge-two-firs-in-constable-s-wife-suicide-case-101617473409815.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||AAP, BJP trade barbs over proposed increase in parking charges in south Delhi||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Saturday alleged that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s (SDMC) proposal to double the rates of surface parking was another method devised by the civic agency to loot people.The BJP, however, was quick to deny this allegation and said that the AAP should stop misleading citizens.Addressing a press conference on Saturday, senior AAP leader and MLA from Kalkaji constituency Atishi said this was the tenth time within a year that the BJP-ruled south civic body had come up with a proposal to increase surface-level parking rates, by as much as 100%.“The standing committee of SDMC has released a proposal to increase the surface parking rates by around 100%. This means, if this proposal is notified, people will have to pay double to park their cars at any marketplace, mall or Metro station. This decision will directly affect those living in all areas of south Delhi” she said.Atishi further said that the south corporation had also proposed imposing professional taxes, raising the rate of property taxes, and increased the rate of tax for property transfer by 1%. “They have even increased the commercial taxes,” she said.“We want them to take back this recommendation, and the SDMC must not approve it. Otherwise, it shall be extremely upsetting for the people of Delhi,” Atishi said.The Delhi BJP, however, urged the AAP and its leaders to stop misleading people. “Parking rates in general have not been increased by the SDMC. A multi-level parking has been constructed by the south civic body near Green Park market and to encourage its use, the rates of parking on Green Park road have been increased, that too as per the directive of the Supreme Court,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.Meanwhile, AAP’s Vikas Goyal, who is also the Leader of Opposition in North Delhi Municipal Corporation, alleged that despite an increase in house tax collection by ₹100 crore, the civic body was not giving salaries to its employees.“The BJP ruled north corporation last year collected ₹548 crore as house tax and this time they have collected ₹100 crore more. Despite this, they have not paid the salaries of their employees. I want to ask Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta why is the BJP not paying salaries,” he said.The Delhi BJP rejected Goyal’s comment and said the north corporation has been able to release salaries of all its employees till January 31 this year with the increased contribution of property tax.“By next week, the wages for February of sanitation and health staff will be released. Goyal should understand that economics of north corporation will improve only when Delhi government releases the constitutional funds. If Goyal actually cares for salaries of municipal staff and development works, then he should take up the matter of funds with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal,” said Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-bjp-trade-barbs-over-proposed-increase-in-parking-charges-in-south-delhi-101617473410279.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||New academic session on but govt yet to initiate entry-level EWS/DG admissions||The admission process for general category children on 75% seats in entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten (KG), and class 1 — in private schools concluded on March 31, and most schools have started classes from April 1. But the government is yet to announce the schedule for a separate admission process it conducts for 25% seats reserved under EWS/DG categories, as per the Right to Education (RTE) Act, to these classes in private schools.Kamal Singh, who works at a garment shop in Laxmi Nagar, east Delhi is worried about the admission of his five-year-old son. Singh, who hails from Uttar Pradesh’s Jhansi district, said that he had come to Delhi three years ago just to ensure good education for his son. “I had heard about EWS admission from my elder brother, whose two kids are enrolled in a private school. I also want my son to study in a good school like them. We had moved to Delhi immediately after his birth. This year he is eligible for nursery admission and we are still waiting for the process to begin. Online classes have already begun for other children in many schools. I don’t know how my son will catch up,” he said.Every year, at least two lists of selected candidates under the EWS/DG category is released by the Directorate of Education (DoE) before the commencement of the academic session. This year, the application process for the general category was delayed due to the Covid-19 pandemic.Another parent, Anil Kumar, a labourer at Molarband extension in Badarpur, said he is seeking admission under the EWS category for his sons, aged 5 and 6. “I have never been to a school. But I want both my sons to get a good education. We went to schools near our home but were told that the admission process has not even started for EWS students. I don’t know why the government is delaying the admission process for poor children. Who will make up for their loss?” he asked.Officials at the DoE said that the process this year got delayed due to the prevailing pandemic. “The directorate has already sought information about the number of available EWS/DG seats from all private schools. We are waiting for the situation to normalise before issuing the admission notification. We will try to speed up the process to minimise academic loss of students,” an official said.A senior official from the Delhi government’s education department added, “The government will surely conduct admission on the reserved category seats. Parents should not be worried. The department is working on some final modalities.”Ekramul Haque of Mission Taleem, an organisation working with EWS children in Delhi, said, “Even if the government starts the admission process from this week, the application process will continue till May. Another one month will go for completing the admission, and then the summer vacations will begin. It means these students will join classes, offline or online, only in July. By that time, general category students would have covered a big part of the syllabus. This will put children, who are already from the marginalised section, at a disadvantaged position.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-academic-session-on-but-govt-yet-to-initiate-entry-level-ews-dg-admissions-101617473408589.html
04-04-2021||Delhi||DU colleges demand clear guidelines on trips during Covid-19 pandemic||Delhi University (DU) colleges on Saturday asked the varsity administration to come out with “clear guidelines” on trips during the pandemic, after 13 students from St Stephen’s College tested positive for Covid-19 after returning from a “chapel trip”.Later on Saturday, DU announced that it was restricting entry of outsiders into its campuses and cancelled all bookings for events at college conference centres and seminar halls, in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, till further orders.The St Stephen’s students had returned from the trip, arranged by the college, to Dalhousie on March 31 and tested positive on Friday. While the DU administration said that the college did not consult it, St Stephen’s principal John Varghese had told a college governing body member on email, which HT has seen, that they had taken permission from the students’ parents for the trip. Two staff members who had travelled with the group also tested positive and all the patients are in isolation within the campus, college officials, who did not wish to be named, said.Delhi University’s spokesperson Balram Pani, who is also the varsity’s Dean of Colleges said, “The university has been releasing instructions from time to time to colleges asking them to adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. The college (St Stephen’s) decided to take a trip amid the pandemic without consulting with the University administration ... they are responsible for this carelessness.”St Stephen’s principal Varghese did not respond to several calls and texts for a comment on the issue.But faculty members at several DU colleges said the university should not blame St Stephen’s in the absence of any clear guidelines.“Why is there no clarity from the administration’s side on if the colleges can take students for trips amid the pandemic? Many colleges are organising trips. DU could order only mandatory educational trips as required for courses,” said an associate professor, requesting anonymity.Principals from Dyal Singh College and Shaheed Bhagat Singh College (evening) confirmed that they had recently organised students’ trips that is required for their coursework.“It was for final-year geography students and was required for their course. We took all measures and all our students are safe. Besides, there had been no guidelines from the university administration regarding educational trips,” said Sudhir Sinha, principal of Shaheed Bhagat Singh College (evening).“There is no restriction on travel at present in the country. Also, our educational trip was organised days before the surge of Covid-19 in Delhi. We took all the necessary precautions and all our students are safe,” said Vinod Paliwal, principal of Dyal Singh College.But a university academic council member insisted that caution was key at this time.“Since both these colleges, unlike Stephen’s, don’t have hostels, we would not know if any student was infected or symptomatic. DU administration should issue guidelines regarding outstation trips,” said the member who did not wish to be named.DU spokesperson Pani said that the administration may issue a new notification on Monday.DU registrar Vikas Gupta, meanwhile on Saturday, issued fresh guidelines to all colleges and departments after an emergent meeting. “All students are advised to stay at home /hostel and avoid physical presence for their academic work at libraries, laboratories, unless very essential. Entry will be restricted inside faculty of science, faculty of arts, hostels, and halls. No outsider will be permitted,” the order stated. “The situation will be reviewed after 10 days and further decisions will be taken accordingly. The University of Delhi urges all its colleges, departments, centres, and hostels to remain vigilant to handle the present Covid-19 situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-colleges-demand-clear-guidelines-on-trips-after-st-stephen-s-students-test-positive-for-covid19-101617473408108.html
04-04-2021||Pune||Pune’s vaccination model a silver lining in fight against Covid||Pune’s vaccination model proves to be a success and the district has been vaccinating close to 70,000 beneficiaries, which is now the highest in the state. The administration is now prepping to vaccinate about one lakh beneficiaries daily starting from Monday.In the past one week, Pune has reported highest per day vaccinations, followed by Mumbai, Kolhapur and then Nagpur.On Saturday, Pune district reported its highest vaccination numbers so far as 76,954 people got the jab.Since April 1 the central government has approved vaccination for all above 45 years which makes 28 lakh people in the district eligible for vaccination.Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner, Pune division, during the meeting on Saturday with the administration and hospitals, head and Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) said that one principal reason why Pune has registered a higher number of cases over the past few weeks is the higher number of infected people arriving from other countries in the city through other cities like Mumbai, New Delhi and Ahmedabad.He said, “Due to the new criteria of the active patient caseload in the vaccine dispatches to the districts across the countries has enabled Pune district to secure a larger number of vaccines over the last few days. Within the division, quick replenishment of the vaccine supplies is being ensured and any bottlenecks if any are being brought to the notice of the administration.”“We need to push the vaccination drive to 1,00,000 from April 5 and also daily for the coming days. As the administration, we have ensured hospitals all support in addressing the issues relating to stocks of vaccines and logistics. Pune is already the number one district in the country in terms of vaccination,” he said.Rao has also agreed to allow the hospitals to vaccinate citizens from 9am to 9pm.Dr Dhananjay Kelkar, medical director of Deenanath Mangeshkar Hospital, who also participated in the virtual meeting, said, “Aggressive vaccination drive in the coming days would be helpful to prevent a larger wave in the coming weeks. Data from Israel, UK and USA suggest that vaccinating larger sections of the population has helped in preventing deaths and instances of hospitalisation.”“A weekly plan of vaccination can be drawn up instead of a daily appointment schedule to manage the crowds better. Many of the citizens turn up without appointments which puts pressure on the system,” he said.Sudhir Mehta-President, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) and lead coordinator for Pune platform for Covid response, said, “If we can vaccinate all the currently eligible beneficiaries then we as a district can request the Centre to further ease the vaccination criteria for other age groups. Pune could become the first district to vaccinate one lakh daily and also vaccinates the highest number of beneficiaries in the country.”Rao, meanwhile, said that there is room to increase the available beds to treat Covid patients as we have not even reached 80 per cent of the bed availability of last year’s peak even though the daily infections have increased from 5,200 from last year’s peak to 9,200 currently.“Of course it is a comforting factor that rate of hospitalisation and deaths is on the lower side in this wave. However, every available bed category needs to be utilised judiciously – for example, the ventilators need to be reallocated to a more critical patient and the treated patient may be shifted to oxygen bed/another required resource,” he said adding that many hospitals can convert their conference rooms /corridors into oxygen centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punes-vaccination-model-a-silver-lining-in-fight-against-covid-101617469387937.html
04-04-2021||Gurugram||Fire breaks out in 700 shanties in Gurugram's Nathupur||A massive fire broke out at about 700 shanties at Gurugram's Nathupur on Saturday, but no casualties have been reported so far.Incidents of gas cylinder explosions were also reported during the fire incident, as per a fire official.However, the blaze was later brought under control with the help of around 12 fire tenders in a six-hour-long operation."We received information around 2 am that a fire broke out in the shanties at Nathupur area in Haryana's Gurugram. Due to the fire, incidents of gas cylinder explosions have also been reported. A team of fire tenders reached the spot for the rescue operation," fire officer Esham Singh told ANI in the morning today."The ablaze was later brought under control with help of tenders and we have managed to save at least 500 shanties from being gutted," he added.No injuries or casualties were reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-breaks-out-in-700-shanties-in-gurugram-s-nathupur-101617462961233.html
04-04-2021||Pune||PWD plans restoration of Chhatrapati Shivaji market in Camp||The Public Works Department (PWD) has started taking measurements of the burnt structure of the Chhatrapati Shivaji market in Pune Camp and work for the restoration of the market is likely to start by April end. PWD superintendent Atul Chavan assured stall holders that the restoration and repair work for the preservation of the British era heritage structure will begin by month end. The stall holders association had met deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar who had instructed the PWD department to start the restoration work at the earliest. PWD superintendent Chavan visited the market on Thursday and carried out the measurements. “As part of the development plan, 25 shops will be reconstructed and restored,” he said . A massive fire broke out at the Chhatrapati Shivaji market on the night of March 15 which destroyed at least 25 shops in the fish and chicken section of the market. Fire tenders from the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) were rushed to the spot and the fire was brought under control within an hour’s time. Chhatrapati Shivaji Market, a grade I heritage structure, has been a bustling marketplace since its construction in 1885 by British army officer Lt Gen John Ross as per the design by Gen Cecil D’Urban La Touche and WM Ducat. According to historical records, the structure was one of the highlights of Pune city during the pre-Independence era and served as a platform to feed servants and the quarters of the then “white population” in the Pune cantonment area. Conservationists and heritage lovers have written about its Victorian Gothic style with high ceilings. The Pune Cantonment Board (PCB) in 2014 had asked its engineers to conduct a detailed evaluation of the structure and suggest mandatory steps to fix damaged stones and roof replacements due to leakage during the monsoon season. It had recommended repair and re-plastering of walls. The restoration plan has been on paper since then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pwd-plans-restoration-of-chhatrapati-shivaji-market-in-camp-101617461587610.html
04-04-2021||World||Gunmen kill Pakistani anti-terrorism court judge and family||Gunmen killed an anti-terrorism court judge and his family on Sunday as they travelled from the Swat Valley in northwest Pakistan to the capital Islamabad, police official Shoaib Khan said.No one claimed responsibility for the shooting, which also seriously injured two of Judge Aftab Ahmed Afridi’s bodyguards.Pakistan’s anti-terrorism courts were established to hear cases ranging from terrorist financing to the prosecution of perpetrators of insurgent attacks. Critics say Pakistan’s sweeping anti-terrorism laws have also been used to silence critics of the country’s powerful military.Afridi, his wife and two children — including a two-year old son — were killed in the attack, Khan said.Afridi had been assigned to the anti-terrorism courts in Swat two months earlier. Swat was once a Taliban controlled area and is where education activist Malala Yousafzai was shot by the Taliban for advocating for girls' education.Pakistan's military drove the Taliban from the area in 2009.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gunmen-kill-pakistani-anti-terrorism-court-judge-and-family-101617560225895.html
04-04-2021||World||Florida homes evacuated as wastewater leak risks 'catastrophic' flood||Emergency crews in central Florida were working Sunday to prevent an environmental catastrophe at a leaking reservoir that risked sending millions of gallons of contaminated wastewater toward nearby homes and into the Tampa Bay.More than 300 homes near the site of an abandoned phosphate mine and fertilizer-production facility in Manatee County were under mandatory evacuation orders, and Governor Ron DeSantis on Saturday declared a state of emergency to free up funds to tackle the crisis."What we are looking at now is trying to prevent, and respond to if need be, a real catastrophic flood situation," DeSantis told a press conference after viewing the site by helicopter Sunday.He said emergency workers, assisted by the Florida National Guard, were pumping about 33 million gallons of water daily out of a wastewater reservoir at the site, which has sprung a growing leak in its plastic lining."According to on-site engineers, a controlled release was necessary to prevent a catastrophic failure," the governor said.The wastewater "meets water-quality standards for marine waters," he said, with the exception of phosphorous and nitrogen levels.Marine algae thrive on such elements, and environmental groups fear the release of millions of gallons of nutrient-rich water into the ocean could trigger a deadly "red tide," or algal bloom, that can suffocate fish and other aquatic life and deter tourist activity.A collapse of the reservoir also risked sending water into nearby stacks of phosphogypsum, a leftover from fertilizer production.Phosphogypsum is considered radioactive as it contains isotopes such as radon, as well as toxic heavy metals like arsenic, lead and mercury.The Center for Biological Diversity national conservation group called for the US Environmental Protection Agency to step in."Federal officials need to clean up this mess the fertilizer industry has dumped on Florida communities and immediately halt further phosphogypsum production," Jaclyn Lopez, the organization's Florida director, said in a statement. Troubled history Manatee County officials have ordered a "complete evacuation" of the area, including 316 homes.Problems at Piney Point stretch back decades.Florida's agriculture commissioner, Nicole Fried, wrote to DeSantis, saying the current emergency was only the latest in a string of incidents."For more than 50 years, this central Florida mining operation has caused numerous human health and environmental disasters and incidents," she wrote, adding there had been several earlier failures of the reservoir's lining.Manatee County's acting administrator Scott Hopes said authorities were looking to permanently empty reservoirs at the site."We won't be repairing the liner, we will be depleting the holding ponds of their water and then we will be moving forward to a permanent solution into the future once we mitigate the current risk," Hopes told the press conference.This will "probably include filling these ponds after they have been devoid of their contents and capping them."DeSantis said the company operating the site, HRK Holdings, should be held accountable."This is not acceptable and it's not something we will allow to persist," he said.HRK did not immediately respond to a request for comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-homes-evacuated-as-wastewater-leak-risks-catastrophic-flood-101617560035500.html
04-04-2021||World||Prince William, Prince Harry mutually finalise statue design of Princess Diana||Months after turmoil in the royal family due to the bombarded interview, brothers Prince William and Prince Harry have mutually agreed on a final sculpture design of their late mother Princess Diana for the planned statue unveiling event to be held on her birthday.According to Page Six, months after family tension between the royal brothers- Duke of Cambridge, and Duke of Sussex, they have agreed on a final design for the sculpture of their late mother Princess Diana that is planned to be unveiled on July 1, marking the occasion of her 60th birthday.The statue of Diana will be crafted by sculptor Ian Rank-Broadley.A source close to the sculpture told, "It will have been signed off by William and Harry, that much I do know."This word of development comes months after the widely discussed interview with Oprah, Meghan and Harry, who are expecting their second child together, where the couple detailed the lack of support they received from his family, ultimately leading them to step away from their royal duties.Additionally, the duo told Oprah about a conversation that allegedly took place while Meghan was pregnant about son Archie Harrison's skin tone. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-william-prince-harry-mutually-finalise-statue-design-of-princess-diana-101617558199930.html
04-04-2021||World||‘Category 5 hurricane status’: US epidemiologist on global Covid-19 situation||Amid a worrying surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in several countries, an infectious disease expert has predicted that the world would witness the highest number of daily caseloads reported globally in the next two weeks. During NBC’s Meet the Press show, Michael Osterholm, director of the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the University of Minnesota, said that the world is at “category 5 hurricane status”, indicating that the ongoing surge would lead to the highest daily cases since the start of the pandemic.“Let me say that, at this time, we really are in a category 5 hurricane status with regard to the rest of the world,” Osterholm said. “At this point, we will see in the next two weeks, the highest number of cases reported globally since the beginning of the pandemic,” he added.The highest number of daily Covid-19 cases globally was reported in December 2020, according to the World Health Organization (WHO) data, but the numbers gradually declined amid the vaccination drive. However, another surge in Covid-19 cases in countries like India, the US, Brazil, Italy, and Germany has raised fresh concerns about the ongoing health crisis.“In terms of the United States, we’re just at the beginning of this surge, we haven’t even really begun to see it yet,” the American epidemiologist said.On Friday, India added the most number of Covid-19 cases than any other country, surpassing the US in the number of new infections reported on average. The daily Covid-19 cases have shot up 10 times in a span of 50 days, according to the Union health ministry data. Last week, Brazil recorded its highest ever daily deaths related to Covid-19 as states across the Latin American nation are seeing ICU bed shortages.Dr Anthony Fauci, the top infectious disease expert of the US, on Saturday warned that the United States may be on the cusp of another Covid-19 surge if Americans aren't careful. Fauci told CNN that there is a need to doubling down on public health measures and get as many people vaccinated as quickly to escape the surge.According to the Coronavirus Resource Center of Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, more than 130 million cases of coronavirus and over 2.84 million related deaths have been reported so far. The United States remains the worst-hit country in terms of total Covid-19 cases and related deaths, followed by Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/highest-daily-covid-19-cases-globally-in-next-two-weeks-us-expert-predicts-101617556148031.html
04-04-2021||World||Nepali Congress moves to oust KP Sharma Oli , to form govt under its leadership||Nepal's main opposition party Nepali Congress has initiated moves to topple Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli and form an alternative government under its leadership with the support of the CPN-Maoist Centre and other parties.The Central Working Committee of the Nepali Congress (NC) on Saturday decided to take initiative to form a new government under its leadership, according to party's senior leader Prakash Man Singh.The NC will ask Prime Minister Oli to step down and allow formation of a new government, said Singh.If he does not resign, the NC will move a no-trust motion against him in the House of Representatives and take initiative to form a new government under its leadership to save the democratic achievements of the past, he added.There is very much possibility of regression threatening the democratic republic system hard earned by the people through various movements, as Prime Minister Oli's unconstitutional move has posed a threat to democracy, he added.Being the main opposition and also a key partner of framing the Constitution of Nepal in 2015 it is our responsibility to protect democracy, he said.Prime Minister Oli's dissolution of the House of Representatives in December triggered a political crisis in Nepal. However, in a landmark ruling, the apex court in February reinstated the lower house of Parliament.The political scenario in the country worsened after the Supreme Court last month nullified CPN-MC's merger with CPN-UML. The two parties had merged in May 2018 to form a unified Nepal Communist Party following the victory of their alliance in the 2017 general elections."We will hold talks with all pro-democracy parties before forming a new government," Singh told PTI.Informed sources said that a faction of the ruling CPN-UML, Janata Samajwadi Party and CPN-Maoist Centre will also join the move if Nepali Congress takes initiatives to form a new government under its leadership.Prime Minster Oli led government will lose majority in the lower house if CPN-Maoist Centre led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’ withdraws its support, according to party sources.On Saturday, Prachanda said that the country's politics had taken a new turn after the NC decided to seek PM Oli's resignation and take initiative to form the next government under its leadership."I am going to intensify talks with political parties and am hopeful that a new government will be formed and there will be a new course of events," he said at a programme in Kaplivastu.Addressing the participants of the program, Prachanda said a new government will soon be formed and a new political atmosphere will be created.A senior leader of CPN-Maoist Centre has said that the Maoist party will withdraw its support to the Oli government that would pave way for forming an alternative government under the leadership of the Nepali Congress.Meanwhile, the Standing Committee meeting of the Maoist party which was scheduled to take place on Sunday has been postponed as most of its members are outside Kathmandu.During the next Standing Committee meeting of the party a decision is likely to be taken to withdraw support from the Oli government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepali-congress-moves-to-oust-kp-sharma-oli-to-form-govt-under-its-leadership-101617556649892.html
04-04-2021||World||Taiwan transport minister to quit over train crash, says will cooperate in probe||Taiwan's transport minister said on Sunday he would step down after he and the manager of a construction site whose truck slid onto rail tracks causing a catastrophic train crash accepted responsibility for the disaster.In the island's worst rail accident in seven decades, 50 people have been confirmed dead after a packed express train carrying almost 500 passengers and crew slammed into the truck near the eastern city of Hualien on Friday, causing it to derail and the front part to crumple.The truck that the train hit had slid down a sloping road onto the track just outside a tunnel. Officials are investigating the manager of the construction site, Lee Yi-hsiang, whose truck is suspected of not having its brakes properly applied.Lee read out a statement apologising for what happened as police took him away from his residence, Taiwan media reported."I deeply regret this and express my deepest apologies," he said. "I will definitely cooperate with the prosecutors and police in the investigation, accept the responsibility that should be borne, and never shirk it. Finally, I once again express my sincerest apologies."A Hualien court said on Sunday evening it had ordered that Lee be detained for two months, saying there was a risk he may destroy evidence. After questioning by the judge and evidence from prosecutors, he is suspected of causing death by negligence, it said.His lawyer told reporters that Lee wanted to face up to what had happened and was apologetic and expressed regret.Transport minister Lin Chia-lung, in a statement on his Facebook page, said he would step down once the initial rescue work had come to an end, adding he "took full responsibility"."I should have accepted all the criticism over the past few days, but we have not done well enough," he said.Premier Su Tseng-chang's office said prior to the announcement that Lin had made a verbal offer to resign, but Su had rejected it for the time being, saying efforts for now should focus on rescue and recovery.Survivors have described terrible scenes inside the train.Priest Sung Chih-chiang told Reuters what surviving passenger Chung Hui-mei had told him."She could not find her daughter. When she yelled, she found her daughter was under the steel panels. She put her effort to move those pieces one by one, but her daughter's voice became quieter and quieter, and then there was no response," he said."SO ANGRY"Workers are continuing to remove the train from inside the tunnel and look for other bodies, and officials have warned the death toll could go up or down as they verify identities. The government revised the toll down by one on Sunday evening to 50.The transport ministry and the rail administration that comes under it are facing a number of questions, including why there was no proper fencing at the site and whether too many standing-only tickets were sold for the train journey.Deputy transport minister Wang Kwo-tsai said late on Saturday the railway administration needed to take hard look at all these issues.The railway administration is without a permanent director after its former chief retired in January.The uncle of the youngest confirmed victim, a 5-year-old girl, tearfully told reporters he was still waiting for an apology for the accident. "I'm so angry," he said.The government has promised compensation and said it will do everything it can to help survivors and their relatives, including coordinating public donations.The damaged section of the track will not reopen until April 20 at the earliest, Wang said, though rail traffic continues on a parallel track that runs through another tunnel and was not affected by the accident.The accident occurred at the start of a long weekend for the traditional Tomb Sweeping Day, when people return home to tend to family graves.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-transport-minister-to-quit-over-train-crash-says-will-cooperate-in-probe-101617554810433.html
04-04-2021||World||Amid outcry, states push mental health training for police||The officer who Cassandra Quinto-Collins says kneeled on her son's neck for over four minutes assured her it was standard protocol for sedating a person experiencing a mental breakdown.“I was there watching it the whole time,” Quinto-Collins told The Associated Press. “I just trusted that they knew what they were doing.”Angelo Quinto's sister had called 911 for help calming him down during an episode of paranoia on Dec. 23. His family says Quinto didn't resist the Antioch, California, officers — one who pushed his knee on the back of his neck, and another who restrained his legs — and the only noise he made was when he twice cried out, “Please don’t kill me.”The officers replied, “We’re not going to kill you,” the family said. Police deny putting pressure on his neck. Three days later, the 30-year-old Navy veteran and Filipino immigrant died at a hospital.It is the latest stark example of the perils of policing people with mental health issues. In response to several high-profile deaths of people with mental health issues in police custody, lawmakers in at least eight states are introducing legislation to change how law enforcement agencies respond to those in crisis.The proposals lean heavily on additional training for officers on how to interact with people with mental health problems. It's a common response when lawmakers face widespread outcry over police brutality like the US saw last year following the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis. But none of the proposals appear to address the root question: Should police be the ones responding when someone is mentally ill?In California, lawmakers introduced legislation on Feb. 11 that, among other things, would require prospective officers to complete college courses that address mental health, social services and psychology, without requiring a degree.In New York, lawmakers in January proposed an effort to require law enforcement to complete a minimum of 32 credit hours of training that would include techniques on de-escalation and interacting with people who have mental health issues.The proposal came nearly a year after Rochester, New York, officers put a spit hood over Daniel Prude’s head and pressed his naked body against the street until he stopped breathing. The victim’s family, like Quinto's, said they had called 911 for help after Prude, who is Black, began having a mental health episode.Similarly, in Utah, the mother of 13-year-old Linden Cameron called 911 in September because he was having a breakdown and she needed help from a crisis intervention officer. Salt Lake City police ended up shooting him multiple times as he ran away because they believed he made threats involving a weapon.He was hospitalized, and no weapon was found. The officers were not crisis intervention specialists but had some mental health training.Last month, Utah Gov. Spencer Cox signed legislation that will create a council to standardize training for police crisis intervention teams statewide.At least 34 states already require officers to have training or other education on interacting with people who have physical or mental health conditions. But law enforcement experts say updated training is needed and agencies are far behind.“The training that police have received for the past I’d say 25 years has not changed significantly, and it’s out of date, and it doesn’t meet today’s realities,” said Chuck Wexler, executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, a Washington-based think tank. “I mean the last thing a mother wants when they call the police is for an officer to use force. Especially in a situation that didn’t call for it because the officers weren’t trained in how to recognize a crisis.”Some of the new legislation looks to strengthen or improve standards. But because mental health training is a mandate in a majority of states, some advocates and experts believe it may never fully prepare officers on how to respond.The Treatment Advocacy Center, a nonprofit dedicated to getting treatment for the mentally ill, concluded in a 2015 report those with untreated mental illness are 16 times more likely to be killed during a police encounter than others.“The solution that would have the most impact on the problem is to prevent people with mental illness from encountering law enforcement in the first place,” said Elizabeth Sinclair Hancq, co-author of the report.Since that is not always possible, she said, another solution is to create co-responder programs where a social worker or other mental health professional assists officers on such calls.That is what Philadelphia introduced in October, weeks before officers fatally shot Walter Wallace Jr., a Black man, within a minute of arriving at his address for the third time in a day while he was having a mental health crisis. Police said Wallace ignored commands to drop a knife.Other cities, including Los Angeles, San Francisco and Portland, Oregon, have similar programs.For families of victims, who now say they regret calling 911 for help, required training and legislative reform are long overdue.“In retrospect, it wasn’t the smartest idea to call the police,” said Isabella Collins, the 18-year-old sister of Quinto, who died in California. “But I just wanted him to be able to calm down, and I thought that they could help with that.”Antioch police didn't release details of Quinto's death for more than a month. Police Chief Tammany Brooks has denied that officers used a knee or anything else to put pressure on Quinto’s head, neck or throat. An investigation and autopsy are underway.The department didn't respond to a request for comment.Quinto's family filed a wrongful-death claim against the city in February, claiming he “died as a direct consequence of the unreasonable force used against him.”“I guess it was really naive of me to think that he wouldn’t get hurt,” Collins said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amid-outcry-states-push-mental-health-training-for-police-101617549870716.html
04-04-2021||World||Jordan's former queen says allegations against Prince Hamza are 'wicked slander'||The widow of Jordan's late king on Sunday defended her son, former Crown Prince Hamza Bin Hussein, against allegations by the authorities that he carried out actions targeting "security and stability" in the kingdom.The head of the armed forces visited the prince on Saturday and warned him over actions that people familiar with the matter said could be related to a plot to destabilise Jordan, and several high-profile figures were detained.Jordan's neighbours and allies expressed solidarity with King Abdullah over the security measures in the kingdom, an important ally of the United States.Prince Hamza said in a video recording he was under house arrest and had been told to stay at home and not contact anyone, and Queen Noor, the widow of late King Hussein, said the authorities' accusations against him were slander."Praying that truth and justice will prevail for all the innocent victims of this wicked slander," she wrote on Twitter. "God bless and keep them safe."Prince Hamza was dismissed as heir to the throne in 2004 by King Abdullah, his half-brother, in a move that consolidated the monarch's power.Although he has been sidelined, Prince Hamza has angered the authorities by building ties with disgruntled figures within powerful tribes.Speaking in English in the video recording, passed by his lawyer to the BBC, Prince Hamza said the country's leaders were a corrupt few who put their interests above the public.A security investigation has been launched and a former minister, a junior member of the royal family and unnamed others have been detained.Jordan is seen as one of the most stable countries in the Middle East. Echoing statements of support by other allies and neighbours of Jordan, Morocco's King Mohammed VI held a phone call with King Abdullah II in which he expressed solidarity and support for the country's security measures, Morocco's royal palace said on Sunday.Some opposition figures have rallied around Prince Hamza, in a move that has displeased the king, officials familiar with the situation said. Prince Hamza had been groomed from childhood by his mother to become a king and has taken many of his late father's public behaviour and language, endearing himself to some Jordanians who are nostalgic for King Hussein's long decades of rule.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jordans-former-queen-says-allegations-against-prince-hamza-are-wicked-slander-101617538985384.html
04-04-2021||World||Italy reports 326 coronavirus deaths on Sunday, 18,025 new cases||Italy reported 326 coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday against 376 the day before, the health ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections decreased to 18,025 from 21,261.Italy has registered 111,030 deaths linked to Covid-19 since its outbreak emerged in February last year, the second-highest toll in Europe after Britain and the seventh-highest in the world.The country has reported 3.6 million cases to date.Patients in hospital with Covid-19 - not including those in intensive care - stood at 28,432 on Sunday, down from 28,489 a day earlier.There were 195 new admissions to intensive care units, down from 234 on Saturday. The total number of intensive care patients fell to 3,703 from a previous 3,714.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italy-reports-326-coronavirus-deaths-on-sunday-18-025-new-cases-101617554552951.html
04-04-2021||World||5 women arrested in southern France in suspected attack plot||Police in southern France have arrested four women and a girl as part of an anti-terrorist investigation into a suspected attack plot targeting the city of Montpellier.A police official in the Herault region confirmed the overnight arrests in the city of Beziers, and said Sunday that the DGSI domestic intelligence service and national anti-terrorist prosecutor’s office are handling the investigation.Investigators centered on an 18-year-old woman living in a housing project in Beziers who is suspected of plotting an attack targeting nearby Montpellier, according to Mayor Robert Menard. The 18-year-old’s mother and three sisters were also arrested, including one who is a minor, he said.The 18-year-old had “boasted” to neighbors about watching Islamic State videos, Menard told The Associated Press, though he said he didn’t know whether she or her family had been on authorities’ radar for radicalism.Menard, who was alerted by police to the operation, said he spoke with rattled neighbors at the scene.“They’re horrified. They fear it gives a bad image of this neighborhood, and the Muslim community here,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/5-women-arrested-in-southern-france-in-suspected-attack-plot-101617550560278.html
04-04-2021||World||French tycoon Bernard Tapie, former owner of Adidas, tied up and beaten in burglary||Former French minister and scandal-ridden tycoon Bernard Tapie, once the owner of Adidas, was attacked along with his wife during a midnight burglary of their home, police said Sunday.The couple were asleep when four men broke into the house in Combs-la-Ville near Paris around 00:30 AM Sunday (2230 GMT Saturday), beat them and tied them up with electrical cords before making off with their loot.Dominique Tapie managed to free herself and made her way to a neighbour's home, from where she called the police. Slightly injured from several blows to the face, she was taken to hospital for a check-up."She is doing well," Tapie's grandson Rodolphe Tapie told AFP.During the burglary the perpetrators "pulled her by the hair because they wanted to know where the treasure was", the mayor of Combs-La-Ville, Guy Geoffroy, told AFP. "But of course there was no treasure, and the fact that they didn't find one made the violence only worse."- Jewellery and a Rolex -Tapie himself, who is 78, received a blow to the head with a club, prosecutor Beatrice Angelelli told AFP, but he declined to be taken into medial care."My grandfather refused to be taken away," Rodolphe Tapie said. "He is shattered, very tired. He was sitting on a chair when he was hit with a club."The burglars broke into Tapie's home, a vast estate known as the "Moulin de Breuil", through a first-floor window, undetected by the guards.They made off with two watches, including a Rolex, earrings, bracelets and a ring, according to a source close to the investigation.Tapie was a Socialist minister who rose from humble beginnings to build a sporting and media empire, but later ran into a string of legal problems.He made a fortune in the early part of his career by taking over failing companies in corporate raids, stripping them of their assets and selling them for profit during the high-rolling years of financial deregulation in France.He often flaunted his wealth, including by buying a 72-metre yacht and a football club, Olympique de Marseille, which won the French championship while he was their owner.He has also been under suspicion of match-fixing in France's top football league.He was briefly minister for urban affairs in Francois Mitterrand's government in 1992.- Many legal troubles -Tapie was found guilty in a series of cases for corruption, tax fraud and misuse of corporate assets, went to prison for five months and was stripped of the right to stand in any election in France.After his release from prison in 1997, Tapie added showbiz to his various activities, trying his hand at acting, singing and hosting radio and TV shows.In 2012 he also became a media boss, taking over southern French daily La Provence and other newspapers.One fraud case has dogged Tapie for decades, involving a hugely controversial settlement worth 400 million euros ($470 million at current rates) awarded to him by a government arbitration panel, the size of which sent shockwaves through France.The panel judged he had been the victim of fraud when he sold his stake in the Adidas sports apparel company in 1993 to state-run French bank Credit Lyonnais, which was found to have undervalued the sportswear brand.- 'Determined' to stand trial -The case also ensnared then-finance minister Christine Lagarde, who now runs the European Central Bank. She was found guilty of "negligence".Lagarde's handling of the case sparked suspicion that her former boss Nicolas Sarkozy, whom Tapie had backed for president in 2007, was favourably disposed towards the businessman -- allegations Sarkozy has vehemently denied.Last autumn, Tapie's fraud trial was postponed for reasons of ill health because he was suffering a double stomach cancer and cancer of the oesophagus which were getting worse.The trial is due to resume in May, with Tapie "determined" to be present, according to his lawyer.Police are treating Sunday's incident as a violent robbery and kidnapping, a source close to the investigation told AFP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-tycoon-tapie-former-owner-of-adidas-tied-up-and-beaten-in-burglary-101617550505431.html
04-04-2021||World||Jordan says King’s half-brother, Hamza Bin Hussein, plotted to destabilize country||Jordan said it uncovered a plot to destabilize the kingdom that involved King Abdullah II’s half-brother and extended beyond the country’s borders.A half-brother of Jordan’s ruler, former Crown Prince Hamza Bin Hussein, was part of the foiled conspiracy, Deputy Prime Minister Ayman Safadi said on Sunday, in a first official explanation of a string of arrests a day earlier. More than 16 people were taken into custody, he said at a news conference in the capital, Amman.“There was an effort to target Jordan’s security and stability, this effort was foiled,” he said. He gave no evidence to back up his claims.The crackdown comes as Jordan, a U.S. ally that’s home to as many as 2 million Palestinian refugees and normalized relations with neighboring Israel in 1994, struggles with a worsening squeeze on its finances and a resurgence of Covid-19 cases that has prompted the government to renew restrictions on movement. The U.S. most recently provided the Middle East kingdom with $700 million in August.“We are closely following the reports and in touch with Jordanian officials,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said in a statement. “King Abdullah is a key partner of the United States, and he has our full support.”Jordan’s stability is crucial to the region because of its role in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Bordering both Syria and Iraq, the kingdom has also fashioned itself as a force for moderation in a turbulent neighborhood.Also Read | Explained: Why Jordan placed its former crown prince under 'house arrest'Security personnel and armored vehicles were seen parked outside royal palaces and patrolling the Dabouq neighborhood of the capital, Amman, on Saturday. The Washington Post said earlier that Hamza, the eldest son of the late King Hussein and his fourth wife Queen Noor, was under house arrest at his palace in Amman. It cited a senior Middle East intelligence official briefed on the events as saying there was an ongoing investigation into an alleged plot to unseat King Abdullah, Hamza’s older half-brother.Hamza, in a six-minute video provided to the BBC by his lawyer, said he was “not part of any conspiracy.”Support From Allies“I had a visit from chief of general staff of the Jordanian armed forces this morning in which he informed me that I was not allowed to go out, to communicate with people or to meet with them because in the meetings that I had been present in -- or on social media relating to visits that I had made -- there had been criticism of the government or the king,” Hamza said in the video. He added that his Internet and phone lines had been cut.On Twitter, Hamza’s mother, Queen Noor called the incidents a “wicked slander”.Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Major General Yousef Huneiti on Saturday denied claims about the arrest of Hamza and said the prince was merely asked to stop “movements and activities that are used to target” the security and stability of Jordan. He added that the move was part of joint comprehensive investigations undertaken by security agencies, as a result of which bin Zeid, Awadallah and others were arrested.The army chief indicated that the investigations were ongoing and their results will be announced “with full transparency and clarity.”Hamza was the crown prince for four years before the title was transferred in 2004 to the current king’s eldest son, Hussein. He has occupied various roles, including brigadier in the Jordanian army.Awadallah, who holds a doctorate from the London School of Economics and Political Science, has served in various positions in Jordan, including economic secretary to the prime minister, minister of finance and head of the royal court. Until 2018, he was King Abdullah’s personal envoy to Saudi Arabia, where he was close to Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman.Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Egypt and other Arab states expressed support for King Abdullah. Saudi Arabia said it supported the Jordanian monarch’s decisions and measures to preserve security and stability and face any attempt to affect them.“The Biden administration would view the potential of a failed state as detrimental to regional stability,” said Ayham Kamel, the New York-based head of Eurasia Group’s Middle East and Africa research team. “The Israeli security establishment would not look favorably toward any real instability in Jordan that triggers a Palestinian crisis.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jordan-says-king-s-half-brother-plotted-to-destabilize-country-101617548809286.html
04-04-2021||World||UK eyes testing out Covid-19 passports at mass gatherings||Britain is planning to test a series of measures including “coronavirus status certifications" over the coming weeks to see if they can allow people to safely return to mass gatherings at sports arenas, nightclubs and concerts.People attending a range of events, including conferences and soccer's FA Cup, will need to be tested both before and after. The trials will also gather evidence on how ventilation and different approaches to social distancing could enable large events to go ahead.Officials are also developing plans to trial Covid-19 passports that are expected to show if a person has received a vaccine, has recently tested negative for the virus, or has some immunity due to having tested positive in the previous six months.The issue of vaccine passports has been a hotly debated topic around the world, including in the United States and Israel. The question is how much governments, employers, venues and other places have a right to know about a person's virus status. Many disagree over what the right balance is between a person's right to medical privacy and the collective right of people in groups not to be infected with a dangerous disease by others.Some critics also say such vaccine passports will enable discrimination against poor people and impoverished nations that do not have ready access to vaccines.Authorities in Britain have said the passes could involve the use of an app or paper certificates for those who don't have access to the digital option.But U.K. Sports Minister Nigel Huddleston stressed to reporters that “the earliest pilots almost certainly won't involve any elements of certification” but will involve testing before and after the events. Prime Minister Boris Johnson is expected to set out more details about the coronavirus passports on Monday.“We are doing everything we can to enable the reopening of our country so people can return to the events, travel and other things they love as safely as possible, and these reviews will play an important role in allowing this to happen,” Johnson said.Dozens of British lawmakers, including some from Johnson’s own Conservative Party, have opposed the plans.Cabinet minister Michael Gove, who has led the task force responsible for drawing up the plans, acknowledged that vaccine passports raised “a host of practical and ethical questions” which needed to be resolved before any wider rollout.Officials said the trial events include the FA Cup semi-final at London's Wembley Stadium later this month with a crowd of 4,000 in a stadium that seats 90,000, and the event's final on May 15, with a crowd of 21,000. Other events include the World Snooker Championship in Sheffield, central England and a comedy club gathering.The news about the trials came as businesses including pubs, restaurants, nonessential shops and hairdressers prepared to welcome back customers as restrictions ease in England. Officials say about 47% of the country’s population has had a first dose of the coronavirus vaccine, and more than 5 million people in the U.K. have received their second dose.Johnson’s government is also expected to set out its approach to easing restrictions on international travel next week. Media reports say when Britain's current ban on foreign holidays is lifted, a risk-based traffic light system with ratings for countries around the world will be introduced and travellers will be required to quarantine accordingly.More details are to be unveiled when a government task force on global travel reports on April 12. The government has said that international leisure travel cannot take place until mid-May at the earliest.Last week the U.K. added four more nations to its red list of countries from which travel is banned except for U.K. citizens and those with residency rights. By April 9, the U.K. red list will be up to 39 countries. It aims to prevent more virus variants — especially ones first detected in Brazil and South Africa — from getting into the U.K.Despite Britain's success on the vaccination front, it still has the highest reported Covid-19 death toll in Europe at around 127,000 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-eyes-testing-out-covid-19-passports-at-mass-gatherings-101617546649469.html
04-04-2021||World||Another Covid-19 surge in US if Americans aren't careful, warns Fauci||The US top infectious disease expert Anthony Fauci on Saturday (local time) warned that the United States may be on the cusp of another Covid-19 surge if Americans aren't careful.There are two key things the US can do to prevent more infections, more hospitalisations, and more deaths, CNN quoted Dr Anthony Fauci as saying."A, you keep pushing down and doubling down on public health measures, and B, you do whatever you can to get as many people vaccinated as quickly and as expeditiously as possible," he said.On the vaccine front, the US has been doing "extremely well," Fauci said.Citing the data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, CNN reported that the country reported a new record over the weekend with more than four million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in 24 hours.According to Johns Hopkins University, as many as 30,672,830 people have detected positive for the Covid-19. The death toll in the country stands at 554,779."A record reporting day!! 4.08M doses reported administered over the total yesterday," Dr Cyrus Shahpar, the Covid-19 Data Director at the White House, wrote on Twitter.But despite the record pace of vaccinations, there are not enough Americans vaccinated yet to control the spread of the virus, experts warn. So far, about 31.4 per cent of Americans have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, and only 18 per cent of the population is fully vaccinated, CDC data shows.That's why experts urge continued safety measures for now.Earlier, Fauci also warned that a new wave of Covid-19 infections could be on the way while urging former President Donald Trump to tell his supporters to be vaccinated.More than 101 million doses of the vaccine have been administered in the US so far, However, President Joe Biden, last month had pledged that all American adults would be eligible to receive the vaccine by May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/another-covid-19-surge-in-us-if-americans-aren-t-careful-warns-fauci-101617547650619.html
04-04-2021||World||Ex-chief of Chinese defence giant Norinco under probe for graft||The former chairperson of one of China’s largest arms manufacturers is being probed for suspected disciplinary violations including graft.Yin Jiaxu, 65, the ex-chief of Chinese defence giant China North Industries Group Co (Norinco) is being probed for “serious violation” of laws and regulations, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), the country’s top anti-graft watchdog said in a brief statement, published on its website, on Sunday.Yin, who headed the high-profile Fortune 500 company between 2013 and 2018, is the latest former senior official from the defence industry to be probed.The CCDI, according to Beijing Daily, found that during Yin’s term as head of the group for five years some senior officials in the group had abused their powers for personal gains, providing unjustified convenience for their spouses, children, and relatives to run businesses or enterprises.“Born in 1956, he was the deputy general manager of China South Industries Group Co in 2002, and later served as the deputy general manager of Norinco in 2010, then as the chairman from 2013. Yin retired in 2018,” the state media report said.Norinco provides weapons and technical support to China’s People’s Liberation Army and is engaged in the oil and gas business.The group says on its website that according to Fortune 500 company rankings in 2020, it was placed “…154th in the world top 500 corporations with $68.7 billion operating revenue, and ranks number 1 among military enterprises in China. Since entering the world’s top 500 in 2010, Norinco group has been listed for the 11th consecutive year on the Fortune (list)”.The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI), which tracks the global defence industry said in its December report that Norinco was the ninth-largest arms company in the world and third-largest in China, after Aviation Industry Corporation of China and China Electronics Technology Group Corporation.According to SIPRI, the top 25 defence companies had four Chinese firms.“Three are in the top 10: Aviation Industry Corporation of China (AVIC; 6th), China Electronics Technology Group Corporation (CETC; 8th) and China North Industries Group Corporation (Norinco; 9th). The combined revenue of the four Chinese companies in the top 25 - which also include China South Industries Group Corporation (CSGC; 24th) - grew by 4.8% between 2018 and 2019,” the report said.President Xi Jinping’s anti-corruption campaign has netted several senior officials including those in the defence industry since it was launched in his first term.In January, it was announced that the former chief of China’s multi-billion aircraft carrier programme and head of one of the largest shipping companies, Hu Wenming, would be arrested on charges of corruption.Hu was expelled from the ruling Communist Party of China (CPC) in 2020 for severely violating party discipline and being suspected of taking bribes and misfeasance.Hu had worked in several major state-owned arms companies including AVIC, Norinco, and China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC) and eventually CSIC, according to People’s Daily.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exchief-of-chinese-defence-giant-norinco-under-probe-for-graft-101617547811545.html
04-04-2021||World||Joe Biden's infrastructure plan to boost job growth, says economic adviser||US President Joe Biden's $2 trillion infrastructure plan contains investment that will foster job growth in the short- and long-term, including child care funding so more Americans get back to work, his top economic adviser said Sunday.Biden's blueprint to revitalize America’s infrastructure is designed to create more jobs and keep the economy going as the United States emerges from the coronavirus pandemic, Brian Deese, director of the National Economic Council, said in an interview with "Fox News Sunday.""But let's also think for the longer term, about where those investments that we can make that will really drive, not just more job growth but better job growth, not just job growth in the short term but job growth for long term, by investing in our infrastructure, by investing in our research and development, in a way that we haven't since the 1960s," he said.Deese joined several Biden administration officials on television news shows on Sunday to promote the plan, which has drawn strong opposition from Republicans as too expensive and too liberal.Republican Senator Roy Blunt urged the administration to scale the plan way back, to focus on basics."If we'd go back and look at roads and bridges and ports and airports, and maybe even underground water systems and broadband, you'd still be talking about less than 30% of this entire package," Blunt said on the Fox program.Blunt said he believed that a less ambitious goal, of around $615 billion, would be more palatable to some of his Republican colleagues and get Biden the bipartisan deal he has said he wanted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-s-infrastructure-plan-to-boost-job-growth-says-economic-adviser-101617546180373.html
04-04-2021||World||UK added Pakistan to ‘red list’ after people kept travelling for weddings amid Covid-19 surge||The United Kingdom on Friday added four new countries, including Pakistan, to its “red list” - a list of countries from where travellers are refused entry - to protect Britain against coronavirus variants. With some exception, international visitors who have departed from or transited through the four countries in the previous 10 days won’t be allowed to enter England from April 9.The travel ban was announced after the British government repeatedly warned against travelling to Pakistan without a legitimate reason. According to a BBC report, many individuals of British Pakistani nationality were found making non-essential travels, like attending weddings. BBC’s North West Tonight aired a video of an unnamed woman from Manchester, reportedly posted on her social media account, who was seen attending a wedding in Lahore.In the video, the woman said that everyone was stressed out by coronavirus disease (Covid-19) back home and that’s why she was at the wedding in Lahore. “Corona(virus) has made everyone in the UK mad...but everyone is enjoying themselves here (Pakistan). So I thought I'll get away from all of that by coming here to enjoy myself too,” said the woman, according to the BBC translator.UK media reports that Pakistan was placed on red list due to people travelling to Lahore for weddings pic.twitter.com/pHYhTymGWNAlso Read | Covid-19: Surge in cases in Pakistan, lockdown in Bangladesh According to the report, around 32,000 travellers flew from the UK to Pakistan in January 2021, out of which nearly 15,000 British Pakistanis went from Manchester airport, almost half the number of travellers who flew to Pakistan in the same month last year before the pandemic began. For India, the drop was larger with an 82% decrease in the number of travellers as compared to January 2020.A travel agent from Greater Manchester told BBC that about half of the travellers booked through him were not travelling for legitimate reasons. Pakistan has been witnessing a surge in coronavirus cases and the influx of British Pakistani nationals also led to the discovery of the UK variant, B.1.1.7, in the city of Mirpur, prompting the British High Commissioner to Pakistan to issue a reminder.“For those of you in the UK thinking of travelling to Pakistan under current UK Covid restrictions you must stay at home and it is illegal to travel abroad for leisure,” said Christian Turner, British High Commissioner to Pakistan, in a video.Update on Covid & 🇬🇧🇵🇰 travel: it’s illegal to travel from UK for leisure; cases are rising in 🇵🇰; & border measures can change at short notice - stay informed at https://t.co/SaaXJrgQHx pic.twitter.com/gZ01SJIJijAfter the travel ban was announced, Naz Shah, a member of Parliament for Bradford West, wrote to UK foreign secretary Dominic Raab, alleging that the government was consciously discriminating against Pakistan and the Pakistani diaspora community. Citing the coronavirus situation in countries like India and Germany, Shah said that the decision to add Pakistan to the "red list" was "led by politics and not data."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-added-pakistan-to-red-list-as-people-kept-travelling-for-weddings-101617543704216.html
04-04-2021||World||Closure of border with China due to Covid-19 hits livelihoods of Nepalis||The closure of the Nepal-China border due to the Covid pandemic has affected the livelihoods of Nepali people who worked or ran businesses across the international border in Tibet.Several people living in Nepal's Sudurpaschim province were entrepreneurs and seasonal workers across the border in Tibet.If things had been normal, Karsang and her husband Anga Thapa of Talkot village in Bajhang district would be busy serving guests in their hotel at this time of the year, the Kathmandu Post reported.The couple from Sudurpaschim in far western Nepal owns a hotel in Taklakot, Tibet, 30 km across the international border. Taklakot or Purang is the first city in Tibet travellers encounters after leaving Nepal. Located at an altitude of 4,755 metres, it is popular among Indian pilgrims going on the holy journey known as Kailash Manasarovar Yatra for acclimatising for one or two days.It is also the time of the year when people from Humla used to hop across the border to Taklakot to work as seasonal labourers. They earned up to Nepali ₹350,000 in three months.The Kailash Manasarovar Yatra season begins in May and lasts till September. The arrival of Indian pilgrims and Nepali workers would keep hoteliers like Thapa busy for months."I used to make a profit of around Nepali ₹1.5 million during the pilgrim season," The Kathmandu Post quoted Thapa as saying.It's been nearly one and a half years since the pandemic began, and the situation has not changed. The Thapas are wondering when Taklakot will reopen.Before Covid-19, more than 20,000 pilgrims were visiting the sacred mountain and lake during the spring season.The Thapas are facing a financial crisis due to the prolonged closure of their hotel. "We have admitted our three children in a boarding school in Surkhet. We have to pay Nepali ₹40,000 in school fees monthly," Anga said.With the hotel closed, their revenues dried up; and they were forced to mortgage their house to raise cash for household expenses and school fees. "Our income is almost zero."The closure of the border in early 2020 has affected a large number of Nepali entrepreneurs and seasonal workers from Bajhang, Humla, Dolpa, Darchula and Mugu.Nepalis have been running hotels and selling Nepali products, wooden utensils, handicrafts, Nepali carpets, bamboo, reeds, leather and other handicraft items for many years in Taklakot.Dan Bahadur Lama, a wooden utensil trader from Namkha Rural Municipality in Humla district, said they have a turnover of more than Nepali ₹2 billion annually, The Kathmandu Post reported."The government has ignored this border point despite being linked to the livelihoods of many people in the five districts," said Yogesh Bohara of Chhangru, Darchula, who has been trading curio goods in Taklakot.He said that a diplomatic initiative should be launched to reopen the border soon. "If the border is not reopened this year too, many people will be ruined," he said.Meanwhile, the country has witnessed 277,768 total cases of coronavirus infection and 3,032 Covid-19 fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/closure-of-border-with-china-due-to-covid-19-hits-livelihoods-of-nepalis-101617543411676.html
04-04-2021||World||Floods, landslides, kill dozens in Indonesia and East Timor||Flash floods unleashed by torrential rains killed 41 people on the Indonesian island of Flores on Sunday, the disaster management agency BNPB said, and at least three more were reported killed in neighbouring East Timor.At least 49 families were hit on Flores, in the east of Indonesia's sprawling archipelago, Raditya Jati, a BNPB spokesman said in a statement."Dozens of houses were buried in mud in Lamanele village... residents' houses washed away by the flood," Raditya said, referring to the eastern part of Flores.On Adonara island to the east of Flores, a bridge collapsed and rescuers were battling heavy rain, strong wind and waves, he added.In neighbouring East Timor, a two-year-old child was among at least three people killed in a landslide on the outskirts of the capital, Dili, a Reuters witness said, although there was no official toll of casualties or deaths."Heavy rains and overflowing water have drowned people's homes and have also claimed the lives of several victims," East Timor deputy prime minister José Reis said in a statement."There are roads that have collapsed, trees have fallen, and made it difficult to access some areas," he said, calling the incident the worst in East Timor in 40 years.Power supplies were cut and the presidential palace was flooded as heavy rain and strong winds have lashed Dili since late on Saturday.Civil protection officials in East Timor could not immediately be reached for comment. Social media posts showed collapsed buildings and vehicles submerged by flash floods.Indonesia's weather agency said a tropical cyclone was approaching the Savu Straits between the southern part of Nusa Tenggara province and East Timor's north coast, warning that it could bring yet more rain, waves and winds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/floods-landslides-kill-dozens-in-indonesia-and-east-timor-101617542053278.html
04-04-2021||World||Pak anti-terrorism court jails Hafiz Saeed's 5 aides in terror financing case||A Pakistani anti-terrorism court has sentenced five leaders of Mumbai attack mastermind Hafiz Saeed’s Jamaat-ud-Dawah (JuD) to nine years of imprisonment each in a terror financing case.Three of them -- Umar Bahadar, Nasarullah and Samiullah -- have been convicted for the first time since the Anti-Terrorism Court (ATC) Lahore pronounced its verdict some time ago in the terror financing cases registered by the Counter-Terrorism Department (CTD) of the Punjab police.The other two -- JuD spokesperson Yahya Mujahid and senior leader Prof Zafar Iqbal -- had already been convicted for many years in other terror financing cases.ATC Lahore Judge Ejaz Ahmad Buttar on Saturday handed down nine-year imprisonment to each five of them. The judge also ordered a six-month jail term to Saeed's brother-in-law Hafiz Abdul Rehman Makki in the same case.“The court found the JuD/LeT leaders guilty of offence of terrorism financing. They had been collecting funds and unlawfully financing the proscribed organisation, LeT (Lashkar-e-Taiba). The court has also ordered confiscation of assets made from funds collected through terrorism financing,” the CTD said.The JuD leaders were presented in the court amid high security and the media was not allowed to cover the proceedings.The CTD of Punjab Police had registered 41 FIRs against the JuD leaders, including 70-year-old Saeed, in terror financing cases. The trial courts have so far decided 37 of them.The ATC had sentenced the LeT founder, Saeed, for a collective imprisonment of 36 years on terror finance charges under sections 11-N of Anti-Terrorism Act 1997 in five cases so far. Saeed’s jail terms will run concurrently. That means he will not stay in jail for many years. He is serving his term in Lahore’s Kot Lakhpat jail along with other convicted JuD leaders.Saeed-led JuD is the front organisation for the LeT which is responsible for carrying out the 2008 Mumbai attack that killed 166 people, including six Americans.Saeed, a UN designated terrorist whom the US has placed a USD 10 million bounty on, was arrested on July 17, 2019 last year in the terror financing cases.The US Department of the Treasury has designated Saeed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist. He was listed under the UN Security Council Resolution 1267 in December 2008.The ATC Lahore had also sentenced LeT operation commander Zakiur Rehman Lakhvi for a collective imprisonment of 15 years on three counts in a terror financing case. He will have to serve in jail for five years as his sentence in three counts (five years each) will run concurrently.The global terror financing watchdog Financial Action Task Force (FATF) is instrumental in pushing Islamabad to take measures against terrorists roaming freely in Pakistan and using its territory to carry out attacks in India and elsewhere.The Paris-based FATF placed Pakistan on the Grey List in June 2018 and asked Islamabad to implement a plan of action to curb money laundering and terror financing by the end of 2019 but the deadline was extended later on due to Covid-19 pandemic. In February, the FATF retained Pakistan on its Grey List until June.With Pakistan's continuation in the 'grey list', the country may find it difficult to get financial aid from the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank, thus further enhancing problems for the cash-strapped nation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-anti-terrorism-court-jails-hafiz-saeed-s-5-aides-in-terror-financing-case-101617537035226.html
04-04-2021||World||Rocket falls near Iraqi base hosting US contractors||A rocket fell on Sunday in a rural area close to an Iraqi military air base hosting some U.S. contractors, but there were no casualties, Iraqi security officials said.Initial investigations showed that the target of the attack was to strike Balad airbase, north of Baghdad, but the rocket fell short and hit the village of al-Bu Asi just southeast, they said.No group immediately claimed the attack, but armed groups that some Iraqi officials have said are backed by Iran have claimed similar incidents in the past.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rocket-falls-near-iraqi-base-hosting-us-contractors-101617535117674.html
04-04-2021||World||Pope Francis urges Covid-19 vaccines for poor in Easter message||Pope Francis urged Catholics to remain hopeful in his Easter Sunday address, calling vaccines an "essential tool" in ending the pandemic and urging their swift rollout to the world's poorest countries.On the holiest holiday for the world's 1.3 billion Catholics and the second under the shadow of the coronavirus crisis, the pope focused his message on the world's most vulnerable -- the sick, migrants, people facing economic hardship, and those living in war zones like Syria, Yemen and Libya."The pandemic is still spreading, while the social and economic crisis remains severe, especially for the poor," the 84-year-old Argentine said, speaking to a congregation of only around 100 people inside the vast St. Peter's Basilica."Vaccines are an essential tool in this fight," he said, calling on the international community to overcome delays in distributing vaccines "especially in the poorest countries".Francis, who has focused on the plight of vulnerable groups since becoming pope in 2013, had already warned rich nations against vaccine hoarding in an address to the UN General Assembly in September.The pope said it was "scandalous" that armed conflicts around the world had not ceased.He called for an end to the war in Syria, "where millions of people are presently living in inhumane conditions", and in Yemen "whose situation has met with a deafening and scandalous silence".He also expressed his closeness to Myanmar's youth -- "committed to supporting democracy" -- called for dialogue between Israelis and Palestinians, and urged an end to violence in Africa, citing Nigeria, the Sahel, Northern Ethiopia's Tigray region and Cabo Delgado in Mozambique."There are still too many wars and too much violence in the world," Francis said, adding that April 4 marked an awareness day against landmines, "insidious and horrible devices".- Key month for Italy -The pope's Easter "Urbi et Orbi" ("To the city and the world") message in the Vatican came as 60 million Italians spent the Easter holiday under lockdown.The whole of Italy -- the first country in Europe to have been hit by the coronavirus -- has been declared a high-risk "red zone" from Saturday through Monday, with restrictions on movement and restaurants closed along with non-essential retail.Despite the gloom, there have been hopeful signs that vaccinations are gaining pace in Italy, while infection rates dipped in late March -- although emergency rooms remain under enormous strain.April is set to be a crucial month for Italy's vaccine rollout, with authorities hoping to administer 300,000 doses per day within two weeks, according to the country's coronavirus commissioner, General Francesco Paolo Figliuolo.Three regions, including that of Veneto which includes Venice, are also preparing to slightly loosen their anti-coronavirus rules from Tuesday onwards, passing from the most restrictive "red" zones to "orange".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-francis-urges-covid-19-vaccines-for-poor-in-easter-message-101617535344406.html
04-04-2021||World||Pope, in Easter message, slams weapons spending in time of pandemic||Pope Francis urged countries in his Easter message on Sunday to quicken distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, particularly to the world's poor, and called armed conflict and military spending during a pandemic "scandalous".Coronavirus has meant this has been the second year in a row that Easter papal services have been attended by small gatherings at a secondary altar of St. Peter's Basilica, instead of by crowds in the church or in the square outside.After saying Mass, Francis read his "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) message, in which he traditionally reviews world problems and appeals for peace."The pandemic is still spreading, while the social and economic crisis remains severe, especially for the poor. Nonetheless – and this is scandalous – armed conflicts have not ended and military arsenals are being strengthened," he said.Francis, who would normally have given the address to up to 100,000 people in St. Peter's Square, spoke to fewer than 200 in the church while the message was broadcast to tens of millions around the world.The square was empty except for a few police officers enforcing a strict three-day national lockdown.The pope asked God to comfort the sick, those who have lost a loved one, and the unemployed, urging authorities to give families in greatest need a "decent sustenance".He praised medical workers, sympathised with young people unable to attend school, and said everyone was called to combat the pandemic."I urge the entire international community, in a spirit of global responsibility, to commit to overcoming delays in the distribution of vaccines and to facilitate their distribution, especially in the poorest countries," he said.Francis, who has often called for disarmament and a total ban on the possession of nuclear weapons, said: "There are still too many wars and too much violence in the world! May the Lord, who is our peace, help us to overcome the mindset of war."'INSTRUMENTS OF DEATH'Noting that it was International Awareness Day against anti-personnel landmines, he called such weapons "insidious and horrible devices ... how much better our world would be without these instruments of death!"In mentioning conflict areas, he singled out for praise "the young people of Myanmar committed to supporting democracy and making their voices heard peacefully". More than 550 protesters have been killed since a Feb. 1 military coup in Myanmar, which the pope visited in 2017.Francis called for peace in several conflict areas in Africa, including the Tigray region of northern Ethiopia and the Cabo Delgado province of Mozambique. He said the crisis in Yemen has been "met with a deafening and scandalous silence".He appealed to Israelis and Palestinians to "rediscover the power of dialogue" to reach a two-state solution where both can live side by side in peace and prosperity.Francis said he realised many Christians were still persecuted and called for all restrictions on freedom of worship and religion worldwide to be lifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-in-easter-message-slams-weapons-spending-in-time-of-pandemic-101617533986282.html
04-04-2021||World||'Deeply remorseful': Truck driver makes tearful apology over Taiwan rail crash||A railway maintenance worker whose truck rolled onto the tracks and sparked Taiwan's worst train disaster in recent decades made a tearful apology on Sunday, saying he would cooperate with investigators.At least 50 people were killed and more than 200 were injured in Friday's crash, which sent a packed eight-car train hurtling into the sides of a narrow tunnel near the eastern coastal city of Hualien.Investigators say the Taroko Express hit a truck on the line moments before it entered the tunnel.The vehicle slipped down a steep embankment and prosecutors are working on whether the driver either failed to secure the parking brake, or the brake suffered a mechanical failure.On Sunday, the driver Lee Yi-hsiang read out an emotional statement to a bank of media cameras."I am deeply remorseful and want to express my most sincere apologies," he said, his voice cracking with emotion."I will cooperate with the investigation by police and prosecutors to take the responsibility I should take," he added.Lee, 49, was part of a team who regularly inspected Taiwan's mountainous eastern train line for landslides and other risks.He was questioned over the weekend by prosecutors and released on bail by a court pending further enquires.As questions mounted over how packed the train was and why there were not fences on that section of the track, transport minister Lin Chia-lung offered his resignation on Sunday.But it was not accepted by the government who said he should remain in place until the results of the investigation are known.- Emotional prayers -Survivors reported that the train driver was honking his horn shortly before the crash but did not -- or was unable to -- slow down before striking the truck.The United Daily News newspaper ran a report on Sunday based on initial analysis from footage of the train recorder that showed the truck was on the line before the train went into the tunnel and no slowdown before impact.The crash has plunged Taiwan into mourning. Some suvivors lost entire families and the youngest victim was just four.A French national and two Americans were also confirmed killed.On Saturday around one hundred relatives held an emotional Taoist prayer ceremony near the crash site.Shaded under a canopy of black umbrellas they wept openly, calling for their loved ones to "come home".Friday's crash took place at the start of the Tomb Sweeping Festival, a four-day public holiday when many Taiwanese return to villages to tidy the graves of their ancestors.Taiwan's eastern railway line, a popular tourist draw, winds its way through towering mountains and dramatic gorges before entering the picturesque Huadong Valley.The last major train derailment in Taiwan was in 2018 and left 18 people dead on the same eastern line.Taiwan's most deadly rail disaster on record was in 1948 when a train caught fire and 64 people perished.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deeply-remorseful-truck-driver-makes-tearful-apology-over-taiwan-rail-crash-101617533055199.html
04-04-2021||World||‘Touchdown confirmed!’: Nasa’s Mars Ingenuity drops from Perseverance belly. List of milestones||Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) on Sunday confirmed the touchdown of the Ingenuity helicopter, which was attached to the belly of the Perseverance rover, on the Martian surface. Nasa JPL tweeted the photograph of Ingenuity after it was dropped from the rover's belly that ended its journey of almost 471 million kilometres with Perseverance. The visible track shows how the rover drove away from Ingenuity after dropping it onto the airfield.“#MarsHelicopter touchdown confirmed! Its 293 million mile (471 million km) journey aboard @NASAPersevere ended with the final drop of 4 inches (10 cm) from the rover's belly to the surface of Mars today. Next milestone? Survive the night,” tweeted Nasa JPL.#MarsHelicopter touchdown confirmed! Its 293 million mile (471 million km) journey aboard @NASAPersevere ended with the final drop of 4 inches (10 cm) from the rover's belly to the surface of Mars today. Next milestone? Survive the night. https://t.co/TNCdXWcKWE pic.twitter.com/XaBiSNebuaSurviving the night after getting dropped will be one of the most important milestones for Ingenuity since it has to run its own heater from its own battery. Bob Balaram, the chief engineer for the Mars helicopter project at Nasa's JPL, said in a blog post that the Ingenuity team will be “anxiously waiting to hear from the helicopter” the next day before it targets other milestones.Also Read | Nasa Ingenuity helicopter’s first flight on Mars delayed. Important datesHere’s the list of milestones Ingenuity needs to complete before its first flight on Mars:1. Keeping itself warm autonomously through the intensely cold Martian night (as low as minus 90 degrees Celsius).2. Charging autonomously using its solar panel high-tech solar panel.3. Confirming communications with flight operators on Earth via the base station on the rover.4. Confirming the energy and power model over multiple Martian days as operators monitor daily power consumption, solar energy, and battery levels.5. Unlocking rotor blades and spin them up for the first time on Mars while still on the surface at a lower speed needed for flight.6. Spinning up rotor blades at planned flight speed for the first time on Mars while still on the surface.7. If all goes well, finally lifting off for the first time in the thin Martian atmosphere and landing successfullyNasa has announced that the first scheduled flight of the Ingenuity helicopter on Mars will take place no earlier than April 11. An interactive webinar preview of the flight will be held at 11:00pm on April 5 via Zoom. Experts will come together to discuss the helicopter at 10:30pm on April 8 which will be streamed on the YouTube channel of Nasa JPL’s Education Office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-ingenuity-helicopter-drops-from-perseverance-ahead-of-flight-on-mars-101617530222597.html
04-04-2021||World||Indonesia: Flash floods and landslides kill at least 44, leave several injured||At least 44 people were killed after flash floods and landslides swept an island in Indonesia's easternmost province Sunday morning, rescue officials said, adding they expected the toll to rise."There are 44 people dead with nine injured" in East Flores regency, and "many are still under the mud", National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesperson Raditya Jati told AFP.Hours before people woke to celebrate Easter, torrential rain unleashed flash floods in the Catholic-majority Flores Island. Mud inundated homes, while bridges and roads in the eastern end of the island were destroyed, according to National Disaster Mitigation Agency spokesperson Raditya Jati. Rescuers are struggling to reach the remote and worst-hit area in East Flores regency. "The only access there is by the sea from Adonara Island, but the rains -- as well as strong waves -- have prevented any crossing," Jati told AFP on Sunday. Extreme weather is expected to continue in the coming week, he added.Separately on Sunday, major floods also killed two people in Bima city in the neighbouring province of West Nusa Tenggara, according to the disaster agency. Dams in four subdistricts also overflowed, submerging nearly 10,000 houses in Bima following a nine-hour downpour, said Jati.Fatal landslides and flash floods are common across the Indonesian archipelago during the rainy season when downpours are frequent and relentless. In January, flash floods damaged the Indonesian town of Sumedang in West Java, killing 40 people. Last September, at least 11 people were killed in landslides on Borneo while a few months earlier, dozens died in landslides in Sulawesi. Indonesia's disaster agency has estimated that 125 million Indonesians -- nearly half of the country's population -- live in areas at risk of landslides.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-flash-floods-and-landslides-kill-at-least-44-leave-several-injured-101617529542230.html
04-04-2021||World||China intends to occupy more South China Sea areas: Philippines' defence chief||The Philippines' defence chief said on Sunday China was looking to occupy more areas in the South China Sea, citing the continued presence of Chinese vessels that Manila believes are manned by militias in disputed parts of the strategic waterway."The continued presence of Chinese maritime militias in the area reveals their intent to further occupy (areas) in the West Philippine Sea," Defence Secretary Delfin Lorenzana said in a statement, using the local name for the South China Sea.It was the second hostile statement by Lorenzana in two days as he repeated calls by the Philippines for the Chinese boats to leave Whitsun Reef, which Manila calls the Julian Felipe Reef, located within its 200-mile exclusive economic zone.Chinese diplomats have said the boats anchored near the reef - numbering more than 200 based on initial intelligence gathered by Philippine patrols - were sheltering from rough seas and that no militia were aboard.On Saturday, Lorenzana said there were still 44 Chinese vessels at Whitsun Reef despite improved weather conditions."I am no fool. The weather has been good so far, so they have no reason to stay there," he said.The Chinese Embassy in Manila responded to Lorenzana's comments, saying it was "completely normal" for Chinese vessels to fish in the area and take shelter near the reef during rough sea conditions. It added, "Nobody has the right to make wanton remarks on such activities."An international tribunal invalidated China's claim to 90% of the South China Sea in 2016, but Beijing does not recognise the ruling and has built artificial islands in the disputed waters equipped with radar, missiles batteries and hangars for fighter jets."They have done this (occupy disputed areas) before at Panatag Shoal or Bajo de Masinloc and at Panganiban Reef, brazenly violating Philippine sovereignty and sovereign rights under international law," Lorenzana said in his Sunday statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-intends-to-occupy-more-south-china-sea-areas-philippines-defence-chief-101617528307193.html
04-04-2021||World||Myanmar anti-coup protesters launch painted Easter eggs as symbol of protest||Anti-coup demonstrators in Myanmar, adept at finding themes to tie together protests nationwide, took to the streets on Sunday holding painted eggs in a nod to Easter.In the biggest city of Yangon, one group marched through the Insein district chanting and singing protest songs and cradling eggs bearing the slogan “Spring Revolution.” Many of the eggs also bore a drawing of the three-fingered salute, a symbol of resistance to the Feb. 1 coup.In Mandalay, the country’s second largest city, protesters gathered at dawn on motorbikes to shout their defiance of the power grab that overthrew the democratically elected government.Myanmar’s military has violently cracked down on protesters and others in opposition, with the latest civilian death toll since the coup at 557, according to the independent Assistance Association for Political Prisoners. More than 2,750 have been detained or sentenced, the group said.Sunday’s so-called “Easter Egg Strike” follows other themed days. They included a “Flower Strike,” in which protesters laid flowers in public places to honor those killed by security forces, and a “Silent Strike,” in which people across the country left the streets deserted.Security forces continued to spread fear among ordinary citizens. Overnight, a resident of Yangon recorded video of a group of soldiers and police using sling shots to fire stones at the windows of homes, breaking the night's silence. At other times, soldiers and police keep up their intimidation at night with raids on neighborhoods, during which they shout abuse, shoot at random, make arrests and vandalize property.On Saturday, police opened fire killing several protesters in Monywa in central Myanmar and elsewhere.With most of the internet access cut or severely restricted by the junta, it is becoming increasingly difficult for people in Myanmar to get images of their plight to the outside world.After weeks of overnight internet cutoffs, the military on Friday shut all links apart from those using fiberoptic cable, which was working at drastically reduced speeds. Access to mobile networks and all wireless — the less costly options used by most people in the developing country — remained blocked on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-anti-coup-protesters-launch-painted-easter-eggs-as-symbol-of-protest-101617528313401.html
04-04-2021||World||Boris Johnson says UK looking forward to 'brighter days ahead' on Easter||UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson said in an Easter message on Sunday that the country is going to see "brighter days ahead" after a "very tough" pandemic year.This Sunday, Anglicans and Catholics celebrate Easter. Though churches are open, many Christians will not be able to mark their most important festival in the way that they would like, Johnson noted."This has been a very tough 12 months. But, as ever, the arrival of Easter brings with it new hope. And, this year more than ever, it brings the promise of brighter days ahead for us all. So stay safe, keep following the rules, and have a very happy Easter," he said.According to the prime minister, British Christians have demonstrated this year that Jesus Christ is "the way, and the truth, and the life" not just today but every day.He also commended the role of churches that are opening their doors as Covid-19 vaccination centers.As of Saturday, the UK has reached a milestone of 5 million people fully vaccinated against Covid-19. Over 31 million Britons have received at least one dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/boris-johnson-says-uk-looking-forward-to-brighter-days-ahead-on-easter-101617528636176.html
04-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Japan to expand emergency measures as needed amid fears of new strains||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga said on Sunday that he would expand emergency measures as needed to contain a new wave of coronavirus infections, amid fears over the spread of virus mutations.Suga, asked on a Fuji TV programme whether Tokyo might be added to a list of areas including the western metropolis of Osaka set to come under lockdown measures from Monday, said, "All possibilities are being considered.""It doesn't matter specifically where, we will act without hesitation if needed," he said.Japan is grappling with a Covid-19 resurgence ahead of the summer Olympics scheduled to begin in July, with large-scale vaccinations of the general population yet to begin.On Sunday, 355 new infections were reported in Tokyo, although that is still well below the peak of over 2,500 in January.Health experts have been particularly concerned about a surge in mutations among those who have recently tested positive around Osaka. The variant, known to have emerged in Britain, is feared to be highly transmissible.A total of 594 new coronavirus cases were reported in Osaka prefecture on Sunday, a day after a record 666 were confirmed.Variants of the virus have cropped up around the world since last year, including the E484 mutation detected in a growing number of cases in Tokyo, officials say.Around 70% of coronavirus patients tested at a Tokyo hospital last month carried the E484K mutation, nicknamed "Eek" by some scientists and known for reducing vaccine protection, said public broadcaster NHK.The "Eek" mutation was found in 10 of 14 people who tested positive for the virus at Tokyo Medical and Dental University Medical Hospital in March, the report said.For the two months through March, 12 of 36 Covid patients carried the mutation, with none of them having recently travelled abroad or reporting contact with people who had, it said.Hospital officials were not available to confirm the report, which said that none of the patients there carried the British strain.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-japan-to-expand-emergency-measures-as-needed-amid-fears-of-new-strains-101617527227419.html
04-04-2021||World||Australia sets national record for Covid-19 vaccinations in a day||Australia says it has given nearly 80,000 people a virus vaccination to set a new single-day high, boosted by strong stockpiles.A record 79,283 people received an initial dose on Thursday, the latest day that such data is available, Health Minister Greg Hunt told a press briefing on Sunday.“The supply at this stage is looking strong,” he said. “Given the great and enormous global competition, the fact we have this domestic supply is fundamental.”Australia has nearly eliminated local transmissions by closing its international border to non-residents, but occasional cases have leaked into the community from quarantine hotels where returned overseas travelers must isolate for 14 days. States have imposed several snap lockdowns in recent months to contain clusters.Australia has met its principal targets for vaccination start dates, Hunt added, and wants to see everyone who wants a shot getting an initial dose by the end of October. More than 841,000 vaccinations have been completed across Australia as of Saturday evening, he added.The government is behind on its vaccine rollout plans, Mark Butler of the opposition Australian Labor Party said Sunday. Prime Minister Scott Morrison had promised 4 million doses would be given by the end of March, Butler said.Australian authorities said on Saturday they were working with the European Union and the U.K. to investigate the first local case of an unusual clotting in a patient after receiving the AstraZeneca Plc vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-sets-national-record-for-covid-19-vaccinations-in-a-day-101617523787282.html
04-04-2021||World||Indonesian divers hunt 17 missing after fishing boat, bulk carrier collide||Divers were scouring the waters of the Java Sea on Sunday for 17 fishermen reported missing after their boat capsized following a crash involving a bulk carrier, a spokesman for Indonesia's search and rescue agency said.Fifteen crew of the fishing boat, the Barokah Jaya, were evacuated after Saturday's crash, but five divers are searching for the remaining 17, Yusuf Latif, the spokesman of the agency, Basarnas, said in a statement."We're still conducting the search," Yusuf said, adding that an agency rescue ship had taken the survivors aboard.The crash happened at 0930 GMT, Yusuf said. The other vessel was the bulk carrier Habco Pioneer, which has a capacity of nearly 30,000 tonnes. Both vessels are Indonesia-flagged.There were no reports of casualties or missing crew on the Habco Pioneer, owned by tugboats and barges company PT Habco Primatama.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-divers-hunt-17-missing-after-fishing-boat-bulk-carrier-collide-101617510545791.html
04-04-2021||World||Taiwan minister accepts responsibility for train crash as questions mount||Taiwan's transport minister said on Sunday he would not shirk his responsibility for a deadly train crash even as his resignation offer was rejected amid growing questions over safety lapses that could have contributed to the disaster.In the island's worst rail accident in seven decades, 51 people have been confirmed dead after a packed express train slammed into a truck near the eastern city of Hualien on Friday, causing it to derail and the front part to crumple.Speaking at the crash site overlooking the ocean and backed by precipitous mountains, Lin Chia-lung said he would "not avoid" responsibility."I am also in charge of minimising the damage caused by the entire accident. After the whole rescue work is completed, I believe I will take the responsibility," he said.Premier Su Tseng-chang's office said Lin had made a verbal offer to resign on Saturday, but Su rejected it for the time being, saying efforts for now should focus on rescue and recovery.The truck that the train hit had slid down a sloping road onto the track just outside a tunnel. Officials are investigating the manager of the construction site, Lee Yi-hsiang, whose truck is suspected of not having its brakes properly applied.Lee had been released on bail, though the high court's Hualien branch on Sunday rescinded that decision after the prosecutors appealed it, sending the case back to the lower court. Lee and his lawyer have declined to answer reporters' questions.Reuters was not immediately able to locate contact details for Lee or his lawyer.The transport ministry, and the rail administration which comes under it, are facing scrutiny over a number of questions, including why there was no proper fencing at the site and whether too many standing-only tickets were sold.Deputy transport minister Wang Kwo-tsai said late on Saturday the railway administration needed to take hard look at all these issues, adding that his personal feeling was that "initially it looks like negligence" on the part of the building site contractor.The railway administration is also without a permanent director after its former chief retired in January. The position is being filled in an acting capacity by another deputy transport minister, Chi Wen-chung.Wang said Lin was working hard to find the right person to fill the job.'DAUGHTER'S VOICE BECAME QUIETER AND QUIETER'The uncle of the youngest confirmed victim, a five-year-old girl, tearfully told reporters he was still waiting for an apology for the accident."I'm so angry," he said.The government has promised compensation and that it will do everything it can to help survivors and their relatives.The damaged section of the track will not reopen until April 20 at the earliest, Wang said, though rail traffic continues on a parallel track that runs through another tunnel and was not affected by the accident.Minister Lin said rescue and recovery work would continue."We continue to pull out the cabins stuck inside. The third cabin was dragged out last night. We expect to pull out two other cabins today," he added.The accident occurred at the start of a long weekend for the traditional Tomb Sweeping Day, when people return home to tend to family graves.Survivors have described horrible scenes inside the wreck.Priest Sung Chih-chiang told Reuters what surviving passenger Chung Hui-mei had told him."She could not find her daughter. When she yelled, she found her daughter was under the steel panels. She put her effort to move those pieces one by one, but her daughter's voice became quieter and quieter, and then there was no response," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-minister-accepts-responsibility-for-train-crash-as-questions-mount-101617516160996.html
04-04-2021||World||Protesters decorate Easter eggs in coup-hit Myanmar||Anti-coup demonstrators in Myanmar decorated boiled eggs on Easter Sunday in the latest protest as the military junta continues its brutal crackdown.Myanmar has been gripped by severe turmoil since a February 1 coup ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Security forces have sought to quell a mass uprising with lethal force, with the death toll reaching 557 as of Saturday, according to local monitoring group Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP).To coincide with Easter Sunday, scores of Myanmar protesters decorated eggs with political messages and left them on neighbour's doorsteps and hanging in bags on front gates.Pictures posted on social media showed eggs adorned with Suu Kyi's likeness and three-finger salutes -- a symbol of the resistance -- while others said "save our people" and "democracy".One Facebook group promoting the egg protest urged people to be respectful of Christian traditions on Easter Sunday.Early bird protesters also hit the streets of Mandalay Sunday, some carrying flags and riding motorbikes.Their demonstration comes even after four protesters were killed Saturday in the cities of Bago and Monywa.- Total to continue gas production -While foreign companies have faced growing calls to sever ties with the junta, French energy giant Total announced Sunday it will not halt gas production in coup-hit Myanmar.Chief executive Patrick Pouyanne said Total has a duty to stay the course."Can a company like Total decide to cut off the electricity supply to millions of people -- and in so doing, disrupt the operation of hospitals, businesses?" he told the Journal du Dimanche.Pouyanne said he was "outraged by the repression" in Myanmar but would refuse to "act to the detriment of our local employees and the Burmese population who are already suffering so much."Italian fashion brand Benetton and Swedish retailer H&M have suspended all new orders from Myanmar, while French power group EDF halted its activities, including a $1.5-billion project to build a hydroelectric dam.Unrest -- supported by a widespread strike by civil servants -- has crippled Myanmar's economy, leaving gas exports as one of the junta's main sources of revenue.The military-controlled Myanmar Oil and Gas Enterprise has partnerships with Total and US rival Chevron and generates annual revenues of around $1 billion from the sale of natural gas.Total paid about $230 million to the Myanmar authorities in 2019 and $176 million in 2020 in taxes and "production rights", according to the company's financial statements.The company has not yet paid taxes -- worth around $4 million per month -- to the junta because the banking system has ceased to operate, Pouyanne said.But he said Total rejected calls to put the taxes into an escrow account, saying it could put local managers at risk of arrest or imprisonment.- More arrests -At least 2,658 civilians are in detention across the country, according to AAPP.This weekend, Myanmar authorities issued arrest warrants for 40 celebrities -- most of whom are in hiding.Two sisters -- Shine Ya Da Na Pyo and Nay Zar Chi Shine -- who spoke with a CNN correspondent on Friday were also detained, along with another relative.Local media reported they had flashed a three-finger salute while speaking to CNN."We are pressing the authorities for information on this, and for the safe release of any detainees," a CNN spokesperson said.Meanwhile, ten rebel groups held online talks Saturday about Myanmar's crisis, fanning fears that a broader conflict could erupt in a country long plagued by fighting between the military and the ethnic armies.The country's 20 odd ethnic armed groups control large areas of territory, mostly in border regions.Last week, the junta declared a month-long ceasefire with ethnic armed groups.The announcement however has not seen the end of lethal force against anti-coup protesters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protesters-decorate-easter-eggs-in-coup-hit-myanmar-101617519917137.html
04-04-2021||World||China forms vetting panel to screen out 'unpatriotic' Hong Kong poll candidates||Under China's overhaul of the electoral system of Hong Kong, a vetting committee has been set up to screen out 'unpatriotic' candidates, which will consider previous actions and words by an individual, according to the city's justice minister.Hong Kong's Justice Secretary Teresa Cheng Yeuk-wah said the new committee would receive advice from the police's national security unit and a commission led by the chief executive and supervised by Beijing, before making a decision, reported South China Morning Post (SCMP).She said that the disqualification of candidates may not necessarily indicate a breach of the national security law, adding that discussions on 'national security reasons' would be kept secret while determining the eligibility of a candidate for elections.The vetting committee, comprising principal officials, will have the power to decide who can run in elections under sweeping changes to the city's political system approved by Beijing on Tuesday.Committing acts that endangered national security, or that "undermine or have a tendency to undermine the overall interests" of Hong Kong would be considered unpatriotic under the new rules, reported SCMP.Speaking on the issue of conflict of interest for the chief executive Carrie Lam when she chairs the national security commission, Cheng said that the body was under the supervision of the central government and therefore 'it will not be that anyone can have the final say'.Reacting to this, Former Democratic Party chairwoman Emily Lau Wai-hing said the retrogression power was "very threatening" to all candidates, while it was concerning that candidates might never know the true reasons for being disqualified."So it's more like a system that the government has all the control... It is not worthwhile taking part in these elections, as no one knows about the criteria, while one may have to bear the consequences of being doxxed and investigated by the national security unit," Lau said.On Thursday, China's National Peoples' Congress Standing Committee approved sweeping changes to Hong Kong's electoral system which would empower the Election Committee - originally tasked with picking the chief executive - the right to nominate all candidates aspiring to be lawmakers and elect 40 representatives of its own to the city's Legislative Council.Despite fierce international condemnation, China approved the contentious resolution, a move that critics say could further smother opposition voices in Hong Kong. Several countries have condemned Beijing's move to overhaul Hong Kong's electoral system.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-forms-vetting-panel-to-screen-out-unpatriotic-hong-kong-poll-candidates-101617513177364.html
04-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Surge in cases in Pakistan, lockdown in Bangladesh||India’s neighbouring countries Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal are witnessing a spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past few days. While Pakistan reported 5,020 new coronavirus cases on Saturday, authorities in Bangladesh have decided to impose a one-week nationwide lockdown from Monday to curb the spread of the pandemic. Nepal recorded 128 new Covid-19 cases and one death on Saturday.With 93,249 infections, India on Sunday recorded its biggest one-day surge in coronavirus disease cases since September 19 last year. India’s Covid-19 tally on Sunday rose to 12,485,509 and its death toll stood at 164,623 with 513 Covid-19 related deaths reported in the last 24 hours, the Union health ministry said.Here’s a look at the Covid-19 situation in neighbouring countries of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal:PakistanPakistan reported 5,020 new coronavirus cases and 81 deaths on Saturday, which took the country’s tally to 68,288 and the death toll to 14,778. The country is facing a surge in coronavirus disease cases, which the government has said is worse than last year’s outbreak when a nationwide lockdown was imposed, according to a report in news agency Reuters. Federal authorities in the country will begin vaccinations for residents over 80 years of age from Monday, reported Reuters, as the country received 60,000 doses of the CanSino vaccine from China earlier this week. The country is already using the Sinopharm vaccine, donated by Beijing last month.Read more: Clashes in Pakistan over closure of shrine as Covid-19 measure leave scores injuredBangladeshAuthorities in Bangladesh will impose a one-week nationwide lockdown from Monday to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease as the country reported 5,683 new infections and 58 deaths on Saturday. Most services will remain closed during the lockdown. Only emergency services will be available in the country and industries will remain open as employees will need to work in shifts. The government has already banned travel from all European countries, except the United Kingdom, and 12 other countries for three weeks in the wake of rising coronavirus infections. The nationwide tally in Bangladesh stood at 630,277 and the death toll stood at 9,213.Read more: UK to not allow travellers from Pakistan, Bangladesh from April 9. All you need to knowNepalNepal on Saturday reported 128 new Covid-19 cases with pushed the overall infection tally to 277,768 while one more Covid-19 related fatality, pushed the death toll to 3,032. The country has 1,613 active cases and 273,123 infected people have recovered from the disease so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-surge-in-cases-in-pakistan-lockdown-in-bangladesh-101617515190301.html
04-04-2021||World||Jordan's ex-crown prince under 'house arrest' over alleged plot to unseat king. Here's all you need to know||Hamzah bin Hussein, Jordan's former crown prince and half brother of King Abdullah II, said in a video message on Saturday that he has been placed under "house arrest". This comes amid a series of arrests of high-profile figures in the kingdom, including a member of the royal family and a longtime confidant of the monarch, citing reasons related to "the security and stability of Jordan", The New York Times reports.'Plot' to unseat King Abdullah IIThe 59-year-old King Abdullah II has ruled Jordan since 1999, when he succeeded his father, King Hussein, to the throne. Prince Hamzah is the eldest son of the late King Hussain and his fourth wife Queen Noor and was born to a Syrian-American family. Now, although Hamzah was named the crown prince of Jordan back in '99, his half-brother and current king, King Abdullah II, transferred the title of the crown prince to his son, Prince Hussein, in 2004.According to a report by The Washington Post on Saturday, as many as 20 of Jordan's high-ranking individuals have now been arrested on security concerns, amid an ongoing investigation into an alleged plot to unseat Hamza's older half brother, King Abdullah II. The arrested aides include Sharif Hassan bin Zaid, a member of Jordan's royal family and former envoy to Saudi Arabia, and former finance minister Bassem Ibrahim Awadallah, a longtime confidante of King Abdullah II. The two senior palace officials and the unnamed "others" were reportedly arrested after a "close security follow-up."Prince Hamza's video messageIn the six-minute video message apparently filmed on Saturday and provided to the BBC by his lawyer, Jordan's former crown prince Hamzah bin Hussein described how he had been ordered to remain in his home incommunicado with his wife and children. "Since then, a number of the people I know -- or my friends -- have been arrested, my security has been removed, and the internet and phone lines have been cut," The Times quotes the former crown prince of Jordan as saying. "This is my last form of communication, satellite internet, that I have, and I have been informed by the company that they are instructed to cut it so it may be the last time I am able to communicate," Prince Hamza said, adding that he was making this recording to make it clear that he is "not part of any conspiracy or nefarious organisation or foreign-backed group, as is always the claim here for anyone who speaks out."Malik R Dahlan, an international lawyer, confirmed to the New York Times that the video was of Prince Hamzah, who serves on the board of his Institution Quraysh for Law & Policy in London.The Jordanian army and security services, in an earlier statement published by the Petra news agency, had denied reports that Prince Hamza had been arrested. The former crown prince of Jordan was later asked "to cease all movements or activities that could be employed to target Jordan's security and stability," The Post reported, quoting a statement by the Jordanian Armed Forces which confirmed the multiple arrests.Arrests of top officials and royal family members are unusual in Jordan, a normally stable Arab kingdom that has been a stalwart ally of the West, particularly when it comes to counterterrorism cooperation in the Middle East. It borders Israel, the Israeli-occupied West Bank, Syria and Iraq, the Post reported.International reactionsJordan is regarded as a vital ally of the United States in the Middle East and has been a major partner in the US-led campaign against the Islamic State. Jordan receives annual aid from Washington and the US most recently provided Jordan with $700 million in August.The US state department on Saturday said, “We are closely following the reports and in touch with Jordanian officials," Ned Price, a state department spokesperson, said in a statement. "King Abdullah is a key partner of the United States, and he has our full support."Saudi Arabia and Egypt too have expressed their support to King Abdullah, news agency AFP reported. Responding to the arrests, Saudi officials said they supported the Jordanian king’s decisions and measures to preserve security and stability and face any attempt to affect them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-jordan-placed-its-former-crown-prince-under-house-arrest-101617508469184.html
04-04-2021||World||Pakistan's Karachi records highest April temperature since 1947||Pakistan's Karachi on Saturday recorded a temperature of 43.6 degrees Celsius - the highest temperature since April 1947, according to its meteorological department.The highest temperature recorded in the port city was in April was 44.4 degrees Celsius on April 14, 1947, and the mercury never rose as high as 43.6 degrees Celsius in the city until Saturday in the month of April, The News International reported citing Sardar Sarfraz, the chief meteorological officer of Sindh province.The Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD) said that the current weather conditions had developed due to the influence of dry continental air after a westerly disturbance in Pakistan."...A weak western disturbance is on the horizon. It will affect the upper parts of the country, but when it passes, it will bring more hot days for the southern parts, including Karachi," said Sarfraz.Meanwhile, the PMD issued a warning that the first heatwave of the current season is likely to hit several parts of the country this week, Geo News reported.Mainly hot and dry weather was expected during the week due to which heatwave conditions were likely to prevail in most plain areas of the country, according to the PMD.The Sindh government has directed authorities to take necessary precautions to avert loss of life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistans-karachi-records-highest-april-temperature-since-1947-101617506505706.html
04-04-2021||World||Vietnamese citizens accuse H&M of kowtowing to China over 'problematic map'||Social media users in Vietnam have accused Swedish fashion retailer H&M of kowtowing to Beijing after the company agreed to change the map online to show disputed territories in the South China Sea as part of China.This comes after Chinese regulators said H&M has agreed to change a "problematic map" online following government criticism. On Friday, the Shanghai branch of the Cyberspace Administration of China said it had been alerted by members of the public to a "problematic map of China" on H&M's website.It did not specify what was wrong with the illustration, but on Weibo - China's Twitter-like platform - a graphic from an earlier People's Daily report showing the so-called nine-dash line - the mark Beijing uses to claim about 90 per cent of the disputed waters of the South China Sea - was widely shared, South China Morning Post reported.The Shanghai municipal bureau of planning and natural resources ordered the "error" to be remedied immediately and H&M complied, according to the cyberspace watchdog.However, the retailer's apparent concession did not go down well in Vietnam, which holds rival claims to some of the territories contained within the nine-dash line.Twitter users proclaimed that Paracel and Spratly Islands belong to Vietnam "due to international law" and that the H&M brand will now be "fighting against the law" Another social media user called the brand "stupid" and asked it to "get out of the country", using the local names for the Paracel and Spratly island chains in the South China Sea that are claimed by both Beijing and Hanoi.China claims sovereignty over almost the entire South China Sea and has overlapping territorial claims with Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Vietnam and Taiwan. Beijing's rising assertiveness against counter claimants in the East and South Sea has resulted in unprecedented agreement across the Indo-Pacific.Foreign companies in China including H&M and Nike are facing tremendous pressure following their statement on forced labour in Xinjiang. They are also been subjected to pressure amid China's rising tension with the west.Recently, several companies including H&M said they were concerned about allegations that forced labour has been used to produce cotton in Xinjiang.The ruling Communist Party lashed out at H&M, Nike and other shoe and clothing brands last week after the United States, the European Union, Britain and Canada imposed travel and financial sanctions on officials accused of abuses in Xinjiang in China's northwest.Chinese media has called for Chinese boycotts of Swedish multinational retailer H&M, sports apparel powerhouses Nike and Adidas; New Balance; Burberry and other members of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) that have voiced concerns or pledged not to use supply chain components produced in Xinjiang, South China Morning Post reported.Swedish multinational H&M, the world's second-largest clothing retailer, has been pulled from major e-commerce stores in China and blocked by several major navigation, review and rating apps.Dozens of Chinese celebrities have terminated contracts or said they would cut ties with these brands, including Nike, Adidas, Puma, Converse, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, and Uniqlo -- a move lauded by state media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vietnamese-citizens-accuse-h-m-of-kowtowing-to-china-over-problematic-map-101617507058118.html
04-04-2021||World||Canada’s Covid-19 tally passes 1 million-mark amid third wave of pandemic||Covid-19 cases in Canada breached the 1 million mark as a third wave ripples across the country.The country had recorded 1,001,650 cases since the start of the pandemic as of Saturday afternoon, according to the Canadian Press. Canada, like other nations, is grappling with the spread of new variants that are sending more people to hospital and resulting in stricter lockdown measures.Ontario began a four-week, province-wide lockdown on Saturday at 12:01 a.m. Toronto time -- lowering capacity for stores and shutting down hair salons, indoor restaurant dining, gyms and most sporting activities and events.Quebec is closing schools and non-essential stores for 10 days in two regions, while British Columbia this week prohibited indoor dining and gyms from opening until April 19. So far, about 14% of Canada’s population has received at least one dose of vaccine versus 31% in the U.S., according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadas-covid-19-tally-passes-1-million-mark-amid-third-wave-of-pandemic-101617501509520.html
04-04-2021||World||MLB pulls All-Star game from Atlanta over Georgia's new voting laws. Here's where the dispute stands||A dispute, in the making over the last two weeks, has now broken out over Georgia's new election laws, which critics say is specifically aimed at suppressing the minority vote that helped US President Joe Biden in his race to the White House last November. The corporate world has been joining in on the dissent against the law, and on Sunday, Major League Baseball (MLB) said it was moving this year’s All-Star Game and the MLB Draft event from Atlanta to show its concern for voting rights in the state of Georgia.“I have decided that the best way to demonstrate our values as a sport is by relocating this year’s All-Star Game and MLB Draft,” news agency Bloomberg quoted MLB commissioner Robert Manfred Jr as saying. “Major League Baseball fundamentally supports voting rights for all Americans and opposes restrictions to the ballot box,” he added.Georgia's new voting law, which was signed into effect on March 25, intends to make several changes in the way elections are conducted in the state. The law gives the Georgia election board powers to interfere in the election offices of 159 counties and imposes ID requirements for absentee ballots, replacing the current system that required only signatures. The new voting law in Georgia also limits the use of ballot drop boxes and shortens the time for runoff elections in the state from nine weeks to four weeks.Also Read: Explained: Georgia's new voting law that Biden called 'Jim Crow in 21st centuryThe new voting law in Georgia has found several critics, with the Democratic Party saying the legislation will restrict voting access, especially for people of colour. This comes as a crucial objection since Georgia — being a 'battleground state' — was at the centre of the US presidential elections last year. Having voted in favour of the Republican party for years, Georgia switched its trend in the 2020 elections, making Biden the first Democrat to win in Georgia since 1992. Analysts believed that the state turned blue as a large number of people of colour voted for the Democrats. This electorate, the Democrats believe, is what is at stake now on account of the new voting laws.Also Read: 'No accident': Georgia governor signs voting bill under slave plantation painting, sparks rowUS President Joe Biden, in a statement last week, compared the new election laws in Georgia to the 19th-century Jim Crow laws, which once legalised racial segregation and disenfranchised Black citizens in America’s South. The Republicans, on the other hand, have claimed that Georgia's new voting laws will help 'restore' the confidence which people lost after the 2020 elections. Former US president Donald Trump, who led the allegations of "voter fraud" in Georgia following the elections, is now back in on the debate over the new voting laws. According to a report by the Associated Press, he has endorsed the new voting laws in Georgia and urged his supporters to fight "woke cancel culture" by boycotting the corporate entities objecting to the legislation.Former US president Barack Obama on Saturday commended MLB in a tweet for “taking a stand on behalf of voting rights for all citizens.” The CEOs of Atlanta-based Delta Air Lines and Coca-Cola have condemned Georgia's new voting laws as being "too restrictive", reports AP. A joint statement from executives of nearly 200 companies, including HP, Microsoft, PayPal, Target, Twitter, Uber and Under Armour, also took aim at the legislation “threatening to make voting more difficult" and said “elections are not improved” when lawmakers impose new barriers to voting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mlb-pulls-all-star-game-from-atlanta-over-georgia-s-new-voting-laws-101617501635876.html
04-04-2021||World||Vaccine passports become latest flash point in Covid-19 politics||Vaccine passports being developed to verify Covid-19 immunization status and allow inoculated people to more freely travel, shop and dine have become the latest flash point in America’s perpetual political wars, with Republicans portraying them as a heavy-handed intrusion into personal freedom and private health choices.They currently exist in only one state — a limited government partnership in New York with a private company — but that hasn’t stopped GOP lawmakers in a handful of states from rushing out legislative proposals to ban their use.The argument over whether passports are a sensible response to the pandemic or governmental overreach echoes the bitter disputes over the past year about masks, shutdown orders and even the vaccines themselves.Vaccine passports are typically an app with a code that verifies whether someone has been vaccinated or recently tested negative for Covid-19. They are in use in Israel and under development in parts of Europe, seen as a way to safely help rebuild the pandemic- devastated travel industry.They are intended to allow businesses to more safely open up as the vaccine drive gains momentum, and they mirror measures already in place for schools and overseas travel that require proof of immunization against various diseases.But lawmakers around the country are already taking a stand against the idea. GOP senators in Pennsylvania are drawing up legislation that would prohibit vaccine passports, also known as health certificates or travel passes, from being used to bar people from routine activities.“We have constitutional rights and health privacy laws for a reason,” said Pennsylvania House Majority Leader Kerry Benninghoff, a Republican. “They should not cease to exist in a time of crisis. These passports may start with Covid-19, but where will they end?”Benninghoff said this week his concern was “using taxpayer money to generate a system that will now be, possibly, in the hands of mega-tech organizations who’ve already had problems with getting hacked and security issues.”A Democratic colleague, Rep. Chris Rabb of Philadelphia, sees value in vaccine passports if they are implemented carefully.“There’s a role for using technology and other means to confirm people’s statuses,” Rabb said. “But we do have concerns around privacy, surveillance and inequitable access.”Republican legislators in other states have also been drafting proposals to ban or limit them. A bill introduced in the Arkansas Legislature on Wednesday would prevent government officials from requiring vaccine passports for any reason, and would ban their use as a condition of “entry, travel, education, employment or services.”The sponsor, Republican state Sen. Trent Garner, called vaccine passports “just another example of the Biden administration using Covid-19 to put regulations or restrictions on everyday Americans.”President Joe Biden's administration has largely taken a hands-off approach on vaccine passports.At a news conference this week, Andy Slavitt, acting administrator of the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said he considered them a project for the private sector, not the government.He said the government is considering federal guidelines to steer the process surrounding vaccine passports. Among its concerns: Not everyone who would need a passport has a smartphone; passports should be free and in multiple languages; and private health information must be protected."There will be organizations that want to use these. There will be organizations that don’t want to use these,” said Dr. Brian Anderson of Mitre, which operates federally funded research centers and is part of a coalition working to develop standards for vaccine certifications to make their use easier across vendors.Anderson noted the Vaccination Credential Initiative is not making recommendations on how — or even if — organizations choose to use the certifications.In Montana, GOP lawmakers this week voted along party lines to advance a pair of bills that would ban discrimination based on vaccine status or possession of an immunity passport, and to prohibit using vaccine status or passports to obtain certain benefits and services.And a freshman Republican state lawmaker in Ohio spoke out about the concept, saying more restrictions or mandates are not the answer to every Covid-19 problem.“Ohioans are encouraged to take the Covid-19 vaccine for the health and well-being of themselves and others,” Rep. Al Cutrona said. “However, a vaccine should not be mandated or required by our government for our people to integrate back to a sense of normalcy.”Republican Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis on Friday issued an executive order that said no governmental entity can issue a vaccine passport, and businesses in that state can't require them. He said he expected the Legislature to pass a similar law.His order said requiring "so-called Covid-19 vaccine passports for taking part in everyday life — such as attending a sporting event, patronizing a restaurant, or going to a movie theater — would create two classes of citizens.”US Rep. Marjorie Taylor Greene, R-Georgia, a newly elected member who has embraced and promoted a range of far-right political positions, told her supporters on Facebook earlier this week that “something called a vaccine passport” was a form of “corporate communism” and part of a Democratic effort to control people’s lives.And a GOP lawmaker in Louisiana has teed up a bill to keep the state from including any vaccination information on the Louisiana driver’s license or to make issuance of a driver’s license subject to vaccine status.In New York, a government-sponsored vaccine passport called the Excelsior Pass is being introduced. A smartphone app, it shows whether someone has been vaccinated or recently tested negative for Covid-19.Democratic Gov. Andrew Cuomo touted the idea as letting an event venue usher, for example, use their own smartphone to scan a concertgoer’s code.New York officials have not released specific details about how the app will work, access someone’s vaccination or testing status or protect a user’s name, date of birth or the location where their code was scanned. The app’s privacy policy says data will be “maintained in a secure manner” and won’t be used for sales or marketing purposes or shared with a third party. But some privacy experts say the public needs more specifics to ensure its information is protected.Albert Fox Cahn, founder and executive director of the Surveillance Technology Oversight Project at the Urban Justice Center, a New York–based civil rights and privacy group, warned the Excelsior Pass creates a new layer of surveillance without sufficient details about how it collects data or protects privacy."We basically only have screenshots of the user interface and not much more,” Cahn said of Excelsior Pass.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/vaccine-passports-are-latest-flash-point-in-covid-19-politics-101617494944273.html
04-04-2021||World||In New York, pandemic pushes some Orthodox Jews to leave their community||Two months into lockdown, 29-year-old Ella left the ultra-Orthodox Jewish community that she was raised in near New York, started wearing trouser pants for the first time and contacted an organization that helps "leavers" adapt to life in wider society.US groups like the one she approached report increased demand for their services since coronavirus, from people with more time for soul-searching to others troubled by social distancing violations and some who have already left needing counseling and financial support.Ella, an alias because she has yet to tell her parents that she has quit Orthodoxy, said she was always interested in the world outside her "extremely religious family." When she was younger she hid romance novels under her mattress and sometimes "pushed" the limits of her community's strict dress code.In the summer of 2019, she and her husband took their first steps towards breaking away by moving a couple of miles down the road to a community whose adherence to Jewish law was not quite as strict.When lockdown happened in March 2020, they found themselves cut off from friends and family, which gave them space and months to think about whether they wanted to take the next step and leave their community altogether."We had time to cement our new identity and feel confident that we made the right decision before having to face anybody," said Ella.She was one of more than 150 people in 2020 who joined the New York-based organization Freidom, which supports former ultra-Orthodox, or Haredi, Jews, primarily Yiddish speakers, navigate culture and language in secular US society.The group saw a 50 percent increase in participation in events -- which typically include hikes, cinema and restaurant trips but are currently virtual -- from new members last year, according to founder Gene Steinberg.Not all newly left: like 25-year-old Ben, who received counseling after he separated from his wife, a marriage that had been arranged, shortly before lockdown and found himself living alone without his kids.The non-profit Footsteps has seen its membership increase by around an 18 percent over the past year, according to one of its officials, Yael Reisman.For her, large weddings and funerals organized by some Orthodox rabbis last summer despite distancing restrictions coupled with a devastating death toll in Hasidic communities early on in the city's outbreak, contributed to the questioning.Areas of Brooklyn with a large Haredi population, such as Borough Park, resisted some measures, including through protests, prompting authorities to intervene and sparking controversy that they were being unfairly targeted."You start to think that the people you rely on and trust maybe aren't doing it the right way," said Reisman.Footsteps has also seen acute need from long-time members due to food insecurity, housing instability and mental health issues brought on by the Covid-19, says Reisman.- 'Unorthodox' -Shaya Schtroks, a 34-year-old former rabbi who left Hasidism nine years ago, said he received a "critical" $10,000 after the pandemic scuppered his real estate finance business.The swelling of online events has made it easier to join the groups, especially for people outside the New York region, home to the largest Jewish population outside Israel, with some two million people from secular to Haredi.At the same time, many of the tempting pleasures of a less religious life, such as shows or bars, are on hold."I think it's bringing more people out. But I also think it's slowing down their process," said Reisman.The idea of leaving ultra-Orthodoxy was the subject of the hit 2020 Netflix series "Unorthodox."No concrete numbers exist to assess how many leave, says sociologist Schneur Zalman Newfield. The communities themselves remain silent and many who leave do so in secrecy."I do think it's more common. People on the inside are more aware of the process," said Newfield.Members of Orthodox groups stress sense of solidarity and belonging that exists in the tight-knit communities.Rabbi Yaacov Behrman,spokesman for the Brooklyn-based Chabad Lubavitch Headquarters, said there were "many resources available" to people in need during the pandemic.Project Makom, an initiative that helps former and questioning Haredis find their place within Orthodoxy, has seen membership almost double from 85 in 2019 to 160 in 2020."A lot of people are sort of restructuring their priorities right now, and so this group is not different," said founder Allison Josephs.Ella enjoyed a low-key Passover this week as she contemplates her new life."I finally have the chance to think for myself but I'm not exactly used to doing it. So I'm trying to explore what I want for my future," she said.pdh/dwNEWFIELD EXPLORATION||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-new-york-pandemic-pushes-some-orthodox-jews-to-leave-their-community-101617498978384.html
04-04-2021||World||Canada becomes 23rd country to cross 1 million Covid-19 infections mark||Canada on Saturday evening crossed one million Covid-19 infections mark, 14 months after reporting its first case on January 25 last year and becoming the 23rd country to cross the grim milestone. The total number of infections in the country stood at 1,001,651 after the province of British Columbia reported its latest figures, according to the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC).Canada has seen a sharp rise in cases in recent weeks as more contagious variants of the disease are feared to be spreading rapidly. Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam tweeted that “with the ongoing increase in infection rates and rising proportion of cases involving more contagious #VariantsofConcern, we need to maintain a high degree of caution everywhere.”Canada recorded 9,941 new infections on Saturday, an increase of 35% over the daily figure two weeks earlier. The disease has also caused 23,050 deaths so far.The rising caseload has resulted in several provinces enforcing restrictive measures again, including a shutdown starting Saturday in Ontario. Quebec also announced a lockdown in three cities last week, and British Columbia, too, has announced greater restrictions.The restrictions come in even as over five million people in the country have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine. Variants originating in the United Kingdom, Brazil and South Africa have caused particular concern in recent days and the head of the newly-formed Coronavirus Variants Rapid Response Network has said that Covid-19 vaccinations could become an annual feature. In an interview with CBC, virologist Dr Marc-André Langlois from the University of Ottawa said that variants may stay “around for a long time” and “may even become endemic”, which could mean that “every year when we get our flu shot, we’ll be getting our coronavirus shot for whatever variants are circulating at that specific time.”Canada’s first case was spotted on January 25 last year in a man who had returned to Toronto from the Chinese city of Wuhan, the epicentre of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-becomes-23rd-country-to-cross-1-million-covid-19-infections-mark-101617504309818.html
04-04-2021||World||Egypt's first female ship captain Marwa Elselehdar says 'blamed for blocking Suez Canal'||Egypt's first female ship captain Marwa Elselehdar was at the centre of a fake news campaign that blamed her for bringing one of the world's most strategic shipping routes, the Suez Canal, to a halt, a BBC report said. But when reports of the container ship Ever Given being wedged across the Suez Canal emerged, 29-year-old Elselehdar was on duty hundreds of miles away in the Mediterranean port city of Alexandria."I was shocked," she said, according to the report. "I felt that I might be targeted maybe because I'm a successful female in this field or because I'm Egyptian, but I'm not sure," she added. Also Read | Stuck in Suez: Thousands of animals packed tight in ship hullsElselehdar is among the 2 per cent of the world's women seafarers, the report said. "People in our society still don't accept the idea of girls working in the sea away from their families for a long time. But when you do what you love, it is not necessary for you to seek the approval of everyone," she said.Screenshots of a fake news headline and a doctored image picked from a news story released on March 22, which profiles Elselehdar, were doing the rounds on social media, paving the way to the rumours that she was involved in the Suez incident. "This fake article was in English so it spread in other countries. I tried so hard to negate what was in the article because it was affecting my reputation and all the efforts I exerted to be where I am now," she said.Traffic congestion that affected trade across the world was caused as a result of the skyscraper-sized container ship being stuck in the Suez Canal. More than 300 ships were waiting to pass the Suez Canal, many with animals as cargo, as rescue efforts were on for almost a week. The ship was freed on March 29 and the world's commerce resumed its course after the traffic cleared to a large extent on April 3.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egypts-first-female-ship-captain-marwa-elselehdar-says-blamed-for-blocking-suez-canal-101617500257863.html
04-04-2021||World||US halts AstraZeneca vaccine production at Baltimore plant: Report||The US Health and Human Services Department on Saturday stopped a Baltimore manufacturer from making AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine, days after the facility ruined 15 million doses of shots developed by Johnson & Johnson, the New York Times reported, citing two senior federal health officials who weren’t identified.The move came after the Maryland-based biotech firm, Emergent BioSolutions Inc., accidentally mixed up the ingredients from the two vaccines, which forced regulators to delay approval of the plant’s output, the newspaper said.The department also requested Johnson & Johnson to install a new team to oversee all aspects of manufacturing at the facility, the newspaper said, citing the officials. The company confirmed the changes and that it was “assuming full responsibility,” NYT said.AstraZeneca will work with the Biden administration to find an alternative site, the paper said, citing the drugmaker.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-halts-astrazeneca-vaccine-production-at-baltimore-plant-report-101617495703297.html
04-04-2021||World||US lawmakers press online ad auctioneers over user data||A bipartisan group of US senators has sent letters to major digital ad exchanges, including Google and Twitter, asking whether user data was sold to foreign entities who could use it for blackmail or other malicious ends.In the real-time bidding process to decide which personalized ads a user sees when a web page loads, hundreds of businesses receive a user's personal information, including search history, IP address, age and gender.Questions about the sale of data gathered during the auction process were also sent to AT&T, Index Exchange, Magnite, OpenX, PubMatic and Verizon, according to the office of Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat representing Oregon."Few Americans realize that some auction participants are siphoning off and storing 'bidstream' data to compile exhaustive dossiers about them," Wyden and other senators wrote in letters sent to the companies on Friday."This information would be a goldmine for foreign intelligence services that could exploit it to inform and supercharge hacking, blackmail, and influence campaigns."While online ad exchanges use automated bidding systems to determine which ads to show people using internet services, data such as user locations, devices, and web activity can be gathered, according to the senators."These dossiers are being openly sold to anyone with a credit card, including to hedge funds, political campaigns, and even to governments," the senators wrote.Questions sent to the companies included what information is gathered about people in the course of serving up ads and which foreign firms have bought such data from them, according to the release.The companies were given until May 4 to provide answers."We received the letter and will respond as requested, but we have thorough processes in place to protect the data referenced in the letter," AT&T said in a statement.Twitter told AFP it had received the letter and intended to respond. The other companies did not immediately respond to queries for comment.Google has pledged to steer clear of tracking individual online activity when it begins implementing a new system for targeting ads without the use of so-called "cookies."The internet giant's widely used Chrome browser recently began testing an alternative to the tracking practice that it believes could improve online privacy while still enabling advertisers to serve up relevant messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-lawmakers-press-online-ad-auctioneers-over-user-data-101617494896214.html
04-04-2021||World||Egyptian mummies paraded through Cairo on way to new museum||A grand parade conveyed 22 ancient Egyptian royal mummies in special capsules across the capital Cairo on Saturday to a new museum home where they can be displayed in greater splendour.The convoy transported 18 kings and four queens, mostly from the New Kingdom, from the Egyptian Museum in central Cairo's Tahrir Square to the National Museum of Egyptian Civilization in Fustat, about 5km (3 miles) to the south-east.Authorities shut down roads along the Nile for the elaborate ceremony, designed to drum up interest in Egypt's rich collections of antiquities when tourism has almost entirely stalled because of Covid-19 related restrictions.As the royal mummies arrived at the museum, which was officially inaugurated on Saturday, cannons fired a 21-gun salute. President Abdel Fattah al-Sisi stood by as the mummies filed past on vehicles bedecked with golden pharaonic motifs.The heads of the U.N. cultural agency UNESCO and the World Tourism Organization were also present at the ceremony.Each mummy had been placed in a special capsule filled with nitrogen to ensure protection, Egyptian archaeologist Zahi Hawass said.They were carried on vehicles designed to cradle them and provide stability.'CIVILISED' DISPLAY"We chose the Civilization Museum because we want, for the first time, to display the mummies in a civilized manner, an educated manner, and not for amusement as they were in the Egyptian Museum," Hawass said.Archaeologists discovered the mummies in two batches at the complex of mortuary temples of Deir Al Bahari in Luxor and at the nearby Valley of the Kings from 1871.The oldest is that of Seqenenre Tao, the last king of the 17th Dynasty, who reigned in the 16th century BC and is thought to have met a violent death.The parade also included the mummies of Ramses II, Seti I, and Ahmose-Nefertari.Fustat, the home of the new museum, was the site of Egypt's capital under the Umayyad dynasty after the Arab conquest."By doing it like this, with great pomp and circumstance, the mummies are getting their due," said Salima Ikram, an Egyptologist at the American University in Cairo."These are the kings of Egypt, these are the pharaohs. And so, it is a way of showing respect."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egyptian-mummies-paraded-through-cairo-on-way-to-new-museum-101617494681227.html
04-04-2021||World||France reports further rise in Covid-19 intensive care patients||France reported on Saturday that 5,273 people were in intensive care units (ICU) for Covid-19, a rise of 19 from the previous day, as the country entered its third national lockdown to help combat the pandemic.The government had been trying to keep the lid on new Covid cases with curfews and regional measures but from Saturday, and for the next four weeks, schools and non-essential businesses across the country will remain shut.The rise in ICU patients on Saturday followed a much bigger jump the day before - the highest in five months, at 145. President Emmanuel Macron has pledged more hospital beds to care for critically ill Covid-19 patients.Macron had hoped to steer France out of the pandemic without having to impose a third national lockdown that would further batter an economy still reeling from last year's slump.But new strains of the virus have swept across France and much of Europe, amid a slower rollout of anti-Covid vaccines in the European Union than in some countries including Britain and the United States.Health authorities did not publish new case numbers on Saturday, citing a problem with the flow of data from some test results.According to an Ifop poll of 1,021 people carried out online on April 1 and published on Sunday in Le Journal du Dimanche (JDD) newspaper, a majority of French people expressed misgivings over the government's handling of the pandemic.Fifty-eight percent of people said they did not trust the vaccination campaign would be carried out according to plan.However, a majority of people, 51%, said they did plan to get a Covid-19 vaccine, with only 34% saying they would not. Another 15% said they had already been inoculated.Macron has vowed to speed up France's vaccination campaign, and the defence ministry said late on Saturday that seven military hospitals would be mobilised from April 6 to administer doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-reports-further-rise-in-covid-19-intensive-care-patients-101617495058072.html
04-04-2021||World||Clashes in London as thousands join 'kill the bill' rallies across Britain||Thousands of demonstrators joined rallies across Britain on Saturday against a proposed law that would give police extra powers to curb protests, with some scuffles breaking out following a march in London.The Police, Crime, Sentencing and Courts bill aims to toughen measures officers can take to disperse demonstrations, such as imposing time and noise limits, which campaigners and activists fear would be used to curb dissent."Kill the bill" marches were held in dozens of towns and cities, supported by big campaign groups such as climate change campaigners Extinction Rebellion and the Black Lives Matter movement.Nearly all passed off peacefully but there were minor clashes in central London between protesters and police following a rally attended by several thousand people.London's Metropolitan Police, which deployed a large number of officers in the capital to bring the protest to an end, said there had been 26 arrests and 10 officers were injured, although none seriously."The vast majority of people who turned out in central London today did so while adhering to social distancing," said Commander Ade Adelekan. "However, a small minority did not engage despite the repeated efforts of officers on the ground."This left us with no option but to move to an enforcement stage and arrests have been made."Free speechThe new bill follows action by Extinction Rebellion which paralysed parts of London in early 2019 and fuelled calls from some politicians for the police to be given tougher powers to prevent excessive disruption.Since the proposed law was brought before parliament last month, there have been sporadic demonstrations across the country, with Saturday's rallies being part of what organisers said was a national weekend of action."(I'm here) to defend the rights of free speech, and the rights of organisations in our society," said Jeremy Corbyn, former leader of the main opposition Labour Party, who was among those who took part in the London protest."These demonstrations, 50 of them today, will make a difference," he told Reuters opposite the Houses of Parliament.Much of the protest so far has been focused in the southwestern English city of Bristol. Some demonstrations there have turned violent, with officers bombarded with missiles and police vehicles set on fire, which Prime Minister Boris Johnson described as "disgraceful attacks".A large crowd gathered again in Bristol on Saturday evening, although the rally remained peaceful.Some senior officers have said the "kill the bill" tag was deliberately provocative as "the bill" is a nickname in Britain for the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/clashes-in-london-as-thousands-join-kill-the-bill-rallies-across-britain-101617494662064.html
04-04-2021||World||Suspect's wife says she 'can't understand' California attack||The estranged wife of the man who allegedly went on a shooting rampage in a Southern California office building earlier this week that left four people dead — including a 9-year-old boy — said Saturday that she couldn't fathom why her husband targeted people who had treated her like family for more than a decade.Police say the suspect, Aminadab Gaxiola Gonzalez, had targeted the mobile home brokerage company, Unified Homes, and had personal and business relationships with the victims. His wife, Aleyda Mendoza, had worked in the Orange County business for more than 10 years as a broker assistant.Mendoza, in a text message to The Associated Press, said she and Gaxiola have been separated for two years and “he never told me anything about where he was staying or what he was doing.”“I can’t understand what went through his head to make such a terrifying decision,” Mendoza wrote. “He left behind a sea of pain and grief for so many families who can’t find comfort.”Gaxiola, 44, was charged with four murder counts and three attempted murder counts for firing at two officers who were not hit and for critically wounding the boy’s mother, authorities said. His arraignment is scheduled for Monday.The shooting in the city or Orange, southeast of Los Angeles, was the nation’s third major mass shooting in just over two weeks. The other shootings — in Colorado and Georgia — left 18 dead.Authorities identified the people killed in the California attack as Luis Tovar, 50, who owned Unified Homes; Leticia Solis Guzman, 58; and Jenevieve Raygoza, 28, and her brother, Matthew Farias, 9.Mendoza said the people at Unified Homes “always supported me” and her children.“Unified Homes was my home for more than 10 years and they were my family,” she wrote. “I learned everything I know there and they shaped who I am today.”Usually, Matthew was at day care after school but Wednesday afternoon he was with his mother, Blanca Tamayo, who worked at Unified Homes. She was the only person shot who survived. When police arrived Tamayo was cradling her dead son.Tovar had a previous relationship with Tamayo and they were Raygoza’s parents.Mendoza said she and her children now fear for their lives because they have received threatening calls since the shooting.“My heart is crushed, I still can’t accept that this happened,” she wrote. “I keep closing my eyes and praying to God this is all just a bad dream and I’ll wake up soon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/suspects-wife-says-she-can-t-understand-california-attack-101617489245485.html
04-04-2021||World||Pope urges hope amid 'darkness' of pandemic in Easter vigil||Pope Francis urged his coronavirus-weary flock to not lose hope even through the continued “dark months” of the pandemic as he celebrated a scaled-back Easter vigil service in St. Peter’s Basilica on Saturday.Due to social-distancing norms, only about 200 masked people were allowed to attend the service, which marks the period between Christ’s crucifixion and his joyous resurrection on Easter Sunday.For the second year in a row, the Vatican cut out the traditional sacrament of baptism for a handful of adults to limit the chance of contagion. Usually a long, late-night ritual, this year's vigil service also started earlier than usual to respect Italy’s 10 p.m. Covid-19 curfew.But the service began in the dramatic way it always does, with the pope lighting a single candle in the darkened basilica and then sharing its flame with others until the pews slowly begin to twinkle and the basilica's lights are turned on.In his homily, Francis said Easter offers a message of hope and new starts.“In these dark months of the pandemic, let us listen to the risen Lord as he invites us to begin anew and never lose hope,” he said. “It is always possible to begin anew, because there is a new life that God can awaken in us in spite of all our failures.”Francis, who again eschewed a facemask, limped considerably through the service, in a sign that he is suffering through a prolonged bout of sciatica nerve pain.On Sunday, Francis is to preside over Easter Mass before a similarly small group of faithful and deliver his traditional “Urbi et Orbi” blessing “to the city and the world.” Usually the Easter Mass and blessing is celebrated before tens of thousands of people in a flower-decked St. Peter’s Square.But this year Francis will celebrate the service in the basilica and deliver the blessing from the altar, to prevent crowds from forming in the piazza.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-urges-hope-amid-darkness-of-pandemic-in-easter-vigil-101617489006176.html
04-04-2021||World||France cuts growth forecast as new nationwide lockdown starts||France’s economy will rebound less than previously expected this year due to the latest four-week nationwide lockdown aimed at halting a surge in coronavirus cases.French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire cut the country’s 2021 GDP growth forecast to 5% from 6%, following an 8.1% contraction last year. A Bloomberg survey in March showed economists were expecting the economy to expand 5.7%.“Closing education establishments and 150,000 stores is essential to slow the spread of the virus, but these measures will have an impact on the French economy,” Le Maire told Le Journal du Dimanche newspaper in an interview published on Sunday. “This estimate is both sincere and cautious.”President Emmanuel Macron sought to avoid a third nationwide lockdown to protect the economy but was forced last week to announce tighter restrictions across the country. More contagious, deadlier variants have accelerated the spread of the virus, and the vaccination campaign is yet to have a significant impact after getting off to a slow start.Schools still closedThe new lockdown came into force Saturday night after a week that saw more than 200,000 new coronavirus cases and as close to 5,500 patients are in intensive care. As well as stores closing, schools will remain shut for three weeks including the holiday period.Le Maire said government assistance to businesses impacted by the lockdown would cost around 11 billion euros ($12.9 billion) in April.ECB Governing Council member and Bank of France Governor Francois Villeroy de Galhau has urged the European Union to implement a joint recovery fund urgently to help countries cope with the impact of Covid-19.Le Maire echoed the call, saying Europe must not delay. France was due to receive 5 billion euros from the 750 billion-euro fund in July but this was now unlikely, the finance minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-cuts-growth-forecast-as-new-nationwide-lockdown-starts-101617488189975.html
04-04-2021||World||Man on subway spat at woman, yelled anti-Asian slurs: Police||New York City police asked for the public's help Saturday in finding a man wanted for yelling anti-Asian slurs at a 44-year-old woman and her three children, spitting at her and kicking her cellphone off a subway train.Police are calling Tuesday's incident a hate crime.Authorities described the suspect as a dark-skinned man who is 50 to 55 years old, about 6 feet (1.8 meters) tall and about 150 pounds (68 kilograms). He was last seen wearing a dark camouflage sweater, dark sweatpants and black sandals. Police said he was wearing a black sock on his left foot and a white sock on his right foot.The woman was riding a southbound No. 5 train headed to Times Square with her three children at about 2:30 p.m. Tuesday when the man yelled anti-Asian slurs at them, spit twice in her direction and knocked her cellphone out of her hand, police said. The man then kicked the phone out the train's back door and onto the tracks before fleeing on West 41st Street, authorities said.The woman was taken to a hospital in stable condition for observation, officers said.Anyone with information about the incident is urged to call New York City police.The attack was among the latest in a national spike in anti-Asian hate crimes. Also near Times Square last week, a 65-year-old Filipina American woman was viciously assaulted while walking to church. A parolee convicted of killing his mother nearly two decades ago was charged with assault and attempted assault as hate crimes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/man-on-subway-spat-at-woman-yelled-anti-asian-slurs-police-101617487986792.html
04-04-2021||World||Ukrainian soldier killed amid fresh tensions in east||Russian-backed separatists accused Ukrainian forces of killing a child in a drone attack on Saturday, as Kiev reported the death of one of its soldiers in a mine explosion.Kiev has been battling pro-Russian separatists in the eastern Donetsk and Lugansk regions since 2014, following Moscow's annexation of the Crimean peninsula.Reports this week swirled of Russian troop movements and an escalation of armed clashes, while Moscow and Kiev's Western allies exchanged warnings.Self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) claimed that a five-year-old child was killed and a woman injured on Saturday in a Ukrainian drone attack.A report by the DPR's news agency has not provided any images of the aftermath of the attack allegedly carried out in the village of Oleksandrivske some 15 kilometres (nine miles) from the front line.The claim cannot be independently verified as both international monitors and the Ukrainian defence ministry have not responded to AFP's requests for a comment.Meanwhile, a Ukrainian soldier was killed when an explosive device went off near the village of Shumy north of the separatist's de facto capital Donetsk, the army said."A soldier from the Joint Forces received an injury incompatible with life," the Ukrainian military said in a statement posted on Facebook.- Germany, France urge 'restraint' -Ukraine this week accused Russia of massing thousands of military personnel on its northern and eastern borders as well as on the Crimean peninsula.Moscow has repeatedly denied sending troops and arms to back up the separatists and Russian President Vladimir Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov stressed on Thursday that Moscow is at liberty to move troops across its territory.Germany and France, which have played a mediating role in Russia-Ukraine tensions, released a joint statement on Saturday calling for "restraint" and "immediate de-escalation" from all sides.Reaffirming their "support for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine", Berlin and Paris said they were "concerned about the growing number of violations of the ceasefire" brokered last July.On Friday US President Joe Biden affirmed his "unwavering support" for Ukraine in a call to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky after Russia earlier that day warned the West against sending troops to Ukraine to buttress its ally.Moscow and Kiev this week blamed each other for a rise in violence along the frontline that has undermined the ceasefire.Zelensky said on Thursday that 20 Ukrainian servicemen had been killed since the start of the year.The fighting has claimed more than 13,000 lives since 2014, according to the United Nations.bur-dg/dl/harFACEBOOK||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukrainian-soldier-killed-amid-fresh-tensions-in-east-101617487719126.html
04-04-2021||World||In alleged coup, Jordan prince placed under house arrest||The half-brother of Jordan's King Abdullah said Saturday he has been placed under house arrest by Jordanian authorities and accused the country's leadership of corruption and incompetence.In a videotaped statement leaked to the British Broadcasting Corp., Prince Hamzah said he was visited early Saturday by the country's military chief and told "I was not allowed to go out, to communicate with people or to meet with them.”He said his security detail was removed, and his phone and Internet service had been cut. He said he was speaking over satellite Internet, but expected that service to be cut as well. The BBC says it received the statement from Hamzah's lawyer.In the statement, Hamzah said he had been informed he was being punished for taking in part in meetings in which the king had been criticized, though he himself was not accused of being a direct critic.He said he told the army chief: “I am not the person responsible for the breakdown in governance, for the corruption and for the incompetence that has been prevalent in our governing structure for the last 15 to 20 years and has been getting worse by the year. I am not responsible for the lack of faith that people have in their institutions. They are responsible.”The country's top general had earlier denied that Hamzah — a former crown prince stripped of the title in 2004 — was arrested or under house arrest, even as authorities announced the arrests of former senior officials close to the ruling monarchy.Hamzah was asked to “stop some movements and activities that are being used to target Jordan's security and stability,” said Gen. Yousef Huneiti, the army chief of staff.He said an investigation was ongoing and its results would be made public “in a transparent and clear form.”“No one is above the law and Jordan’s security and stability are above all,” he told the official Petra news agency.Petra had earlier reported that two senior officials who formerly worked for the palace, along with other suspects, had been arrested for “security reasons,” without providing further details.The Petra report said Sharif Hassan bin Zaid, a member of the royal family, and Bassem Ibrahim Awadallah, a former head of the royal court, were detained. Awadallah, also previously served as planning minister and finance minister and has private business interests throughout the Gulf region.The agency did not provide further details or name the others who were arrested.“We are closely following the reports and in touch with Jordanian officials,” State Department spokesman Ned Price said. “King Abdullah is a key partner of the United States, and he has our full support.”Saudi Arabia's official news agency said the kingdom “confirmed its full support to Jordan and its king and crown prince in all decisions and procedures to maintain security and stability and defuse any attempt to affect them.”Abdullah has ruled Jordan since the 1999 death of of his father, King Hussein, who ruled the country for close to a half-century. The king has cultivated close relations with U.S. and other Western leaders over the years, and Jordan was a key ally in the war against the Islamic State group. The country borders Israel, the occupied West Bank, Syria, Iraq and Saudi Arabia.Jordan’s economy has been battered by the coronavirus pandemic. The country, with a population of around 10 million, also hosts more than 600,000 Syrian refugees.Jordan made peace with Israel in 1994. The countries maintain close security ties, but relations have otherwise been tense in recent years, largely due to differences linked to Israel’s conflict with the Palestinians. Jordan is home to more than 2 million Palestinian refugees, most of whom have Jordanian citizenship.Stability in Jordan and the status of the king has long been a matter of concern, particularly during the Trump administration, which gave unprecedented support to Israel and sought to isolate the Palestinians, including by slashing funding for Palestinian refugees.In early 2018, as then-President Donald Trump was threatening to cut aid to countries that did not support U.S. policies, the administration boosted assistance to Jordan by more than $1 billion over five years.Abdullah stripped his half-brother Hamzah of his title as crown prince in 2004, saying he had decided to “free” him from the "constraints of the position" in order to allow him to take on other responsibilities. The move was seen at the time as part of Abdullah's consolidation of power five years after the succession.The current crown prince is Abdullah’s oldest son, Hussein, who is 26.Jordan's ruling family traces its lineage back to Islam's Prophet Muhammad. Abdullah had chosen Hamzah as his crown prince hours after their father died of cancer in February 1999. The designation was out of respect for King Hussein, who was known to have favored Hamzah the most among his 11 children from four marriages.Abdullah and Hamzah have not displayed any open rivalry over the years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-alleged-coup-jordan-arrests-royal-family-member-and-others-101617487462879.html
04-04-2021||World||Deja vu: Millions return to lockdown on Easter||Millions of people around the world prepared on Saturday to spend another Easter weekend under restrictions because of Covid-19 surges, but there was good news from the hard-hit United States, which crossed the milestone of 100 million coronavirus vaccinations.There have been worrying spikes in infections in many parts of the world, even as vaccine roll-outs gather pace, forcing the reimposition of deeply unpopular restrictions including in European nations.Italy began a strict Easter lockdown on Saturday, with the entire country considered a high-risk coronavirus “red zone” during a time when families usually hold reunions.At the Vatican on Good Friday, a handful of onlookers caught a glimpse of Pope Francis presiding over the “Way of the Cross” ceremony in an empty St Peter’s Square, with Covid-19 restrictions preventing large gatherings there for a second year in a row.New restrictions also came into force on Saturday in France, where authorities are scrambling to deal with a dramatic rise in cases that have overwhelmed hospitals in the capital Paris.Curbs had been intensified in other European nations such as Belgium, and Germany - where the government scrapped plans for a strict Easter lockdown - saw Chancellor Angela Merkel urge people to limit their social contacts ahead of the break.Cases in Latin America cross 25 million markLatin America and the Caribbean passed the 25 million mark on Friday for recorded coronavirus cases as a surge in infections saw countries place restrictions on travel and movement while vaccine campaigns catch up.An AFP tally showed the region reaching the grim milestone of 25,001,533 infections, putting it in third place after Europe with 44.2 million cases and the US and Canada with over 31.5 million.The death toll for Latin America and the Caribbean exceeded 788,000, according to AFP’s count, second only to Europe which has lost some 936,000 people in the pandemic.Infection rates in South America have soared in recent months, fuelled by a more contagious variant, dubbed P1, first detected in the continent’s largest country, Brazil, and since found in several other countries.Argentine President Alberto Fernandez has tested positive for the coronavirus, the first-term Peronist leader tweeted.Canada, meanwhile, has prohibited the use of face masks containing graphene due to the possibility of risks from inhalation of particles, health officials have announced.With inputs from Anirudh Bhattacharyya in Toronto||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deja-vu-millions-return-to-lockdown-on-easter-101617480140335.html
04-04-2021||World||Personal data of over 500 million Facebook users leaked: Report||Data affecting more than 500 million Facebook users that was originally leaked in 2019, including email addresses and phone numbers, has been posted on an online hackers forum, according to media reports and a cybercrime expert."All 533,000,000 Facebook records were just leaked for free," Alon Gal, chief technology officer at the Hudson Rock cybercrime intelligence firm, said Saturday on Twitter.He denounced what he called the "absolute negligence" of Facebook.Some of the data appeared to be current, according to a report in Business Insider which AFP was unable to confirm independently. It said some of the leaked phone numbers still belong to the owners of Facebook accounts."This means that if you have a Facebook account, it is extremely likely the phone number used for the account was leaked," Gal said.But Facebook said the reports were old news."This is old data that was previously reported on in 2019," a company spokesperson told AFP. "We found and fixed this issue in August 2019."Close to 32 million American accounts and 20 million French accounts were among those affected, Gal tweeted in January, when the person holding the data was trying to sell it.The data include phone numbers, complete names, birthdates and, for some accounts, email addresses and relationship status."Bad actors will certainly use the information for social engineering, scamming, hacking and marketing," Gal said on Twitter.This is not the first time leaks or use of data from the world's largest social network -- with nearly two billion users -- has embroiled Facebook in controversy.In 2016, a scandal around Cambridge Analytica, a British consulting firm that used the personal data of millions of Facebook users to target political ads, cast a shadow over the social network and its handling of private information.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/personal-data-of-over-500-million-facebook-users-leaked-report-101617471967728.html
04-04-2021||India||Fake emails, hacked Twitter account as Tamil Nadu poll campaign draws to a close||As the poll campaign ended on a feverish pitch in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, the day saw the two parties battling it out on social media, accusing each other of sharing fake videos and images.AIADMK minister for Tamil language and culture K Pandiarajan on Sunday faced criticism for a video tweeted from his verified Twitter handle. He later said the video wasn’t posted by him and that he would file a complaint with the cybercrime cell.“I am not connected to this in any manner,” said Pandiarajan in a video message. “This tweet was posted without my permission. I will get to the bottom of this and action will be taken against those responsible. I will also be filing a complaint with the cybercrime cell. I never have the intention to defame anyone,” the minister said in his video.” The tweet was deleted from his official handle.The doctored video was that of a 17-year-old female who had died by suicide after being unable to clear the National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET). The video sourced various footage of her television interviews, with doctored audio mimicking her voice to seek votes for the AIADMK.The woman’s brother has filed a complaint with the Ariyalur district police against his sister’s videos being used for politicking. The woman has become the face of the struggle against NEET, which is an emotional issue in Tamil Nadu, and one of the DMK’s core campaigns against the AIADMK.Also read: Dr Ramadoss and the dynamics of Vanniyar quota in Tamil Nadu pollsIn another issue, a purported letter was being circulated on WhatsApp and social media platforms. The letter was allegedly addressed to the DMK president from the I-PAC team stating that they were losing the election. Poll strategist Prashant Kishore’s I-PAC team is a consultant for the DMK, In a tweet, the I-PAC clarified that the letter was fake. “Disgusting to see a ruling political party @AIADMKOfficial circulating a fake email to support their false propaganda. Reeks of desperation,” the I-PAC’s said in a tweet.The campaigning for the 234 assembly election seats came to an end on Sunday evening. Tamil Nadu goes to the polls on April 6 in a single phase. Counting of votes will be held on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fake-emails-hacked-twitter-account-as-tamil-nadu-poll-campaign-draws-to-a-close-101617560652165.html
04-04-2021||India||Gujarat logs record 2,875-case spike, fifth peak in as many days||Gujarat on Sunday reported 2,875 Covid-19 cases, the state's highest single-day addition, taking its tally to 3,18,438, the new mark coming a day after a 2815-case spike record was set on Saturday, an official said.The day also saw 14 deaths, taking the toll to 4,566, and the recovery count touched 2,98,737, or 93.81 per cent of the caseload, after 2,024 people were discharged, he added.The number of active cases in the state stands at 15,135, including 163 critical ones, the official informed."Of the 14 deaths, eight were reported in Surat, four in Ahmedabad and one each in Amreli and Vadodara. Surat led with 724 new cases, followed by 676 in Ahmedabad, 367 in Vadodara and 276 in Rajkot," he said.In a release issued during the day, the state government said 2,28,674 people were given the first dose of vaccine against Covid-19 and 17,362 people above the age of 45 were given the second dose on Saturday.Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,18,438, new cases 2,875, death toll 4,552, discharged 2,98,737, active cases 15,135, people tested so far - figures not released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-logs-record-2-875-case-spike-fifth-peak-in-as-many-days-101617558875771.html
04-04-2021||India||Woman who claims she is 118-year-old inoculated; could be India's oldest to get Covid vaccine||A woman, whose age according to her Aadhaar card is 118 years, has received her first dose of Covid-19 vaccine in Sagar district of Madhya Pradesh.She was administered the dose at an inoculation facility in Khimlasa area near here on Saturday.After getting the jab, Tulsabai came out the centre with a broad smile on face and flashing a victory sign, and said in Bundelkhendi dialect, "Hamne lagwao teeka so ache hojen. So tum bhi lagwaao so ache ho ja ho. Kuchhu dikkat nainuaan...(I took the vaccine so that I feel better. You also take it. No worries.)"She is possibly the oldest woman in the country to get the vaccine.According to her Aadhaar card 790309436468, Tulsabai was born on January 1, 1903 and is a resident of Sadarpur area of Sagar, which is part of the Bundelkhand region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/118yearold-woman-inoculated-could-be-india-s-oldest-to-get-covid-vaccine-101617558227978.html
04-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports over 3,000 new Covid-19 cases for the third straight day, active caseload close to 22,000||For the third consecutive day, Tamil Nadu on Sunday reported more than 3,000 new Covid-19 cases in a 24-hour period, according to a bulletin from the state government. This took the state's tally to 899,807. Also, 14 more patients died of coronavirus disease on the day, pushing the death toll to 12,778, according to the bulletin. Previously, 3,446 cases and 3,290 cases were reported on Saturday and Friday respectively.Active cases in Tamil Nadu have been increasing gradually and currently stands at 21,958, an increase of 1,754 cases from the 20,204 reported on the previous day.Also read | Delhi reports 4,033 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest one-day spike this yearThe state's health ministry also highlighted that of the 3,581 new infections on the day, 18 patients were returnees from other states in the country and one patient came back from United Arab Emirates (UAE).Meanwhile, the Union health ministry, earlier in the day, identified Tamil Nadu to be one among the 12 states and union territories (UTs) where the number of daily new cases have been witnessing a surge. The ministry noted that the state is also one among eight states that have contributed to almost 81 per cent of the new cases on Sunday.Watch | Covid: PM Modi holds high-level meet amid highest 1-day case jump since mid-SeptThe state capital Chennai, which is the worst affected place in Tamil Nadu, reported 1,344 new cases on the day which took the overall confirmed cases in the city to 253,760 so far. Chennai also has 8,246 active cases and so far, 4,268 patients have died for the disease in the city. Among other districts, Coimbatore with 60,153 cases and Chengalpattu with 57,509 cases remain the worst affected in terms of total confirmed cases so far.The government also tested 82,791 Covid-19 samples in the past 24 hours and the state has so far tested 19,932,179 samples till date, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-over-3-000-new-covid-19-cases-for-the-third-straight-day-active-caseload-close-to-22000-101617557320728.html
04-04-2021||India||964 locations, 40 active spots: All you need to know about Uttarakhand forest fire||Forty active fire spots in the forests of Uttarakhand have sent the alarm bells ringing for the state authorities. The districts of Nainital, Almora, Tehri and Pauri are the worst-hit and the state government is trying everything it can to bring the situation under control. The fire broke out at 964 locations, state government officials told news agency PTI.Assuring all help possible to state, the Centre on Sunday rushed two helicopters to Uttarakhand to bring the blaze under control. Chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat called an emergency meeting with the state officials to assess the state's preparations and ways to effectively act on the forest fires.Here is everything you need to know about the forest fires:-Fire destroyed property worth ₹37 lakh so far, principal chief conservator told PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/964-locations-40-active-spots-all-you-need-to-know-about-uttarakhand-forest-fire-101617555838675.html
04-04-2021||India||87 pigs die in Mizoram village near Bangladesh border, panic over ASF suspicion||More than 80 pigs died in south Mizoram's Lunglei district over the last two weeks, triggering panic in the area that is near the Bangladesh border, an official said on Sunday.The 87 deaths, which happened in the Lungsen village, have caused losses to the tune of ₹40 lakh, he said."Though the cause of the deaths is yet to be ascertained, it is suspected that the animals died due to African Swine Fever (ASF)," said Lalhmingthanga, the Joint Director of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department.The first death was reported on March 21, following which veterinary officers were sent to the village to ascertain the cause, he said.As per the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests on tissue samples and serum samples, the dead pigs were confirmed free of Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) and Classical Swine Flu (CSF), he said.The confirmatory test for ASF is yet to be done at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Madhya Pradesh, Lalhmingthanga said.The preliminary test will be done at the College of Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry on Monday to ascertain whether the dead pigs are suspected to be infected with AFS, he said.The government has already sounded alert for ASF in the state and declared Lungsen village as an infected area with prohibitory orders clamped under CrPC Section 144 on April 2, the official said.Though the actual disease is yet to be confirmed, the measure is being taken in accordance with ASF Prevention and Containment National Action Plan, he said.An investigation team led by Animal Husbandry and Veterinary (Disease Investigation and Epidemiology) Deputy Director M Zohmingthangi will visit Lungsen village on Monday to stake stock of the situation, he said.The team will collect tissue and blood samples to be sent for tests, the official said.Lalhmingthanga said that the disease was suspected to be transmitted through the import of pigs and smoked pig meat from the neighbouring states, and Bangladesh.The first death was reported near hotels where imported pig meats were largely consumed.Mizoram was hit by PRRS in 2013, 2016, 2018 and 2020, killing thousands of pigs and piglets, causing losses to the tune of ₹10.62 crore.So far, the state has not reported any outbreak of African Swine Fever. PTI CORR SOM SOM||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/87-pigs-die-in-mizoram-village-near-bangladesh-border-panic-over-asf-suspicion-101617557106647.html
04-04-2021||India||Farmers not leaving protest sites near Delhi, says Rakesh Tikait||Refuting claims that farmers have left protest sites along the Delhi border, Bharatiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday said they had gone to the fields to work and would return when the Central government was "free from West Bengal elections".Farmers, mainly from Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan, have been protesting at the Delhi border for over 4 months now against the Centre's three agri marketing laws, and have demanded its repeal along with a legal guarantee on the minimum support price mechanism.Tikait, who reached Gujarat to drum up support for the stir, began his two-day visit by praying at the Ambaji Temple in Banaskantha district and then addressing groups in Ambaji and Palanpur.He told a gathering that the three laws were enacted to help businessmen and not farmers, and the latter had decided to not move from the protest sites till victory, that is acceptance of all their demands, was achieved."All reports that farmers have left the agitation sites are wrong. Farmers come and go. At present, they have gone to work in their fields. We have told them to come back once the government is free from (West) Bengal elections. The entire government is camping in Bengal. Once the government returns, we will start negotiations with it," Tikait claimed.He said farmers from Gujarat must also join the protest in large numbers so that the country feels confident that cultivators from the state from where some of the big leaders hail, a possible reference to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah, are also against the new laws.Exhorting farmers from Gujarat to use tractors to protest, Tikait said these vehicles are the "tanks of farmers" and were put to good use in Delhi to remove police barricades.While former Gujarat chief minister Shankarsinh Vaghela accompanied Tikait in his rally from Ambaji to Palanpur, Congress MLA Geniben Thakor welcomed the BKU leader when he entered the state earlier in the day.Incidentally, Tikait had taken a swipe at the BJP government in Gujarat earlier in the day by showing his passport to reporters while entering the state after alighting from a train in Abu Road in neighbouring Rajasthan.Asked about whether he was carrying a Covid-19 negative certificate, which is mandatory while travelling to Gujarat, Tikait showed his passport and said, "I have all the documents with me. This is my passport if it is required to enter Gujarat".Tikait will visit Sabarmati Ashram on Monday and go to Bardoli on the second day of his Gujarat visit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-not-leaving-protest-sites-near-delhi-says-rakesh-tikait-101617549393644.html
04-04-2021||India||Mandatory RT-PCR test for people entering, exiting state: Rajasthan govt||Amid a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Rajasthan government on Sunday made RT-PCR test mandatory for people entering the state and those travelling outside."Classes 1 to 9 will remain suspended. DMs can impose night curfews but they will be required to seek government's permission for curfew before 8 pm and after 6 am," the Rajasthan government said, according to news agency ANI.The state government further said that excluding the takeaway and delivery services, restaurants should abide by the night curfew. "Not more than 100 people will be allowed at weddings while cinemas/theatres/multiplexes will be closed," it added.Earlier on March 21, Rajasthan government tightened virus-related restrictions in the state as well as for those arriving there from outside. The decisions were taken during a review meeting chaired by chief minister Ashok Gehlot.For travellers entering the western state, the government mandated the passengers to carry a negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours from March 25 to contain the spread.Rajasthan on Sunday reported 1,729 fresh Covid-19 cases which took the infection tally to 3,39,325, while two deaths took the toll in the state to 2,829, according to an official report. One death each was reported from Ajmer and Nagaur districts, it said.The fresh cases included the highest of 258 in Jaipur, 225 in Kota and 194 in Jodhpur, the report said. A total of 3,23,618 people have recovered from Covid-19 and the number of active cases at present is 12,878.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mandatory-rt-pcr-test-for-people-entering-exiting-state-rajasthan-govt-101617555269280.html
04-04-2021||India||Amid panic over suspected African swine fever in Mizoram, here's everything you need to know about it||More than 80 pigs died in south Mizoram's Lunglei district over the last two weeks, triggering panic in the area that is near the Bangladesh border about the spread of African Swine Fever (ASF).The confirmatory test for ASF is yet to be done at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) in Madhya Pradesh, said Lalhmingthanga, the Joint Director of the Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Department.But the government has already sounded alert for ASF in the state and declared Lungsen village as an infected area with prohibitory orders clamped under CrPC Section 144 on April 2, he added.What is ASF and how it spreads?According to US Department of Agriculture (USDA), African swine fever is a highly contagious and deadly viral disease affecting both domestic and feral swine of all ages. It can spread by live or dead pigs and pork products.Transmission can also occur via contaminated feed and objects such as shoes, clothes, vehicles, knives and other equipment. Unlike Classical Swine Fever (CSF), there is no vaccine for ASF.The only way to stop this disease is to depopulate all affected or exposed swine herds.What are the signs of ASF?The USDA says that the signs of ASF include high fever, decreased appetite and weakness, red and blotchy skin or skin lesions, diarrhea and vomiting, and coughing and difficulty in breathing.Experts have suggested on-farm biosecurity to prevent the animal disease from developing and spreading.Can it spread to humans?While swine flu can spread from animals to humans, swine fever does not, and therefore is not a public health threat.ASF is found in countries around the world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa. Last year, the infection killed many pigs in Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/panic-over-suspected-asf-in-mizoram-everything-you-need-to-know-about-it-101617555938331.html
04-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel rules out intelligence failure, says ops against Maoists will continue||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel ruled out "intelligence failure" as the reason behind encounter with the Maoists near Sukma in which 22 soldiers were killed. Baghel also expressed condolences to the breaved families."About 2,000 soldiers were sent to install camps in an area which is Naxal bastion. This would have restricted their movement, that's they were frustrated. There was no intelligence failure. We'll surely install camps there," said the chief minister."My condolences to bereaved families," he added while speaking to mediapersons.Also Watch: Bodies of 22 security personnel found; search ops onThe encounter took place on Saturday when multiple teams of security forces were patrolling the area as part of anti-Maoist operation. The state police said that there were 400 Maoists who fired indiscriminately at the security forces from two hilltops.Calling it a U-shaped ambush, a police official said that the security forces were at a disadvantageous position.Also Read: The 22 soldiers who were killed in Chhattisgarh Maoist attackWhile five soldiers lost their lives on Saturday, 17 more bullet-riddled bodies were recovered on Sunday, the police said. This was one of the biggest attacks on the security forces in Chhattisgarh in recent years.Union home minister Amit Shah chaired a high-level meeting on the incident in Delhi in which home secretary Ajay Bhalla, Intelligence Bureau Director Arvind Kumar and senior officials of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) were present.Shah cut short his visit to poll-bound Assam and returned to Delhi. He was scheduled to address three rallies, but left the state after addressing the first one. He also spoke to Baghel.Before leaving Assam, he paid tributes to the families of the soldiers killed and vowed to give a "befitting reply".The gunfight took place in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, Chhattisgarh police said.The soldiers who have been killed include personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) and the District Reserve Guard (DRG), the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-maoist-attack-cm-rules-our-intelligence-failure-101617553040249.html
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra switches to ‘Break The Chain’ from ‘Mission Begin Again’ to curb Covid-19 spread. Check full list of curbs||The Maharashtra government changed the name of its Covid-19 action plan to ‘Break The Chain’ from ‘Mission Begin Again’ as it announced restrictions, including partial lockdown, on Sunday following a massive spike in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state.Uddhav Thackeray-led government declared that a night curfew will be imposed across Maharashtra from Monday and while the state will be under lockdown on weekends starting Friday evening. Only essential services will be allowed during the curfew period, state minister Nawab Malik said.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Restrictions have also been imposed on the functioning of malls and eateries in Maharashtra. While they have been told to make only takeaway and parcel services available, theatres and multiplexes across the state have ordered to remain shut till April 30.Here’s the full list of curbs imposed by the Maharashtra government*Complete lockdown on weekends (Friday evening to Monday morning)*Section 144 during the day which means more than 5 people cannot be seen together from 8 am to 7 pm. Curfew at night, meaning people can't step out from 8 pm to 7 am without a valid reason. Essential services are exempt from these restrictions.*All shops, malls, and markets to be shut till April 30. Groceries, pharmacies and vegetable shops exempted.*Public and private transport will not be stopped. No standing passengers would be allowed in private and public buses and outstation trains. No such restrictions issued for local trains. Two passengers can travel in autorickshaws in addition to the driver. In the case of taxis, half of the permitted passengers would be allowed besides the driver.*All private offices will have to ask their employees to work from home. Offices related to banks, stock market, insurance companies, pharmacy, telecommunications, financial institutions, disaster management, electricity and water supply exempted from the order. Fifty percent attendance in government offices.*Any housing society will be declared a mini-containment zone if more than five Covid-19 cases are found. A board to this effect would be put outside the building. Outsiders will not be allowed to enter such premises.*Entertainment-related establishments will remain shut. Theatres, halls, multiplexes, auditoriums, clubs, video parlours, swimming pools, sports complexes, and water parks will be completely shut.*Places of worship of all religions will be closed for visitors. Priests and staff would be allowed.*Restaurants and bars would not be allowed to operate. Hotels can keep their restaurants open only for guests residing there. Restaurants can serve takeaway parcels from 7 am to 8 pm. Roadside eateries can only sell parcels between 7 am to 8 pm.*Gardens, beaches, and such public places to be completely shut from 8 pm to 7 am. During the day, people will have to follow Covid rules. If the local administration finds it necessary, these places would be shut for people even during the day.*E-commerce companies can send their deliveries from 7 am to 8 pm. These companies must ensure the vaccination of all their employees. Else such employees will be fined ₹1000 each and the company would be slapped penalty of ₹10,000.*Hair cutting salons, beauty parlours, and spas would not be allowed to conduct business.*Schools and colleges to remain shut. Only class 10 and 12 examinations would be allowed. Private tuitions will remain shut.*Newspaper printing and circulation would be allowed. Newspaper sellers will have to get themselves vaccinated.*Agricultural activities will continue, transportation of agricultural products and foodgrains will not be stopped*Manufacturing unit will be allowed to function. The shooting of movies would be allowed but not at crowded places.*Construction sites will be allowed if the workers are provided accommodation at the site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-switches-to-break-the-chain-from-mission-begin-again-to-curb-covid-19-spread-check-full-list-of-restrictions-here-101617550067188.html
04-04-2021||India||Delhi reports 4,033 fresh Covid-19 cases, highest one-day spike this year||Delhi on Sunday recorded 4,033 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the health bulletin released by authorities, which took the national capital's tally to 676,414. Delhi, which according to chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is witnessing the fourt wave of the pandemic, has seen its daily cases rise over the past few weeks.Delhi also recorded 21 fatalities in the 24-hour timespan, the health department's data showed, which took the cumulative toll to 11,081.Coronavirus cases in Delhi have multiplied four times within a span of five days as the national capital saw 992 cases on Tuesday last week.Delhi reported 3,567 cases of viral infection on Saturday, 3,594 cases on Friday, 2,790 cases on Thursday, 1,819 cases on Wednesday.According to Sunday's data, the positivity rate in Delhi rose to 4.64% from 4.48% a day earlier. The rise in cases and deaths comes even as the authorities have ramped up testing and tracing the cases as a strategy to tackle the viral contagion.On Sunday, the authorities conducted 86,899 tests across the city-state, out of which 54,472 were RT-PCR tests and 32,427 were Rapid antigen tests.As of Sunday, Delhi has a total of 13,982 active cases. The containment zones in Delhi are nearing the 3,000-mark as they rose to 2,917 from 2,618 on Saturday.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has maintained that the situation in Delhi now is not as serious as it was in 2020."Cases are spreading fast. This is concerning but in October when daily cases were around 3,000-4,000 like it is now, many patients were in ICU. There were many deaths as well. But this wave is less serious than the previous ones. More people are under home isolation," Kejriwal said.In a bid to bring the fourth wave under control, the Delhi police are carrying out a drive where people are being fined for not following Covid-19 safety protocols.Several restaurants, night clubs and hotels have been fined and face cases for not maintaining social distancing and serving hookah, police officials said told PTI.According to experts, the "sudden rise" in cases can be traced to people turning complacent, not following Covid-appropriate behavior and "assuming all is well now".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-covid-19-cases-go-past-4-000-highest-daily-spike-this-year-101617550235689.html
04-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Experts predict Bengaluru might see 6,500 daily Covid-19 cases by April 20 and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Expert predicts 6,500 Covid-19 cases daily in Bengaluru by April 20Experts have predicted that continued negligence to maintain social distancing and following other safety protocols in Bengaluru is likely to send the rapidly evolving Covid-19 crisis into an uncontrollable spiral. Read moreMaharashtra night curfew from tomorrow, weekend lockdown from Friday due to Covid-19 surge: What’s allowed, what’s notThe Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a night curfew Monday onwards while a weekend lockdown will be imposed in the state from Friday evening owing to the increasing cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more'I feel for him': Cheteshwar Pujara believes Indian batsman 'should also be part of the IPL'Cheteshwar Pujara might have been a regular in the Indian Test side but couldn't find a buyer in the Indian Premier League for several years. Pujara was often overlooked by franchises due to his reputation of being a Test match player. Read moreKapil Sharma reveals the name of his son after Neeti Simoes asks himTV star Kapil Sharma has finally revealed the name of his son. He was responding to close friend and co-star Neeti Simoes on Twitter when he revealed the family has named the newborn, Trishaan. Read moreDelhi shop sells gold paan worth ₹600, video prompts mixed reactionsEvery now and then, we come across such food items that leave us with lots of reactions. Just a few days ago, a food vlogger from Delhi shared a clip of butter coffee that sparked several reactions. Read moreMaoist gunfight: Amit Shah, Chhattisgarh CM Baghel react after death of soldiersA day after a deadly encounter between security personnel and Maoists in Chhattisgarh, the state's Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel, and Union Home Minister Amit Shah reacted to the incident. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-bengaluru-might-see-6-500-daily-covid-19-cases-by-april-20-and-all-the-latest-news-101617548892708.html
04-04-2021||India||Direct payment to farmers: Navjot Singh Sidhu claims Centre wants to ‘destroy’ mandi system in Punjab||Congress leader Navjot Singh Sidhu on Sunday dubbed Union minister Piyush Goyal's letter regarding direct payment to farmers as “part of a larger conspiracy” against Punjab to “destroy and disrupt” the state's tried and tested mandi system.Goyal had written a letter to the Punjab government, asking it to implement a system for direct payment to farmers for crop procurement. The state government was also asked to integrate land records, available with the revenue department, with the procurement portal.Addressing the media in Patiala at his residence, the cricketer-turned-politician questioned the timing of the letter and alleged that the Centre wanted to “instigate” farmers and “create a law and order situation” in the state.“This tantamounts to economic blackmail by the central government to force the farmers and Punjab to withdraw their agitation against the three farm laws,” he further alleged.Sidhu said the motive of the letter was to “disrupt” the age-old, tried and tested and successful mandi system that allows for the implementation of the minimum support price in the state.It also intends to create a “division” between arhtiyas (commission agents) and farmers in the state, he alleged.This letter is part of a “larger conspiracy” to stall the procurement of wheat crop in Punjab and destroy the state's agricultural economy, he alleged.         The Amritsar East legislator said according to Goyal, the revenue department of the state government had all the information about the land records of farmers in the state.        But according to data collected by the National Sample Survey for year 2012-13, it shows that more than 24 per cent of the land under cultivation in Punjab is under tenancy.“These tenancy contracts are oral or unwritten in nature,” he stated, adding that the land under tenancy may have increased and not decreased over the years.If the sale of wheat crop is allowed with ownership rights, then about 25 to 30 per cent farmers will not receive payment for sale of their crops, he claimed.The former Punjab minister accused the Centre of planning to “destroy” the state's successful Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee model and also questioned the timing of the letter.He emphasised that the state and its people should come together and build “an alternative economic model” for Punjab's agricultural prosperity.Asked when he would return to the state government, Sidhu refused to comment.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh and Sidhu had on March 17 met over tea at the former's farmhouse, where they had discussed the cricketer-turned-politician's possible reinduction into the state cabinet.The following day, Singh had expressed confidence that Sidhu would be back in his cabinet.For the last several weeks, the Congress circles have been abuzz with speculation over a key cabinet berth for Sidhu and there has also been talk of him being appointed the state Congress president.The rift between Singh and Sidhu had come out in the open in May 2019 when the chief minister blamed him for the "inept handling" of the local government department, claiming it had resulted in the "poor performance" of the Congress in urban areas in the Lok Sabha polls.Sidhu was later stripped of this portfolio in a cabinet reshuffle, following which he had resigned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/direct-payment-to-farmers-navjot-singh-sidhu-claims-centre-wants-to-destroy-mandi-system-in-punjab-101617549093293.html
04-04-2021||India||Karnataka records slight rise in daily Covid-19 tally, Bengaluru Urban leads the count||Karnataka on Sunday recorded 4,553 fresh cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), taking the state-wide tally to 10,15,155, according to state health department bulletin. Fifteen fatalities were also reported in the last 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to 12,625. This marks a slight rise from the 4,373 cases recorded on Saturday.Bengaluru Urban continues to contribute the maximum number of cases to the state’s Covid-19 tally, recording 2787 new cases on Sunday, marking a slight dip from the 3,002 cases reported on Saturday, according to health department bulletin. Mysuru stood a distant second with 260 cases, trailed by Kalaburgi (170) and Bengaluru Rural (155).Bengaluru Urban also reported eight out of 15 fatalities recorded on Sunday. The rest were reported in Kalaburagi (3), Dharwada (2), one each from Hassana, and Tumakuru.As of Sunday, Karnataka has 39,092 active cases of Covid-19, with 331 of them currently being treated in Intensive Care Units across the state.According to state government figures, 1,18,933 Covid-19 tests were carried out on Sunday. Out of this, 1,19,881 were RT-PCR tests, and the number total tests done till date has exceeded the two crore-mark, said the Karnataka health department.The Karnataka government on Sunday relaxed a previously enforced complete closure order on gymnasiums, allowing them to operate with 50 per cent capacity, PTI reported. However, the curbs imposed on public spaces, gatherings, and educational institutions will remain.Gyms have been asked to follow proper social distancing measures, encourage wearing of face masks, ensure provision of hand sanitisers, and sanitise equipment after every use. Any failure to comply with Covid-19 preventative measures will result in a complete closure, the government warned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-records-slight-rise-in-daily-covid-19-tally-bengaluru-urban-leads-the-count-101617548658339.html
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra night curfew from tomorrow, weekend lockdown from Friday due to Covid-19 surge: What’s allowed, what’s not||The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced a night curfew Monday onwards while a weekend lockdown will be imposed in the state from Friday evening owing to the increasing cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Maharashtra’s minority development minister Nawab Malik announced several more curbs including restrictions on travelling, and the functioning of malls and eateries in the state.The stricter curbs in Maharashtra were announced after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with his cabinet minister as daily cases have touched nearly 50,000. On Saturday, Maharashtra reported fresh 49,447 cases, the highest so far in a day, which takes the state’s total infection tally to 29.53 million.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Here’s a look at what’s allowed and what’s not in Maharashtra-- Till what time can I stay out at night on weekdays?The Maharashtra government will impose a night curfew in the state from Monday onwards from 8pm to 7 am.--Can I go out on weekends?No, the government has imposed weekend lockdown across Maharashtra which will come into effect from Friday 8pm and last till Monday 7am.--Can I watch a movie at the theatre?Theatres and multiplexes have been ordered to remain closed from Monday through film and television shootings will continue if there is no crowding.--Can I take a walk in the park?No, Nawab Malik announced that parks and playgrounds will also be closed due curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.--Can I meet friends during the day?Section 144 will be imposed in Maharashtra during the day that prohibits public gatherings of four or more people.--What will be available during the night curfew and weekend lockdown?Only essential services will be allowed to operate during night curfew hours as well as weekend lockdowns. Industries and production sector, vegetable markets will function with Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs), and construction sites will operate if there is an accommodation facility for workers, Nawab Malik said.--How many people are allowed in offices?While government offices will be operating at 50% of their capacity, private offices have been told to provide work from home facilities to their employees.--Is public transport available?Public transports will operate at 50% of their capacity.--Till when will restrictions remain in place?For now, the Maharashtra government has said the curbs imposed in view of the rising Covid-19 cases will remain effective till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-night-curfew-from-tomorrow-weekend-lockdown-from-friday-due-to-covid-19-surge-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101617547927764.html
04-04-2021||India||High-octane campaigning in Kerala draws to close, experts predict ‘close battle’||The high-pitch campaign for April 6 assembly elections in Kerala came to an end on Sunday with all three formations - the ruling Left Democratic Front, opposition United Democratic Front and BJP-led National Democratic Alliance - claiming a clear edge. About 2.67 crore voters will exercise their franchise on Tuesday across 40,771 polling booths to elect 140 legislators.On the final day, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi carried out a roadshow in Kozhikode (north Kerala) and flew down to Thiruvananthpuram. Union finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman led BJP rallies in the state capital and outskirts. “The UDF is well placed and we are sure to form the next government in the state,” said Gandhi, also a member of parliament from the state, who toured extensively in the state to whip up the party’s chances.Sitharaman, however, said the wind is blowing in the NDA’s favour. “I can see PM Modi everywhere and the chorus for change is louder,” she said. Going by the ground situation, it looks like it is anyone’s game as there is no wave in favour of any coalition in the state. In the last leg, the UDF has managed to lessen the gap by “better selection” of candidates and Gandhi siblings’ (Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra) intense campaigning that stopped faction feud in the lead party Congress. Rahul Gandhi visited Kerala on three occasions and spent more than a week in the state for campaigning. Resurgent UDF shows the state is most unlikely to change its four-decade-old political script (changed governments after five years since 1982) of alternating government after every election, say political observers and election experts. True, the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) was much ahead in campaigning and visibility giving an impression that there will be a continuation of power, but experts say the situation is almost similar to the India Shining campaign of the Vajpayee era. In the 2004 election, the NDA let loose a big campaign called India Shining citing robust growth rate eyeing a continuation of power but lost to the Congress. Also read: Rahul has Easter lunch with Kerala orphans; kids talk to Priyanka on video callA distant third runner, the BJP-led NDA, is also upbeat and it is likely to improve its vote share this time. Other than the BJP winning a couple of seats, the state is likely to retain its bi-polar polity. But whose votes the BJP-led NDA cuts into will be a decisive factor in the poll, experts say. In the outgoing assembly, the party had a single seat (Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram) and it is likely to go up to three. “It is a close match. The LDF managed to build a public perception that continuity will be there but in the last lap, there is a considerable dent in this perception,” said political theorist and author J Reghu. Former vice-chancellor of the Central University of Kerala and political scientist Dr G Gopakumar said a split in anti-incumbency votes between the NDA and the UDF will only favour the LDF.“The BJP is campaigning vigorously and if it attracts more votes it will damage UDF’s prospects,” he said, adding a rise in the saffron camp’s vote share will be a threat to the UDF.Reghu, however, begs to differ, saying people of the state are known for their “tactical voting.” Experts like him say there is pent up anger in the party against CM Pinarayi Vijayan’s “autocratic style of functioning” and it will reflect in ballots. It is a fact that almost all pre-poll surveys have predicted an edge to the ruling left. But political observers and party watchers say things are not that easy for the left to buck the trend. Its public relations blitz has created a good atmosphere and this euphoria will not reflect in ballots. They say early warnings have forced the UDF out of its slumber and overcome some of the inherent weaklings like faction politics in the do or die battle. One of the factors for the left’s euphoria is its victory in the December 2020 local body elections that came when the government was in the thick of many scandals like the gold smuggling case and arrest of the then party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri in money laundering case related to the drug trade. Experts say the same narrative may not work in the assembly polls too. “You can’t scale both, local body and assembly elections, with the same parameters. Other than a loud publicity campaign I don’t see any tangible reason for the left come back,” said Reghu. “The UDF failed to project a strong leader and many new faces (candidates) at the eleventh hour may affect its prospects,” said Gopakumar. But Congress leaders defend it, saying it has been the custom of the UDF to release the list late but this time it managed it without much drama or delay.“More than half of our candidates are new faces and grassroots workers. I am sure a majority of them will romp home and we are comfortably placed,” said Chandy, the star campaigner of the UDF. But the LDF said there was no looking back for it and it was steadily maintaining its upper hand. “It seems the UDF has admitted defeat. That is why even in the dying hours, opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is raising absurd charges against the government,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan. The BJP has paraded some of its top leaders, including PM Modi and home minister Amit Shah, and raked up the contentious Sabarimala issue. It has also flaunted its favourite card, Metro Man E Sreedharan, to curry favours with voters. The 88-year-old is locked in a fierce three-cornered battle in Palakkad. “The party will rewrite the poll history of the state,” said party state president K Surendran, adding that people were fed up with the alternate regimes.While the LDF is concentrating more on social security schemes and development activities, both Congress and the BJP have harped on alleged commissions and omissions of the left government. In Ernakulam district Twenty20, a corporate party, is posing a big threat to major players. It is contesting eight seats in Ernakulam.“The poll picture is quite hazy. There is a silent anti-incumbency factor. I feel the state will stick to its four-decade-old script,” said actor and writer Joy Mathew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highoctane-campaigning-in-kerala-draws-to-close-experts-predict-close-battle-101617548531776.html
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra government announces weekend lockdown, opposition backs stricter Covid-19 curbs||As the Maharashtra government led by Uddhav Thackeray announced tougher restrictions to control the worrying coronavirus situation, opposition leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Raj Thackeray on Sunday welcomed the move and assured support in adhering to Covid-19 norms.“BJP supports the government’s decision to impose lockdown. People should abide by restrictions and follow Covid-19 protocols. To ensure maximum vaccination, BJP workers would help people register and reach vaccination centres," former Maharashtra CM and leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis told news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Devendra Fadnavis’ remark came in the backdrop of the new curbs announced by the Maharashtra government that will remain in place till April 30. Monday onwards, the state will witness a night curfew starting 8pm and ending at 7am while a weekend lockdown will also be imposed from Friday 8pm to Monday 7am, state minister Nawab Malik announced. He added that prohibitory orders issued under Section 144 will also be enforced during the daytime through the week.Maharashtra Navanirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray also pledged support and asked his party workers to adhere to the government’s guidelines and cooperate fully with the state machinery. "Please cooperate with the government agencies and follow all the directives of the government," the party said in a tweet in Marathi.Also Read: Maharashtra to witness night curfew, weekend lockdown: A look at stricter curbsRaj Thackeray’s reply came soon after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray dialled him and BJP’s Devendra Fadnavis informing them about the intent to impose curbs and to seek their cooperation regarding the same.During Maharashtra’s night curfew and weekend lockdown only essential services will be allowed to operate, minister Nawab Malik told reporters. The government has also ordered shopping malls, bars, restaurants, and small shops to provide only takeaway and parcels services.Theatres, drama theatres will remain shut, while film and television shootings will continue if there is no crowding. Parks and playgrounds will also be closed, the minister said, adding that government offices will operate with 50% capacity while private offices have been told to provide work from home facility.The move comes a day after Maharashtra reported nearly 50,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-government-announces-weekend-lockdown-opposition-backs-stricter-covid-19-curbs-101617544909661.html
04-04-2021||India||'Nation owes enormous debt': Sonia Gandhi on deaths in Chhattisgarh Maoist attack||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Sunday condoled the death of 22 security personnel in the Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh and said that the nation owes an enormous debt of gratitude to the slain soldiers.The soldiers, deployed on a special operation, were killed in a gunbattle with the Maoists on Saturday. While five bodies were recovered on Saturday, 17 more were found on Sunday, the police said. They added that a group of around 400 Maoists were involved in the attack."The entire country bows before the martyrdom of 22 jawans in the gruesome naxal attack in Bijapur, Chhattisgarh. I pay homage to these jawans who have given their lives, and heartfelt condolences to their families. The Nation owes an enormous debt of gratitude to them," Sonia Gandhi said in a statement.Gandhi added that she is fervently hoping for the return of soldiers who are still missing and looks forward to the complete recovery of those injured."We are united in our resolve to combat naxalism. The Chhattisgarh Congress government shall continue to provide all assistance to our Central Paramilitary Forces in fighting naxalism with full rigour," the statement shared by the Indian National Congress on Twitter read.At least 30 soldiers were injured in the biggest massacre in more than a year.The ambush took place in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, police said.The soldiers who have been killed include personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) and the District Reserve Guard (DRG), the police said.The bloodied attack forced the Union home minister Amit Shah to cut short his visit to poll-bound Assam, who returned to Delhi in the wake of the attack.Shah took stock of the situation and said the search operation is still on.The exact number of casualties, the home minister said, is still being ascertained. "As far as the numbers are concerned, both sides have suffered losses and exact casualty figures cannot be ascertained immediately," Shah said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nation-owes-enormous-debt-sonia-gandhi-on-deaths-in-chhattisgarh-maoist-attack-101617541888729.html
04-04-2021||India||Cong, CPI(M) demand suspension of poll in Tamulpur seat after BPF candidate joins BJP||With the Election Commission decision yet to come on Bodoland Peoples Front candidate Rangja Khungur Basumatary joining BJP in the middle of the ongoing polls, opposition Congress and CPI(M) have demanded suspension of election in Tamulpur constituency in the third phase on April 6.Chief Election Commissioner Sunil Arora personally heard the matter on Saturday in the presence of returning officer for the constituency Sanjiv Sarma, but no decision has been announced so far, sources in the poll panel told PTI.BPF, an electoral ally of Congress, had lodged a complaint with the EC after its candidate from the Tamulpur assembly segment in Baksa district of the Bodoland Territorial Region had joined the BJP on April 1.After Congress, its Grand Alliance partner CPI(M) on Sunday also sought suspension of voting on Tuesday in Tamulpur.Prime Minister Narendra Modi had addressed a rally in Tamulpur the previous day in favour of the BJP's ally UPPL candidate on the seat Leho Ram Bodo.Following the development, which was not seen before as per the officials, the opposition parties accused the BJP of indulging in the pre-poll "horse-trading".In a complaint submitted to the chief electoral officer here on Saturday night, Assam Congress chief Ripun Bora urged him to take appropriate action against Basumatary.He also requested the poll panel to "debar and disqualify" Assam minister and senior BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma from contesting the assembly elections this time, in view of his "act of conspiring" against the Congress and its alliance partner during the polls.Sarma is contesting from the Jalukbari constituency which will go to poll on April 6.Basumatary had reportedly gone missing for two days and at around midnight on March 31, Sarma had said on Twitter that he met the BPF's Tamulpur constituency candidate who would join the BJP."It is evident that there has been a gross violation of the Election Commission of India's model code of conduct as well as several provisions of the Representation of the People Act, 1951."Under such circumstances, I request your honour to take prompt and necessary action against Basumatary and Himanta Biswa Sarma. I further request you to stop the election process in Tamulpur constituency immediately," Bora said.In his party's representation to the CEO, the Congress Rajya Sabha MP said, "Himanta Biswa Sarma should also be debarred and disqualified from contesting in the Assembly Election, 2021 in view of his above stated act of promoting and conspiring against Congress and grand alliance..."Meanwhile, BPF chief Hagrama Mohilary appealed to people of the Tamulpur seat to vote on the symbol of his party.Basumatary told a local TV channel that he had decided to quit the BPF as the party did not lend any helping hand to him to fund his campaign.The BPF candidate had said he couldn't withdraw himself from the contest now due to technical issues, but he would be supporting BJP's ally United People's Party Liberal (UPPL) nominee Leho Ram Boro in the seat.Echoing views of his Grand Alliance partner Congress, CPI (M) Assam secretary Debeen Bhattacharya said at a press conference Sunday that such an incident has never been seen in Indian politics."On the basis of money power, BJP wants to win the election. They know that people have rejected them. So, we demand that electuon in Tamulpur constituency be suspended," he said.The first phase of the Assam assembly elections was held on March 27, followed by second phase on April 1 and finally the third round of voting will take place in 40 constiruencies on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-cpi-m-demand-suspension-of-poll-in-tamulpur-seat-after-bpf-candidate-joins-bjp-101617542862640.html
04-04-2021||India||Haryana limits number of people allowed at indoor, outdoor events as Covid-19 cases surge||The Haryana government on Sunday issued fresh guidelines putting a ceiling on the number of people permitted at functions in open spaces and indoors, and at funerals in the wake of a surge in coronavirus cases in the state.While at the most 200 people would be allowed at events indoor, the crowd capacity outdoors has been put at 500. At funerals, a maximum of 50 people would be allowed to attend, the new guidelines stated.Earlier, the limit on gatherings was implemented in Gurgaon and Faridabad.Under the new standard operating procedure (SOPs), organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political gatherings must take permission from district magistrates, the state government stated.The district magistrates will issue permission for the gatherings only after seeking necessary no-objection certificates from the departments concerned.The new SOPs also permit action against violators after extensive checking under provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, as well as under Sections 188 of the Indian Penal Code.Haryana had reported 10 Covid-19 fatalities on Saturday taking the death toll to 3,184. The coronavirus case tally rose to 2,96,229 with 1,959 fresh instances of the infection.The districts which report a big spike in cases included Gurgaon (606), Karnal (274), Faridabad (138), Ambala (138) and Kurukshetra (124). The state now has 11,787 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/haryana-limits-number-of-people-allowed-at-indoor-outdoor-events-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101617541689737.html
04-04-2021||India||The 22 soldiers who were killed in Chhattisgarh Maoists attack||The police have recovered bodies of 22 security personnel who were killed in an encounter with the Maoists in Chhattisgarh. The gunfight took place on Saturday; five soldiers were found dead on Saturday, whereas 17 more bodies were recovered on Sunday. More than 30 soldiers are reported to be injured, according to latest reports. The fight erupted inside a forest near Jonaguda at the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in the state.According to officials, at least 400 Maoists were involved in the attack. Inspector General of Police (Bastar Range) Sundarraj P said that eight people from the District Reserve Guard (DRG), seven from the CRPF's Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA), six from the Special Task Force and one from the 'Bastariya' battalion of the CRPF have been dead, as reported by news agency PTI.Many leaders have condemned the attack and have also paid their tributes to the soldiers killed in the attack.Union home minister Amit Shah, who curtailed his election campaign in Assam and returned to Delhi, said, “As far as the numbers are concerned, both sides have suffered losses and exact casualty figures cannot be ascertained immediately.” He also vowed that “a befitting reply will be given at an appropriate time.”Here are the details of 22 soldiers killed and the 31 injured during the attacks:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/the-22-soldiers-who-were-killed-in-chhattisgarh-maoists-attack-101617541412031.html
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra to witness night curfew, weekend lockdown from Monday to control Covid-19 surge. A list of all curbs||Maharashtra will be under a night curfew between 8pm and 7am from Monday while a weekend lockdown will be imposed Friday onwards to control the surge of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the state, minority welfare minister Nawab Malik said on Sunday.The decision came after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with his cabinet ministers to discuss the stricter curbs that he had warned the Maharashtra citizens about during his address to the state on Friday. The Maharashtra chief minister told the people that a lockdown cannot be ruled out if they fail to follow Covid-19 protocols.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Maharashtra’s Covid-19 situation was described as “particularly worrying” by the Centre during a meeting last week. On Saturday, the western state witnessed a jump of nearly 50,000 cases, which is the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the coronavirus pandemic.Here’s a look at the “stricter” curbs imposed by the Maharashtra government that are effective from Monday and will remain in place till April 30-A night curfew will be imposed between 8pm and 7 am during which only essential services will be allowed to operate.--Prohibitory orders issued under section 144 will be enforced during the day time during the week.-- Maharashtra will be under a complete lockdown on weekends from Friday 8pm to Monday 7am.--Theatres and multiplexes have been ordered to remain closed while film and television shootings will continue if there is no crowding, Nawab Malik said, adding, parks and playgrounds will also be closed.-- Shopping malls, bars, restaurants, small shops will be open only for take-aways and parcels--While there are no restrictions on travelling in trains, buses, taxi, and autos, they will operate at 50% of their capacity.--Government offices will be allowed to operate at 50% of their capacity while private offices will have to allow their employees to work from home. Essential services like banks and power supply offices will be allowed to operate. --Industries and production sector, vegetable markets will function with Standard Operating Procedures (SoPs) and construction sites will operate if there is an accommodation facility for workers, Nawab Mailk said.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-to-witness-night-curfew-weekend-lockdown-from-monday-to-control-covid-19-surge-a-list-of-all-curbs-101617540511250.html
04-04-2021||India||India's Covid-19 cases rose from 9,000 to 90,000 in less than 50 days||Caught amid a severe grip of Covid-19 infections in a second wave, India is seeing an increased surge in the daily cases - a spike escalating at a rate worse than that seen last year.According to the numbers provided by the Union health ministry, the number of daily Covid-19 cases have shot up 10 times in a span of 50 days.India reported 9,121 cases on February 16, according to the health ministry. But in the weeks that followed, the number of daily cases increased at an alarming rate. When April began, the number touched 90,000 and on Sunday (April 4), India reported 93,249 new cases within a span of 24 hours, the highest since September last year.India on Friday added the most cases of Covid-19 than any other country, and when it comes to average, even surpassed the number of new infections in the United States, an analysis of health ministry data showed.India had seen its worst daily spike in cases on September 17, 2020, when 97,894 infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours.Worsening the situation, five states - Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab - cumulatively account for 76.41 per cent of the total active cases in the country, according to the health ministry. India's worst-hit state - Maharashtra - single-handedly accounts for more than half (58.19%) of the total active caseload of the country.Experts have pressed for strict measures to restrict movement and activities in the country, with a sharp focus on speeding up the vaccination drive. Amit Singh, associate professor at, Centre for Infectious Disease Research at the Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, told HT, "I think there are going to be more cases this time around than during the first wave; the increase has also been very sharp as compared to the first wave. We can only hope that the case fatality remains the same.”The active cases in the country have steadily increased for 25 days in a row, and surged to 6,91,597, accounting for 5.54 per cent of the total infections.In a high-level meet chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, it was pointed out that the reasons for the sharper rise in cases could be mainly attributed to the severe decline in compliance of Covid-appropriate behaviour primarily in terms of use of masks and maintaining safe distance, pandemic fatigue and lack of effective implementation of containment measures at the field level, a statement by Prime Minister's Office (PMO) said."Although the exact contribution of mutant strains to the escalation of cases in some states remains speculative, the measures to control the pandemic remain the same and hence implementation of various protocols for Covid-19 management are all the more critical in those areas," the statement added.PM Modi directed central teams to be deployed to Maharashtra and other badly-hit states. The PMO later said that he also ordered a special campaign to be carried out to tell people about Covid-appropriate behaviour with emphasis on 100% mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places, workplaces and health facilities.The campaign will start from April 6 and go on till April 14, the PMO statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-cases-rose-from-9-000-to-90-000-in-less-than-50-days-101617533782376.html
04-04-2021||India||Himanta Sarma defends 'no need for mask' comment, says Assam will celebrate Bihu||A day after Assam health minister Hinta Biswa Sarma's comment that there is no need to wear a mask in the state went viral, the minister defended his comment and said those who thought his statement was funny should come to Assam to see how the eastern state has reined in the spread of the infection. He also said that the state will celebrate Bihu, which is on April 14, this year.In an interview during his election campaign, Sarna was asked why he and people with him were not wearing a mask. "In Assam, there is no Covid. Now we have to revive the economy. If we wear a mask, then how can beauty parlours function? I will tell people when to wear the mask, if there is a need," Himanta said, at a time the country is seeing a second surge of the pandemic.Those who are making fun on my statement on mask, must come to Assam and see how we have contained COVID-19 in compare to the states like Delhi, Kerala, and Maharashtra along with impressive recovery of our economy.We will celebrate Bihu also with the same enthusiasm this yearAs of April 4, Assam has 1,945 active Covid-19 cases, one of the lowest among the states. The state has remained insulated from the second wave of the pandemic that is being felt in most of the states. In recent days, the state has also started reporting zero death.On Sunday, the state made a negative RT-PCR report mandatory for all travellers from Mumbai and Bengaluru.We have the first state in the country or rather the world whose Health Minister has declared it COVID free and has advised no masks needed, no COVID protocols to be followed either. We must all celebrate the feat& get WHO to endorse it! I urge GoI to do the needful!His comment drew flak as the Centre is constantly alerting states to not lower their guards against the spread. "We have the first state in the country or rather the world whose Health Minister has declared it COVID free and has advised no masks needed, no COVID protocols to be followed either. We must all celebrate the feat & get WHO to endorse it! I urge GoI to do the needful!" Shiv Sena MP Priyanka Chaturvedi tweeted on Sunday. The Assam minister's reply comes in an oblique reference to the Sena leader's jibe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himanta-sarma-defends-no-need-for-mask-comment-says-assam-will-celebrate-bihu-101617536750793.html
04-04-2021||India||Lockdown-like curbs announced in Maharashtra; malls and cinemas shut||The Maharashtra government on Sunday announced stricter curbs and weekend lockdown due to a huge spike in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. The decision was taken at a cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.Announcing the stringent curbs, state minister Nawab Malik said that there will be complete lockdown on weekends, which will begin at 8pm on Fridays and continue till 7am on Mondays.Also Watch: Maharashtra records highest 1-day spikeThe government has also asked public transport to operate at 50 per cent of their capacity. Theatres, multiplexes, malls and religious places will also remain shut as part of the stringent curbs announced on Sunday.Malik said that there are no restrictions on opening of industrial units and markets."Only essential services will be permitted. Restaurants are permitted only for take away and parcel services. For offices, employees will have to work from home. A detailed SOP will be released soon," said minister Aslam Shaikh.The new measures will come into force from Monday and remain in place till April 30, the government said.Also Read: In a first, Pune records over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hoursThe number of Covid-19 cases have been increasing at an alarming rate in Maharashtra, the worst-hit state. On Saturday, the state recorded 49,447 new Covid-19 cases and 277 deaths in a 24-hour period, according to the state health department bulletin.The active number of Covid cases in the state stands at 4,01,172. With the fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, the Covid death toll has mounted to 55,656 in Maharashtra.The rising number of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra has concerned the Centre too, with the Union health ministry saying it is among the states which are contributing the most (more than 80%) to the country's daily tally.India too has seen a spike in the number of daily Covid-19 cases. On Sunday morning, 93,249 new cases - the highest since September last year.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting on the Covid-19 situation where he emphasised on the need to observe Covid-appropriate behaviour like wearing masks and following social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-announces-stricter-curbs-weekend-lockdown-amid-covid-19-surge-101617539104205.html
04-04-2021||India||In Kerala’s flood-hit villages, people wait for compensation as parties make new promises||Shanmuganathan P, a worker of Kerala Bank, still visits the disaster site sometimes after losing his two children in Pettimudy landslide in Munnar last year. Amid a flurry of promises being made by political parties in the poll-bound state, Shanmuganathan has just one wish - getting what the ruling CPIM promised them after the flood.“I got a compensation of ₹5 lakh announced by the government initially. Since my second son’s body was not recovered, I failed to get any relief in his case. Some of the survivors are still running around for legal heir certificates,” Shanmuganathan said, repeating a common complaint of the people in the area of not having received what the ruling CPIM promised after the flood.The body of one of Shanmuganathan’s sons was not recovered. His sons went to a birthday party in Pettimudy when the flood fury washed them. Among 70 people who lost their lives in the disaster, rescue officials could locate only 64 bodies from the slush strewn around six kilometres. A carved hill and mound of dried slush stand testimony to nature’s fury that decimated a settlement of poor tea plantation workers.Since both his sons were visitors to a relative’s house, they were not entitled to the house or the land as announced by the government. Shanmuganathan said more than half of the victims’ families are yet to receive even the initial compensation, a claim not denied by local officials who blame the delay on lack of documents.Another disaster took place in the same month last year when an Air India Express aircraft slipped from the tabletop airport in Kozhikode while landing. The incident claimed 22 lives. Locals say the victims of the airport mishap got ₹20 lakh, while the landslide victims received only ₹5 lakh. When asked about this disparity, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said for landslide victims it was only the first instalment. The families of the landslide victims, however, feel what they received was the first and the last instalment of compensation. Also read: Kerala poll campaigning ends today with no clear winner in sight“We don’t expect to get anything more. Most of the victims claim that they have no title deeds of land where they stayed and others are making umpteen rounds to government offices to get legal heir certificates. All this is taking a lot of time,” he said.For the last three years, Kerala has been witnessing a series of disasters. The worst among them was the flood of the century in 2018 monsoon that claimed over 400 lives. Most of the flood victims are still on the long road to recovery. Amid another election, there is no end to tall promises and many see poll exercise as a hollow ritual.About 150 kilometres downstream of misty getaway from Munnar is Pathanamthitta, where three major rivers - Pambha, Manimala and Achankovil - overflowed in the monsoon of 2018 and took different course submerging many settlements.Many victims are yet to receive any compensation. One of the residents in flood-affected Ranni, Sunil P, said some of the voluntary organisations helped him build his house that was washed away in the flood. But in his neighbourhood, a relatively wealthy family got a fresh house and piece of land due to their alleged political affiliation, he alleged.“In our area, charity organisations chipped in to piece our lives together more than the government machinery. Shameless political parties are even taking credit for this. Politics is the best way to fool people and loot them,” said another resident Narayanan Thampi (62), a retired government official. Thampi said he is yet to decide whether to cast his vote in the upcoming assembly polls.Indignation and despair are quite visible on the ground and many admit they have lost interest in politics. A senior revenue official of the district, who did not wish to be named, admitted the government machinery was slow and many deserving people have been left out.“Even in wild dreams, I never thought my house, situated on a small cliff, will be affected. Gushing waters came to my roof. I spent five days in a relief camp for the first time in my life,” said Alex Thomas (60), a planter in Konni. He said his wife was yet to come out of the trauma.Amid the high octane poll campaigning, the 2018 flood figured prominently in some areas of the state. Former chief minister Oommen Chandy said if the UDF comes to power the government will announce a detailed probe into circumstances that led to the flood.“It was a man-made disaster. Dams were not de-silted properly and allowed to fill eying hydel power. When all dams were submerged, they panicked and opened the dams simultaneously,” said Chandy. Two years ago, Metro Man E Sreedharan had also approached the High Court with a plea stating poor dam management and planning behind the disaster. Sreedharan wanted to fix responsibility on those who erred. The plea is before the court till now. Though natural disasters are not uncommon in Kerala, none of the political parties mentioned them in their manifestos.“All are after free food kits and doles. Some of them even promised they will not implement ecologically sensitive zone plans. Kerala is yet to learn a lesson from natural disasters. Many hilly areas are still sitting ducks,” said Dr VS Vijayan, one of the members of the Madhav Gadgil Committee which prepared a report to save fragile areas of the Western Ghats in 2012.Wayanad, a mountainous district in north Kerala, witnessed a shutdown last month due to protests against the Environment Ministry’s draft notification on ecologically sensitive areas. In 2019, a massive landslide in Puthumala claimed 24 lives.“Nobody is there to speak for nature. Political parties want votes and don’t bother if people live or die. No point in shedding tears when a mishap takes place,” said N Badusha, an environmental activist from Wayanad. He said the Gadgil report has pointed out that unmindful quarrying and deforestation have affected the green district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-kerala-s-flood-hit-villages-people-wait-for-compensation-as-parties-make-new-promises-101617537733090.html
04-04-2021||India||Dr Ramadoss and the dynamics of Vanniyar quota in Tamil Nadu polls||Located in the busy and congested marketplace of Tindivanam in Tamil Nadu’s Villupuram district, Dr Ramadoss Hospital is a local landmark. It was established by S Ramdoss, the founder of Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK)- a small caste-based party that is hoping to consolidate all Vanniyar community votes in the 2021 assembly elections on the back of the recent allocation of 10.5% reservation to the community.Villupuram is where the doctor-turned-politician was born and politically mobilised his Vanniyar community. Ramadoss is often seen as a weathercock, and his party, as a bellwether, since PMK is often seen aligning with the side perceived to have an edge in the elections in Tamil Nadu, say political observers.Ramadoss, 81 is barely seen on the campaign trail nowadays but talk of his role in winning 10.5% reservation for Vanniyars from the AIADMK regime abounds in poll conversations. He has been advised by doctors to remain indoors and thus conducts campaigns from inside his car. Vanniyars are dominant in northern and western Tamil Nadu and form the PMK’s core vote bank which the AIADMK wants to win over. But the exclusive reservation is feared to have caused a counter-polarisation among other castes across Tamil Nadu, and even divided opinion among Vanniyars in Villupuram, given the ‘hasty’ passage of the bill.In Tindivanam, where he lived and worked as a physician, Ramadoss set up a clinic which has now grown into a go-to hospital for the locals. “Both my children were delivered in his hospital, he (Ramadoss) has that goodwill here for ensuring healthcare,” said Satish Babu, a businessman and a traditional AIADMK voter.Ramadoss continues to be addressed as ‘maruthuvar ayiah’ (doctor sir) even amongst rival politicians. However, many here are unaware of the reservation won for the Vanniyar community and Ramadoss has urged his cadre to spread the word door-to-door. “I will vote for mambazham (mango- PMK’s symbol)... that’s the symbol I’ve mostly seen here,” said a shopkeeper, who sits across the hospital. From Tindivanam up to Mylai, along the highway, PMK’s mango symbol is painted on the walls of most houses with a few also carrying symbols of the DMK’s rising sun and the AIADMK’s two leaves.Beyond his hometown, Ramdoss’ support dwindles in the district. “After all these years, it was passed in such a hurry only because of the elections. God knows how long it would take for people to benefit from it,” said a Vanniyar farmer, S Ranganathan, in Villupuram assembly constituency. It is among the six assembly segments in the district where a close fight between AIADMK heavyweight— sitting MLA and law minister C Ve Shunmugam and DMK’s Dr R Lakshmanan is expected. Both candidates belong to the Vanniyar community. Ramadoss’ movement is seen as a catalyst for more Vanniyar representation in politics.The reservation is not enough to appease people like Ranganathan and several others in the community. They allege the government hasn’t done enough for farmers and digitising the market, delaying the cash they get in hand. They haven’t met Ramadoss though he lives in Thailapuram, a village in Villupuram.“We don’t know when the AIADMK or PMK will change their mind, we want to give Lakshmanan a chance,” said Ranganathan. “Reservation won’t be an issue in towns, no one even talks about it,” adds hotelier T Sudarshan in Villupuram town. The DMK candidate, an orthopedic surgeon, was an AIADMK MP who switched over and is more familiar amongst the electorate as a physician and a politician. “I’ll be more easily accessible to the candidates,” says Lakshmanan.Families in villages like that of A Valliamma, 23, staunchly believe that their lives will be better with the 10.5% reservation. She is a CA graduate and her brother A Arun is a BA history graduate and they both don’t have jobs. “What even Aiyah couldn’t do, Anbumani (Ramadoss son) has done now,” she says, crediting the junior Ramadoss for the quota. “With this reservation, we can avail jobs that we haven’t been able to get so far.” Vanniyars in the western belt, such as in Salem, have also rallied behind the Bill.An hour before the model code of conduct came into effect on February 26, chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami announced 10.5% quota for Vanniyars under the existing 20% reservation for Most Backward Castes (MBC) for public jobs and education in the assembly. In gratitude, the following day, PMK reduced its desired number of seats to settle for 23. It is the second largest party in the NDA alliance with BJP contesting on 20 seats.However, this legislation came after months of negotiations and protests. The PMK had revived their four-decade old demand around November 2020 ahead of the elections and threatened to leave the NDA alliance if it wasn’t implemented. Several rounds of talks between AIADMK ministers and Ramadoss had failed but the latter came down from his original demand of 20% internal reservation.In December 2020, PMK cadre who were on a state-wide protest for the reservation, pelted stones on a train, created ruckus and brought traffic to a standstill as the Chennai police sealed its borders to restrict them from entering the city. Later that month, Ramadoss in a virtual general council meeting urged the PMK cadre to work like the RSS (Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh)- the BJP’s ideological parent. “RSS has ensured the victory for the BJP by reaching out to every nook and corner during elections and highlighting the party’s policies,” he had said.It wasn’t the first time that such protests turned violent. In the late 1970s, Ramadoss forged a coalition of Vanniyar community groups which later came under the umbrella of the Vanniyar Sangam (Federation of Vanniyars). It continues to be the parent body of the PMK. In the 1980s, the Sangam was carrying out protests demanding MBC status for Vanniyars. At the peak of the protests, the state was paralysed for a week when trees were felled, highways were blocked and police under M G Ramchandran (MGR) as chief minister shot down 21 protestors. Locals point to the national highway which has come up where the violence took place decades ago.MGR at that time was hospitalised in the US and held discussions with the group on his return but he soon passed away in 1987. The agitations were quelled when the DMK came back to power and M Karunanidhi created 20% reservation for MBCs and Vanniyars were among the 108 caste groups that were included. Vanniyars, however, had been claiming that this reservation was only symbolic in nature. Previous chief ministers treaded carefully given Tamil Nadu’s 69% reservation, which is above the 50% cap of the Supreme Court.Palaniswami too said that the Bill was passed based on recommendations of a committee headed by justice Janarthanan—head of the backward classes commission until 2018. Since the last caste-based census was conducted in 1983, the CM said the reservation slab would be modified after the report filed by justice A Kulasekaran Committee, appointed in December 2020 to collect quantifiable data on caste, communities and tribes. This has led to doubts on the implementation and the intent of the bill.The move has also upset other castes. For instance, deputy chief minister O Paneersevam who belongs to the Thevar subsect of the Mukkulathor community sought to off-set the disappointment by saying in his campaign that the reservation is only provisional. The AIADMK and even the PMK have not frequently mentioned the reservation in their campaigns outside Vanniyar dominated areas. Ramadoss, who campaigned in Chennai last week was silent on the aspect and instead focussed on the ruling government’s welfare schemes.A first time Dalit voter in the assembly segment of Vikravandi in Villupuram, who did not wish to be identified, said that the exclusive reservation for Vanniyars has further consolidated their stance against the ruling combine. “Yes, there is anger,” she says. “How can one community be given importance over another. How is it just to sideline the rest?”Villupuram has been a hotbed of caste tensions and clashes in the past involving the Vanniyars, who are considered above the Schedule Caste Dalits in the caste hierarchy. A decade ago, Ramadoss demanded that Prevention of Atrocities against Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes Act of 1989 was diluted, alleging it was misused. He alleged that Dalit men were wooing upper caste girls which needed to be stopped. In 2012, in Dharmapuri, 20 Dalits died and more than 300 huts were torched following a Vanniyar woman’s elopement and marriage with a Dalit man. PMK then denied accusations of a hand in caste-clashes. PMK president G K Mani is contesting from the Pennagaram assembly constituency in Dharmapuri district in the ensuing elections.Curiously though, Ramadoss once carried the corpse of a Dalit man as Vanniyars did not allow Dalits passage through their area to reach the cremation ground. “Ramadoss will adapt to any scenario and strategy for electoral gains,” says political analyst Ravindran Duraisamy. “Other communities do not believe in him but he is true to Vanniyars. He is an indefatigable worker, which is how he has maintained PMK’s vote share at 5% for 30 years. This election, I think they will register around 3%.”Since the 1990s, PMK has oscillated between the DMK and AIADMK in assembly and parliamentary elections. In 2016, for the first time, PMK went alone, projecting former Union minister Anbumani Ramadoss as its chief ministerial candidate. He tried to shed their image as a ‘caste-party’ and focussed on development but PMK drew a blank.Ramadoss was unhappy that the PMK couldn’t establish itself despite having faced six assembly and nine parliamentary elections. While the AIADMK has gone out of its way to appease the PMK for the vote bank it enjoys, the DMK under Karunanidhi had cultivated several Vanniyar leaders over the years to challenge Ramadoss’ dominance. For now AIADMK will be hoping that its gamble pays off on April 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dr-ramadoss-and-the-dynamics-of-vanniyar-quota-on-tamil-nadu-polls-101617537671118.html
04-04-2021||India||3 reasons behind Covid surge: PM Modi reviews situation, sends teams to 3 states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the present Covid-19 situation of the country and directed that central teams need to visit Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh in view of the ongoing surge in the number of new infections and deaths. The Central teams will comprise health specialists and clinicians, government sources said.A special campaign for Covid-appropriate behaviour with an emphasis on 100 per cent mask usage, personal hygiene and sanitation at public places /workplaces and health facilities will be organised from April 6 to April 14, it has been decided in the meeting.The high-level meeting comes on a day when India reported 93,249 daily infections in the last 24 hours, inching closer to its highest ever spike of 98,000 cases. As several states are again opting for stricter restrictions to contain the spread of the infection, it was emphasised in Sunday's meeting that there have been primarily three reasons behind the surge: severe decline in adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, pandemic fatigue and lack of containment measures.Covid 2nd wave: Severe than 1st in Maha, 'less serious' in Delhi | What we knowThe 5-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid appropriate behaviour and vaccination, if properly implemented, would be the most effective, it was discussed in the meeting, attended by the principal secretary to PM, cabinet secretary, home secretary, chairperson (Empowered group on Vaccine Administration), health secretary, DG ICMR among others.Here is PM's 10-point guideline to address the Covid-19 situation> People's participation, community involvement is of paramount importance in India's fight against the pandemic.> Testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination — only this 5-point formula can curb the spread.> To spread awareness about Covid- appropriate behaviour, a special campaign will be organised from April 6 to April 14.> Healthcare facilities need to be ramped up.> Availability of oxygen, ventilators should be ensured to those who are under home care.> Mortalities have to be avoided under all circumstances.> Central team will visit Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh to look into the situation.> All states need to impose restrictions in places where cases are high.> Community volunteers can be involved in tracing active cases and in the management of containment zones.> States and districts must continue working in mission mode.The situation of Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh is the most precarious, experts in the meeting pointed out. Maharashtra has contributed 57 per cent of total cases in the country in the last 14 days and 47 per cent of deaths in the country during the same period, while the state is seeing its worst daily rise of infections. Punjab's contribution to the total number of cases remains only 4.5 per cent, but its addition of 16.3 per cent to the death toll is worrying, experts discussed. Like Punjab, Chhattisgarh too is contributing more to the daily death toll, the experts noted as a threadbare discussion on where each state and Union territory is standing was held.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-reasons-behind-covid-surge-modi-reviews-situation-sends-teams-to-maharastra-101617536529858.html
04-04-2021||India||After Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh's Sukma, Amit Shah vows befitting reply||Union home minister Amit Shah, who cut short his visit to poll-bound Assam and returned to Delhi in the wake of a Maoist attack on security forces in Chhattisgarh, took stock of the situation and said search operation is still on. Twenty two personnel of various security forces were killed in the gunfight which took place on Saturday.The home minister, however, said the exact number of casualties is being ascertained. "As far as the numbers are concerned, both sides have suffered losses and exact casualty figures cannot be ascertained immediately," Shah said."Our securitymen have lost their lives, we will not tolerate this bloodshed and a befitting reply will be given at an appropriate time," he added. Before leaving Assam, he gave tributes to the soldiers and said the soldiers' sacrifice won't go in vain.छत्तीसगढ़ में नक्सलियों के साथ मुठभेड़ में शहीद हुए जवानों को श्रद्धांजलि देता हूं। मैं उनके परिवार व देश को विश्वास दिलाता हूं कि जवानों ने देश के लिए जो अपना बलिदान दिया है वो व्यर्थ नहीं जाएगा। नक्सलियों के खिलाफ हमारी लड़ाई और मजबूत होगी व हम इसे परिणाम तक ले जाएंगे। pic.twitter.com/15rAFAS5uUAmit Shah was scheduled to address three election rallies in Assam, but returned to Delhi after addressing the first one at Sorbhog.The police in Chhattisgarh said on Sunday that they recovered 17 bullet-riddled bodies of the soldiers, a day after five jawans were killed. This took the toll to 22 in the biggest massacre in more than a year that also left 30 injured.The gunfight took place in a forest along the border between Bijapur and Sukma districts in Chhattisgarh, the police said.The soldiers who have been killed include personnel from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), its elite unit CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) and the District Reserve Guard (DRG), the police said.In a major joint offensive, separate teams of security forces launched an operation in the South Bastar forests, considered a Maoist stronghold, on Friday night.The operation was launched from five places - Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (in Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma) - the police said.When the patrolling team dispatched from Tarrem was advancing through the forest near Jonaguda, around 500 km from the state capital Raipur, it was ambushed by the Maoists, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-naxal-attack-in-chhattisgarh-s-sukma-amit-shah-vows-befitting-reply-101617535868707.html
04-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt punished for supporting farmers, says Kejriwal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Arvind Kejriwal says Centre ‘punished’ Delhi govt for supporting farmers’ protestDelhi chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that the Centre “punished” the Delhi government by “handing power to the Lieutenant Governor” for standing with agitating farmers against the three new “black laws”. Read MoreAssam makes negative Covid-19 test must for travellers from Mumbai and BengaluruThe Assam government on Sunday made negative RT-PCR report must for travellers coming from Mumbai and Bengaluru, the capitals of two states (Maharashtra and Karnataka) where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is wreaking havoc. Read MoreOn Mamata's Nandigram claims, EC replies ‘allegations factually incorrect'Mamata Banerjee’s allegations regarding disruption of voting in Nandigram during the second phase of West Bengal assembly elections are factually incorrect and devoid of substance. Read More'Grateful to God': Tirath Singh Rawat tests negative for Covid-19Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Sunday informed that he has tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), two weeks after testing positive for the viral infection. Read More‘Another Indian talent coming through’: Hogg names player who should open the batting with Virat Kohli in IPL 2021There has been a lot of talk about Virat Kohli’s batting position in the T20s. Read MoreSmriti Irani shares selfie with this interesting caption. Seen it yet?Union Minister Smriti Irani often takes to Instagram to share witty or inspirational posts. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-punished-for-supporting-farmers-says-kejriwal-and-all-the-latest-news-101617533403339.html
04-04-2021||India||Ready to quit cinema if it becomes hurdle to political career: Kamal Haasan||Actor-turned-politician and Makkal Neethi Maiam (MNM) founder Kamal Hassan on Sunday said he is ready to quit cinema if it becomes hurdle for his political career, which was meant for serving the people."I will finish all my present assignments and quit films, if they become a hurdle to my political career," he told reporters here.Saying his entry into politics was historic, as he was one among the 30 per cent who remained aloof from politics, he said that late chief minister M G Ramachandran had as MLA acted in many films to propagate his ideals and to achieve his goal of serving people.However, if cinema was becoming an obstacle, Haasan said he would leave it to serve people, the MNM chief said, adding that many of his fellow candidates were of the opinion that he would disappear from politics and re-enter cinema."Let us see who will disappear, which has to be decided by the people," Hassan added.Claiming that he had received some threats from various quarters, about which he refused to elaborate, the actor-politician said that being an honest party, he has submitted the real expenses incurred during the campaign, which was lauded by a few elections officials.Tamil film personalities Radhika Sarathkumar and Suhasini Maniratnam were present during the press meet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ready-to-quit-cinema-if-it-becomes-hurdle-to-political-career-kamal-haasan-101617535318205.html
04-04-2021||India||22 security personnel killed in Sukma: Timeline of Naxal attacks in last 4 years in Chhattisgarh||Chhattisgarh witnessed yet another deadly attack on security forces by the Maoists. Latest reports say that 22 security personnel have been killed in one of the deadliest attacks on the security forces in Chhattisgarh in recent years.According to officials, the gunfight broke out in Terram jungles along the borders of Bijapur and Sukma districts.Union home minister Amit Shah cut short his visit to poll-bound West Bengal and returned to Delhi. He paid tributes to the soldiers killed in the encounter and said their sacrifice won't go in vain.Sukma is part of the Naxal belt in the country which has seen many such ambushes from the Maoists.This is not the first attack that has taken place this year in Chhattisgarh district. On March 23, five District Reserve Guard (DRG) personnel were killed when Maoists blew up a bus carrying the security personnel with an IED in Narayanpur district of Chhattisgarh.Here’s a timeline of the major Maoist attacks in the past years:November 2020: A Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) personnel succumbed to his injuries on November 29, 2020 while nine commandos were injured after Maoists triggered an IED blast in Chhattisgarh's Sukma district.March 2020: On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel, including 12 from DRG, were killed in a Maoist ambush in Minpa area of Sukma district of Chhattisgarh.February 2018: On February 18, 2018, two Chhattisgarh police personnel were killed and six others injured in a gun-battle with CPI (Maoist) at Bhejji in Sukma district of Chhattisgarh.April 2017: On April 24, 2017, as many as 26 CRPF were killed in the encounter that took place between the Burkapal-Chintagufa area in the middle of Maoist violence-hit south Bastar district of Chhattisgarh.March 2017: On March 12, 2017, at least 12 CRPF jawans were killed in a Maoist attack in Chhattsiagarh's Sukma. After killing the jawans, the Maoists stole 10 weapons from the dead troopers and detonated an IED explosive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22-security-personnel-killed-in-sukma-timeline-of-naxal-attacks-in-last-4-years-in-chhattisgarh-101617530185863.html
04-04-2021||India||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait to campaign against farm laws in Gujarat||Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Sunday kicked off his two-day tour of Gujarat, during which he will campaign against the three Central farm laws, by visiting Goddess Ambaji's temple in Banaskantha district.Taking a veiled swipe at the BJP and the Centre while entering the Gujarat border, Tikait showed his passport to reporters and said he has brought it "in case it is required to enter Gujarat".Tikait alighted from a train at Abu Road station in neighbouring Rajasthan where he was welcomed by farmers.When asked if he is carrying a Covid-19 negative report which is mandatory while travelling in Gujarat,he replied in the affirmative and said, "I have all the documents with me. This is my passport if it is required to enter Gujarat".Tikait is scheduled to address farmers at Palanpur later in the day.Hundreds of farmers have been camping at Delhi's borders since November of last year against the Centre's agriculture reform laws. The protesting farmers are demanding the repeal of the three laws along with a legal guarantee for minimum support price (MSP) for their produce.More than 10 rounds of talks between the central government and the farmers' union have failed to end the deadlock.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bku-leader-rakesh-tikait-to-campaign-against-farm-laws-in-gujarat-101617533953214.html
04-04-2021||India||'Grateful to God': Tirath Singh Rawat tests negative for Covid-19||Uttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Sunday informed that he has tested negative for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), two weeks after testing positive for the viral infection."In the past 48 hours, reports of my corona tests have come negative twice. I am deeply grateful to God and to the people, well-wishers and all the workers who wish for my speedy recovery," Tirath Singh Rawat said in a tweet.When he tested positive for Covid-19 on March 22, Rawat tweeted, "I have tested positive for Covid-19. I am fine and facing no problems. I have isolated myself under the supervision of the doctors. Those who have come in contact with me in the last few days, kindly, be cautious and get yourself tested."After Tirath Singh Rawat took over as CM last month, he said that there should not be any restrictions on pilgrims wishing to come to Mahakumbh after April 1. During a visit to Haridwar, the chief minister said: “Nobody will be stopped in the name of Covid-19, as we are sure the faith in God will overcome the fear of the virus.”Meanwhile, shortly after confirming his Covid-19 negative report, the Uttarakhand CM held an emergency meeting via video conferencing to take stock of the situation in the wake of forest fires in several districts of the state in the last few days."We have asked the Centre to give us two choppers to take control of the fire situation. We've been given the same. We're hoping to douse fire using choppers today," Tirath Singh Rawat was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Uttarkhand has 2,638 active cases of Covid-19, while the death toll in the state stands at 1,725, according to data by the health ministry. The cumulative recoveries from the virus have reached 97,351.To bring the number of cases down, the Uttarakhand government has already released a set of guidelines that is to be followed, which requires people to strictly adhere to Covid-19 norms. A negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours before arrival has been made mandatory for devotees gathering for the Kumbh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/grateful-to-god-tirath-singh-rawat-tests-negative-for-covid19-101617528657653.html
04-04-2021||India||These 5 states account for over 43% of total vaccinations against Covid-19||The Union health ministry on Sunday said that five states - Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal have carried out over 43% of the total coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination in the nation.According to the health ministry data till 7 am, out of the 3,33,10,437 Covid-19 jabs administered in the five states, 2,91,54,577 were first doses and 4,155,860 were second doses.The ministry said that 73,54,244 vaccinations have been carried out in Maharashtra which alone accounts for 9.68% of the total vaccinations in India.In West Bengal, 59,58,488 vaccinations have been carried out which accounts for 7.84% of the total vaccinations in the country. A total of 64,31,601 vaccinations have been carried out in Rajasthan which accounts for 8.46% of the total vaccinations in the country.In Uttar Pradesh, 66,43,096 vaccinations have been carried out which accounts for 8.74% of the total vaccinations in the nation. A total of 69,23,008 vaccinations have been carried out in Gujarat which alone accounts for 9.11% of the total vaccinations.India on Sunday recorded 93,249 new coronavirus infections, which took the total Covid-19 cases to 1,24,85,509, according to the health ministry data. India is racing against time to contain a second wave of the coronavirus disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-5-states-account-for-over-43-of-total-vaccinations-against-covid19-101617527382230.html
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid-19: Demand for Oxygen cylinders goes up 3-fold in Aurangabad||The requirement of oxygen cylinders for treating Covid-19 patients has gone up by about three times in Maharashtra's Aurangabad district, officials said on Sunday.The district administration has also initiated steps to increase the oxygen storage capacity in hospitals here and has asked contractors to pace up the work, a health department official told PTI.With the number of active Covid-19 cases reaching 15,341 in the district, the demand for oxygen supply has also gone up in hospitals and by patients in home isolation, another official said."The oxygen consumption in the district was 17.10 ton per day on March 14. It has now gone up to 49.50 ton per day," an official from the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) said.The rates have been capped by the government and oxygen is being supplied at the rate of ₹15.22 per cubic metre, which is the highest now. Earlier, the rate came down to ₹12 when the demand was less, the official said.The demand of oxygen cylinders in households has also gone up as more home isolation is being advised now, the FDA official said.Every patient in home isolation may not need oxygen, but many of them are ordering cylinders as a precautionary measure, he said.Local supplier Abdul Hakim said in January this year, he was supplying about 200 oxygen cylinders to hospitals and households here."Now, the demand has gone up to 750 to 800 oxygen cylinders per month. To meet the rising demand, we need to run our facilities round-the-clock, which has raised our expenses," he said.Hence, the rate for refilling an oxygen cylinder has also gone up by nearly ₹50, he said.An oxygen cylinder of 7.5 cubic metre capacity was earlier refilled for ₹230. The price has now gone up to ₹280, he said.Earlier, the deposit to be paid at the time of buying an oxygen cylinder was ₹7,000, which has now reached ₹10,000, Hakim said.The hike is due to extra labour cost, transportation charges and running of the oxygen supply facilities round-the- clock, he added.An official from the district Civil Hospital said the private and government medical facilities here have a total of 2,124 oxygen beds and 532 ICU beds."Out of 840 beds in government-run health centres in the district, nearly 350 have oxygen facility. The remaining beds will also have the oxygen facility in about 10 days," civil surgeon Dr Sundar Kulkarni said.He said they may require around 78 KL (kilo litre) of oxygen per day at the peak of the viral infection here, for which preparations are underway."We need 32 cylinders of 7.5 cubic metre each in 24 hours at the civil hospital, which is second largest facility to treat COVID-19 patients here (after the Government College and Hospital). In January this year, the requirement was 10 to 15 such cylinders," he said.As of now, there are 106 oxygen beds and 25 ventilator beds in the civil hospital, Kulkarni said.The district administration has demanded 150 ventilators - 100 for the Government Medical College and Hospital and 50 for the civil hospital, another official said.On Saturday, 1,394 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the district, taking the infection count to 86,981, an official said.The district also recorded 21 deaths due to the viral infection on Saturday, raising the toll to 1,758.So far, 69,882 patients have recovered from the infection, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-demand-for-oxygen-cylinders-goes-up-3-fold-in-aurangabad-101617531004818.html
04-04-2021||India||Assam makes negative Covid-19 test must for travellers from Mumbai and Bengaluru||The Assam government on Sunday made negative RT-PCR report must for travellers coming from Mumbai and Bengaluru, the capitals of two states (Maharashtra and Karnataka) where coronavirus disease (Covid-19) is wreaking havoc."All air travellers from Mumbai and Bengaluru arriving at any airport in Assam need to carry a negative RT-PCR report of test conducted within 72 hours of arrival," news agency ANI reported quoting from an order of Assam government. The new rule will come into effect from April 9.Both Maharashtra and Karnataka are among the states which have been red-flagged by the Centre over rise in Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra is the worst hit, recording 49,447 new cases of the infection on Saturday.Maharashtra, Karnataka and six other states contribute to more than 80 per cent of daily Covid-19 cases, the ministry reported. And together with Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Kerala, the 12 states displaying an upward trajectory in the daily new cases, the health ministry reported.The situation is serious, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi holding a high-level meeting with officials on the Covid-19 situation in the country. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is also holding a cabinet meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state and is expected to announce more stringent curbs to check the spread of the disease.India saw 93,249 new coronavirus infections being reported in a span of 24 hours, the highest single day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,24,85,509 , according to the ministry data updated on Sunday morning.Assam, meanwhile, is among 14 states and union territories (UTs) which have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. Others on the list are Odisha, Puducherry, Ladakh, Daman and Diu and Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur, Tripura, Sikkim, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Assam has also not witnessed a surge in fresh Covid-19 cases which is being reported from across the country.The daily Covid-19 cases in Assam had fizzled down to single digits last month but in recent days the figure is gradually witnessing an upward trend.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-makes-negative-covid-19-test-must-for-travellers-from-mumbai-and-bengaluru-101617530771367.html
04-04-2021||India||8 states account for over 80% of fresh Covid-19 cases, says Health ministry||At a time when India has been reaching records levels in daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the government has identified eight states which have been the biggest contributors in the spike.The Union health ministry on Sunday said that there are eight states - Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat - which account for 80.96% of the new daily cases.The ministry added that these and four more states - Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Kerala - are displaying an upward curve in the daily new Covid-19 cases.Another particular area of concern which the ministry highlighted is a steep escalation in the doubling time of Covid-19 cases. As of April 4, it is 115.4 days, owing to the recent surge in the number of cases, which has led to a second wave of Covid-19 in the country.The ministry further said that Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively account for 76.41% of the total active cases in India, which reached 6,91,597-mark on Sunday. Maharashtra alone accounts for more than half of the total active caseload of the country.Maharashtra reported the highest daily new coronavirus cases at 49,447 on Saturday. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 5,818 cases, while Karnataka reported 4,373 new Covid-19 cases.India on Sunday reported 93,249 new coronavirus infections in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far this year, taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,24,85,509 , according to the ministry data.On the issue of vaccination, the ministry said the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India stands at 7,59,79,651.The ministry further said that the cumulative vaccination figure includes over 6.5 crore first doses, while the second dose numbers have crossed the one crore mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/8-states-account-for-over-80-of-fresh-covid-19-cases-says-health-ministry-101617525477217.html
04-04-2021||India||A tip-off, 3-hour-long gunfight in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma; 22 soldiers killed||A day after five jawans were killed in a fierce gunfight between the security forces and Maoists at a forest in Chhattisgarh's Jonaguda, a total of 17 bodies were found from the encounter site on Sunday. After Saturday's encounter, 18 security personnel went missing. As details of the encounter keep emerging, it appears to be one of the biggest attacks on India's security forces in the last few years. Not much is known about whether the Maoists also suffered losses, or what kind of weapons they used against the security forces. But the possibility of this being a planned attack is not being dismissed yet. One woman Maoist is believed to have been killed.Here is what we know about the encounter:What happened?A gunfight broke out between the security forces and the Naxals on Saturday which went on for three hours and five jawans were martyred. A day after, 17 bodies were found and the toll is likely to go up. Around 30 security personnel have been injured. A woman Maoist leader has been found dead.After the encounter, Naxals looted more than two dozen weapons from security personnel, news agency ANI reported citing CRPF sources.Where did the encounter take place?A stronghold of Maoists, the encounter took place inside a forest near Jonaguda, which falls in Bastar's Bijapur and Sukma district border.How did the encounter start?On Friday night, separate teams of security forces launched a massive anti-Naxal operation in South Bastar forests. According to reports, the security forces were getting tip-offs about Madvi Hidma, a top Naxal leader linked with 2013 Jhiram Ghati killings, in which over 30 people, including senior leaders of Chhattisgarh Congress, were killed.The joint operation was launched from five places — Tarrem, Usoor and Pamed (Bijapur), and Minpa and Narsapuram (in Sukma).The gunfight took between when the patrolling team that was dispatched from Tarrem was inside the forest near Jonaguda. Cadres of the Peoples' Liberation Guerilla Army battalion ambushed the team and there was heavy firing for hours.It is not yet clear whether the tip-offs were traps to draw security forces to the spot or whether the anto-Naxal operation actually stirred one of the layers that protect Hidma. Hidma's security cover starts from almost one kilometre. The top Maoist leader at the time of the encounter might have been in the vicinity, which triggered the heavy firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-encounter-a-tip-off-3-hour-long-gunfight-what-happened-in-sukma-101617528512522.html
04-04-2021||India||All Jammu and Kashmir schools shut due to Covid-19 resurgence||Jammu and Kashmir administration on Sunday announced closure of all schools from Monday due to surging cases of Covid-19. While primary classes up to class 9 will remain closed for two weeks; classes 10 to 12 will be shut down for a week till April 11.“In view of rising trend in Covid-19 cases in Jammu and Kashmir and the likelihood of young children getting infected and transmitting infection in large numbers, all classes up to and including Class 9 in schools will be closed for 2 weeks in all schools beginning on Monday,” office of the lieutenant governor (L-G), Manoj Sinha informed in a tweet.The schools were earlier reopened by March 01, 2021 in a staggered manner, a year after they were first closed owing to Covid pandemic in March 2020.The decision comes after at least, 90 students from various Kashmir schools including 33 students from a government higher secondary school in Budgam district, 36 from a private school in Kulgam district and 14 in a government school in Anantnag district were found infected with coronavirus along with a handful of teachers and staff during random testing drives in schools over the past 4-5 days.At-least 10 schools were ordered to close in the past few days owing to detection of infection among students and staff during random testing drives. Concerned parents were requesting the government to close all the schools to safeguard children’s health.The government said classes 10, 11 & 12 will also be closed for one week in the entire Jammu and Kashmir.“Further, all gatherings for social and customary functions will be restricted to 200 only and after following due Covid SOPs (standard operating procedure),” it said.Earlier this year, the schools were reopened for students of 9th to 12th classes from March 1 and from March 8 for 6th to 8th classes. The government also allowed opening of primary schools after March 15.Jammu and Kashmir on Saturday recorded 501 Coronavirus disease cases taking the total case tally in the Union Territory to 1,32,439. The death toll reached 2,005 with two fresh fatalities in Jammu division.For the past two days, the UT has reported over 500 daily cases, the highest daily count in almost four months. In the month of March, 4,519 Coronavirus infections were recorded in the UT, an increase of 133% from February. In February there were 1,935 cases and 21 deaths. 37 deaths were recorded in March.Most of the schools had cut attendance by half by dividing students, who were asked to visit on alternate days to maintain Covid protocols such as social distancing. Some schools were also running two shifts in a day to reduce the class strength by half.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/all-jammu-and-kashmir-schools-shut-due-to-covid-19-resurgence-101617528790916.html
04-04-2021||India||Amit Shah cuts short campaign, returns to Delhi after Naxal attack in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur||Union Home Minister Amit Shah has cut short his schedule on the last day of campaigning for the final phase of the Assam Assembly elections and returned to the national capital in view of Chhattisgarh's Bijapur Naxal attack, informed Union Minister and BJP's co-in charge for Assam polls, Jitendra Singh on Sunday.Singh while speaking to ANI, said, "Union Home Minister Amit Shah has cut short his poll campaign in Assam and is returning to Delhi in view of Naxal attack in Chhattisgarh. He is returning after addressing one out of three rallies he was supposed to address."Shah was scheduled to address three public rallies in Assam today including one each in Sarbhog, Bhabanipur and Jalukbari.At least 22 security personal have lost their lives in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur Naxal attack on Saturday."22 security personnel have lost their lives in the Naxal attack at Sukma-Bijapur in Chhattisgarh," said Bijapur Superintendent of Police, Kamalochan Kashyap.16 out of 31 who sustained injuries in the encounter are from CRPF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-cuts-short-campaign-returns-to-delhi-after-naxal-attack-in-chhattisgarh-s-bijapur-101617526707724.html
04-04-2021||India||Kerala poll campaigning ends today with no clear winner in sight||The month-long campaign for Kerala assembly elections 2021, slated for April 6, draws to a close on Sunday evening with the last few days having witnessed some aggressive campaigning by Gandhi siblings--Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra. The Congress will hope that it not only helps contain the factional feud in the party but also paves the way for the United Democratic Front’s (UDF) return to power, aided by “better selection” of candidates, experts said.Some political observers said Kerala’s four-decade-old trend of changing governments after five years may continue; others weren’t so sure.According to several opinion polls, when the campaigning started, the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) appeared to be ahead in messaging and visibility, giving an impression that it will return to power, however, some experts said the sentiment was similar to the ‘India Shining campaign’ of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee era in 2004, when the NDA’s poll slogan spectacularly flopped with Congress-led UPA returning to power.“It is a close match. The LDF had managed to build a public perception that continuity will be there. But in the last lap there is a considerable dent in this perception,” said political theorist and author J Reghu.The BJP-led NDA was hopeful of improving its vote share and of BJP winning a couple of seats; however, it was unlikely to change the bi-polar nature of Kerala politics, experts said. They added that a division of votes, affected by the BJP-led NDA, may prove to be decisive in several close fights between the two leading fronts. In the outgoing assembly, the BJP had a single seat-- Nemom in Thiruvananthapuram and its tally may improve to three this time, experts said.Former vice-chancellor of Central University of Kerala and political scientist Dr G Gopakumar said a split in anti-incumbency votes between the NDA and UDF will only favour the LDF. “The BJP is campaigning vigorously and if it attracts more votes, then that will damage the UDF’s prospects,” he said, adding, a rise in saffron vote share will be a threat to the UDF. Reghu, however, begs to differ, saying people of the state are known for their “tactical voting”. According to him, there is pent-up anger in the party against chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s “autocratic style of functioning” and it will reflect in ballots.It is a fact that almost all pre-poll surveys have predicted an edge to the ruling Left parties. But political observers and party watchers say it won’t be easy for the Left to buck the trend despite its public relations blitz and the euphoria, which will not reflect in ballots.The notion of a Left victory was built on LDF’s victory in December 2020 local body elections even when the state government was knee-deep in scandals such as the gold smuggling case and the drug trade case, in which the then party secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan’s son Bineesh Kodiyeri was arrested for money laundering. Experts say the same narrative may not work in assembly polls.“You can’t measure both, local body and assembly elections, with the same parameters. Other than the loud publicity campaign, I don’t see any tangible reason for the left to come back,” said Reghu.Gopakumar says, “The UDF failed to project a strong leader and (introduction of) many new faces (candidates) at the eleventh hour may affect its prospects.” However, Congress leaders say that the new faces may actually help the UDF“More than half of our candidates are new faces and grassroots workers. I am sure the majority of them will romp home and we are comfortably placed,” said former chief minister Oommen Chandy, star campaigner of the UDF.On the other hand, the LDF sounds confident. “It seems UDF has admitted defeat. That is why even in the dying hours (of campaigning), opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala is raising absurd charges against the government,” said CPI(M) acting secretary A Vijayaraghavan.The BJP has paraded some of its top leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah and used the emotive Sabarimala issue in its favour. The party is also projecting Metro Man E Sreedharan, to curry favours with voters. The 88-year-old is locked in a fierce three-cornered electoral battle on Palakkad assembly seat.“The party will rewrite the poll history of the state,” said BJP state president K Surendran. He added that people were fed up with the same alternating governments.While these three political formations are a major force throughout the state, in Ernakulam district, a corporate party-- Twenty20 is posing a big threat. It is contesting on eight seats in Ernakulam. “The poll picture is quite hazy. There is a silent anti-incumbency factor. I feel the state will stick to its four-decade-old script,” said actor and writer Joy Mathew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-poll-campaigning-ends-today-with-no-clear-winner-in-sight-101617525910839.html
04-04-2021||India||Over 7.5 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India||The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country reached 7,59,79,651, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Sunday.These include 89,82,974 Health Care Workers (HCW) who were administered their first dose of the vaccine, 53,19,641 HCWs who were administered their second dose, 96,86,477 Front Line Workers (FLW) who were administered the first dose, and 40,97,510 FLWs who were administered the second dose, along with 4,70,70,019 (first Dose) and 8,23,030 (second dose) beneficiaries aged more than 45 years."The cumulative vaccination figure includes over 6.5 crore (6,57,39,470) first doses, while the second dose numbers have crossed the 1 crore mark as well (1,02,40,181)," the Ministry said.The Ministry said that eight states account for 60.19 per cent of the cumulative doses given so far. Maharashtra alone accounts for 9.68 per cent of the total doses given in the country. Maharashtra has also distributed 65,59,094 first doses and 7,95,150 second doses of vaccine."A total of 93,249 new daily Covid cases were registered in the last 24 hours. 80.96 per cent of these new cases are from eight states- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat."Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 49,447, followed by Chhattisgarh with 5,818 cases and Karnataka with 4,373 new cases.The Ministry also said that India is seeing a steep intensification in the doubling time of the Covid-19 Cases, and as of April 4, it is 115.4 days.India's total active caseload has reached 6,91,597. "It now comprises 5.54 per cent of the country's total positive cases. A net incline of 32,688 cases recorded from the total active caseload in the last 24 hours," it added.Five states namely Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively account for 76.41 per cent of the total active cases in the country. Maharashtra alone accounts for more than half (58.19 per cent) of the total active caseload of the country.The Ministry said that India's cumulative recoveries are currently at 1,16,29,289, and the national recovery rate is 93.14 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-7-5-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-101617525488153.html
04-04-2021||India||Kovind expresses grief over killing of soldiers in Bijapur Maoist attack||President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday expressed anguish over the killing of soldiers in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur Maoist attack saying the nation will never forget their sacrifice."The killing of the security personnel while battling Maoist insurgency in Chhattisgarh is a matter of deep anguish. My condolences to the bereaved families. The nation shares their pain and will never forget this sacrifice," the President tweeted.At least 22 security personal have lost their lives in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur Maoist attack on Saturday."22 security personnel have lost their lives in the Maoist attack at Sukma-Bijapur in Chhattisgarh," said Bijapur Superintendent of Police, Kamalochan Kashyap.Around 31 sustained injuries in the encounter in Bijapur on Saturday, Chhattisgarh Police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kovind-expresses-grief-over-killing-of-soldiers-in-bijapur-maoist-attack-101617524970189.html
04-04-2021||India||Lockdown in Maharashtra? Cabinet meet today, stricter curbs likely||A meeting of the cabinet in Maharashtra will be held later on Sunday amid calls for stricter restrictions across the state, which has seen a massive jump in daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The meeting will come days after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray warned of a lockdown and said if Covid-19 cases continue to rise, the state’s health infrastructure would be affected severely. According to news agency ANI, the Maharashtra cabinet meeting is scheduled to be held at 3pm virtually.There were 49,447 Covid-19 cases and 277 fatalities on Saturday in Maharashtra, according to the state health department, which have taken India’s worst-hit state’s tally to 2,953,523 and the death toll to 55,656. The western state, which has clamped stringent restrictions to battle the surge, recorded more than 40,000 cases for the third consecutive day in a row on Saturday. Mumbai reported 9,090 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours and 27 deaths in the last 24 hours.Also read | ‘Tough Covid-19 curbs Maha need of the hour’On Friday, Thackeray warned that hospital beds will start falling short in the next 15 days if the current spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease doesn’t stop in the state, which has been driving the second wave of infections in India with record cases. “I am not announcing a lockdown, but definitely warning about it. I am sure we can avoid a lockdown if we decided firmly about it. We will observe for the next couple of days if people are observing protocol strictly. But in case no such solution found, I cannot allow to go the situation out of hand,” he said after a review meeting.Also read | Maharashtra sees massive Covid-19 spike, experts suggest steps to control casesThe Shiv Sena leader also said stricter curbs will be announced in the next couple of days after he speaks to political leaders and experts from various sectors. “We will issue guidelines for stricter curbs in the next couple of days. Political parties, industrialists have been opposing the lockdown and warning the government against it,” he said. “We are in a Catch-22 situation. If a lockdown is imposed, we face an economic crisis. At the same time, people’s lives are more important for us. Many countries, including France, United Kingdom, Belgium, Brazil, have imposed the strict lockdown for many weeks in their fight against the second wave,” the chief minister added.Also read | Students of classes 1 to 8 will be promoted without exams: Edu minThackeray said people have become complacent and must wear face masks, maintain physical distance, wash hands and avoid crowding. The chief minister met various sections of society on Saturday, asking them for their support in the decisions to be taken by the state government and said they would help everyone. Experts have called for tough decisions, which will not hamper the economy, to control the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the city and the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-cabinet-meeting-today-decision-about-stricter-covid-19-curbs-likely-101617520932743.html
04-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 cases on the rise in Pakistan and Bangladesh||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Surge in cases in Pakistan, lockdown in BangladeshIndia’s neighbouring countries Pakistan, Bangladesh and Nepal are witnessing a spike in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the past few days. Read MoreCovid-19 in Mumbai: More beds to be operationalised for patientsIn the wake of an alarming spike in COVID-19 cases, the Mumbai civic body on Sunday said it has decided to make more beds operational in medical facilities treating patients of the viral infection in the city. Read More‘BJP stands for everything we do not want Tamil Nadu to become’: KanimozhiThoothukudi MP and DMK’s women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi Karunanidhi has been touring the state for five months as the party’s star campaigner and the tallest woman leader. Read MoreWhen Virender Sehwag taught Sourav Ganguly a key lesson in captaincy during 2002 Natwest finalFormer India captain Sourav Ganguly recalled the 2002 final against England during which opener Virender Sehwag taught him an important lesson in captaincy. Read MoreGMC unveils 2024 Hummer EV, an electric off-road SUV with a range of 563 kmsAfter a long wait, General Motors has finally taken the covers off the new Hummer electric SUV. Read MoreWashington Sundar names his dog after this famous venue, shares pic with poochWashington Sundar recently took to Instagram to share an image with his dog. Read MoreHina Khan shines bright like a diamond in Rs20k off-shoulder Anarkali, picsBe it beachwear or a beautiful traditional look, Hina Khan has championed the way to style every outfit and make a statement with it. Read MoreAkshay Kumar tests positive for Covid-19, says he will be 'back in action very soon'Actor Akshay Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19. He took to social media to make the announcement. Read More‘What did present BJP leadership give me?’ Yashwant Sinha targets Modi & ShahFormer Union Minister under the Vajpayee government Yashwant Sinha has turned into a staunch critic of the BJP. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-cases-on-the-rise-in-pakistan-and-bangladesh-101617518892090.html
04-04-2021||India||‘BJP stands for everything we do not want Tamil Nadu to become’: Kanimozhi||Thoothukudi MP and DMK’s women’s wing secretary Kanimozhi Karunanidhi has been touring the state for five months as the party’s star campaigner and the tallest woman leader. On her way to campaigning in Tiruchendur for DMK candidate Anitha Radhakrishnan on March 29, Kanimozhi told Divya Chandrababu that though they were rivals, late J Jayalalithaa never gave up Tamil Nadu’s rights but the present AIADMK government was a “puppet” of the BJP. She spoke about BJP’s alleged attempts to disturb communal harmony in Tamil Nadu, sexism in the poll campaign while claiming that the DMK will form a government that is inclusive. Here are some edited excerpts from the interview:Q. You began campaigning in November on the ground, meeting various groups in villages and now you are addressing rallies. What have you gathered?A. I think there is a lot of displeasure against the government. People feel let down. Unemployment is at all time high. In the ten years (of AIADMK government), honestly, no investment has come into the state so there has been no growth in job opportunities. And look at the infrastructure-- this road is a good example. Except for the 8-lane highway (Chennai-Salem expressway), which they want, they are not interested in laying or repairing any roads. They’ve been an anti-farmer government, supporting the farm bills. They’ve also not ensured that crop insurance reaches the farmers. Every time we had floods, cyclones, drought, they’ve not reached out and given the farmers any compensation.Q. Is the displeasure only against the state government or the AIADMK-BJP combine?A. People feel that it is a BJP-run government in Tamil Nadu. BJP is making the decisions and the AIADMK is just implementing what is being dictated. So, that has actually doubled the anger against the government. Have they ever gone against any BJP order? Why would anybody go and support the farm bills or the CAA (Citizenship Amendment Act), in spite of knowing it won’t bring any good and won’t be taken well in Tamil Nadu. At least if they believed in it and supported the bills, maybe we could have accepted it. But, today, when the elections are close, they’re going back to the people and saying that they will emphasise that the Centre withdraws the bills. So that is where we feel there is so much pressure that they can’t take a stand on anything.Agriculture doesn’t even come under the central government list. Karnataka BJP minister J C Madhuswamy has raised the issue that the central government is infringing on the state rights. Our state which has always been insisting on state rights and federalism, is silent. Right from Anna (DMK founder C N Annadurai) to Kalaignar (M Karunanidhi), even Jayalalithaa-- they wouldn’t give up on state rights. We had differences (with Jayalalithaa) but she wouldn’t compromise on state rights. She wouldn’t be happy that this government has no issues compromising on that front. They are mere puppets in the hands of the BJP. Same with the UDAY scheme (centre’ power distribution utilities), she resisted it and wouldn’t accept it. But the present government has meekly signed up for it.Q. Jayalalithaa’s war cry in the previous assembly election was “Modi or Lady”…Yet, now, one of their ministers said Jayalalithaa was their mother and now Modi is their father. Obviously, they call their leader mother and now their next leader, they’re calling their father. Now, we know who their leader is.Q. Chief minister and the alliance leaders have said if DMK comes to power there will be lawlessness.I’m the Thoothukudi MP. The CM killed 13 people here (police firing at anti-Sterlite protesters) and the father and son died in custody (Jayaraj and Bennicks in 2020). He has no right to talk about lawlessness.Q. You’ve said before that women are going to be the deciding factor in this election. Women electorate outnumber men in Tamil Nadu.A. Yes, definitely. And, I think, they’ve become more assertive about their decision making. That’s what I see from meeting women in different parts of the state. Before, it was always believed that women will go along with what the husband or what the family decides. But, now, I can see that there is a very clear minded choice. I think there is more awareness. I am certain that women are looking for leadership which reflects their aspirations and choices, which they will find only in the DMK.Q. Women are a traditional vote bank of the AIADMK. What do you think they want in this election?A. Women want jobs. They want some industry and some kind of job opportunities where they live so they can have a career and income. I see this everywhere I go among the young and middle-aged women. Self-help groups which were doing very well under the DMK government are to be brought back. They want dignity. Sharing of house-hold work is still a distant dream. Making sure there is food on the table, bringing water to home is a woman’s responsibility. They have to wait hours to get a pot of water and going to rations shops is a huge battle. These are issues which hurt them every day. And without women’s safety, there is no empowerment. In every sense, they have been let down by the AIADMK government.Q. Both DMK and AIADMK have promised a payout for women to address unpaid labour at home. Is that a temporary solution until you create jobs for women?A. We have suggested a Universal Basic Income scheme. Covid-19 has hurt the economy in a very big way. You have to put back money in the hands of people to revive the economy, and there can be no better choice than women for this purpose. This will also empower them.Q. How crucial is this assembly election, the first since the demise of your father and Jayalalithaa?A. It’s very important. You know, we have to preserve what Tamil Nadu has stood for. TN has always been a development focussed state. Our human development indices have always been good. We want to ensure that we continue to progress. When you look at investments, we have fallen from the third place to the 14th place. Without job opportunities everything gets hit. In TN, we have been proud of our PDS and social justice. This is the basic fabric of TN and this is what keeps us away from communal disharmony. And the BJP is trying to change it. People will not like it. We have different religions and castes but we live in peace and harmony. There is no hatred. There is acceptance of differences. People from across the country live here. It’s a friendly place. It’s because everyone is focussed on development, education, social justice. See the NEET exam, the New Education Policy is unfair. Cluster schools and huge universities are being talked about for 6000 students. It might work in a developed nation but in our country it’s not easy. In a TN school in Valparai, there is only one student and we have not closed down that school. That’s what TN stands for. If you shut down remote schools, the first to be hit will be girls’ education besides the financially and socially marginalised. You have to understand the country before coming out with a policy. What the NEP is targeting in 2030 we have already achieved in TN-- 50% of our population has gone to higher education.Q. You have been at the forefront of speaking up against Hindi-imposition. Do you think it is a factor in the election?A. Definitely. We are not against any language but when there is no need, don’t impose something on people.Q. BJP has mobilised more than 40,000 booth-level committees, pumping infrastructure projects to gain a foothold in TN. Do you think they’re connecting with people on the ground?A. No, they don’t have booth-level committees here. They are bringing booth-level people to work for their candidates from neighbouring states like Karnataka. Maybe in a few pockets (they have a connect) but overall, I don’t think so. People are angry and upset with the BJP. They stand for everything which we do not want TN to become. The Hindutva ideology and... while majority of TN people are Hindus, religion is personal here. Everyone participates in all festivals. When some leaders say all true Tamils are Hindus, what are they trying to do? We have Jains, Muslims and Christians, who are as Tamil as anybody else.Q. What is your opinion of Narendra Modi?A. As a person he is very warm. He came and met my father when he was not well. But politically we stand for completely different ideologies. They stand for something which we don’t want in Tamil Nadu. We should never bring in hate. There will not be peace for decades if you bring in religious division among people.Q. What are you trying to convey to the people as DMK’s star campaigner?A. I’m saying if you bring in hate and disharmony, it stalls everything else. The future becomes unsafe for your own children. I’m talking about the importance of development, jobs, a better life for people and an inclusive society. I mean inclusive for everybody; for the differently-abled; the transgender; women; all castes; all religions.Q. What do you think of other women candidates like BJP’s Khushboo Sundar who was previously with the DMK and also Premalatha Vijayakanth?A. Both of them are very strong women and I know them personally. I’ve always been saying more women are needed in assemblies and parliament. You can’t make laws, changes without listening to 50% of the population. That’s why we insisted on the Women’s Reservation Bill, which was an election promise of the BJP but I don’t know why they are not bringing it.Q. But the DMK has fielded only 12 women out of 173 candidates..A. Many of the constituencies which we had earmarked for women candidates had to go to the allies. Once you bring the Women’s Reservation Bill nothing can change it.Q. What is your reaction to the sexism on the campaign trail including comments by the DMK leaders (such as A Raja)?A. I had tweeted earlier about it.Q. Even if it happens within the party, you’d take a stand?A. Definitely. And it’s good that he (Stalin) also condemned it. Not many leaders would have done that.Q. Does it hurt that even after so many years you continue to face sexist comments and questions?A. Sometimes, yes. I ignore it as much as possible. It talks more about the mindset of the person than about me. This is what I tell myself. This is what they will keep using against women in public life-- whoever tries to come up. We have to ignore it and keep cleaning the system. It has to be a simultaneous process. We have to start at school-level and teach children not to objectify women. I think it’s an entire mindset, which exists in every corner of the society. Our films, literature reek of sexism.Q. From whom do you draw your political influences?A. My father, Periyar (EV Ramasamy), Anna...I’ve always admired the unflinching fighting spirit of communist party leaders like K Balabharathi, U Vasuki.Q. Since when did you start nursing political ambitions?A. I never wanted to be a politician. When my father wanted me to go to the Rajya Sabha, I resisted a lot, but then, I think all daughters give in to their fathers. He said we need you and once you get in it’s easier to get things you believe in done rather than being outside politics. I think he was right in a way. I felt I was making a big sacrifice. But it has given a lot of meaning. We have been fighting for rights for the differently-abled for years and right in front of my eyes, when they were protesting, he invited them when he was the chief minister and in ten minutes, except for a couple of things, nearly all their requests were met over the table.Q. So who decided that you should fight 2019 Lok Sabha elections?A. That was my decision. I wanted to contest and I discussed it with my brother. Once I’ve decided to stay, better to go into electoral politics.Q. What is your ultimate goal in politics?A. When I think of my constituency there are certain things like agriculture based industry, more jobs, women empowerment, better colleges and upgrading the schools that I want. When the DMK government comes, I would like to help resolve certain issues like women empowerment, safety of children, women and the marginalised. In Parliament, I’d like to speak more and bring the Central government to make a change. I don’t have just one goal, it keeps changing as we go on. Maybe if you ask me what I will do after retirement from politics, maybe I’ll write- that’s my goal. I want to start writing fiction. I still read a lot of fiction.Q. When we asked Stalin what advice his father would have given him at this juncture, he said he would have asked him to throw away the communal forces and restore TN’s self-respect. What do you think?A. This is exactly what DMK stands for-- federalism, self-respect, social justice and a society where everyone is equal. He would have asked us to ensure that.Q. What kind of a leader do you think Stalin would make?A. He’s been a very good administrator and a very hard-working politician. He’s one of those MLAs who is in his constituency and takes care of its people. So, I think he will put in the same hardwork and dedication when he is chief minister.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-stands-for-everything-we-do-not-want-tamil-nadu-to-become-kanimozhi-101617520210666.html
04-04-2021||India||PM Modi skeds a high-profile visit to France after India-EU Summit in Portugal||India and the European Union are expected to signal the start of negotiations for a broad-based trade and investment agreement (BBTIA) at the Portugal Summit on May 8. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will attend the India-EU summit at Lisbon before he flies to France for a high-profile bilateral visit, people familiar with the matter said.Technical negotiations on the trade agreement, which is also being pursued by external affairs minister S Jaishankar at a diplomatic level, will begin between April 9 and 19. There is a possibility of a meeting between commerce minister Piyush Goyal and EU executive vice president and commissioner for trade Valdis Dombrovskis later this month-end. The date for the Goyal-Dombrovskis meeting is still to be decided, EU diplomats said.Despite India being one of the largest trade partners of the EU, the trade negotiations, which began in 2007, have been sluggish in the past with differences over tariff levels of wines and spirits, auto components, small cars and data security. “However, both sides have shown more accommodation this time and are willing to have a positive view towards exports from both blocks,” said a senior official.Also read | India calls big economies’ pressure tactics to gain market access unfairThe EU will be under pressure to complete the trade deal with India since India is expected to sign a bilateral trade agreement with post-Brexit Britain during UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit to New Delhi on April 26.PM Modi, who will travel to Portugal for the India-EU Summit being held under the shadow of the coronavirus pandemic, will continue on the second leg of his tour to France for a bilateral visit. Maritime security will be the heart of his summit-level talks with French President Emmanuel Macron.While the broad agenda of the bilateral visit to France will be finalised during the two-day visit of foreign minister Jean Yves Le Drian to India beginning April 12, both countries are expected to impart a new meaning to defence and security cooperation apart from the political synergy in multilateral platforms. Diplomatic advisor to President Macron, Emmanuel Bonne is also deeply involved in the bilateral exercise with a special focus on acquiring new capabilities and the latest technologies to counter any aggression in the Indo-Pacific.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-skeds-a-high-profile-visit-to-france-after-india-eu-summit-in-portugal-101617519305407.html
04-04-2021||India||BJP slams Bhupesh Baghel for continuing campaign in Assam despite Maoist attack in Chhattisgarh||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP from Mangaldoi Dilip Saikia slammed Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel for continuing to campaign in Assam at a time when his state saw a deadly encounter between security personnel and Naxalites and alleged that the Congress leader doesn't care."At a time when many security personnel have lost their lives, Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel is busy in the poll campaign in Assam. He is camping here with government staff and misusing government machinery. Election Commission should investigate this matter," Saikia told ANI."Baghel doesn't care about the killing of the jawans. Instead of fulfilling his duties towards Chhattisgarh, the Congress leader is camping in Assam," Saikia alleged."I pay my tribute to the jawans who laid their life on the line of duty. We stand with their families," the BJP national General Secretary said.Earlier, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Sunday expressed deep grief over the killing of five jawans in the encounter between the security forces and Naxalites near Tarrem in Bijapur district in Chhattisgarh.Shah also asked the Director-General of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) to go to Chhattisgarh and take stock of the situation.Acting upon the order, Kuldiep Singh reached Chhattisgarh in the morning and looked after the operational work.Five security personnel were killed and around 31 sustained injuries in the encounter in Bijapur on Saturday, Chhattisgarh Police said.Around 21 security personnel are still missing following the encounter with Naxals, out of which seven are from CRPF.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-slams-bhupesh-baghel-for-continuing-campaign-in-assam-despite-maoist-attack-in-chhattisgarh-101617517863272.html
04-04-2021||India||22 bodies of security personnel found at Chhattisgarh encounter site||As many as 22 bodies of soldiers were found from the site of the gunfight that broke out between security forces and Maoists in Chhattisgarh's Bastar region on Saturday. While 32 soldiers were injured, 1 was reported missing. Bijapur's superintendent of police Kamalochan Kashyap confirmed the toll.Also Read: PM Modi says ‘sacrifices will never be forgotten’ as 5 jawans die in Bastar encounterThe gunfight that broke out in Terram jungles along the borders of Bijapur and Sukma districts also resulted in the death of a suspected Maoist, officials said.“Some security personnel are missing and a search operation is on. Out of the five personnel, who lost their lives on Saturday, we have recovered the body of two and three are still in the jungle,” DM Awasthi, Chhattisgarh’s director general of police, said.Earlier in the day, a senior police official said operation to find the missing soldiers was underway and the toll was likely to increase. “The death toll could increase in the next few hours. The teams for evacuation have been sent to the jungles,” he said.Expressing grief over the incident, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said the soldier's sacrifices 'will never be forgotten'. “My thoughts are with the families of those martyred while fighting Maoists in Chhattisgarh. The sacrifices of the brave martyrs will never be forgotten. May the injured recover at the earliest,” PM Modi tweeted.Defence minister Rajnath Singh too paid tributes to the security personnel. "They fought with utmost courage, their sacrifice will never be forgotten. My deepest condolences to their families," he said.Meanwhile, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi appealed to the state government to help locate the missing soldiers and ensure speedy recoveries of those injured."My condolences to the families of the martyrs who sacrificed their lives in combat in Chhattisgarh. Decisive action needs to be taken to locate and rescue the missing Jawans. I appeal to the state govt to ensure best care for a speedy recovery of the injured," he tweeted.On March 23, five jawans of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) were killed while fourteen others were injured in serial IED blasts after alleged Maoists targeted the bus ferrying them in Narayanpur district of Bastar region.In a similar incident on March 21 last year, 17 security personnel, including 12 from the DRG, were killed in a Maoist ambush in Sukma district of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-more-bodies-recovered-from-chhattisgarh-encounter-site-101617515826440.html
04-04-2021||India||PM Modi holds high-level meeting with officials over Covid-19 related issues||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday held a high-level meeting with senior officials to review coronavirus disease (Covid-19) related issues and the vaccination process. People familiar with the development said the senior officers participating in the meeting include Rajiv Gauba, the cabinet secretary; Pramod Kumar Mishra, the principal secretary to the Prime Minister; Rajesh Bhushan, the health secretary, and Dr Vinod Paul, NITI Aayog member.India reported 93,249 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the biggest one-day surge since September 19 last year, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data. The country's tally has now shot past the 12.48 million mark and the ministry's dashboard displayed 12,485,509 cases at 8am. With 513 new Covid-19 related fatalities, the death toll has risen to 164,623. According to the health ministry, a total of 7,59,79,651 people have been vaccinated across the country against Covid-19 till now.Also Read: India reports 93,249 Covid-19 cases, highest daily spike in over 6 monthsIndia is currently the third-worst country hit by the pandemic, just behind the United States of America and Brazil, as per the John Hopkins University's global Covid-19 tracker. The number of new cases being reported in India is more than any other country, and is higher, on average, than the number of new infections in the United States. India's curve is set to overtake Brazil to become the country with the worst outbreak in the world amid a raging second national wave.Also Read: India Covid-19 curve beats US, set to surpass BrazilOn Saturday, the health ministry had said that eight states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, have shown a steep rise in the daily cases of Covid-19 and account for 81.42% of all new cases reported in India. Maharashtra reported the highest daily cases, accounting alone for nearly 60% (59.36%) of the total active caseload of the country, followed by Karnataka and Chhattisgarh, the ministry added.Authorities in several states have clamped stringent restrictions, including night curfews to shutting schools and other educational institutions, to battle the surge during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. In Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has warned of a lockdown if the Covid-19 cases continued to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-high-level-meeting-with-officials-over-covid-19-related-issues-101617514798196.html
04-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Locals get gold nose pin, hand blender at a vaccine camp in Gujarat's Rajkot||The Union health ministry said that getting vaccinated against Covid-19 is voluntary, but the goldsmith community in Gujarat's Rajkot area has added some freebies so that more people get encouraged to get inoculated. And the freebies include a gold nose pin for women and a hand blender for men who take the vaccine shot at the camp set up by the community, news agency ANI reported.This comes as the government has opened the vaccination drive from April 1 for anyone above the age of 45 years. Till 8pm on Saturday, a total of 7,44,42,267 vaccine doses have been registered across the country, including those of healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above the age of 45 years, with and without co-morbidity issues.LIVE: PM Modi holds meeting with officials to take stock of Covid-19 situationWith over 93,000 new infections recorded in the last 24 hours, the Covid-19 situation in India is inching towards the peak that was witnessed in September 2020. On September 11, India recorded 96,551 fresh cases, which remains the highest single-day rise so far. As cases are again rising and moving towards that peak, the authorities are focusing more on getting maximum people vaccinated as soon as possible. Several state governments have urged the Centre to relax the age restriction and make it open to all.Though Gujarat is not among the top five states seeing the highest spike, the state recorded a four-fold hike in the number of active Covid-19 cases between February 3 and April 3. On Saturday, the state reported 2,815 new infections, the highest single-day addition. Surat, Rajkot, Vadodara, Ahmedabad are some of the worst-hit areas of the state.As the vaccination drive has been widened, the Centre has asked all states and Union territories to stop fresh registration of healthcare workers and frontline workers, but those who are already registered and have not yet got inoculated will get their jabs.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gold-nose-pin-hand-blender-for-those-who-take-vaccine-in-gujarat-s-rajkot-101617514147403.html
04-04-2021||India||National Policy for Rare Diseases approved by health minister: 7 points||Union health and family welfare minister Harsh Vardhan has approved the National Policy for Rare Diseases 2021, according to a statement issued by the health ministry on Saturday. The policy aims to bring down the high cost of treatment for rare diseases and was brought about after "multiple consultations with different stakeholders and experts in the area," the statement said.Around 40 per cent of the population covered under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana will benefit from the policy and financial assistance will not be limited to just the BPL families, it added.Here are 7 points you need to know about the National Policy for Rare Diseases:1. Along with lowering the cost of treatment of rare diseases, the policy aims to increase focus on indigenous research and local production of medicines.2. Those who are suffering from rare diseases (diseases listed under Group 1 in the rare disease policy) that require one-time treatment will have the financial support of up to Rs20 lakh under the umbrella scheme of Rashtriya Arogya Nidhi. It will cover about 40 per cent of the population who are eligible under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana.3. The policy will make use of a crowdfunding mechanism to cover the cost of treatment of rare diseases. As part of it, corporates and individuals will be encouraged to extend financial support through a robust IT platform.4. A national hospital-based registry of rare diseases will be created to ensure adequate data and comprehensive definitions of such diseases are available for those interested in research and development. 5. Through the help of Health and Wellness Centres, District Early Intervention Centres and counselling, the policy aims to screen and detect rare diseases early at early stages, which will in turn help in their prevention.6. A draft of the policy was put in the public domain on January 13, 2020, and comments from stakeholders, the general public, organisations, states and Union territories were invited on the same. "All the comments received were examined in depth by an expert committee constituted by the health ministry," the statement issued by the ministry read.7. The Supreme Court and various high courts expressed concern about the lack of a national policy for rare diseases, the statement said. Rare diseases are difficult to research upon and availability and accessibility to medicines are important in the process of treatment. The policy aims to help the nation overcome these fundamental challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-policy-for-rare-diseases-approved-by-health-minister-7-points-101617512536250.html
04-04-2021||India||Puducherry elections: Congress banks on sympathy as BJP looks to gain hold||Puducherry will vote to elect a new government on April 6 following the collapse of the previous Congress-led administration on February 22 due to a spate of resignations. It is being seen as a battle between the wounded Congress party and the opposition led by a resurgent former chief minister N Rangasamy who is in alliance with the BJP, the party accused of engineering the previous government’s collapse by ‘purchasing’ and ‘threatening’ Congress MLAs.The only Congress government in the South fell following seven dramatic resignations in a span of two weeks with two of those legislators joining the BJP. The Congress hopes the sympathy factor would return it to power in the Union Territory.Puducherry has 30 assembly seats plus three nominated seats with an electorate of 10.03 lakh. Congress is contesting in 14 constituencies- seven fewer than the 2016 assembly polls. The remaining seats have been allotted to allies DMK (13) and the VCK (1) and CPI (1). V Narayanasamy, who was forced to resign after his government lost the floor test in March, has not been fielded. This has led to opposition claiming that the Congress was on the backfoot and in disarray. The opposition members and those who quit the Congress had blamed Narayanasamy for their exit. The Rangasamy-led All India NR Congress (AINRC), which is leading the opposition coalition, is contesting on 16 seats and has allotted nine seats to the BJP. The national party has no presence in the tiny UT apart from the three nominated MLAs—who tilted the balance against the Congress in the assembly. The BJP is determined to make inroads here and national leaders including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, home minister Amit Shah and party president J P Nadda have consistently campaigned here for the party’s growth. The AIADMK, which is in the opposition alliance, will contest on five seats. But the opposition is divided over its chief ministerial candidate. While Rangasamy has declared himself as the chief ministerial candidate, the BJP has not endorsed it. “AINRC has announced their chief ministerial candidate but NDA will decide the candidate for chief minister only after the elections are over,” said BJP Puducherry election in-charge Nirmal Surana. “We will sweep the elections. That’s what all surveys are predicting and it’s what people want.”The dispute over the CM candidate here is similar to the back and forth seen in Tamil Nadu, where the BJP faced flak from the AIADMK for taking over three months to endorse chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami as the CM face of the alliance in January 2021, reversing its stand that it would decide on the matter after the elections.In Puducherry, the BJP will have to assuage Rangasamy, a veteran politician, while managing ambitions of the Congress rebels. Rangasamy was once with the Congress, before quitting in 2011 to float AINRC and become the CM after winning the assembly elections held that year. In a major issue in the polls, Madras high court has ordered a probe into allegations that BJP’s Puducherry unit accessed and used Aadhar-linked mobile numbers for targeted election campaigning. Congress has also urged the Election Commission of India (ECI) to disqualify BJP candidates for alleged violation of the model code of conduct. “People of Puducherry are against the BJP and will support us,” says RKR Anantharaman, former government whip and incumbent candidate from Manavel constituency. “Puducherry is secular and the Hindutva ideology won’t work here,” he said.While the Congress accuses the BJP-led Centre of interfering in Puducherry government’s functioning, stalling welfare schemes using Kiran Bedi as the UT’s lieutenant governor (L-G). The BJP in turn alleges that the Narayanasamy-led government misappropriated funds. “He only served the Congress high-command in Delhi and not the people of Puducherry,” said Modi at a public meeting in the UT two days after the government was dissolved.Ahead of the floor-test, in a move that came as a surprise, Bedi was shunted out and Telangana governor Tamilisai Soundararajan was given additional responsibility of Puducherry. Soundararajan, formerly BJP chief of Tamil Nadu, is seen as an amiable person as opposed to Bedi. The UT is currently under the President’s rule until the next government is elected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/puducherry-elections-congress-banks-on-sympathy-as-bjp-looks-to-gain-hold-101617513130359.html
04-04-2021||India||Maharashtra sees massive Covid-19 spike, experts suggest steps to control cases||Experts have said some tough decisions, which will not adversely affect the economy, have to be taken to curb the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in Maharastra and suggested putting more curbs on non-essential events and activities. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has already warned citizens of a lockdown if Covid-19 cases continued to rise at their current rate, saying medical infrastructure would fall short in a couple of weeks.Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, reported the highest single-day spike in the cases of Covid-19 on Saturday with 49,447 infections, which have taken the tally to 2,953,523, even as authorities have clamped stringent restrictions across the state to battle the surge. The western state, which accounted for more than half of the daily cases, on Saturday recorded more than 40,000 cases for the third day in a row. The state also recorded 277 fatalities pushing its death to 55,656.Also read | Maharastra may divert all oxygen supply for medical use: Uddhav ThackerayIndia recorded 93,249 infections and 513 Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data showed on Sunday morning. It is the highest one-day surge since September 19 last year. The tally of the country, which is the third-worst affected by the pandemic after the United States and Brazil, now stands at 12,485,509 and its death toll has mounted to 164,623.Also read | Class 1 to 8 students in Maharashtra to be promoted without exams due to CovidHere are the steps experts have said needs to be taken to tackle the surging Covid-19 cases:1. Slash occupancy in public buses, suburban train network2. Stagger timings for 50% employees allowed to attend work3. Strict implementation of norms in malls Deploy Odd/Even-Day for markets4. Prevent non-essential travelling at night to curb outings5. Vaccinate all 18 and above across the state6. Strict implementation of micro-containment zones7. Prevent use of public places like gardens and beaches8. Reduce attendance for weddings from 50 persons9. Impose heavy fines on violators of home quarantine/non-mask wearers10. Fine housing societies for not following rules for social gatherings￼||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-massive-covid-19-spike-experts-suggest-steps-to-control-cases-101617511733350.html
04-04-2021||India||India reports 93,249 Covid-19 cases, highest daily spike in over 6 months||India recorded the biggest one-day surge since September 19 last year with more than 93,000 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s data on Sunday morning, taking the country’s tally to past 12.48 million. There were 93,249 infections and 513 Covid-19 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the health ministry’s dashboard showed at 8am. With this, the country’s tally has risen to 12,485,509 and its death toll to 164,623.India, the third-worst country hit by the pandemic, on Saturday reported 89,129 Covid-19 cases in a day, the highest daily rise in around six-and-half-months. The surge in coronavirus disease cases reported on Saturday was the highest since September 20 last year—92,605 infections were recorded in 24 hours on that day. The 714 fatalities in a day were also the highest since October 21.The number of people, who have recuperated from the viral disease, surged to 11,629,289, the health ministry data’s also showed. The national recovery rate has further dropped to 93.14 per cent.Also read | School, colleges to remain shut in Bihar, other states amid Covid-19 spikeThe number of daily Covid-19 cases peaked in September last year with 97,894 infections recorded on the 17th day of the month. India began witnessing a gradual decline in cases of the coronavirus disease after that.The health ministry said on Saturday that eight states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh, have shown a steep rise in the daily cases of the coronavirus disease. The ministry said that 81.42% of the new cases are reported from these eight states. Maharashtra reported the highest daily cases, followed by Karnataka and Chhattisgarh, it added.Also read | Mumbai airport to collect ₹1,000 spot fine for violation of Covid-19 normsMaharashtra, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Punjab cumulatively accounted for 77.3% of the active cases in the country on Saturday, the ministry said. “Maharashtra alone accounts for nearly 60% (59.36%) of the total active caseload of the country,” it added.Authorities in several states have clamped stringent restrictions, including night curfews to shutting schools and other educational institutions, to battle the surge during the ongoing second wave of the pandemic. In Maharashtra, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has warned of a lockdown if the Covid-19 cases continued to rise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-93-249-new-covid-19-cases-india-records-another-daily-spike-101617507580132.html
04-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh: 18 security personnel missing after encounter with Maoists||At least 18 security personnel are missing after Saturday’s encounter with Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Terram jungles along the borders of Bijapur and Sukma districts in Bastar region, officials said on Sunday.On Saturday Chhattisgarh police said five security personnel died and 30 sustained injuries during an encounter with the Maoists. The body of a suspected Maoist was also recovered from the encounter spot.Also Read: 5 jawans die in encounter with Maoists in Bastar, IAF choppers deployed for rescue“Some security personnel are missing and a search operation is on. Out of the five personnel, who lost their lives on Saturday, we have recovered the body of two and three are still in the jungle,” said director general of police, Chhattisgarh, DM Awasthi.A senior police official, on the condition of anonymity, said that five personnel of Central Reserve Police Force’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) were among the 18 security personnel still missing in the jungles.“The death toll could increase in the next few hours. The teams for evacuation have been sent to the jungles,” said the official.On Saturday, Chhattisgarh police said that separate joint teams of security forces, over 2,000 in number, launched a major anti-Maoist operation from Bijapur and Sukma districts in the South Bastar forests, considered a Maoist stronghold.Also Read: PM Modi says ‘sacrifices will never be forgotten’ as 5 jawans die in Bastar encounterAt around 12 noon, the Maoists laid an ambush, following which an encounter started, which lasted for three hours inside the jungle.On March 23, five jawans of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) were killed while fourteen others were injured in serial IED blasts when alleged Maoists targeted a bus ferrying security personnel in Narayanpur district of Bastar region.On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel, including 12 from the DRG, were killed in a Maoist ambush in Sukma district of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-18-security-personnel-missing-after-encounter-with-maoists-101617508330037.html
04-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Vaccination drive sign-ups for health staff halted||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Vaccination drive sign-ups for health, frontline staff haltedThe health ministry on Saturday halted new registrations for healthcare and front line workers to receive coronavirus vaccines, citing a barrage of sign-ups of ineligible people under these categories in recent days in centres across the country. Read more.MLB pulls All-Star game from Atlanta over Georgia's new voting laws. Here's where the dispute standsA dispute, in the making over the last two weeks, has now broken out over Georgia's new election laws, which critics say is specifically aimed at suppressing the minority vote that helped US President Joe Biden in his race to the White House last November. Read more.India Covid-19 curve beats US, set to surpass BrazilIndia on Friday added the most cases of Covid-19 than any other country, surpassed, on average, the number of new infections in United States, and was set to overtake Brazil over the weekend to become the country with the worst outbreak in the world amid a raging second national wave that led to 92,961 new infections on Saturday — the highest since September 17. Read more.Good show in IPL works wonders, not thinking about World T20: Mayank Agarwal ahead of IPL 2021For Mayank Agarwal, the last edition in the UAE was his best IPL. The Kings XI Punjab (now Punjab Kings) opener hit his first IPL century, returned the best tally (424 runs) and average (38.54) in his 10 seasons. His form though dipped for India on the Australia tour. Read more.CIA posts ‘spot the difference’ tweet. Can you find them all?If you’re someone who follows Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), the foreign intelligence service of the federal government of the United States, on social media, you may be aware of the puzzle posts they often share. These are the posts that many love to solve as they engage them into the laborious yet fun process of finding the answers. Just like this ‘spot the difference’ post shared by the agency. Read more.Anushka Sharma-Virat Kohli inspire a joke in Amitabh Bachchan: 'Anushka has a huge apartment...'Actor Amitabh Bachchan has posted a joke on Bollywood actor Anushka Sharma and her cricketer husband Virat Kohli. He also paid "due respects" to the couple before cracking his joke on Instagram. Read more.Milind Soman tries some light exercises during quarantine, seen the video yet?Milind Soman recently announced that he was tested positive for the novel coronavirus and has been quarantining himself since then. The fitness enthusiast has also been quite vocal about his recovery process on his social media platforms and sharing his journey with followers in order to clear out any confusion and answer queries regarding the process. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-vaccination-drive-sign-ups-for-health-staff-halted-101617506229992.html
04-04-2021||India||Murshidabad TMC rebels pose challenge to party, BJP sniffs opportunity||In Bengal’s Murshidabad district, rebel Trinamool Congress (TMC) leaders are posing a challenge to the ruling party as independent candidates on three assembly seats. While the TMC remains unperturbed, the BJP feels the infighting may help the saffron camp in the Muslim-majority district, where the party has struggled in the past.At Suti, Raghunathganj and Jalangi, members of the TMC-run Murshidabad zilla parishad are contesting against their own after they were denied tickets. Polls in the district will be held on April 26 and 29, in the last two of the eight phases. Muslims comprise 66.28% of Murshidabad’s population, the highest in any district in the state. In 2019, when the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) set a record by winning 18 of the state’s 42 Lok Sabha seats, the saffron camp could not make much progress in Murshidabad, which accounts for 22 of Bengal’s 294 assembly seats. Political observers feel that a division in Muslim votes may not bring good news for Mamata Banerjee. Murshidabad has traditionally been known as a bastion of the Congress with the Left parties having control over a few pockets. Bengal state Congress president Adhir Chowdhury is the Lok Sabha member from the district’s Berhampore seat. The TMC, however, has benefitted from the defection of Left and Congress MLAs since the last state polls held in 2016. Many rebel TMC leaders in this district are known to be close to former minister Suvendu Adhikari, who joined the BJP in December last year and contested against the chief minister at Nandigram in East Midnapore district, his home turf, on April 1. Adhikari was the TMC’s poll observer for several districts, including Murshidabad, till he was stripped of that position in 2020. Bengal’s Muslim population stood at 27.01% during the 2011 census and is projected to have increased to around 30% now. According to surveys done by the TMC and the BJP, a swing in Muslim votes can influence poll results in as many as 120 assembly seats. At Murshidabad’s Suti assembly seat, which the Congress won in 2016, the TMC has fielded Emani Biswas, the former Congress lawmaker who defected to the ruling party. He won the seat in 2011. The National Investigation Agency (NIA) recently quizzed Biswas for suspected involvement in the Nimtita bomb blast in which minister of state for labour Jakir Hossain and more than 20 people were injured on February 17. Biswas was fielded amid resistance from a number of district TMC leaders. Opposing his candidature, Maidul Islam, the TMC leader in charge of the food and supplies department at Murshidabad zilla parishad, has resigned from the party to contest as an independent candidate. “There are several complaints of corruption against Biswas. Also, he has never voiced his concern for the plight of bidi factory workers in Suti because he owns a production unit. I am contesting because these poor people approached me,” said Islam. Biswas did not want to comment on the allegations levelled by Islam. At Raghunathganj, Nasir Sheikh, another zilla parishad member, is contesting against the TMC’s official candidate. The seat was formed during delimitation before the 2011 polls and the Congress won it. “The TMC candidate, Md Akhruzzaman, failed to discharge his duties as the local MLA after defecting from the Congress. A huge number of people want to see him go. Hence, I decided to challenge him,” said Sheikh. Sheikh joined the Congress a few days ago with the hope of getting a ticket. TMC zilla parishad member Sayed Rafika Sultana is contesting as an independent nominee from the Jalangi seat that the CPI(M) won nine times in a row from 1977 to 2016. The TMC has fielded outgoing MLA Abdur Razzak Mandal, who, too, is a turncoat. A number of local TMC leaders are unhappy with Mandal and Sultana has already started her campaign. TMC leaders said the party’s former district president, Sagir Hossain, is also likely to contest as an independent candidate from the Bhagabangola seat from where the TMC has fielded Idris Ali. Hossain did not campaign for the official candidate till Saturday. The TMC’s district spokesperson Goutam Ghosh said, “People cast their votes by seeing the symbol of our party. We are not bothered about these independent candidates.” The BJP’s Murshidabad north zone organizational unit president Sujit Das said, “Infighting in the TMC is getting exposed before the elections. People have decided to usher in a change. The division of votes may help us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/murshidabad-tmc-rebels-pose-challenge-to-party-bjp-sniffs-opportunity-101617506589999.html
04-04-2021||India||Easter 2021: PM Modi, President Kovind extend greetings to people||Prime Minister Narendra Modi and President Ram Nath Kovind on Sunday extended their greetings on Easter, a Christian festival celebrating the resurrection of Jesus Christ three days after he was put on a cross."Greetings on Easter! On this day, we remember the pious teachings of Jesus Christ. His emphasis on social empowerment inspires millions across the world," PM Modi said on Twitter.Greetings on Easter! On this day, we remember the pious teachings of Jesus Christ. His emphasis on social empowerment inspires millions across the world."Easter greetings to all! The resurrection of Jesus Christ, celebrated across the world, gives us hope and happiness; reaffirms our faith in innate goodness of humanity,” President Kovind tweeted. "May the teachings of Jesus Christ strengthen the bonds of love, affection and harmony in our society!" he added.President Kovind greeted the nation on Easter eve as well. “On the auspicious occasion of Easter, I extend my best wishes and heartiest congratulations to all the fellow citizens, especially from the Christian community, living in India and abroad,” the President, who underwent a bypass surgery recently, tweeted. "On this joyous occasion, let's follow these values which will strengthen the bond of love, affection and harmony in our society and increase happiness and prosperity in our nation," he added.Sunday marks the second consecutive Easter amid the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic and celebrations on the occasion throughout the world will be muted. Pope Francis, who led the Easter vigil service on Saturday, said that he hoped that the dark times of the pandemic would end and that people will rediscover "the grace of everyday life" during these times."It is always possible to begin anew because there is a new life that God can awaken in us in spite of all our failures. In these dark months of the pandemic, let us listen to the Risen Lord as he invites us to begin anew and never lose hope," Pope Francis said, according to news agency Reuters.Pope Francis will also deliver his "Urbi et Orbi" (to the city and the world) message on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/easter-2021-pm-modi-president-kovind-extend-greetings-to-people-101617505412069.html
04-04-2021||India||School, colleges to remain shut in Bihar, other states amid Covid-19 spike||Bihar on Saturday became the latest state to order all schools, colleges and other educational institutions to shut down amid a severe increase in the cases of the coronavirus disease. Schools, colleges and other educational institutions across the country were shut down in March last year when the coronavirus pandemic first broke out in the country. Some reopened later, however, the recent upsurge in Covid-19 cases has forced several state governments to close down their schools and educational institutions.Here is a look at states which have shut schools and other educational institutes:Bihar: All schools, colleges and other educational institutions, which were to reopen on April 5, have been ordered to remain closed till April 11. All institutions have been directed to reschedule tests and examinations accordingly, the state’s home department said in a release. The decision was taken by the crisis management group of the state government after Chief Minister Nitish Kumar consulted officials at a high-level meeting to consider the chance of closing schools and colleges.Maharashtra: Authorities in several districts in Maharashtra have asked all government and private schools, colleges, and hostels to remain closed till further notice amid a spike in coronavirus cases. Students from Class 1 to Class 8 in Maharashtra will be promoted to the next class without any examination, state school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Saturday. A decision regarding students of Classes 9 and 11 will soon be taken, she said.Also read | Centre lists 5 tools for 11 states reporting upsurge in Covid cases, fatalitiesGujarat: School for Classes 1 to 10 were directed to be shut for an indefinite period in Gujarat from Monday. However, classroom teaching for Class 10 and 12 as well as colleges would continue, according to the decision taken at a meeting chaired by chief minister Vijay Rupani on Saturday. “All offline classes of standard 1 to 9 in government and private schools will be closed down for an indefinite period from Monday. Online education will be encouraged. The decision was taken keeping in mind the safety of students when COVID-19 cases have surged in the state," a release from the CM's office said, according to news agency PTI.Himachal Pradesh: All education institutes, including schools, colleges and universities will remain closed till April 15 in Himachal Pradesh, the government said amid the rising cases of Covid-19. Students of classes with scheduled examinations in the near future can visit schools and educational institutes to clear any doubts with the written consent of the parents and guardian, an official release said according to ANI. All coaching centres preparing students for competitive exams and nursing, medical and dental colleges will remain open and ensure observance of the Covid-19 SOPs issued by the government from time to time, it said. "Schools and institutions having residential facilities need not close their hostel facilities but must observe SOPs issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Government of India for Covid-19 prevention and COVID-19 appropriate behaviour," the release added.Also read | India Covid-19 curve beats US, set to surpass BrazilDelhi: The Delhi government has issued an order asking schools to not hold physical classes for the new academic session till further orders. Director of education Udit Prakash Rai said classes for the new session will continue online till further orders. Students of classes 9,10, 11, 12 of the previous session may be called to the schools if their project work and internal assessment are due. But for that, strict adherence to Covid-19 Standard Operating Procedure and the consent of the parents will be required. "Heads of all government, government-aided, and recognised un-aided schools are hereby directed to comply with the above instructions and disseminate this information to all teachers, students and parents through SMC/Mass SMS facility/phone calls etc," the order said.Karnataka: Karnataka's chief secretary P Ravi Kumar on Friday issued an order to shut down boarding and residential hostels for primary and secondary schools and optional attendance for students of Classes 10, 11 and 12. Physical classes for classes six to nine will also be suspended, Kumar said in his order. “Classes 10, 11 and 12th can continue in the existing mode. However, attendance to these classes in person is not mandatory,” he said. Classes for higher and professional courses have been suspended except those due for board or university examinations and of health sciences.Uttar Pradesh: The state government has extended the closure of all schools for students up to Class 8 to April 11, amid a spike in coronavirus cases. Earlier, the government had shut schools for students up to Class 8 till March 31. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the closure of schools for students up to Class 8 till April 11, an official spokesperson said, adding that authorities have been ordered to ensure all Covid-19 protocols are followed for other classes. During this period, teachers will continue to go to schools for administrative work while education activities will not be there, the chief minister said.Punjab: The Punjab government has ordered that schools and colleges in the state will remain shut till April 10, 2021. Earlier, it ordered the schools and colleges in the state to close down till March 31. Last week, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh ordered an extension of all the restrictions put in place in the state on March 17. This order is applicable for all private, government and aided schools as well as coaching classes, polytechnic institutes and degree colleges and universities.Chhattisgarh: Schools and colleges in Chhattisgarh were ordered to be shut down on March 22. The government is yet to announce the date for the reopening of these educational institutes.Tamil Nadu: The Tamil Nadu government also asked schools, colleges to remain shut from March 22. The date for resumption of educational institutes has not been issued by the state government yet.Rajasthan: Schools in Rajasthan have been asked to close for the students from Class 1 to 5 until further notice and the government has left the decision for those from class 6 and above with the district administration.Madhya Pradesh: The government has announced schools in the state will remain closed for the students from Class 1 to 8 until April 15, 2021. Classes for students of Class 9 to 12 will be conducted offline from April 1, 2021, with the consent of the parents. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/school-colleges-to-remain-shut-in-bihar-other-states-amid-covid-19-spike-101617502611236.html
04-04-2021||India||Rural jobs scheme generated record 3.9 billion days of work||As millions of migrant workers returned home last year after factories and businesses downed shutters during the country’s 68-day long hard lockdown, India’s federal job guarantee programme (MGNREGS) generated a bumper 3.877 billion days of work in FY2020-21, benefitting 112 million people — its best performance since inception.Nearly all big states significantly scaled up their MGNREGS operations, with Rajasthan emerging as the top state in terms of work, generating 454 million days of work (in person days) followed by West Bengal (414 million). India’s most populous state Uttar Pradesh generated 394 million days of work, Madhya Pradesh, 341 million, and Tamil Nadu, 333 million, according to official data from the Union rural development ministry.Also Read | The role of MGNREGS in the climate crisisBihar, the state estimated to have received highest number of returning migrant workers last year, could only generate 227 million days of work in the federal job programme that served as a vital source of income for 75 million poor households as Covid-19 raged through the country, infecting millions, killing tens of thousands, and roiling the economy. The government estimates the Indian economy to contract by 8% in 2021-22. In these straitened circumstances, the rural job guarantee scheme was the lifeline for tens of millions of households.A senior official of the Union rural development ministry said on condition of anonymity that even Bihar has improved its performance from FY19-20 during which it could only generate 140 million days of work. “A state like Rajasthan has a lot of area available for MGNREGS work but Bihar has mostly agricultural land. It also suffered floods.”“But there’s no denying that states such as Andhra Pradesh or Tamil Nadu have an efficient administration and a strong presence of civil society; Bihar lags in these areas,” added the official.West Bengal provided works to the highest number of individuals (12 million), followed by Tamil Nadu, 11.6 million. In Rajasthan, 11 million people have worked in MGNREGS last year, while 7.9 million people got MGNREGS work in Bihar.The government last year poured more than ₹one lakh crore into the MGNREGS and introduced Prime Minister’s Garib Kalyan Rozgar Abhiyan, targetting migrant workers, in 116 districts across Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. Each selected district received at least 25,000 returnee migrant workers. This special job campaign frontloaded existing programmes to create a basket of work worth ₹50,000 crore, targetting both skilled and unskilled migrant workers.The scheme eventually received an additional allocation of ₹10,000 crore, which was used primarily for MGNREGS-related work such as construction of rural houses or water conservation and harvesting. Under MGNREGS, a beneficiary can avail up to 100 days of construction-related work in the government’s rural housing programme.The Centre has continued to pump in more money into rural India and this year’s annual budget saw a 10% hike in funds for rural development ministry compared to last year’s budgeted estimate. But the allocation fell short by ₹66,000 crore than the revised estimate for 2020-21, which was sharply increased to address the impact of Covid.The budget allocation for the rural development ministry has been hiked to ₹1.32 lakh crores for FY21-22 from ₹1.20 lakh crore in FY20-21. The revised estimates for FY20-21 went up to ₹1.97 lakh crore as the government rolled out two stimulus packages to provide jobs and social security during an unprecedented health emergency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rural-jobs-scheme-generated-record-3-9-billion-days-of-work-101617497484686.html
04-04-2021||India||Protesting farmers lathicharged in Haryana||Farmers protesting against the three farm laws on Saturday held a protest against Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar in Rohtak, resulting in a lathicharge by police and prompting the authorities to shift the landing site for the CM’s chopper, people familiar with the matter said.The protesters gathered outside a private university where the CM’s chopper was to land as he was scheduled to attend a condolence meet in the memory of Rohtak MP Arvind Sharma’s father. Heavy police security arrangements were made outside the university with barricades put up to stop protesters, said officialsBefore the CM’s arrival, a scuffle broke out between the protesters and police.“I told the police that they can’t suppress our voices by using lathis. We will continue our protest until the three Centre’s farm laws are repealed,” said 80-year-old farmer Raj Singh.Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader Inderjit Singh condemned the incident and said the Haryana government cannot suppress their voices by attacking protesters with sticks.Rohtak superintendent of police (SP) Rahul Sharma said the protesters first attacked the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-lathicharged-in-haryana-101617490534530.html
04-04-2021||India||Man arrested for raping UP teen shot at while trying to flee: Police||One of the four people accused of raping a teenage girl, who was said to have died by suicide later, was injured on Saturday after police opened fire at him, saying that the man was attempting to escape while being taken to a court.The Class 10 student was found dead after she was allegedly abducted and gang-raped while on her way back from a tuition class, the police said on Friday. The girl, who was from a village under the Sardhana Kotwali area in Meerut, consumed poison after returning home on Thursday, the police said, adding that she later died in a hospital.On Saturday, the accused sustained a bullet injury in his leg and was hospitalised.Superintendent of police (rural) Keshav Mishra said that Lakhan, 18, and his aide Vikas were arrested for the alleged gang rape. A suicide note recovered from the girl’s room held Lakhan and three others responsible for her death. Two other accused are still at large.Mishra said that a team of the district surveillance department and Sardhana police was taking the accused to a court in Meerut on Saturday when Lakhan snatched the pistol of a policeman and ran towards a sugarcane field. A hunt was launched, following which he opened fire at the police, the officer said. He was injured in retaliatory firing and was arrested, he added.Lakhan is a Class 12 student and both he and the girl took tuitions at the same institute, according to the police. Lakhan and three others allegedly dragged the girl to a secluded place on Thursday when she was returning home from the tuition centre and gang-raped her, they said. A case under sections 376D, 302 and 328 of the Indian Penal Code and Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-arrested-for-raping-up-teen-shot-at-while-trying-to-flee-police-101617489591631.html
04-04-2021||India||India Covid-19 curve beats US, set to surpass Brazil||India on Friday added the most cases of Covid-19 than any other country, surpassed, on average, the number of new infections in United States, and was set to overtake Brazil over the weekend to become the country with the worst outbreak in the world amid a raging second national wave that led to 92,961 new infections on Saturday — the highest since September 17.In the seven days till Friday, India recorded 68,969 new cases a day on average. On the same day, the US recorded 65,753 while Brazil recorded 72,151 new cases a day over a week’s period. In Brazil, the outbreak appears to be receding with the number dropping roughly 0.92% on average over the week. In US, cases are growing afresh but the expansion — 0.87% — is significantly slower than India’s rate of 4.24%.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageOn Friday, India added 89,030 cases and an immediate daily comparison of Saturday’s numbers with that of US and Brazil was not possible due to the time difference. At the current pace, India could well surpass the record set by the first peak shortly, even breach the 100,000 daily cases mark.This is not the first time India records the most number of cases for any country in the world – at the peak of its first wave, it recorded 99,181 cases on September 10. But this would eventually be eclipsed by the US, which recorded 308,941 cases at its worst on January 8. The highest Brazil has recorded is in the current wave, with a peak at 97,586 on March 25.All India data is from the HT tracker. The US and Brazil data are from worldometers.info.Experts say the trend reinforces the need for India to restrict activities and speed up the vaccination drive. The problem is particularly stark since the number of doses administered in India covers only 4.57% of the population, compared to Brazil’s 7.57% and the US’s 30.44%.“I think there are going to be more cases this time around than during the first wave; the increase has also been very sharp as compared to the first wave. We can only hope that the case fatality remains the same,” said Amit Singh, associate professor, Centre for Infectious Disease Research at the Indian Institute of Science , Bangalore.“We are already in the middle of the second wave and we are not going to escape it. Having said that, partial lockdowns and aggressive enforcement of Covid-appropriate behaviours in public such as masking, social distancing, curbs on gatherings can help slow things down. What we really need to do is vaccinate everyone, and quickly,” he said, adding that the government must open the vaccination drive for all.The current surge of infections prompted the government to on Friday meet with health officials from states , particularly to highlight the situation in 11 “states of grave concern” that contributed 90% of Covid-19 cases and 90.5% of deaths in the previous 14 days.At over 7% on Saturday, the country’s overall test positivity rate – the proportion of samples that turn up positive – has also risen drastically, indicating that efforts to stay ahead of the virus could require more testing in order to minimise the number of positive cases being missed.This necessity is also evident if absolute testing numbers are compared: the 1.02 million tests carried out across India on April 2 was slightly lower than the 1.05 million done on September 10, the day India recorded the peak of the first wave.Government officials have identified the situation in Maharashtra (which accounted for 53.2% of the cases on Saturday), along with Punjab and Chhattisgarh, as particularly worrying. Following a meeting of the cabinet secretariat with the chief secretaries of all states on Friday.At 9,108 cases, Maharashtra’s capital Mumbai on Saturday breached the 9,000 threshold, the first for any city in India.In the national capital, 3,567 new cases were recorded on Saturday — slightly lower than the 3,594 recorded on Friday — but the latest numbers corresponded to fewer tests. The positivity rate rose from 4.1% to 4.5%.The government said more small towns are being hit in the current wave, which could spread infections among people who may not as readily have access to health infrastructure as people in larger cities do. “Another worrisome aspect pointed out was that Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities along with peri-urban areas have recorded the recent high rises in Covid cases; the spread of infection from these areas to the rural areas with weak health infrastructure would overwhelm the local administration was also highlighted,” the government said on Friday, referring to the meeting with the states.Experts have urged the government to consider accelerating the vaccine process, and open it up to all. “Now, there are several other vaccines with proven safety and efficacy across the world that should be brought in. For example, the Pfizer vaccine has now been shown to be safe and effective for children. Data for Covaxin or Covishield is not available in these age groups. Rather than waiting for it, the government should bring in what is already established,” said Singh.On Friday, India administered 3.6 million doses of coronavirus vaccines – the most it has done so far. But experts fear the pace is inadequate, particularly since the country has a large urban population and many of its cities have high population density, factors that aid the rapid transmission of Covid-19.(With inputs from Anonna Dutt)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-covid-curve-beats-us-set-to-surpass-brazil-101617480579093.html
04-04-2021||India||Uttarakhand witnessing unprecedented forest fires||Uttarakhand is witnessing unprecedented forest fires, that too in April when temperatures are yet to touch the maximum range, forest officials said. Higher temperatures generally trigger such fires.This time around, forest fires started in the winter months in many districts. Most hill districts like Nainital, Almora, Tehri and Pauri have come under the grip of raging forest fires.Compared to 172 hectares last year, over 1290 hectares of forest land got affected by forest fires this year. The state has reported over 39 new forest fire incidents in the last 48 hours, taking the number of such incidents this year to 983. Also, four human deaths and seven animal fatalities have been reported so far due to these forest fires.Forest fire activity is generally reported in Uttarakhand from February to June, with a peak in fire incidents in May and June.According to forest officials, apart from less rain in the winter months, due to the fear of epidemic and the lockdown, movement in the forests was restricted. Due to this, a lot of combustible material, mostly pine needles, got accumulated on the forest floor. These materials are cleared every year during control burning but it was affected over the past year, which is one of the reasons for the spike in forest fires.Most cases of forest fire incidents in Uttarakhand are man-made and the reduced number of cases is likely due to restricted movement of people in and near forest areas.Since the formation of the state in 2000, over 44,554 hectares of the forest area has been damaged in forest fires, according to an RTI reply by the Uttarakhand government.Forest fires affected 172 hectares of jungles last year. The forest area affected due to forest fires in 2019 was 2,981 hectares. The corresponding figure was 4,480 hectares in 2018, 1,228 hectares in 2017, 4,433 hectares in 2016 and 701 hectares in 2015.Uttarakhand forest department has over 174 watchtowers and 1,437 station crews across the state to keep a tab on forest fires and take measures to check them.With the number of forest fire incidents rising, experts and Opposition parties have accused the government of "not focusing" to tackle the situation which is "turning catastrophic."Prominent social activist Anoop Nautiyal, who has been keeping an eye on forest fire incidents, said, "The forest fire situation is turning catastrophic in the state, destroying our forests.""The senior IFS officers of the state should come together and clear the actual picture of the situation and come up with effective solutions to tackle it," said Nautiyal who also questioned the use of a helicopter for showering flowers in Mahakumbh but not in fighting forest fires.State Congress president Pritam Singh also questioned the government's "inaction" against forest fires and said, "State's precious forests are burning down in these forest fires but the government is not looking at it. The state forest minister is nowhere to be seen in the picture when he should come forward to save our forest from this disaster which is now affecting people and their properties."State forest department officials, however, said that the number of forest fire incidents are increasing this year due to "change in climatic conditions."Maan Singh, chief conservationist of forest (fire and disaster management) said, "Forest fires have increased in the last one week because of strong winds and no rainfall. It is also due to the rise in temperature with less rainfall and snowfall during the winters."Informing that the department is fully alert and prepared to fight the forest fire situation, Singh said, "We have sent a proposal to the Centre demanding two choppers, one each for Garhwal and Kumaon regions to fight forest fires. Once it is cleared, we will then use them in tackling such incidents."He informed that about 3,000 forest department staffers and 6,000 forest fire watchers are involved at present to manage the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-witnessing-unprecedented-forest-fires-101617475740357.html
04-04-2021||India||4 arrested for stabbing Muslim man travelling with Hindu woman||Mangaluru police on Saturday arrested four people, believed to be right-wing activists, who allegedly stabbed a 23-year-old Muslim man for travelling with a Hindu woman in a bus in coastal Karnataka’s Dakshina Kannada district earlier this week.The suspects have been identified as Balachandra (28), Dhanush Bhandary (25), Jayaprashanth (27) and Anil Kumar (38). Dhanush is already facing four cases of murder, said police.A senior police official familiar with the case said that the four men were associated with a right-wing organisation. The official, who did not want to be identified, refused to give more details.Mangaluru police commissioner Shashi Kumar said that four teams were formed to nab the accused soon after the incident on Thursday.“We are investigating who instigated them to assault the duo. We are questioning the arrested men at present,” the commissioner said, adding that there may have been at least four similar attacks in the region in the past four months. He did not give details about the attacks.It is not clear if there is any link between Thursday’s attack or the previous incidents.The man -- identified as Anwar Mohammed -- and the 23-year-old woman, who knew each other from school, were travelling in an overnight bus from Mangaluru to Bengaluru when the group of men stopped the bus and attacked the two.While the man has been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) of a private hospital in Mangaluru, the woman, whose identity was not released by the police, also suffered minor injuries. An FIR has been registered for attempt to murder (IPC section 307) among other sections at the Kankanady police station in Mangaluru.After the attack on Thursday, a WhatsApp message doing the rounds claimed Bajrang Dal activists stopped the duo from travelling. “Ongoing Operation by Bajrang Dal Today (Thursday). A Hindu young woman who was fleeing with a Muslim man was travelling from Mangaluru to Bengaluru. Bajrang Dal activists stopped the couple near Pumpwell,” read a message.Separately, Vishwa Hindu Parishad’s (VHP) leader Sharan Pumpwell also claimed on Friday the group’s men intercepted the couple as it was a case of “love jihad”, but that a mob gathered and turned violent.Police said they are investigating both claims.The incident comes in the wake of several Bharatiya Janata Party-led states in the country, such as Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, introducing laws regulating inter-faith marriages that are termed by right-wing activists as “love jihad”.In recent weeks, senior BJP leaders have also promised to bring out similar legislations in other regions, including in poll-bound Kerala and Assam, where assembly elections are ongoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-arrested-for-stabbing-muslim-man-travelling-with-hindu-woman-101617475508185.html
04-04-2021||India||5 personnel killed in gunbattle with Maoists in Chhattisgarh||Five security personnel were killed died and 12 injured during a gunbattle with Maoists in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district on Saturday, the police said. The body of a suspected Maoist has also been recovered from the encounter spot, an official added. According to the Director General of Police (Chhattisgarh), DM Awasthi, the encounter broke out when a joint team of the state police and the Central Reserve Police Force’s Commando Battalion for Resolute Action (CoBRA) were out on an anti-Maoist operation in the jungles of Tarrem along Sukma and Bijapur border.“As per the information received so far, five security personnel have been killed and twelve others injured. Among those who lost their lives in the gunfight are a jawan of CoBRA and two from the district reserve guard (DRG) and ‘Bastariya’ battalion of CRPF,” said Awasthi.“The encounter lasted for about three hours inside the jungle. The injured were airlifted to Raipur and an operation is underway to airlift the injured jawans and bodies,” he added.The attack comes days after five jawans of the District Reserve Guard (DRG) were killed and 14 injured after Maoists targeted a bus ferrying 27 security personnel in Narayanpur district of Bastar region.On March 21 last year, 17 security personnel, including 12 from the DRG, were killed in a Maoist ambush in Sukma district of the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-personnel-killed-in-gunbattle-with-maoists-in-cgarh-101617475448825.html
04-04-2021||India||Vaccination drive sign-ups for health, frontline staff halted||The health ministry on Saturday halted new registrations for healthcare and front line workers to receive coronavirus vaccines, citing a barrage of sign-ups of ineligible people under these categories in recent days in centres across the country.No new sign-ups will now be accepted for people in these two categories – who did not have an age bar – but healthcare and front line workers who have already registered can take doses.“Various inputs have been received from different sources that in some of the CVCs (Covid Vaccination Centres) some ineligible beneficiaries are being registered as healthcare workers and frontline workers and are getting vaccinated in complete violation of the prescribed guidelines,” said a letter by Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan to states informing of the change in the registrations process.Bhushan said there was an increase of 24% in the database of the healthcare workers in the “past few days” itself. The decision was taken after discussion at a meeting of the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 (NEGVAC) on Saturday.The announcement came within hours of the Uttarakhand chief minister saying journalists of all ages in the state will be eligible for vaccines as front line workers. “During the ongoing pandemic, the journalists in the state worked like front line workers in providing the required information to the people about Covid-19 which helped the government significantly,” said Tirath Singh Rawat.A similar decision was announced by the administration in Ludhiana, which classified judges, teachers as well as journalists as front line workers.Experts and doctors have previously said sign-ups under these categories may not be fool-proof since it there is no verification mechanism to determine the profession of those registering.The vaccination drive, which started on January 16, was meant to first immunise 300 million people who belong to three categories: healthcare workers, front line workers, and those at greater risk from Covid-19 due to their age or existing medical conditions.The first to receive the shots were 10 million healthcare workers and the drive was opened up to 20 million front line workers February 1 onwards. On March 1, the government allowed people above the age of 60 and those between the ages of 45 and 59 years with a combination of 20 specified comorbidities to take the shots.On April 1, the government relaxed it further to allow anyone above the age of 45 to take the dose, but experts have repeatedly said the drive must be opened to anyone who seeks a vaccine in order to get ahead of the raging second wave of infections.“We should quickly vaccinate as many people over the age of 18 years as we can. There is still a large proportion of susceptible population that is leading to the second wave of the infection. So far, we have immunised around 7 crore (70 million) people, which translates to about 5 to 6% of the population. With a 71% efficacy in preventing infections for AstraZeneca vaccine, we have only about 4% of the population protected. And, majority are yet to receive the second dose of the vaccine,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the pulmonology department at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi (AIIMS).The vaccination drive for healthcare workers was first planned to end on February 25 and for front line workers on March 6. The registrations were closed briefly were later re-opened once the vaccination of the old and the co-morbid began in March to ensure that any healthcare and frontline workers who had been left out were vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-drive-sign-ups-for-health-frontline-staff-halted-101617475448219.html
04-04-2021||India||IIT-G student held for raping batchmate, four others questioned||A student of the Indian Institute of Technology, Guwahati (IIT-G) was arrested on Saturday for allegedly raping an undergraduate student on campus, police said.According to police, the woman was allegedly raped on March 28, the day Holi was celebrated in the state. She was first admitted to the IIT-G Hospital and later taken to the Guwahati Medical College Hospital (GMCH) for treatment.“We have arrested one student and booked him for rape. Four other students are being questioned. Further investigation is on and more arrests could happen,” Kamrup superintendent of police Hitesh Chandra Roy said.Media reports said the student may have been drugged before the incident.Police added that woman’s statement was recorded on Saturday, six days after the incident. They added that the accused is a batchmate of the woman but refused to give more details about the students or the nature of the alleged assault.Doctors at the GMCH said the woman was brought to the hospital on March 29 in an unconscious state.“After regaining consciousness, she told doctors that she was sexually assaulted. We immediately followed protocol and carried out a medical test,” a senior GMCH doctor said on the condition of anonymity. The student’s medical report is awaited.The GMCH doctor added that IIT-G officials got the woman discharged the same day against their advice.“She was taken from GMCH by the IIT-G authorities later in the day saying they will treat her at the institute’s hospital. Since this was against our advice, we immediately informed the local police about it,” he added.In a statement, IIT-G said the institute acted promptly after the “unfortunate incident”.“The student is now safe and recovering well,” said the statement, adding that the woman’s parents were informed about the incident. It stated that the woman and her parents refused to file an FIR and asked the college authorities to take up the matter.“The fact-finding committee, constituted on March 29, has submitted its report to the institute on April 2 at 6pm and the institute has filed an FIR. The police have initiated their investigation and the institute is providing full cooperation,” the statement read. IIT officials did not reveal the details of the inquiry report.The police, however, said the IIT-G authorities did not register an FIR.“They just submitted their internal inquiry report. We had registered the case on March 29 and the student was arrested based on our investigation,” said Mukut Baishya, in-charge of Amingaon police outpost, adding that the college wasn’t cooperating with the probe.HT tried reaching out to IIT-G officials but they weren’t immediately available for a response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitg-student-held-for-raping-batchmate-four-others-questioned-101617475269361.html
04-04-2021||India||Bihar CM Nitish Kumar asks crisis management group to mull keeping schools closed||Amid a fresh upsurge of Covid-19 cases in the state, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Saturday directed the crisis management group to look into the option of keeping schools closed and also suspend public events for some time. The CM, at a high level meeting on efforts to tackle Covid-19 cases, asked the officials to ensure that testing for the virus through RT-PCR is ramped up and the number of vaccinations is increased. “Covid-19 infections will be detected more if the tests are done with high intensity,” the CM said, adding more awareness among people should be created so that precautionary and safety steps are taken to avoid contacting the virus. Bihar has witnessed a spike in Covid-19 cases in the last 10 days with Patna registering 287 new cases as on Friday. At the review meeting, principal secretary, health Pratyaya Amrit gave a presentation by elaborating on the number of Covid-19 cases across the state and data regarding the recovery rate, death rate, day to day trends and testing. The CM instructed that facilities at the Covid-19 dedicated hospitals should be proper and also increase the volume of vaccinations so that more and more people could be inoculated. Incidentally, the CM’s suggestion to the crisis management group to weigh the option of keeping schools closed in the wake of rising cases of Covid-19 cases in the state and across the country may see some strict guidelines being issued for educational institutions by the government in the next few days. There are chances that schools which were planning to start their new academic session from next week by reopening for junior classes may have to alter their schedule, in case the government issues new orders to keep schools closed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-cm-nitish-kumar-asks-crisis-management-group-to-mull-keeping-schools-closed-101617475209488.html
04-04-2021||India||PM mounts attack on rivals in battlegrounds Assam, Bengal||Kolkata/GuwahatiPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday held his last election rallies in Assam and West Bengal before the third phase of voting in the assembly elections, launching a fresh political attack on rivals in the two eastern states.Modi alleged that the “obstructionist mindset” of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and her Trinamool Congress deprived East Bengal of industries and jobs. He also criticised her for branding Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders as “outsiders” and said it was an insult to the inclusive ideology of Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose.In Assam, the PM said the people of the state had decided to form a BJP government.While the BJP has posed a challenge to the Trinamool Congress in West Bengal, it is seeking to retain power in Assam.The campaign for Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry and the third and final phase in Assam and the third phase in West Bengal will end at 5pm on Sunday. The voting will take place on April 6 and votes in all five states would be counted on May 2.On Saturday, Modi reacted to a tweet that said the PM may be challenged in Varanasi in the 2024 Lok Sabha elections, saying with this, TMC chief Mamata Banerjee has accepted defeat in Bengal and is looking for a place outside Bengal to contest. “Didi’s party (TMC) is now saying that she would contest the Lok Sabha polls (in 2024) from Varanasi. After this statement came out, two things have become clear. One, she has accepted defeat in Bengal. Second, she is trying to find a place for herself outside Bengal,” Modi said while addressing a rally in South 24 Parganas.On Modi’s statement, senior TMC leader and state minister Subrata Chatterjee said: “There cannot be any comment on such nonsensical topics.”The Prime Minister also countered Banerjee’s “outsider” and “tourist” remarks against the BJP’s central leaders coming to Bengal for campaigning. “The people of Varanasi and Uttar Pradesh are big hearted, and they would never call you outsider or tourist. You get irritated with Jai Shri Ram but there, every two minutes you will hear Har Har Mahadev. You will get people with tilaks and choti. What would you do then? On whom would you vent your anger?”After allegations of electronic voting machine rigging surfaced in Nandigram, which went to the polls on April 1, the TMC lodged a complaint with the Election Commission against central forces and also raised the issue of EVM malfunction.Modi said: “You didn’t get a chance to rig the polls and that’s why you are abusing the ECI and questioning the central forces? Ten years ago you had so much faith on these security forces.”In Assam, Modi urged voters to bring back the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government in the state to power again in order to continue the momentum of growth.“To continue this momentum of growth and development, it is very important to bring back NDA government to power. We believe in ‘sabka saath, sabka vikas, sabka vishwas’ (with all, development for all, with trust of all). We don’t discriminate in our schemes and everyone is equally benefitted,” he said at a rally in Tamulpur while ending his campaign in the state poll.The PM took a swipe at the Congress-led alliance and said that they were conspiring to take over Assam. “The election is still on. But yesterday some people made an announcement saying what kind of dress those in the next government would wear. There can be no greater dishonor for Assam and its culture. It is shocking that they are conspiring to take over Assam. You have to come out in large numbers and vote to foil their designs,” Modi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-mounts-attack-on-rivals-in-battlegrounds-assam-bengal-101617475088145.html
04-04-2021||India||Woman given two Covid-19 shots in one sitting, probe ordered||Mere minutes apart, a 48-year-old woman was administered two doses of the coronavirus vaccine at a health care centre in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur Dehat district while the auxiliary nurse midwife (ANM) was speaking over the phone and allegedly forgot she had already given one shot, according to the recipient’s complaint to district officials.Kamlesh Devi received the Covishield vaccine; of which the second dose is supposed to be given 4-8 weeks after the first is administered. India has so far approved two vaccines: Covaxin and Covishield, both two-dose shots.District magistrate JP Singh has formed a three-member team of doctors to probe the incident that took place at the Madauli primary health centre (PHC) in the district’s Akbarpur area on Friday.The condition of the woman is stable. Her right arm is swollen (a normal symptom after vaccination), and she is currently under observation by doctors at her residence in Madauli village, said her husband Vipin Kumar.“The standard dose for the AstraZeneca vaccine (Covishield is the Indian version of the same) is 5x10^10 viral particles per dose. There are no reported cases of overdose of this vaccine, but the packet insert says that there is no specific treatment for it. The person will just have to be monitored and given symptomatic treatment as appropriate. From what I understand, the person would still need a booster dose four to eight weeks later to generate an optimal immune response,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.He added, “There have been instances of overdose documented with the Pfizer vaccine. There were some people in Brisbane, Australia, who received four times the recommended dose and eight health care workers in Germany who were administered five times the dose by error. Four of the eight persons in Germany were admitted to a hospital; they had flu-like symptoms.”According to the complaint to the health care centre incharge, Dr Rakesh Kumar, Devi said the ANM, identified only as Archana, was busy on a phone call when she injected Devi with two doses one after the other.Devi alleged that when she pointed out the lapse, Archana reprimanded her, asking why the 48-year-old woman had not left after getting the first shot. HT has reviewed a copy of the complaint.After the incident, the woman’s family members protested at the centre, and alerted the district magistrate and chief medical officer Dr Rajesh Katiyar.Katiyar said a panel of doctors had begun questioning the ANM and other staff members at the centre, and will submit a report to the DM in the coming days.The centre incharge, Dr Rakesh Kumar, too, said he had recommended the probe.With inputs from Anonna Dutt in New Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-given-two-covid-19-shots-in-one-sitting-probe-ordered-101617465187905.html
04-04-2021||Today's||What campaign slogans, speeches and songs reveal about Bengal’s polls||In recent years, election campaigns in India have tended to be high-pitched, but the one in Bengal seems to be shriller than usual. That has partly to do with the high stakes involved. For the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), it is an existential battle. For the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), Bengal is a prize that it has long eyed for both ideological and electoral reasons. Many analysts have dismissed election campaigns in India, particularly the current one in Bengal, as hitting the lowest registers and missing the real issues. But that does not take away from the importance of campaigning and its impact on voters, particularly the undecided ones.The BJP has picked on the theme of poriborton or change that the TMC so successfully used in 2011 against the Left Front’s 34-year rule with the memorable slogan, Hoy ebar noy never, (this time or never). To make a distinction, the BJP has added ashol (real) before poriborton. The BJP’s election manifesto also promises a return to Sonar Bangla, or Golden Bengal, borrowed from Rabindranath Tagore’s classic song. This has been supplemented with the rhetoric of the Jai Shri Ram slogan, which was alien to West Bengal, and is now being used for both communal and caste mobilisation. The TMC has pushed back against the BJP’s Hindu nationalist rhetoric by resorting to Bengali nationalism and labelling the BJP as bohiragato or outsiders. It has also encouraged the use of the slogan Joy Bangla to counter Jai Shri Ram. During campaigning, the TMC unveiled its slogan, Bangla nijer meyekei chaay (Bengal wants its own daughter), which combines the centrality of Mamata Banerjee in the party’s campaign even while emphasising the outsider tag for the BJP. The other TMC slogan — khela hobe (game is on), which hints that elections are a playground but also a battlefield, has become wildly popular, with Banerjee almost always referring to it in her speeches. The BJP has responded by saying the game is over. The Left, in a sign of its attenuated state, has tried to revive its fortunes by using a remix of a Bengali song from a B-grade film.The campaign has, at times, become vitriolic and personal, but this can also be seen as part of the carnivalesque nature, albeit with violent undertones, of Indian elections. The BJP has referred to Banerjee not just as didi (elder sister) but pishi (aunt) for allegedly patronising her nephew, Abhishek Banerjee. The chief minister (CM) has, in turn, consistently alleged that Amit Shah’s son is a top cricket honcho because of nepotism. And she has not spared Modi or Shah and their physical appearances either, referring to the duo as hodolkoothkoot and kumro potash, Bengali words that are difficult to translate and play on body weight. In a recent speech, she also noted that the growth of Modi’s beard was inversely proportional to the state of India’s economy. The BJP has countered by mocking Banerjee’s foot injury sustained during campaigning. The party’s state president, known for making incendiary comments, criticised the CM for campaigning with one leg in plaster, advising her to wear Bermuda shorts instead of a sari.While some of the physical jibes are in poor taste, the symbolism of the body and dress in politics goes back a long way. Anthropologist Mukulika Banerjee has noted that while oratory and wordplay are essential in campaigns, voters also pay close attention to the clothes, expressions and body language of politicians. The CM, for instance, has always been identified with simple handloom saris and slippers. Modi, in contrast, chooses different clothes, depending on the setting.Social media has become integral to campaigning and mimics some characteristics of physical campaigning, including spreading misinformation. While it has lessened the importance of election rallies, it has not supplanted them. It has also popularised political songs, WhatsApp messages and memes which are not always linked to political parties. One example is a song by prominent Bengali actors against religious intolerance that has gone viral. It takes the good, bad, ugly and silly to make a campaign. The battle for Bengal is no different.Ronojoy Sen is senior research fellow, ISAS & SASP, National University of Singapore The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/what-campaign-slogans-speeches-and-songs-reveal-about-bengal-s-polls-101617547632905.html
04-04-2021||Today's||In Kashmir, new aspirations and a ray of hope||Kashmir Valley’s chinar trees, after having been stripped bare by the bitter winter, have begun to grow fresh buds. By the end of the month, they will regain some of their former glory. Will Kashmir and Kashmiriyat undergo such a renewal?Over the past week, I met several young people while in Kashmir with my family. Tausif Majid, from Tangmarg, Baramulla, considered a hotbed of terror, told me he is preparing for the entrance examination for a post-graduate degree in chartered accountancy. He eventually wanted to join the Indian Administrative Service. Somewhat surprised, I asked him why. He said over the last 10 years, many had passed this examination in Kashmir, and he hoped to do the same, through hard work, and bring name and fame to his family. I was elated, for it is the dreams of the young that make the world a better place.Two days later in Pahalgam, I passed a signboard that said “Punjabi Vaishno Dhaba, pure vegetarian”. For vegetarians like us, this seemed like a godsend. We found the one empty table in the small, clean eatery. While the four of us were perusing the menu, a young woman came and asked in fluent English, “Sir, I hope you have chosen from the menu. Tell me, what can I offer you?” We did not expect such grace and courtesy towards outsiders in a town marred by violent terror.After a delicious meal, I learnt her name was Gurupriya and she was from a family of Kashmiri Sikhs. Gurupriya told me, “This dhaba was opened by my father, now I have been running it for the last few years.” She wanted to expand the business further so that she could give everybody a taste of the good food and warmth of Kashmiri hospitality. Gurupriya said her uncle also ran a similar Punjabi restaurant nearby. Back in the car, I recalled that I had come to this region after 18 years. If I came back after another 18 years, perhaps I would find that the young woman had fulfilled her dream. While wandering about the Valley, I noticed a number of new hotels, wide avenues and signs of fledgling businesses. While it is too early to say that normalcy has returned, these are positive signs that things are on the right track. Feelings of dissatisfaction and alienation will remain among some and this will be kept alive by radical elements for as long as they can.While I was talking to Gurupriya on the afternoon of March 29, terrorists had attacked a member of the Block Development Council (BDC) and his security personnel, outside the municipal office at Sopore in Baramulla district. On April 1, as we were re-entering Srinagar, I learnt that a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) worker was attacked at Naogaum that day. According to the Institute for Conflict Management, in 2020, 321 people lost their lives in 140 terror incidents — these include 33 innocent Kashmiri civilians, 56 security personnel and 232 terrorists. This shows that the maximum damage is being inflicted on the terrorists. One reason for there being no major disturbance after the effective abrogation of Article 370 is the effective working of the security forces.Lieutenant-Governor Manoj Sinha is aware that to establish peace in the Valley, ordinary Kashmiris must gain the upper hand. This is the reason why he personally meets people one day in the week. All senior officers are present at this meeting, and problems are dealt with immediately. He has set up complaint boxes in every panchayat, and, in order, to address people’s problems, he has begun a block day programme every Wednesday.As a result of such accountability and direct communication, students have lined up for scholarships. In the last financial year, 800,000 students benefited under various scholarship schemes. Until December 2020, 950,000 lakh applications for scholarships had been received. This explains the confidence of young men such as Tausif at Tangmarg.Mohammad Amin, a government employee, was delighted that the railway project connecting Srinagar to Jammu is being implemented at a rapid pace. He believes that when the train between Delhi and Srinagar becomes operational, young people will find an easier passage to higher education. He said that earlier too, a lot of money used to come from Delhi, but, for the first time, people were seeing that it was being put to better use. A young entrepreneur, who had returned to Srinagar after completing his Masters in Business Administration from London, was so impressed with the flourishing infrastructure that he decided to construct a hotel here. He spoke of feeling hopeful after years, despite all the naysayers.Will Kashmir’s dreams, like those of its fabled chinars, blossom this time around? I, for one, am very hopeful.Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-kashmir-new-aspirations-and-a-ray-of-hope-101617547391418.html
04-04-2021||Editorials||Battling Covid-19 in Mumbai||Who is responsible for Mumbai’s mess? The answer is simple: Years of apathy under successive governments that sought to treat the city as a cash machine, rather than a living ecosystem. The city of dreams, whose engine is powered by money, does not have enough of anything — roads, housing, buses and trains, schools, hospitals, parks and public places. Before the lockdown last March, an average of seven people lost their lives, daily, on the railway tracks of the city’s famed suburban network. But the city that never sleeps chugged on nevertheless, just as it is, now, with an average of 16 deaths from Covid-19 a day for the past week. What the world takes for resilience — evident in that completely inappropriate term for people who go through hell just to make a living, the spirit of Mumbai — is largely resignation. Extraneous factors may have driven Mumbai’s (and Maharashtra’s) Covid-19 trajectory in the first wave. A mutant strain of the virus that’s more infectious is probably driving the second. These are beyond any government’s control. But restrictions that make work, life, play, travel safe for people are well within the state government’s remit. It was only on Sunday evening that the Uddhav Thackeray-led government decided to impose a weekend lockdown, restrict the use of public transport to 50% of its capacity, and order the closure of theatres, malls, religious places, among other steps, till April 30. This was necessary, and if anything, is too delayed and partial. The right time to impose these restrictions would have been March 1. As opposed as this newspaper is to the idea of a complete lockdown — it makes sense only if the period is used to strengthen health infrastructure, or arrest a raging wave that is threatening to go out of control — Maharashtra may well require a short, hard lockdown to make up for that lapse. The power to open up vaccines to all, meanwhile, is with the Centre. Vaccinating a million people in Maharashtra a day for the next three weeks will cover at least a fourth of its adult population. Yet, New Delhi has been happy to watch the state government fail spectacularly. Given its connectedness to the rest of the country, it is just a matter of time before the fire in Mumbai spreads. Both the state and the central government must act, now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/battling-covid-in-mumbai-101617546971616.html
04-04-2021||Editorials||Undermining the politics of secularism||In an election rally, West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee had contrasting messages for the two major religious communities of the state. She appealed to Hindus not to vote on religious grounds, on the basis of “Hindu-Mussalman”, and fall for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s attempt to divide people on religious lines. She appealed to Muslims that they must not let minority votes get divided, warned them not to fall for the rhetoric of Abbas Siddiqui (who is a part of the Left-Congress alliance), and warned the community that it would face the “biggest danger” if the BJP came to power. This message, in a way, sums up all that is wrong with the politics of secularism in India. Ms Banerjee clearly did not see a contradiction in asking Hindus not to vote as Hindus, and asking Muslims to vote as Muslims in a consolidated manner. It was in tune with her party’s strategy of winning a majority of the minority votes and a minority of the majority votes. But this undermines secularism, just as the BJP’s attempt to win a majority of the majority votes by stoking their anxieties, and constructing Muslims as the “other” undermines secularism. In fact, by pointing to attempts to consolidate the minority vote, the BJP is often able to stir up Hindu political consciousness across caste lines. Unless Indian politics is able to move beyond this excessive focus on group identities, and creation of binaries based on these, this approach will only get more entrenched. The BJP’s majoritarian politics is a challenge to India’s composite and diverse social mosaic, but the Opposition’s politics, with open appeals to minorities to prioritise their religious identity, weakens the secular project too.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/undermining-the-politics-of-secularism-101617546791386.html
