07-04-2021||Other||To avoid clash with panchayat polls, teacher’s recruitment exam postponed||Exam Regulatory Authority, Uttar Pradesh (UP) has postponed the scheduled written examination for recruitment against 390 vacant posts of headmaster/principal and 1,504 vacant posts of assistant teachers in 3,049 government-aided junior high schools across the state. The written examination was scheduled for April 18. “The junior high school headmaster/assistant teacher recruitment exam-2021 that was scheduled on April 18 now stands postponed due to the three-phase Panchayat Elections-2021 taking place in the state. New date of the exam would be announced later,” said Anil Bhushan Chaturvedi, secretary, Exam Regulatory Authority, UP. Exam Regulatory Authority, UP has sent copies of its notification, issued on Wednesday, in this regard to all divisional joint directors (education) and district inspector of schools besides all divisional commissioners and district magistrates. The move comes following a green signal for the postponement of the recruitment exam given by the state government on April 6 that came through special secretary RV Singh in his missive sent to secretary of Exam Regulatory Authority. Earlier, the Exam Regulatory Authority, UP had sought permission to postpone the recruitment exams as the exam were being held close to the panchayat polls of 16 districts set to take place for April 19 and which could prevent thousands of government primary and upper primary teachers who are applicants from appearing in it due to their poll duties. Polling is set to be held in 16 districts of the state on April 19 in the second phase of the panchayat polls. These 16 districts, includes Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bijnor, Amroha, Badaun, Etah, Mainpuri, Kannauj, Etawah, Lalitpur, Chitrakoot, Pratapgarh, Lucknow, Lakhimpur Kheri, Sultanpur, Gonda, Maharajganj, Varanasi and Azamgarh. The proposal to postpone the recruitment exams had followed letters from various District Magistrates to Secretary of Examination Regulatory Authority, UP pointing out that the entire administrative machinery would be busy during the elections. Due to this, it would not be possible for them to conduct the examination on April 18. Hindustan Times had highlighted this issue in its report “Teachers in a fix over panchayat poll duty and recruitment exam” published on March 4. More than 3.25 lakh candidates have applied for this recruitment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-avoid-clash-with-panchayat-polls-teacher-s-recruitment-exam-postponed-101617820108849.html
07-04-2021||Lucknow||Night curfew imposed in Lucknow due to rise in Covid-19 cases||Night curfew will be imposed under the Lucknow Municipal Corporation from Thursday till April 16, an official said, as the coronavirus cases continue to surge.There will be exemption on ferrying essential items and there will be no ban on movement of goods vehicles, Lucknow District Magistrate Abhishek Prakash said in a statement on Wednesday.The night curfew, starting from April 8, will be from 9 pm to 6 am till April 16, Prakash said. "From 6 am to 9 pm, work will be done with strict adherence to Covid-19 protocol."The night curfew will be imposed in areas that come under the Lucknow Municipal Corporation and not in the rural areas, the official said.Government/semi-government personnel working in night shift and those engaged in essential services in the private sector will get exemption. People moving in the railway station, bus station and airport can move by showing their tickets, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-lucknow-due-to-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101617819549432.html
07-04-2021||Other||Punjab CM sanctions ₹130 cr for flood protection measures||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday sanctioned ₹130 crore for execution of flood protection works across the state and directed the irrigation and revenue departments to ensure their completion before the onset of monsoon. Chairing a meeting of the State Flood Control Board through video conferencing, Captain Amarinder Singh ordered the placing of ₹10 crore at the disposal of the deputy commissioners of flood-prone districts to deal with any emergent situation arising due to heavy rain/floods. The CM directed DCs of flood-prone districts to prioritise their tasks and submit the list of projects requiring immediate attention to the finance department for sanction of funds. He also directed the DCs to undertake de-silting and cleaning of drains in consultation with the water resources department. Reviewing the status of reservoirs and dams, the CM expressed concern over existing low levels of water, which he said was the lowest in the past 40 years. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan underscored the need to carry out the necessary works with a holistic approach. In Jalandhar, the district administration claimed that it was all set to start a number of flood-protection measures along the Sutlej River, besides cleaning of drains. Deputy commissioner Ghanshyam Thori, who participated in the meeting with CM, said, “A total of 99 flood protection works along with cleansing of different drains have been identified in all five sub-divisions of the district at an outlay of ₹34.2 crore, with proposals already sent to the government.” During the floods that rocked the state in 2019, 21 breaches were reported in the district, which affected 103 villages, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-cm-sanctions-rs-130-cr-for-flood-protection-measures-101617820049369.html
07-04-2021||Other||Plans afoot to widen Sidhwan Canal bridge in Ludhiana||With an aim to facilitate smooth flow of traffic on South City Road and towards Laddowal Bypass, the Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (GLADA) is planning to reconstruct the bridge over Sidhwan Canal, near Jhammat village. Through the reconstruction, the width of the bridge will be increased from 3.7 metres to 12 metres at a cost of ₹7 crore. Councillor Mamta Ashu and Road Safety Council member Rahul Verma, along with officials of GLADA, visited the site on Wednesday.Ashu said the current width of the bridge was quite narrow to deal with the traffic volume, which caused frequent snarls. “Areas surrounding Jhammat village have witnessed development of a large number of residential colonies and some educational institutions have also been established. This has contributed to more traffic movement,” she said.The matter was taken up by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu in the past, following which officials of GLADA and irrigation department conducted a survey to resolve the traffic woes, she said.“The project has been divided into reconstruction of bridge and laying concrete on the approach roads connecting Jalandhar via Laddowal Bypass. GLADA will be the executive agency. Currently, work is at tendering stage. Construction will be completed within two months after issuance of the work order,” the councillor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/plans-afoot-to-widen-sidhwan-canal-bridge-in-ludhiana-101617819989550.html
07-04-2021||Lucknow||UP madarsa board to register with COBSE soon||: Students wanting to appear in the intermediate examination from madarsa board in Uttar Pradesh (UP) will now be able to pursue higher education by enrolling in central universities.Following instructions of the chief minister Yogi Adityanath, the UP madarsa board has decided to register itself with the Council of Board of School Education (COBSE) soon. “This step of the government will pave way for the madarsa Board students to enroll themselves in the central universities,” said Raghvendra Pratap Singh, registrar of UP madarsa board.There are 3 lakh students in 558 government aided madarsas and about 17000 private madarsas operating in the state, an official said.“Under the madarsa modernisation plan, the state government is going to give a big gift to the students of madarsas in the state before the start of Ramzan,” officials said.Zirgamudin, a member of the UP madarsa board said that the previous governments did nothing in the interest of the madarsa students and were just seeking votes in the name of madarsa.“Students here do not even apply for central government jobs. In fact, their dream of joining the army and serving the nation remains unfulfilled. The Yogi-government has taken good step for the madarsa students. The government’s biggest decision is to register the madarsa board with COBSE,” official said.Zirgamudin said that the madarsa board has started the registration process with COBSE. “The work of preparing documents is being done. A meeting has been held with the officials of the government as well. It is expected that the madarsa board will be registered in COBSE by the start of the new session. This will be a major achievement for the madarsa board,” the official said.Earlier, the UP government had introduced NCERT books in madarsas so that the students could connect with modern education along with the traditional Dini Talim or religious education.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-madarsa-board-to-register-with-cobse-soon-101617819990091.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal MC polls: Cong bags Palampur, Solan; BJP wrests Mandi||The Congress dealt a blow to the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) in the Palampur and Solan municipal corporations. Even as the BJP was a single seat short of majority in Dharamshala, it was able to wrest Mandi. In Palampur, while the Congress won 11 seats, the BJP was only able to clinch two of 15 seats while Independents were victorious in two. In Solan, Congress won nine of 17 seats while BJP managed to win seven seats after leading in the initial trend and Independents bagged one seat.In Dharamshala, the BJP won eight seats but fell one short of majority. There are 17 wards in Dharamshala civic body, of which Independents won four seats and Congress five. The Dharamshala MC was created in 2015 with the Congress winning 14 seats and the BJP three. Both, mayor Devinder Singh Jaggi and deputy mayor Onkar Singh Nehria have retained their seats. The Independents hold the key to the mayor and deputy mayor posts. In Mandi, the BJP swept 11 seats while the Congress bagged four of the 15 seats. BJP wins 3 nagar panchayats, Cong 2, Independents 1 Meanwhile, the ruling BJP swept three of the six nagar panchayats — Nirmand, Ani, Nerwa, Chirgaon, Kandaghat and Amb — that went to poll. In Ani nagar panchayat of Kullu district, BJP won five seats of seven and Congress two. Similarly, in Nirmand BJP won six seats and Congress one. Congress bagged the Chirgaon Nagar panchayat of Shimla district where it won six out of seven seats. The remainder seat went to the BJP. In Kandaghat, BJP won five seats and the Congress two. In Nerwa of Shimla district, Congress won three seats and BJP one. Three candidates were elected unopposed. Interestingly , in the Amb nagar panchayat, candidates supported by local BJP legislator Balbir Singh lost the election. In the newly created nagar panchayat, Independents won four seats, BJP three and Congress two. Last year, Balbir had threatened to step down as legislator unless Amb was declared a nagar panchayat. To pacify the disgruntled MLA, chief minister Jai Ram Thakur had conceded to his demand. 66% voter turnout in MCs, 68% in nagar panchayats State electoral officer Sanjeev Mahajan said the four municipal corporations recorded a cumulative voter turnout of around 66%. Mandi saw the highest voter turnout of 70.86%, followed by Palampur where 68.85% voters exercised their franchise. Dharamshala recorded 63.60% poll percentage and Solan 62.25%.Sixty -four posts of ward councillors were up for grabs in the four corporations. While the Dharamshala municipal corporation went to polls for the second time, the rest of the three civic bodies were newly created and elections were held for the first time. The six urban local bodies (ULBs) that went to polls recorded a collective 68% turnout while 78% votes were cast in 121 panchayats. Majan said woman voters once again outnumbered their male counterparts in polling. Forty-three Covid positive voters also exercised their franchise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-mc-polls-cong-bags-palampur-solan-bjp-wrests-mandi-101617819871036.html
07-04-2021||Other||Two booked for beating stray dog to death in Ludhiana||The police have booked two dairy workers for allegedly beating a stray dog to death on Noorwala Road in Basti Jodhewal on April 2.The matter came to fore on the complaint of an animal activist, Mani Singh, a resident of Field Gunj, who approached the police after his friend apprised him of the incident.Singh said his friend saw the two men, Kuli and Barjesh, beating a stray dog and tossing it on a plot after it died.“On his complaint, the duo has been booked under Section 429 (mischief by killing or maiming cattle, etc) of the Indian Penal Code and Section 11 of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act,” said investigating officer Roop Singh from Basti Jodhewal police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-booked-for-beating-stray-dog-to-death-in-ludhiana-101617819749417.html
07-04-2021||Noida||Noida authority allows pets in city parks||Noida: Acting on a direction from the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI), the Noida authority’s horticulture department has allowed entry of pets in city parks.“We have started removing the line that says ‘pets are prohibited inside’ from the boards installed in city parks. Soon this line will be removed in all city parks, mostly in this month,” said Indu Prakash Singh, officer on special duty of the Noida authority heading horticulture department.The warning boards have been revised in several parks in sectors 1 to 12, 14, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 34, 50, 51 and 53, and officials said changes will be made in the rest of the city “in another 20 days”. There are 726 parks under the authority across the city.Early February, a group of dog lovers had moved the AWBI and submitted photographs of the boards prohibiting entry of pets that the authority had put up. The issue was resulting in regular confrontations in residential blocks across the city, they argued.Acting on the petition, AWBI issued directions to the Noida authority in the last week of February to allow entry of pets in parks. Officials said the authority started removing the warning message from the parks from March 10. “After the horticulture department started removing this (banning entry of pets) line in their zones in parks, some people wanted to know if the authority bans the entry of pets in parks and we informed them that we do not prohibit the entry,” said Ritu Maheshwari, chief executive officer of the Noida authority.While pet lovers have welcomed the move, it has, however, not gone down well with a few.Pet lover Sanjay Mahapatra, who runs a free animal clinic in sector 54 footpath, is among those who are overjoyed by the decision. “Stray animals, be it dogs, cats, birds and other animals, are part of our ecosystem and we, as human beings, need to take care of these animals. In cities, other than parks, there are no other open areas. We need to make feeding points for not only dogs but also for birds, who depend on us for food,” he said.However, colonel (retd) MS Saxena, who is the former president of sector 30 residents’ welfare association, said, “The Noida authority should first make adequate arrangements where dogs can answer nature’s call. The dog owners do not clean up the excreta of their dogs, thus creating sanitation issues in local parks. The authority must impose some fine for such dog owners.”Meanwhile, Noida officials clarified that pet owners will soon issue guidelines, which will include specific timings for pets in parks, for pet owners. Security guards will also be deputed at large parks to make sure only pets with leashes are allowed inside and that the owners are carrying scoops and poop bags.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-allows-pets-in-city-parks-101617818729375.html
07-04-2021||Noida||Commuters of Crossings Republik, Greater Noida face issues as DME underpasses still not operational||To many who wish to travel to Crossings Republik township in Ghaziabad or Greater Noida (West), the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) is still out of bounds as the authorities are yet to open an underpass near ABES Engineering College.The national highways authority of India (NHAI), which constructed the DME, had left a median incomplete there, which commuters use to cross the road into incoming traffic and access the Shahberi road (also known as main Crossings Republik road) that leads to Crossings Republik and highrises in Greater Noida (West). The broken median is also an access for those who wish to move from these areas to the DME and onwards to Dasna and Meerut.The setup is risky with fast moving traffic from both sides, leaving sudden brakes difficult to execute. The upper speed limit on the DME in Uttar Pradesh is 100 kmph. “It is a big risk that commuters have to take but that has been the situation for months now. The underpasses that could have avoided this have not be opened up even though the DME was opened officially on April 1,” said Namita Gaur, resident of Crossings Republik. An alternative route that the more cautious commuter takes is Vijay Nagar to Greater Noida link road (to and fro) which is near Pratap Vihar. This involves an estimated additional travel of 3-4 kms in order to reach Greater Noida (West).The area near the ABES College is also major traffic junction for commuters. Just 500 metres away is the under construction railway over bridge (ROB) at Chipiyana. At the point, a 14-lane DME is suddenly bottlenecked into the current four-lane ROB.“In the absence of the underpasses, commuting has become risky on DME due to high flow of traffic and poses serious risk of accidents. There is no signage indicating the diversion towards Crossings Republik Township. Residents of Greater Noida (West) also move through the median of DME and take the Shahberi Road to go to their destination,” said Tarun Bharat Chauhan, president of Crossings Republik Owners & Members Association. The junction and the ROB are part of the DME’s phase 2 which is about 19.2km linking UP Gate and Dasna. It is estimated that around 60,000 passenger car units (PCU, a parameter that is determined by taking into account different vehicle types that ply on the road) per day. “The junction area is also poorly lit at night,” said Chauhan. “At the junction, there is major issue of wrong side driving as commuters have no alternative. When commuters further go to the ROB, there are traffic snarls due to pending construction and it sometimes results in long traffic jams up to the junction,” said Namita Gaur. NHAI officials said they had opened the median as a temporary measure for commuters. “The underpasses will be made operational soon and others works will also be taken up as required. Proper lighting and signage will also be put in place,” said Mudit Garg, project director of NHAI. “Six more lanes of the ROB will be complete by June and the rest by December-end,” Garg added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/commuters-of-crossings-republik-greater-noida-face-issues-as-dme-underpasses-still-not-operational-101617818728714.html
07-04-2021||Noida||NHAI opens interchange linking Delhi Meerut Expressway to Eastern Peripheral Express||With number of commuters growing since the four-phase Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) opened fully for traffic on April 1, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has now connected it with the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) through an interchange.The interchange is located about 3kms away from Dasna at Rasoolpur Sikrod. “Commuters can now travel easily to Baghpat or to Gautam Budh Nagar via the EPE. They will be charged a toll through the reading of their FASTag (an electronic toll collection system) at the entry and exit points of the EPE,” said Mudit Garg, project director from NHAI. According to official figures, the DME, which links Delhi to Meerut under 60 kms, has recorded one-side traffic of about 30,000 passenger car units (PCU, which is a unit to measure traffic depending on the type of vehicle) daily. So far, the interchange was blocked as the tolling for DME is yet to take off pending approval of the rates by the Union ministry of road transport and highways. Different operators manage the tolling systems for DME and EPE. “Once tolling starts at DME, the toll calculation will be between entry and exit points. In case a commuter uses the interchange, the toll will be so calculated as to pay the toll operator depending on the toll rates of each expressway,” Garg said.In February, the central government had mandated every vehicle to carry a FASTag. If any commuter opted to pay via cash, they would be charged double the toll rate for the entire DME stretch, said Garg. Officials said that the toll for DME is expected to be in range of ₹1.55 to ₹2.15 per kilometre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/nhai-opens-interchange-linking-delhi-meerut-expressway-to-eastern-peripheral-express-101617818668704.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Nawanshahr man missing for three days found dead in truck||The decomposing body of a truck driver, missing since April 3, was found in his vehicle near Amaltas village on National Highway 44 on Tuesday evening. According to police, the deceased, Harpreet Singh, 30, was a resident of Balachaur in Nawanshahr.His brother, Ranjit Singh, told the police that Harpreet had left for Faridabad on March 27 after loading his truck with iron rods in Mandi Gobindgarh.However, his phone went out of reach on April 3. After his family alerted the police, a search was initiated and he was found dead in the truck, which was parked on the service lane along the national highway.The Salem Tabri police sent the body to civil hospital for autopsy to establish the exact cause of death. A case of murder has been registered under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.The deceased is survived by his wife and a three-year-old daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/nawanshahr-man-missing-for-three-days-found-dead-in-truck-101617818429481.html
07-04-2021||Bangalore||Implementation of 6th pay commission will be discussed after by-polls: K'taka home minister to KSRTC workers||Karnataka Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Wednesday appealed to Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) workers to not go on strike, saying that the issues implementing the sixth pay commission will be discussed after the by-polls.Speaking to the media, he said: "We are with the transport employees we stand with them and fulfill their demands. We already had several talks belongs to issues implementing the sixth pay commission. It will be further discussed after the elections as there is a code of conduct now."Going on strike doesn't solve any problem at this point of time, the Minister added.Bus services were affected and commuters were stranded in Bengaluru on Wednesday as KSRTC employees went on an indefinite strike over their demand for revision of salary.The KSRTC has issued temporary permits to private buses for the convenience of passengers.KSRTC employees have given a call for a strike with the following demands: salary hike, permanent job, wages, and shifts. The employees are working as contract workers in the department.Several meetings were held previously with transport association and organisation with the transport minister, state Deputy Chief Minister and also with Chief Minister, but nothing fruitful emerged.Belagavi Lok Sabha and the assembly segments of Basavakalyan and Maski - going to the polls on April 17.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-home-minister-urges-ksrtc-workers-to-not-go-on-strike-101617817512429.html
07-04-2021||Noida||Man held for illegally selling plots in Yamuna floodplains||Police on Wednesday arrested a 45-year-old man for allegedly illegally selling plots in the Yamuna floodplains.The suspect was identified as Sanjay Adhana, a native of Faridabad. According to police, he was running a property dealing firm along with his more partners, who were not involved in the scam, in Noida. “He was carving plots and selling them illegally in the Yamuna flood plains to unsuspecting buyers. This was agricultural land that he was dealing in,” said Gurwinder Singh, officer in-charge, Expressway police station.Police said that Adhana had at least four cases registered against him for similar offences -- one in 2015 at Phase 2 police station and three since 2018 at the Expressway police station.He was nabbed following tip from an informant and was booked under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery) and 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating)of the Indian Penal Code.He was produced before a magistrate and later sent to jail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-held-for-illegally-selling-plots-in-yamuna-floodplains-101617817768638.html
07-04-2021||Noida||G Noida: Three govt school teachers booked over fake certificates||Greater Noida: Three government school teachers have been booked for allegedly submitting fake certificates to get the job in Greater Noida. The services of these teachers have been terminated after an inquiry found that they had submitted fake documents, officials said.Police have registered two FIRs -- one against a teacher in Jewar and another against two teachers in Dankaur. Both the FIRs were registered on April 3, police said.In the first case, block education officer Sunil Dutt Mudgal, the complainant, said that Santosh Kumari worked at a primary school at Nai Basti in Jewar. “Kumari had submitted a B.Ed degree certificate from a state university in Delhi. An investigation ordered by the state government revealed that the document provided by her was fake. Her job has been terminated and a police complaint is filed,” he said. Umesh Bahadur, station house officer, Jewar police station, said that based on the complaint, a case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating), and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) of the Indian Penal Code. “We are investigating the case,” he said. Dankaur police have also registered a case under same IPC sections against two teachers – Sushma Rani and Asha Kumari. The Dankaur block education officer, Narendra Singh Pawar, said that the government had received information about some teachers submitting fake certificates to get the jobs. “The government formed a special investigation team (SIT) and conducted investigation of teachers across different districts in UP. The SIT found degree certificates of some teachers fake and then directed the regional education officers to file police complaint,” he said, adding that the local education department has no role in the investigation. Rani used to teach at a primary school in Chachura village, while Asha Kumari was a teacher at a school in Bhatta village. “Services of both the teachers have been terminated,” Pawar said. Anil Kumar Pandey, SHO, Dankaur police station, said a case of cheating and forgery has been registered against the duo and an investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/g-noida-three-govt-school-teachers-booked-over-fake-certificates-101617817709235.html
07-04-2021||Noida||Out on bail, Anil Dujana booked for criminal intimidation||Gangster Anil Dujana was on Wednesday booked for allegedly threatening a complainant in a murder case against him in Greater Noida.Accused in 43 criminal cases, Dujana was arrested in 2012 in connection with a murder in Muzaffarnagar. In February, he was released on bail.Dinesh Kumar, station house officer of Badalpur police station, said, “In 2011 he had allegedly murdered a trader named Jay Chand. That murder case was regsitered at Dadri police station and Chand’s wife Sangeeta Tomar (40) is pursuing the legal battle. On April 4, Dujana waylaid Tomar and told her to turn hostile in the case or there would be consequences.”But Tomar did not back down. She lodged a complaint with the Badalpur police.“Based on the complaint, a case under section 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code was registered against Dujana. Though he is on bail, he is not at his Greater Noida home,” the SHO said. He added that Tomar had been given security since her husband’s murder.Dujana’s criminal cases include murder, attempt to murder, extortion, criminal intimidation, among others. After bail, he had married a woman named Pooja, a resident of Baraut in Baghpat. Jitendra Nagar, Dujana’s advocate, said that the cases against his client are false. “There are only 15-16 active cases against Dujana now. Pooja wanted to contest the Zila Panchayat election from Ward No 2. She had bought the form and was making preparations. We got to know about recent FIR against Dujana. This is a fictitious allegation as Dujana is not in Greater Noida,” he said. Nagar said that the case appears to be rival’s ruse to stop Pooja from contesting. “We suspect if Pooja contests, Dujana will be arrested to prevent him from campaigning for her. Pooja has decided against contesting the election now,” Nagar said. Pooja’s political banners and posters were also removed on Wednesday. Dujana and his wife were not available for a comment. Dujana had won the Zila panchayat election while contesting from the jail in 2016. He had defeated Sangram Singh, who carried out his election campaign wearing a bulletproof jacket, by 10030 votes.DCP (Noida Central) Harish Chander said that since Dujan had violated the terms of his bail, he’d be arrested. “We would also appeal to the high court against bail.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/out-on-bail-anil-dujana-booked-for-criminal-intimidation-101617817708648.html
07-04-2021||Noida||UP govt allows increase in floor area ratio for plots in Greater Noida: Officials||GREATER NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday allowed amendment of the Greater Noida Industrial Area (Fifth Amendment) Building Regulations, 2021. The revised rules and regulations for the construction of buildings will help certain categories of allottees to construct more areas over a plot, and build taller towers in some categories of plots, according to the officials.The amendment came after the Town and Planning Department in Greater Noida sent a proposal to the Uttar Pradesh government, that finally issued a gazette notification, allowing an increase in the floor area ratio (FAR) — which is the proportion obtained by dividing the total covered area (plinth area) on all floors by the area of the plot. Information technology and other such companies will be able to construct double the number of floors than what has been allowed so far, since the FAR allowed for such housing complexes was increased from 1 to 2.The non-polluting industrial units, including biotechnology, research and development companies, will be allowed to construct 4.25 times of space over the size of the plots. While the FAR for 2 will be given to them at the time of the allotment, an additional 2.25 FAR can be bought by paying the required premium. The FAR for new residential group housing, commercial and mixed-use projects will remain the same, capped at 5.25.SP Shukla, Officer on special duty (industries), said that the planning department had assessed the demand of the allottees, and requested the government to revise the rules.“With the FAR for 1, an allottee having a plot of 5,000-square-metre can construct floors having a cumulative area of 5,000-square-metre. With the FAR of 2, an individual can construct 10,000-square-metre of floor space over the same plot. The FAR is increased or decreased to make investments in a town more lucrative than the neighbouring cities, or to bring down congestion levels,” said Narendra Bhooshan, chief executive officer (CEO), Greater Noida authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/up-govt-allows-increase-in-floor-area-ratio-for-plots-in-greater-noidaofficials-101617817588559.html
07-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad scales up Covid beds to about 1,500 as cases rise||Ghaziabad: The Ghaziabad administration has scaled up the number of beds in private and government hospitals to deal with an upsurge in Covid-19 cases in the district. Officials said that a total of 1,486 Covid-19 beds have been made available -- 968 in private hospitals and 518 in government facilities. “We have scaled up the beds in the district, and more would be arranged as and when required. At present, we have more than three times more beds available in comparison to the active cases. Of the 1,486 beds, we have 118 beds having ventilators and 223 ICU beds,” said Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer. According to the state’s daily Covid-19 bulletin, the district had 442 active cases till Wednesday morning. Out of 442 patients, 212 of them are in home isolation and 55 admitted to government hospitals while the rest taking up treatment in private hospitals, the officials said. At the end of March when the district had 309 active cases, about 400 beds were available for Covid-19 patients in the government hospitals, they said.“The severity of infection is almost similar to what prevailed during the last year. Majority of the patients at present are asymptomatic and about 48% patients are in home isolation,” Gupta added. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls. Of the 518 Covid beds under the district administration, 400 are at Santosh Medical College which is an L3 category facility (for moderate patients), while 118 are at Sanjay Nagar government hospital which is an L2 category facility (for critical patients). “We have 10 patients in our hospital and they have mild to moderate symptoms. We have put only one of them on oxygen as a precautionary measure,” said Dr Sanjay Teotia, chief medical superintendent of Sanjay Nagar hospital. Meanwhile, Ghaziabad on Wednesday reported 76 fresh cases, taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 27,712, which included 102 deaths. So far, a total of 27,165 patients have been discharged in the district, as per the health bulletin.Experts said that the present wave of infection is more contagious than the last year’s. “The infection is spreading fast. The spread is more as there is no check on movement of people and many are still not following precautions like social distancing or wearing of face mask,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “The good thing is that we have just about 5% cases which have gone to severe condition,” said Jindal. To gauge the spread of infection in the district, the sample positivity rate in Ghaziabad during the month of March stood at 0.69% while it is now about 1.36% during first five days of April. Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested. Sometimes patients take more than one test for confirmation and so, total positive samples can be higher than total positive cases, the officials explained. The state officials said that UP has 31,987 active cases, besides 8,964 deaths and 604,979 patients discharged till April 7. “Of the total active cases, we have 18,679 patients who are in home isolation and 668 in private hospitals while the rest are taking up treatment in government health-care facilities,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-scales-up-covid-beds-to-about-1-500-as-cases-rise-101617817529230.html
07-04-2021||Patna||Madhubani killings: RJD, Congress raise the heat||Stepping up attack on the Nitish Kumar government over the recent killing of five persons, including an assistant sub-inspector of the Border Security Force (BSF), at a village in Madhubani district, the Opposition on Wednesday accused the state administration of giving patronage to the accused and demanded a fair probe.Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who visited the victim’s family at Mahmudpur village, sought a probe into the alleged links between BJP MLA from Benipatti Binod Narayan Jha and the main accused in the case, Pravin Jha , who allegedly runs a private army called Ravan Sena and was arrested from Nepal on Wednesday.Addressing a press conference, Yadav said, “Neither chief minister Nitish Kumar nor the deputy chief ministers visited the village. It was only after I visited the site of incident and talked with the family of the deceased that the main accused was arrested. It shows the government only acted when there was pressure from the opposition.”He also alleged that the police and state administration were giving patronage to “Ravan Sena” chief all these days after the incident took place on March 29 because of Jha’s political links. “I was told by family members of the deceased and locals about BJP MLA Binod Narayan Jha’s close links with the Sena chief. We want police to seek call details of the BJP MLA and probe his alleged links with the main accused,” Yadav said.The RJD scion also demanded immediate removal of the district’s superintendent of police (SP) and the deputy SP, saying the kingpin enjoyed close proximity to them.The BJP MLA has dismissed the charge. “Criminals have no caste. I have never had links with such people and can never dream of keeping any such association. I want those involved in the killings to get death punishment,” Jha said.Meanwhile, a six-member fact-finding team of the state Congress, led by former minister Awadhesh Kumar Singh, said the bloodshed could have been averted had the district authorities responded swiftly and reached the spot on time. “The incident happened barely three kilometres from the subdivisional office of Benipatti, but the police took four hours to reach there despite frantic calls made by the villagers,” Singh said.The Madhubani massacre has snowballed into a major issue in the state and even the constituents of the ruling alliance had questioned the role of police.Forest and environment department minister Neeraj Kumar Singh alias Bablu, who visited the village a week after the incident, said, “This is not an ordinary crime. Yet, no action against the police officials was taken.”A delegation of JD(U) leaders led by former minister Jai Kumar Singh also met the victim’s family and later briefed the CM about the incident.On Tuesday, the CM has said no one involved in the killings would be spared.On the day of Holi on March 29, around 35 armed men had opened fire on the family of one Ranvijay Singh over a land dispute in the village.Singh and his cousin brother Virendra Singh were killed on the spot. Three other family members, BSF officer Rana Pratap Singh, Amrendra Singh and Rudra narayan Singh, succumbed to his injuries a day later.Another injured person, Manoj Singh, is currently being treated at the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital.The police said that about a dozen persons, including the main accused in the case Navin Jha, have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/madhubani-killings-rjd-congress-raise-the-heat-101617816359396.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||Unauthorised street vendors asked to return carts||At least 350 illegal street vendors operating under the street vending zones of the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) have been directed to hand over their carts within a week’s time period or face legal action.MCG deputy municipal commissioner Dr Vijaypal Yadav, who oversees the civic body’s street vending project, said that the civic body found at least 350 illegal street carts operational. Yadav said that as per the MCG’s street vending policy, original licensees of the carts cannot lease or transfer the ownership to another person.Around 1,600 street vendors are operating in MCG’s 125 street vending zones. The MCG’s first street vending zone opened in November 2016, on a vacant plot opposite Medanta Hospital in Sector 32. An MCG street vending zones is a designated area where street vendors, mainly food or beverage vendors, sell their products to residents at affordable rates.“As per the rule, a street cart can neither be transferred in the name of another nor can it be given to any other person on rent. During the survey and investigation, it has been found that some people have rented the cart to others or have been transferred in the name of others. This type of process is illegal, and the violators have been directed to surrender their cart or else legal action will be initiated by the MCG against them and their belongings confiscated,” said Yadav.Yadav said that street vendors in Sector 56, which had the highest number of violations, 75, were also called to his office on Monday for a meeting and were given until Wednesday evening to hand over their carts.“We are taking action against all street vending zones in a phased manner. On Wednesday, street vendors of Sector 44 market were called to my office and they will also be given a two-day deadline to hand over their carts of face action. Within this week, all vending zones will be covered,” said Yadav.Yadav also said that street vendors were also reminded that ovens (tandoor) and furnaces cannot be used on top of the cart as per the street vending policy and they needed to be removed immediately.During last month’s MCG House meeting, the street vending policy had become a major topic of debate among councillors and officials. Officials of the MCG too argued the matter, with MCG commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh cautioning Yadav repeatedly to keep the decorum of the House.As per an MCG estimate, there are around 18,000 street vendors in Gurugram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/unauthorised-street-vendors-asked-to-return-carts-101617816630573.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||Mercury set to rise over next week, air quality to improve||The temperature in the city is set to rise in the coming days, with the mercury expected to touch 44 degrees Celsius by next week, according to a weather forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD).On Wednesday, the maximum temperature in Gurugram was 38.3 degrees Celsius and the minimum temperature was 22 degrees Celsius. This was a slight drop in the maximum temperature, after the city recorded its highest maximum temperature in April, at 40.4 degrees Celsius on Tuesday. The city had recorded its highest maximum temperature for the season so far on March 29, with the mercury hitting 40.5 degrees Celsius.As per the weekly forecast of the IMD, the maximum temperature is expected to gradually increase to 44 degrees Celsius by April 13. However, the minimum temperature will remain around 23 degrees Celsius. The forecast further predicted a possibility of rain or thunderstorm in Gurugram on April 13.Meanwhile, the city’s air quality entered the poor zone on Wednesday, recording an air quality index (AQI) of 258 on the Central Pollution Control Board’s bulletin. The air quality has deteriorated in the past two days, from moderate AQI, with a reading of 177, recorded on Monday.VK Soni, head of environment monitoring and research centre, IMD, said, “Air quality in the Delhi-NCR is likely to improve in the coming days with AQI readings to be under the moderate category. Due to dust storms, air quality had been in the poor category, but now the dust is gradually settling, leading to improvement in air quality.”As per the official bulletin for Delhi-NCR by Air Quality Early Warning System for Delhi, the air quality is likely to remain in the moderate category over the next few days. On Thursday and Friday, the air quality is likely to improve and remain in the poor to moderate category. On Thursday, the predominant surface wind is likely to be coming from northwest directions of Delhi with wind speed 8-15 kmph and mainly clear sky, while on Friday, wind speeds are likely to reduce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mercury-set-to-rise-over-next-week-air-quality-to-improve-101617816629551.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||Two-storey building, adjoining shop gutted in fire at Sadar Bazar||A three-storey building and an adjoining shop were gutted in a major fire at Sadar Bazar on Wednesday evening as firefighting operations continued beyond 11pm, at the time of filing of the report. However, no injuries were reported in the incident.According to fire department officials, they received a call about the fire at 6.43pm and more than 20 fire tenders deployed to contain the fire. The cause of the fire was yet to be determined, said officials.The fire broke out in a three-floor hardware store, located at the point where the Basai Road starts. Initially, one fire tender was sent. However, upon arrival, fire department officials called for more vehicles due to the intensity of the blaze. “The entire three-floor hardware store is gutted. The fire broke out when shopkeepers and staff were present inside. However, they all managed to escape unharmed. We are yet to ascertain the cause of the fire. It is likely to have been caused by a short circuit,” said a fire department official at the spot.The official cited above also said that the hardware store had highly flammable objects, due to which the intensity of the fire continued to increase and spread to a one-storey plywood store located to the left side of the building. Officials said that the hardware store and plywood store shared boundaries.Fire department officials said they broke the shutters to start dousing operations. In the interim, they also used a 42-metre hydraulic ladder to douse the fire on the third floor of the hardware store, as the intensity of the fire was the highest there and they wanted to prevent it from spreading to other shops in the vicinity.As roads leading to the spot were narrow, traffic from Rajiv Chowk moving towards Sohna Chowk was also diverted.Officials turned off the power at the site as a section of overhead electric cables was also located in close proximity to the hardware store.With more than 1,200 shops and 350 street vendors, Sadar Bazar receives a high footfall in the evening hours. The fire department and Gurugram police officials cordoned off the site due to a high number of onlookers and also directed shopkeepers and other customers to move their vehicles to a safe distance.“Around 20-25 fire tenders are dousing the blaze. We are expecting to control it around midnight. No person has suffered any injuries in the incident. The fire has gutted two shops and dousing operations are underway to prevent it from spreading to other nearby shops,” said Sunil Adlakha, fire safety officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/twostorey-building-adjoining-shop-gutted-in-fire-at-sadar-bazar-101617816628651.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||RWAs find it tough to track residents’ travel history||Even as the residents’ welfare associations (RWAs) across the city started enforcing the Covid-19 protocols in their societies and condominiums, following directions from the district administration on Tuesday, many said they were unable to ascertain the travel history of residents.“We received the circular on Wednesday and the directions related to wearing masks, thermal checking, sanitizing common areas is being taken up. It will be difficult to track flight plans as people cite privacy concerns and also don’t want to give too much information to RWAs,” said Sanjay Lal, former vice-president, Lagoon RWA.However, RWAs said they have started implementing safety measures with ease.At Ramprastha City, where around 1,200 families live in three condominiums, the RWA on Wednesday decided to restrict the entry of car cleaners and domestic helps who were working in houses from where new cases were reported. They have been asked to self-quarantine, said RWA members, adding that strict checking of visitors and thermal scanning of food delivery persons was also started.“Apart from taking these measures, we are organising a Covid test camp for all maintenance staff that includes horticulture, housekeeping technical workers,” said Pradeep Rahi, president, Ramprastha City Welfare Association, adding that from Thursday, they will start penalising residents who don’t wear masks.The administration on Tuesday put the onus of tracking travellers on RWAs, even as the city continued to witness a spike in Covid-19 cases, with 611, the highest single-day spike this year, reported on Wednesday. The number of active cases, which was at 534 on March 15, rose to 3,905 on Wednesday. The district administration said that the Covid-19 norms should be implemented strictly and violators will be charged under sections of the IPC and Disaster Management Act.At Vatika Seven Lamps in Vatika City, the RWA said it has shared guidelines issued by the district administration with residents and asked them to follow them strictly.“We are regularly sharing information, such as notices from administration, testing and vaccination with residents related. We are working towards limiting the entry of visitors and asked residents to declare their recent foreign travel history,” said Mamta Yadav, president, The Seven Lamps RWA.Yadav, however, said that getting travel details and other personal information was difficult for RWAs, as residents fear they would be forced into quarantine.RWA functionaries said that some residents even avoid testing, as a positive result could bring their work and travel plans to a halt. “People prefer staying at home and getting treated silently as Covid-19 is still considered a stigma,” said an RWA member, requesting anonymity.On Sohna road, Dharmender Jha, the president of Rosewood RWA, said all curbs will.be implemented fully in two to three days. “If home deliveries are banned, people start fighting with the RWA. So instead of banning these, we have decided to enforce thermal checks and sanitization of visitors. We are also strict on wearing masks for everyone and challans will be issued to violators,” he said.Parveen Malik, a resident of Sare Homes, said that their RWA had already put in place several measures but these are being made more stringent. “People not wearing masks will be fined, we already have a database of senior citizens, who will be cared for. Entry of outsiders will be restricted,” he said.Agencies maintaining condominiums also said that they had activated the safety protocols and are working towards implementing the norms. “We are closely following the rising Covid cases in the country, specifically across Delhi/ NCR. We have been sending out communication in the form of mailers and WhatsApp to residents, so that they adhere to Covid-19 safety guidelines,” said AK Singh, president and chief executive officer of Enviro, a maintenance agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/rwas-find-it-tough-to-track-residents-travel-history-101617816510745.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to repair, de-silt drains to prevent road cave-ins||In a bid to prevent road cave-ins during monsoon, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) proposed a project to repair sewer lines across the city and de-silt them, officials said on Wednesday. A proposal for the project, along with rehabilitation and strengthening of old master sewer lines, is likely to be tabled before the chief minister for approval during the authority’s board meeting scheduled on Friday.“During monsoon, overflow from drains and sewer lines is reported from many areas and to curb that, we have made this proposal with the idea of Gurugram heading towards a silt-free area. This will be a round-the-clock project with special focus on areas where all kinds of waste are dumped in the sewer lines, leading to heavy silting and blockage,” said Pradeep Kumar, chief engineer for infrastructure-II division of GMDA.Kumar said that such areas are being identified and work will start after approval. However, no timeline has been set for the completion of the work.According to GMDA officials, instances of heavy waste in sewer lines have been often reported from Iffco Chowk and stretches along the Mehrauli-Gurugram Road in the past few years. With roads built over the sewer lines, there is a potential danger of accidents, if the sewer line breaks due to pressure, he said.The city has a 135-kilometre-long sewer network, for which de-silting will be done in phases. The authority has already carried out de-silting (as part of other projects currently underway) for 33 kilometres and an estimate for de-silting 53 kilometres has been made. De-silting will not be needed for 25 kilometres of the network as the sewer lines are comparatively new, said officials.The project is estimated to cost around ₹130 crore.Kumar said, “Due to production of gases like methane, carbon dioxide, hydrogen sulphite and others, the internal surface of the pipelines that have been there for over 25-30 years starts decaying. Over time, stretches where heavy waste (like industrial waste) is dumped in sewer lines become more prone to damage and for that, we have planned to repair some particular stretches.”The authority has also kept a provision for cured in place pipe (CIPP) for repairing sewer lines on a 15-kilometre stretch. Such repair work has already been done over 9 kilometres in the last year. Through CIPP, specific stretches of the sewer network where heavy damage has been caused, due to accumulation of silt along with the production of toxic gases from waste dumped in the sewer lines, are repaired. This process is followed to avoid changing the whole sewer line, which can cause inconvenience to the public.In May last year, the GMDA found around 48 points in the city where sewer lines from the neighbouring residential and commercial establishments were connected to the surface drains illegally. Such illegal connections add to the burden of the pipelines, resulting in faster decay and damage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-repair-de-silt-drains-to-prevent-road-caveins-101617816509893.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||Speeding car rams motorbike, kills two||Two persons died after the motorcycle they were riding was hit by a speeding car ahead of an under-construction toll plaza on Sohna Road on Tuesday night. The police said that the car driver allegedly fled the scene leaving the vehicle behind. He has been identified but was yet to be arrested. The police said the accident took place around 10.15pm. According to the police, the victims, identified as Majlis Habib and Mohammad Salamuddin of Dhunela in Bhondsi, worked as motor mechanics in a private workshop in Shivaji Nagar in Sector in 11. Jagbir Singh, station house officer of Bhondsi police station, said that it was a head-on collision and due to the high speed of the car, victims were flung to the other side of the road, around 50 metres from the spot of the collision, due to the impact. “The car driver was speeding and driving rashly. Due to the toll plaza construction, the route is one way. The driver lost control and rammed the motorbike from the front. Both men fell on the road and sustained critical injuries to their heads and bodies. The car driver must have also suffered injuries due to the heavy impact,” he said. The police said that the motorbike and the front side of the car were completely damaged due to the impact.After passersby informed the police, a team from Bhondsi police station took the injured persons to Sohna Civil hospital, but doctors declared them brought dead. Rashid Khan, a cousin of Habib, said he was riding on his motorcycle a few metres away when the accident took place. “Every day after work I along with Habib and another mechanic used to ride back together to our village. On Tuesday, after closing my workshop in Sector 15, I called them and we met at Subhash Chowk. They were around 50 metres ahead of me when they met with an accident,” he said. Police said they were checking the CCTV footage from different locations on the stretch to establish the speed of the car. A case was registered against the suspect under sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) at Bhondsi police station on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/speeding-car-rams-motorbike-kills-two-101617816508506.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||Single-day Covid spike at 611, highest in 2021||The single-day spike in Covid-19 infections on Wednesday hit its highest this year, with Gurugram recording 611 new infections, as per the health department data. The count of active cases reached 3,905, almost a sixfold increase in the numbers over the last three weeks, with the health department officials deciding to increase the number of containment zones as they are anticipating a further surgeThe highest number of containment zones in the city was reported in November, when around 140 such zones were notified by the district administration. At present, there are 35 containment zones in the city.“We will recommend an increase in the containment zones on Thursday as there is a rise in the number of cases and localised spreads are being identified so that these are contained. We have also asked authorities to strictly implement Covid protocols. With the rising number of cases, these zones have already been increased from 12 to 35,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, who also said that the department was expecting a rise in cases for a few weeks.To check the spread, Yadav said that they have increased testing from 3,000 to 5,000 and further to 7,000 over the last 10 days, adding that the same may be increased if necessary. “The number of beds reserved in hospitals has been increased from 35% to 50%. We have also permitted vaccination in condominiums, offices and factories,” he said.On Wednesday, the health department also launched a major exercise to inoculate factory workers and executives in collaboration with local industrial associations. “Four session sites were set up in industrial areas and 121 persons were vaccinated at IMT Manesar, 283 in Sector 37, 147 in GIA Sector 14, and 219 in Udyog Vihar,” said Yadav, adding that strict enforcement of Covid safeguards and increase in testing will help contain the spread.As per the data shared by the health department, 6,454 persons received Covid jabs on Wednesday, with 3,911 at government facilities and 2,543 at private hospitals.Officials said that despite a record single-day spike on Wednesday, no Covid deaths were reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/singleday-covid-spike-at-611-highest-in-2021-101617816509229.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||Properties get costlier as admin sanctions circle rate hikes||Homebuyers in the city will have to shell out more for buying property as the district administration has announced a hike in circle rates and the same would be implemented from Thursday.As per the new rates, the buyers of independent floors in the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) sectors will have to shell almost 20% more as the circle rate has been increased from ₹5,500 per square feet (psf) to ₹6,500 psf. The rates for apartments in group housing societies in HSVP sectors has been increased from ₹3,600 psf to ₹7,500 psf.In a significant move that would also make apartments more expensive on the upscale Golf Course Road, the district administration had proposed that circle rates for DLF Aralias, Magnolias and Camelias be increased from ₹20,000 psf to ₹25,000 psf.The circle rates in group housing societies on Sohna Road and MG Road has also been increased from ₹8,000 psf to ₹9,000 psf. However, the circle rate for plots for residential plots on HSVP sectors and markets has not been changed.The circle rate for apartments in group housing societies in sectors 15 to 57 has been increased from ₹5,000 psf to ₹7,000 psf. Likewise, the circle rate for flats in group housing societies of sectors 58 to 63A has been increased from ₹3,500 psf to ₹5,000 psf.The district administration said that new circle rates will be implemented from April 8. The increase in circle rates, however, has not gone down well with properly dealers as they said that this will further drag the market down“The circle rates have been reduced in Delhi and many other states of the country. This hike in rates will further demotivate the buyers in Gurugram and Haryana, as the taxes are already high here. The government should have offered relief, but instead, hiked rates,” said Ramesh Singla, a real estate consultant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/properties-get-costlier-as-admin-sanctions-circle-rate-hikes-101617816449606.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||32-year-old executive robbed of cash at knifepoint||A 32-year-old executive of a private company was robbed of ₹30,000 at knifepoint on Tuesday by a person he had offered a lift to from Sector 46, the police said. The executive was on his way from Sector 46 to Sector 29 when the incident took place. An unidentified man flagged him down near the exit gate of Sector 46. “He boarded my car and was thankful. He was wearing a cap and facemask due to which his face was not clear. Within minutes, he took me at knifepoint and asked me to hand over cash and belongings. As I hardly had any cash, he forced me to withdraw it from a nearby ATM,” the executive said, requesting anonymity. The robber then took ₹30,000 from his account and fled on a scooter driven by an accomplice.The police were informed and a team from the Sector 50 station recorded the executive’s statement at the spot.Aman Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, said that they have recovered CCTV footage from several spots. “The suspect is yet to be identified. He appears to be in his late 30s. The scooter used by the suspect had no registration number but we are trying to identify them,” he said. A case under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Sector 50 police station on Tuesday afternoon. Yadav said the suspect had followed the car on Monday and was keeping a close watch on the victim’s movement. He stood at the crossing around 9.30am, when the traffic movement is slow. “We are scanning other CCTV cameras also to check their movement,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/32yearold-executive-robbed-of-cash-at-knifepoint-101617816448519.html
07-04-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Night curfew in urban areas of MP from April 8 as cases spike||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday announced the imposition of night curfew in all urban areas of the state from April 8 and also decided to operate the government offices for five days every week for the next three months.The government also announced a lockdown in urban areas of all districts on every Sunday till further orders, and a lockdown in the entire Chhindwara district for the next seven days beginning from 8 pm on Thursday."In view of increasing cases of COVID-19, all the government offices of the state will be open 5 days a week (Monday to Friday), from 10 am to 6 pm for the next 3 months. The government offices will remain closed on Saturday-Sunday," the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said in a tweet while informing about the decisions taken in a high-level meeting chaired by Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan."Night curfew will be clamped in all the urban areas of the state till further orders from 10 pm to 6 am every night from April 8. In the urban areas of all districts of the state, there will be a lockdown on every Sunday till further orders," it tweeted.In another tweet, CMO said that there will be a "complete lockdown in the entire Chhindwara district for the next 7 days from 8 pm on Thursday. There will be a complete lockdown for the next 2 days from 8 pm tonight (Wednesday) in Shajapur city".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-night-curfew-in-urban-areas-of-mp-from-april-8-as-cases-spike-101617815832854.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Pune sees dip in vax count second day in a row on Wednesday||Pune: After recording the highest number of vaccinations in the state for over a week, Pune saw a dip in vaccination numbers for the second day in a row on Wednesday. Only 55,000 beneficiaries got the vaccine, as opposed to 80,000 beneficiaries vaccinated on Monday. Pune also saw 11,023 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths in 24 hours on Wednesday, as per the state health department. Of the 55,539 beneficiaries who got the vaccine on Wednesday, Pune rural saw 22,269 beneficiaries, PMC saw 21,212 and PCMC saw 12,058. A majority of the beneficiaries, 48080, got Covishield, and 7,459 got Covaxin. A total of 391 session sites conducted vaccinations on Wednesday. Pune saw 11,023 new Covid-19 cases which took the progressive case count to 0.607 million of which 0.508 million have recovered. With 12 more deaths, the death toll went up to 8,536. Also 90,048 people are currently active cases in the district undergoing treatment or in isolation. Pune rural saw 2,462 new cases which takes the count to 1,38,207. With seven more deaths the death toll went up to 2,280. Pune city saw 5,637 new cases, which takes the total count up to 3,14,743. With five more deaths, the death toll went up to 4,807. PCMC saw 2,924 new cases taking the final count to 1,54,082. With no new deaths, the death toll stands at 1,399.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sees-dip-in-vax-count-second-day-in-a-row-on-wednesday-101617816028449.html
07-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh reports 40 Covid-19 deaths, 6,023 new cases||Uttar Pradesh reported 40 Covid-19 fatalities and 6,023 new cases of the disease on Wednesday, pushing the state's death toll to 8,964 and the infection tally to 6,45,930.Of the fresh fatalities due to the disease, six were from Lucknow, five from Kanpur, four from Ballia, three each from Allahabad and Varanasi, and two each from Moradabad, Ghazipur, Amroha and Fatehpur, the state government said in a statement.In addition, one fatality each was reported from Gorakhpur, Bulandshahr, Rae Bareli, Hardoi, Etawah, Chandauli, Mainpuri, Shamli, Kannauj, Bhadohi and Kaushambi, it added.Of the 6,023 fresh cases, 1,333 are from Lucknow, followed by 811 in Allahabad, 593 in Varanasi and 300 in Kanpur.Till now, 6,04,979 Covid-19 patients have recovered from the disease in the state.The count of active cases in the state stands at 31,987, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-reports-40-covid-19-deaths-6-023-new-cases-101617815424776.html
07-04-2021||Other||Jharkhand to get 12 lakh vaccine doses in 2 days||Jharkhand heaved a sigh of relief on Wednesday after the Union health ministry confirmed that it will send 12 lakh doses of Covid-19 vaccines by Thursday and Friday. The central government will send two lakh doses of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin and 10 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine of Pune-based Serum Institute of India, state health department officials said.“The Government of India (GoI) will send two lakh doses of Covaxin vaccine by Thursday, while 10 lakh doses of Covishield vaccine is likely to reach Ranchi by Friday. With this, the state now has adequate doses of the two vaccines for second dose of vaccination,” Ravi Shankar Shukla, state mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), said.The state health department currently has 97,037 doses of Covishield and 20,124 doses of Covaxin at its disposal as on Wednesday evening, Shukla said.The state recently on April 3 requested the GoI for five lakh doses of the vaccines in wake of the drying stock.Besides, the ongoing vaccination drive across the state was also regulated due to the depleting stock of vaccines, particularly Covaxin. An order was issued a couple of days ago asking districts not to use Covaxin for first dose and use it only for the second dose. One of the worst-hit districts, East Singhbhum (Jamshedpur) was only left with 960 doses of the two vaccines, 430 doses of Covishield and 530 doses of Covaxin, by Tuesday night. This was after obtaining 3,500 doses of Covishield from West Singhbhum and 730 doses of Covaxin from Seraikela-Kharsawan districts. Jamshedpur alone requires 12-15,000 doses of the vaccines per day.The state till 6pm on Wednesday administered first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine to 1,827,886 beneficiaries and second dose to 278, 989 persons. The need of rapid and wide coverage of the vaccination drive has become an absolute necessity with the fast spreading infection and steep spike in the number of fresh cases across the state, especially Ranchi and Jamshedpur. During past 24 hours, the state detected 1,265 new Covid-19 cases, of which 539 were found in Ranchi alone. Jamshedpur, on the other hand, detected 340 new Covid-19 patients. The state reported 13 Covid-19 deaths during the past seven days, according to the health department’s bulletin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jharkhand-to-get-12-lakh-vaccine-doses-in-2-days-101617814648261.html
07-04-2021||Patna||No V-C for four new Bihar varsities, under additional charge||All the three new state universities, carved out of existing bigger universities in 2018, have slipped under ad hoc arrangement after the term of their vice-chancellors fell vacant. The latest to join the list is Munger University.While the term of Munger University vice-chancellor (V-C) Ranjit Kumar Verma ended last month, Patalputra University V-C Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal quit in January a few months before his tenure’s end. Purnea University V-C Rajesh Singh had resigned in September last year for a new assignment in Uttar Pradesh. While, TM Bhagalpur University V-C Neelima Gupta is holding the additional charge of Munger University, Lalit Narayan Mithila University (Darbhanga) V-C SP Singh has the additional charge of Pataliputra University, as the term of Pro-V-C in both the universities has also ended. In Purnea University, however, Pro-V-C RS Yadav is the acting V-C. The vacancies at the top are likely to affect Bihar’s quest for certification of its colleges by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC). NAAC has already set 2022 deadline for certification of all colleges in the country. Bihar has been slow on that count and even the best of state’s colleges that went in for certification have fumbled due to lack of teachers, facilities, intent and poor feedback from students. Aryabhatt Knowledge University (AKU), set up in 2010 to regulate all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella, has also been without a regular V-C since September 20, 2020, when the term of Arun Kumar Agarwal ended. Since then, AKU Pro-V-C Syed Mohammad Karim has been holding the additional charge of V-C, though he, too, is set to retire in a couple of months. The Raj Bhawan had invited applications afresh for the appointment of V-C at the AKU in January this year after cancelling the September 2020 advertisement “due to unavoidable reason”. The candidates who had applied earlier were asked to apply afresh, if interested. The last date ended on March 1. Bihar Agriculture University, Sabour, is also without a V-C since the term of Ajoy Kumar Singh ended earlier this year. Director, extension, BAU, RK Sohana, is the acting V-C since then. Nalanda Open University (NOU) in Patna is also continuing under interim measure after the sudden resignation of HN Prasad in November last. Besides, Animal Science University, set up in 2017, does not have a Pro-V-C. The situation is similar in the Kameshwar Singh Darbhanga University (KSDSU). More vacancies are likely to occur in the months to come.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/no-v-c-for-four-new-bihar-varsities-under-additional-charge-101617814588285.html
07-04-2021||Patna||Madhubani killings: Caste militias in spotlight again||The Madhubani killings, in which five persons of a family in a village were shot dead on March 29 on the day of Holi, has once again turned the spotlight on the infamous militias in Bihar, mostly formed on caste lines.The main accused in this case, Pravin Jha (30), who calls himself Ravan for reasons not yet clear, was heading a private army which he named “Ravan Sena”, mainly consisting of Brahmins in the area.Police say the violence took place for fishing rights in a local pond, which is a source of income of many in the area. The dominant Rajput community of the village had control over the pond which Jha wanted for Brahmins. Private caste armies are nothing new to Bihar, the most notorious being Ranvir Sena (of Bhumihars). Others were Lorik Sena (Bhumihars) , Bhumi Sena (Bhumihars) and Kisan Sangh (Rajputs).Caste armies hit headlines mostly in 1990s when they executed massacres, mostly in central Bihar.The “Ravan Sena” of Benippati in Madhubani district was raised in 2018 and is the second of its kind militia group in the Brahmin community, with its influence mainly confined to Madhubani. “Of late, it has become active on social media in some pockets of Gopalganj as well,” said a police officer on the condition of anonymity.The first private army of Brahmins, called the “Parshuram Sena”, was formed by dreaded gangster Santosh Jha, who broke away from CPI (Maoist) in early 2000 and formed “People’s Liberation Army”, also known as “Parshuram Sena”, in Nepal. The outfit has been known to demand and collect extortion from contractors executing road projects. Its members allegedly killed over a dozen engineers and supervisors in the last one decade. Jha, who was serving a life term for the murder of two engineers and was facing trial in about 20 criminal cases, was shot dead on court premises in Sitamarhi on August 28, 2018. “The Parshuram Sena operates in Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Samastipur, Darbhanga and Madhubani districts of north Bihar, besides adjoining Nepal, and has a more wider reach that Ravan Sena,” said a police officer.According to his Facebook’s profile, Jha of Ravan Sena was preparing to contest panchayat election and had already declared himself as Mukhiya. Police sources in Darbhanga said he had been an active member of the Bajarang Dal and was a former president of its district unit. “Yes, I am villain for those who are dividing the society for vested interests, those who are promoting injustice,” one of the posts uploaded by him on his FB page says. A legislator of the ruling JD (U), who visited the village after the killings as a member of the party’s fact-finding team, described Jha as a “ruffian who indulged in extortion”. Madhubani’s superintendent Dr Satya Prakash said only two cases were lodged against Pravin of Ravan Sena in the district. “We are interrogating him for more details.” Rival political parties alleged he was also into illegal liquor business. However, police said no case had been lodged against him for liquor recovery. “Only a case for recovery of illegal arms had been lodged,” said a police official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/madhubani-killings-caste-militias-in-spotlight-again-101617814528269.html
07-04-2021||Other||Madhubani killings: RJD, Cong raise the heat||Stepping up attack on the Nitish Kumar government over the recent killing of five persons, including an assistant sub-inspector of the Border Security Force (BSF), at a village in Madhubani district, the Opposition on Wednesday accused the state administration of giving patronage to the accused and demanded a fair probe.Leader of the opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who visited the victim’s family at Mahmudpur village, sought a probe into the alleged links between BJP MLA from Benipatti Binod Narayan Jha and the main accused in the case, Pravin Jha , who allegedly runs a private army called Ravan Sena and was arrested from Nepal on Wednesday. Addressing a press conference, Yadav said, “Neither chief minister Nitish Kumar nor the deputy chief ministers visited the village. It was only after I visited the site of incident and talked with the family of the deceased that the main accused was arrested. It shows the government only acted when there was pressure from the opposition.” He also alleged that the police and state administration were giving patronage to “Ravan Sena” chief all these days after the incident took place on March 29 because of Jha’s political links. “I was told by family members of the deceased and locals about BJP MLA Binod Narayan Jha’s close links with the Sena chief. We want police to seek call details of the BJP MLA and probe his alleged links with the main accused,” Yadav said. The RJD scion also demanded immediate removal of the district’s superintendent of police (SP) and the deputy SP, saying the kingpin enjoyed close proximity to them.The BJP MLA has dismissed the charge. “Criminals have no caste. I have never had links with such people and can never dream of keeping any such association. I want those involved in the killings to get death punishment,” Jha said. Meanwhile, a six-member fact-finding team of the state Congress, led by former minister Awadhesh Kumar Singh, said the bloodshed could have been averted had the district authorities responded swiftly and reached the spot on time. “The incident happened barely three kilometres from the subdivisional office of Benipatti, but the police took four hours to reach there despite frantic calls made by the villagers,” Singh said. The Madhubani massacre has snowballed into a major issue in the state and even the constituents of the ruling alliance had questioned the role of police. Forest and environment department minister Neeraj Kumar Singh alias Bablu, who visited the village a week after the incident, said, “This is not an ordinary crime. Yet, no action against the police officials was taken.” A delegation of JD(U) leaders led by former minister Jai Kumar Singh also met the victim’s family and later briefed the CM about the incident. On Tuesday, the CM has said no one involved in the killings would be spared. On the day of Holi on March 29, around 35 armed men had opened fire on the family of one Ranvijay Singh over a land dispute in the village. Singh and his cousin brother Virendra Singh were killed on the spot. Three other family members, BSF officer Rana Pratap Singh, Amrendra Singh and Rudra narayan Singh, succumbed to injuries a day later.Another injured person, Manoj Singh, is currently being treated at the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital. The police said that about a dozen persons, including the main accused in the case Navin Jha, have been arrested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/madhubani-killings-rjd-cong-raise-the-heat-101617814468787.html
07-04-2021||Patna||Munger police firing: HC shifts Munger SP, 7 others, orders ₹10 lakh for slain boy’s father||The Patna high court on Wednesday ordered to shift eight police officers of Munger district, including its superintendent of police M S Dhillon, within three days and asked the state government to pay a sum of ₹10 lakh to the father of an 18-year-old boy who was killed allegedly in police firing during the immersion of Durga idol on October 26 last year. Arguing for Amarnath Poddar, father of the slain boy Anurag Kumar, Supreme Court lawyer Alakh Alok Srivastava told the court of Justice Rajiv Ranjan Prasad that two months had passed but nothing had been done so far to give justice to the family. The HC was hearing a criminal writ petition filed by Poddar seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and a compensation of ₹5 crore.Observing there was no allegation that the petitioner’s son was involved in any act of violence, the HC directed the state government to pay ₹10 lakh to the petitioner within a month. It further said the additional director general of CID shall decide on the constitution of an SIT of senior officers above the rank of DSP to interrogate the police personnel who are likely to be investigated. “... in order to ensure free and fair investigation of the case, the state respondents shall ensure that all the eight members of the SIT, including Munger SP, be shifted to some other place for the present within three days. The court, however, makes it clear that the order to shift them elsewhere be not taken as any indictment of all those officers by this court and no adverse inference shall be drawn against them for this reason alone,” reads the order. The court said the CID shall submit its first report in a sealed cover before it within a period of four weeks Advocate Srivastava said the HC had earlier refused to grant an urgent hearing in this case, after which the victim’s father filed a petition in the Supreme Court, which asked the HC on January 25 to decide the case within two months. Poddar said there was some hope of getting justice for his deceased son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/munger-police-firing-hc-shifts-munger-sp-7-others-orders-rs-10-lakh-for-slain-boy-s-father-101617814468158.html
07-04-2021||Patna||Madhubani killings: Kingpin arrested, top cop rules out caste angle||The police on Wednesday arrested five persons, including the main accused, in connection with the sensational killing of five members of a family, including a BSF officer, at Mahmudpur village in Madhibani district on March 29.The main accused, Pravin Jha, runs a militia called Ravan Sena, mainly consisting of Brahmins.According to Jitendra Kumar, additional director general (ADG), police headquarters, a police team led by Madhubani’s superintendent Dr Satya Prakash raided at a house at Raghauni village on Madhubani-Darbhanga border falling under Bisfi police station and arrested four named accused, identified as Pravin Jha alias Ravan, Chandan Jha, Mukesh Safi, Bhola Singh, and the house owner who gave them shelter. On the day of Holi, more than 50 armed men opened fire at the family of one Ranvijay Singh, with whom they had a running dispute over fishing from a local pond. While Ranvijay Singh and his cousin brother Virendra Singh died on spot, three other family members, Rana Pratap Singh (assistant sub-inspector in BSF), Amrendra Singh (interstate cricketer) and Rudra Narayan Singh, succumbed to injuries a day later. Another injured person, Manoj Singh, is currently being treated at Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital.Members of the victim family have demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and threatened to commit suicide before the chief minister’s residence if all named accused are not arrested within four days.Preliminary investigation suggests that the pond is owned by one Sanjay Singh (brother of Ranvijay), but another group wanted to take it over. On November 20, two separate cases were lodged by Sanjay and Mukesh Safi (close associate of Pravin Jha) against each other and Sanjay is currently lodged in a jail. Ajitabh Kumar, inspector general of police (Darbhanga range), said the incident was a fallout of battle for supremacy between two groups, and not two castes. “A case has been lodged against 35 people, including 18 Brahmins and 13 Rajputs, and dozens of unidentified accused. So far, 14 named accused have been arrested and sent to jail while one of the prominent accused, Navin Jha, is still absconding. The administration has attached his property,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/madhubani-killings-kingpin-arrested-top-cop-rules-out-caste-angle-101617814408316.html
07-04-2021||Pune||In two months, 10 stranded leopard cubs reunited with mothers in Junnar||Three leopard cubs not more than 15 days old, who were found stranded in a sugarcane field in Vadgaon Sahani village, in Pune district’s Junnar taluka last week, were reunited with their mother on during the early hours of Tuesday. This is the second such rescue operation in the area since March 20, when two 45-day-old cubs (similarly found in a sugarcane field in Junnar’s Ozar village), were reunited with their mother. A total of 10 cubs have been rescued and reunited with their mothers since February in the region.In all cases, the cubs were found by farmers who were harvesting sugarcane crops, the season for which runs from December to late March-early April. Officials said that farmers in the area are accustomed to the occasional sight of leopards, especially around this time of the year. The farmers immediately altered the district forest office, who in turn roped in rescuers with Wildlife SOS, which runs a leopard rescue and rehabilitation centre in Junnar.“While harvesting their sugarcane crops, local farmers stumbled upon three tiny leopard cubs huddled together amidst the tall, dense fields in Vadgaon Sahani village... The cubs were brought to the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Center for a brief medical examination. Identified as two males and one female, the cubs were estimated to be about fifteen-days-old,” Wildlife SOS said in a statement.Veterinarian Dr. Nikhil Bangar, who examined the cubs for ticks and injuries, found them to be in good health. An initial attempt to reunite the lost cubs with their mother on the weekend remained unsuccessful. However, the cubs were placed in a box and left in the same field where they were found late Monday night.“After a long night of waiting, the mother leopard was seen slowly approaching the field at dawn. Relieved to be reunited with her cubs, the leopard quickly knocked over the box and took her precious babies away to a safer location,” said Dr Bangar. The operation was captured with a camera trap placed nearby.Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “Harvest season in Maharashtra often coincides with leopard cub season, which puts both humans and these elusive wild cats in a rather sensitive and conflicting situation. We are grateful to the villagers who took the right step by informing the Forest Department.”Yogesh Ghodke, Range Forest Officer in charge of the area, explained that the Junnar region has a significant leopard population, which -- due to rapid loss of forest cover -- are being forced to seek safe refuge in tall, dense sugarcane fields, leading to such encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/in-two-months-10-stranded-leopard-cubs-reunited-with-mothers-in-junnar-101617812727991.html
07-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19: Noida administration asks residents to inform it about arrival of outsiders||The Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration here has urged residents of Noida and Greater Noida to inform it about the arrival of outsiders in their area for Covid-19 surveillance amid a spike in coronavirus infections.Residents can use the Covid-19 control centre's helpline number, 18004192211, for conveying this information, Additional Chief Medical Officer Bharat Bhushan said.He said the helpline number can also be used for various other services and queries related to Covid-19."People can use the helpline number to inform officials if they or anyone in their family tests positive for the virus and callers will be helped by the Self-Declaration Cell. Callers can also get help with an ambulance, surveillance, contact tracing, home isolation and sanitisation using 18004192211," Bhushan told PTI.Administration officials appealed to the residents to collectively support the government's surveillance and contact tracing efforts to check the spread of the infection."People can just call on the helpline number and government officials will take care of the rest. The response on the helpline number has been better in urban areas as compared to rural areas in the district in terms of providing information about the arrival of outsiders," said an official who did not wish to be named.District Magistrate Suhas L Y had recently directed all concerned officials to ramp up contact tracing of new Covid-19 cases and ensure their surveillance in order to check the spread of the deadly virus.He had also formed a 10-member dedicated team for contact tracing comprising of officials from education, GST and health departments.The team on Wednesday traced contacts of 116 new Covid-19 patients in Gautam Buddh Nagar, with an average of 25 to 30 contacts of each infected person being traced, Bhushan said."Their reports have been sent to the RRT (rapid response team) and the sampling team for further action," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-noida-administration-asks-residents-to-inform-it-about-arrival-of-outsiders-101617810431647.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Credai-Pune Metro to conduct mass vaccination drive for construction workers||Credai and Pune Metro have planned a mass Covid-19 vaccination drive for construction labourers across the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and the Pune Metropolitan Region Development Authority (PMRDA) regions, according to office bearers. The association, which has received support from municipal authorities, will strengthen the vaccination drive that will benefit millions of labourers after getting requisite approvals from the government. During last year’s lockdown period, the association was involved in several activities including setting up ICU units and oxygen beds in government-run hospitals, distributing rations to the poor and distributing sanitisers, masks and cooked food to the labourers at construction sites. Apart from that, the association has expressed concerns over the hike in interest rates by several banks, including the State Bank of India (SBI), and has said that such a move will further weaken the already struggling real estate sector. Anil Pharande, president, Credai, said, “With measures like lower interest rates from banks and reduction in stamp duty last year there was some hope for the industry’s revival, but unfortunately, banks have again hiked their interest rates which can have an adverse effect on the sector. There are around 250 allied industries along with millions of labourers dependent on real estate. It should be reconsidered.” The association has also said that migration of labourers due to the second wave of Covid-19 can spell more trouble as the developers who are struggling to meet the deadlines and commitments need the workers at their sites.“The real estate sector has just begun to revive and there have been reports of migrants leaving the city due to the fear of another lockdown. We are already providing sanitisation and hygiene measures and medical treatment at the labour camps, but another migration will prove uncertain for the revival of the sector,” said Pharande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/credaipune-metro-to-conduct-mass-vaccination-drive-for-construction-workers-101617812007943.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Pune RTO reports drop in overall vehicle registrations, excluding ambulances, tractors||Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, a considerable drop in vehicle registrations have been reported for the financial year 2020-21 at the Pune Regional Transport Office (RTO), excluding ambulances and tractors. Most sectors faced an economic crunch last year due to a complete lockdown, and a similar drop was seen in auto sales and registrations. However, while all other vehicle registrations dropped, there was a considerable increase in the number of ambulance and tractor sales and registrations. Due to the pandemic situation, several private and government bodies purchased new ambulances. On a similar note, in the agriculture sector, the demand and supply were huge throughout the year and hence, many farmers purchased new tractors for their day-to-day farming work. The highest number of ambulances registered was in 2020-21, in comparison to data from the last five years. A total of 108 ambulances were registered in 2020-21; 45 ambulances in 2019-2020; 48 ambulances in 2018-2019; 76 ambulances in 2017-2018; and 31 ambulances in 2016-2017. Similarly, the last financial year saw a total of 2,160 tractor registrations, the highest number in the last five years in the Pune RTO division. A total of 1,530 tractors were registered in 2019-2020; 1,200 tractors were registered in 2018-2019; 853 tractors were registered in 2017-2018; and 1,249 tractors were registered in 2016-2017. Last year, a total of 1,43,958 vehicles of 17 different types were registered under the Pune RTO division from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021.Before that, in every financial year the number was two lakh and higher. In 2019-20 it was 2, 47,225; in 2018-19 it was 2, 61,410; in 2017-18 it was 2,91,117; and in 2016-17 it was 2,70,307. There has been a drastic drop by 1,03,267 vehicles registration in the previous financial year compared to data from the last five years. “There was a decrease in the number of total vehicles registered under the Pune RTO division with above 1 lakh vehicles in comparison to previous financial years. It was an impact of Covid-19 pandemic and we hope that this financial year there is a good response to overall vehicle sales and registrations.” said Pune deputy regional transport officer Sanjeev Bhor. Prashant Bandal, president of Shivshakati Tarun Mandal from Kothrud who bought an ambulance last year to help patients said, “The situation was worse after August last year, there were no beds and even ambulances were not available. So, members of our mandal decided to buy a new ambulance with individual contributions and started a free service for public,”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-rto-reports-drop-in-overall-vehicle-registrations-excluding-ambulances-tractors-101617811887872.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Cash for judgement: ACB arrests Gaikwad’s associate in bribery case||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) has arrested Ajay Gopinathan, an associate of the main accused, Shubhavari Gaikwad, in connection with the cash-for-favourable judgement bribery case, which has already seen the arrest of Wadgaon Maval’s sitting judge, Archana Jatkar, on April 1. Gopinathan is known to Gaikwad and has been remanded to police custody until April 8 by special judge SR Navander. According to the ACB sleuths, Gaikwad and Gopinathan are known to each other for the past year-and-a-half. On the day of her arrest, Gaikwad had given her old mobile handset to Gopinathan. When interrogated over the issue, she has been giving evasive answers, public prosecutor Vilas Ghogare Patil informed the court during his submissions. Patil demanded police custody on grounds that voice samples had to be recorded. Wadgaon Maval judicial magistrate (first class) Archana Jatkar whose role was under the scanner by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) was arrested by the ACB at 11 am on April 1. Jatkar whose bail application was rejected by the Supreme Court (SC) surrendered at the ACB office after which she was immediately taken into custody and placed under arrest. The court rejected her bail application and, in its order, sent her to police custody until April 5. The district court later released her on bail. The investigation report in the bribery case was lodged at Dehuroad police station for offences under section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the prevention of corruption act. The ACB has already arrested Shubhavari Bhalchandra Gaikwad (29), a resident of Talegaon; Sushant Baban Kenjale (35) of Ravet; and dismissed police inspector Bhanudas, alias Anil Jadhav of Mumbai. They are currently lodged in jail under magisterial custody remand (MCR), while Ajay Gopinathan , a resident of Kharghar, Navi Mumbai, was wanted in the case until Wednesday. Jatkar was under ACB radar since the arrest of Shubhavari Gaikwad on January 15, who was caught red-handed accepting a bribe of ₹2.5 lakh. Gaikwad had promised to manage the court’s decision in favour of the complainant identified as Swapnil Madhukar Shevkar, a resident of Induri in Maval taluka. Shevkar who runs a milk dairy in the name ‘Kadjai Mata Dudh Sankalan’, used to supply milk to Amul dairy of Khed. Gaikwad approached him on January 4-5 falsely pretending to be ‘Mhatre Madam’ and told him that there is a criminal case filed against him in the court of the applicant judicial officer. She also showed him a copy of a criminal complaint and pointed out that it was posted for hearing on January 6 and gave him an assurance that the case will be dismissed by the presiding officer if he made a payment of ₹5 lakh. Shevkar showed displeasure after which she reduced the amount to ₹3 lakh. The complainant, therefore, approached the office of ACB on January 6 and filed a complaint, after which a trap was laid leading to her arrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cash-for-judgement-acb-arrests-gaikwad-s-associate-in-bribery-case-101617811707915.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Vaccination camps at workplaces on the cards||Private firms from Pune will soon hold Covid vaccination camps at workplaces, following permission from the government. The programme will be launched from April 11 and all states and union territories have been asked to stay ready with preparations. “I’m very glad to finally see this circular. We have been asking for this for the past few days. Many Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA) members are very keen to launch vaccinations on their premises,” said Prashant Girbane, director general, MCCIA Pune. Around 3,000 companies are associated with the MCCIA of which 200 have already shown an interest in the vaccination camps. The letter from the Central government states, “With support of the state governments/UT administration, the efforts have been to consistently make the vaccination drive more pragmatic and also more acceptable and purposeful to the beneficiaries”. “On similar lines, in order to increase the access of vaccine to these populations, Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organised at workplaces (both public and private) which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these workplaces with an existing Covid Vaccination Centre (CVC),” the letter states. “We have already shared the first list of such companies with the district administration. We will look forward to working with the district authorities and supporting them in this initiative to vaccinate most company employees at the company premises so that there is more bandwidth available with the district machinery to vaccinate others. Together we shall achieve the goals of wider and speedy vaccination among the eligible ones,” added Girbane. Companies like Bharat Forge, Atlas Copco, Thermax, GE India Industrial Private Limited, ArcelorMittal Nippon Steel India are few firms ready to conduct the vaccination camps. Companies like ADP India have also decided to sponsor the Covid-19 vaccines for all employees. Employees only The letter also states that only employees of the workplace aged 45 years and above will be allowed to take the vaccination. No outsider including eligible family members will be allowed for vaccination at the “CVC at workplace.” Beneficiaries must be registered on the Co-win portal prior to vaccination. CVC nodal officers will ensure registrations of all targeted beneficiaries and on the spot, registrations will also be available but only to employees of the workplace. Vaccination in housing societies Many hosuing societies have been also planning to hold vaccination camps. However, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is yet to take a decision on the same.In Pune, the PMC allowed Amanora Township to start a vaccination centre on its premises to benefit residents of the area. “During the Covid-19 pandemic everyone is required to wear a mask, maintain social distance and observe hygiene. I also appeal to all citizens above the age of 45 to take advantage of such vaccination drives,” said Chetan Tupe, MLA from Hadapsar during the inauguration of the Covid Vaccination Centre set up by the Pune Municipal Corporation at Amanora Township.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-camps-at-workplaces-on-the-cards-101617811527863.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees highest Covid-19 cases this year, tally inches close to 7 lakh-mark||Recording the sharpest surge this year, Delhi on Wednesday recorded 5,506 cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the infection tally to 6,90,568, the health bulletin released by authorities said.On Wednesday, the national capital saw 20 more people succumbing to the viral contagion, taking the death toll to 11,133, according to the health department.This is the second consecutive day when Delhi has seen a rise of over 5,000 cases. The city had reported 5,100 fresh cases on Tuesday.The positivity rate shot past the 5% mark recorded this month and jumped to 6.1 per cent on Wednesday, officials said.Insisting on increased testing and tracing strategy, the health authorities conducted a total of 90,202 tests, including 52,477 RT-PCR tests and 37,724 rapid antigen tests on Wednesday. Additionally, a total of more than 6.59 lakh patients have recovered from the virus.The number of active cases in Delhi stands at 19,455.The number of people under home isolation increased to 10,048 on Wednesday from 8,871 on Tuesday, while the number of containment zones surged to 3,708 from 3,291 the day before.The national capital has recorded a fresh surge in cases as confirmed by the Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal who had said that the city-state is witnessing the fourth wave of infections, even as the rest of the country is reeling from the second wave.“For the rest of the country, one may call it the second wave. But for Delhi, this is the fourth wave. We are heading towards the fourth peak. This wave is witnessing an exponential increase in cases and spreading very fast. It is concerning but there is nothing to panic because this wave is also less severe in terms of number of deaths and cases that require hospitalisation, admission to ICU, etc,” Kejriwal said at a digital news briefing.Delhi witnessed its first wave in June, followed by the second in September and the third wave in November, which has been the worst so far, with the highest case tally of 8,593.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-highest-covid-19-cases-this-year-tally-inches-close-to-7-lakhmark-101617809484142.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Yerawada police solve two-year-old murder case||On Wednesday, the Yerawada police solved a murder which took place under their jurisdiction two years ago, over a petty issue of money for buying liquor.The accused have been identified as Kunal Kisan Jadhav and Rakesh Bhise alias Gandhya, and the victim has been identified as Deva Rathi Brahmasheel. According to the investigator, the body of an unidentified person was recovered by the police behind Don Bosco School on May 25, 2019, and a murder case was lodged at Yerawada police station. During the investigation, police naik Amjad Shaikh received information that this crime was committed by the duo, who were then traced and taken into custody. Their custodial interrogation led to the revelation that the murder took place as the victim did not give them money to buy alcohol. Senior police inspector Yunus Shaikh, police inspector Ajay Waghmare and their staffers assisted the police team in their investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/yerawada-police-solve-two-year-old-murder-case-101617811407857.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Students of Classes 9, 11 to be promoted without exams||On Wednesday, the Maharashtra state education department announced that students of Classes 9 and 11 will be promoted directly without any examination. Priya Salunkhe, a student of Class 9 from a Pune-based school said that there was a lot of confusion initially, but now she is happy with the decision. “Earlier there was no clarity about the exams. Now that the exams are cancelled, I feel much better. The whole year we have adjusted to online education and with the ongoing confusion on whether the exam will be conducted or not there was a lot of stress. The decision is good. I can now fully focus on class 10 syllabus as it matters more,” said Salunkhe. Amruta Kulkarni, a parent of a Class 9 student said that the school exam timetable was just out. “The students were very anxious and confused because of the uncertainty, but the decision is welcomed. However, I feel at an individual school level, schools should continue taking tests so that the child builds confidence, and the doubts of the student will be clarified. This will also ensure that students know how much they have understood the syllabus as class 9 is important for concepts that are later taught in class 11 but now that the burden of exams are over, students can start focusing on Class 10 and Class 12,” said Kulkarni. Archana Kakade, Pune-based parent whose son is in Class 11 this year said that the colleges have just started, and the first online unit test is scheduled in April. “There is a lot of confusion and especially among Class 11 students. The academic year started late due to the admission process. If it was not for private coaching, my son would have faced a lot of challenges for this year. The syllabus in the coaching was completed fairly quickly and this has helped my son,” said Kakade. She further added that students from other streams like Commerce and Arts are facing a lot of issues. “Class 11 is the base for many important concepts. Now that the burden of exams for this year are over, the child can focus on Class 12th completely and the competitive exams,” said Kakade.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-of-classes-9-11-to-be-promoted-without-exams-101617811287870.html
07-04-2021||Other||SGPC writes to Twitter CEO to block hateful tweets against Sikhs||Comparing hateful tweets against Sikhs with the anti-Jew propaganda of the Nazis in Germany, the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Wednesday asked Twitter to block handles posting hate speeches against the community.In a letter to the chief executive officer (CEO) of the microblogging and social networking service Jack Dorsey, the gurdwara body president Bibi Jagir Kaur has sought instructions for Twitter’s India-based staff to monitor, flag and remove hateful tweets against Sikhs.She termed the ‘direct and deleterious hate-filled’ tweets against the Sikhs as the result of state farmers’ movement against the three agri-laws that the Centre has passed. Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping on the borders of Delhi since November 26, demanding a repeal of these laws.“Sikh organisations have supported farmers’ movement in India. Since then, there have been a lot of direct and deleterious hate-filled tweets against Sikhs on Twitter. These hate tweets have intensified after the recent resolution passed by the SGPC against the Rashtriya Swayamsewak Sangh (RSS)’s bid to make India a Hindu Rashtra,” Kaur says in the letter.The apex gurdwara management body had passed the resolution last month during its budget session. The resolution had also called upon the Centre to work for the protection of the rights and freedom of religion of all religions instead of being ready to implement RSS’ efforts. In response, BJP national spokesperson RP Singh had said that the SGPC kept raising false bogey of Hindu Rashtra to cover up its failures, especially in terms of the Sikhs embracing Christianity in Punjab.The SGPC chief termed the hate tweets an attempt to create bitterness between Hindus and Sikhs. “At the same time, after the unfortunate incident in Malout with Abohar MLA Arun Narang, there has been an open attempt to create hate against the Sikhs and also bitterness between Hindus and Sikhs,” she said, alleging that calls of repeating 1984 genocide with the Sikhs, calling farmers as terrorists are commonplace on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sgpc-writes-to-twitter-ceo-to-block-hateful-tweets-against-sikhs-101617809188273.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Restriction Day 2 evokes protest from shop owners, traders in Pune||Pune: For the second consecutive day, on Wednesday, shops in commercial areas like Bajirao road and Camp, opened in defiance of the newly imposed strict restrictions on non-essential stores remaining closed in the city. Several non-essential shops opened on Wednesday, and even the police were on the backfoot with no major action taken. The Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP) has given an April 9 ultimatum to the state government to allow the opening of shops, or else, on Friday, all shop owners in Pune will open their shops at 10.30 am. A protest has been planned on Thursday, from 11 am to noon, where traders and shop owners will walk along Laxmi road, from Vijay Talkies to Quartergate chowk. “Due to these new strict restrictions imposed by the state government, traders are very angry, not only in Pune, but across the state. A meeting was held of all the trader associations across Pune district and it was unanimously decided to protest against this injustice. All the shop owners and traders will be protesting on Laxmi road with social distancing and holding banners in hand. On Friday if the new orders are not given, then all non-essential shop owners will open up their shops from 10.30 am till 6 pm,” said Fatechand Ranka, president of the association. Kiran Baheti, a shop owner on Tilak road said, “I cannot afford to keep my shop closed for even a single day, as I am paying ₹30,000 rent per month. Already there is no business and when we were hoping to do some business during the Gudi Padwa festival, these restrictions were imposed.” Pune city BJP party leaders also protested against the new restrictions. BJP MLA Madhuri Misal said, “When we had a meeting with the deputy chief minister last Friday, there was discussion about strict restrictions. Suddenly, after the chief minister’s address, the new norms were declared to close down all shops, which is not right. We protest against it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/restriction-day-2-evokes-protest-from-shop-owners-traders-in-pune-101617809127626.html
07-04-2021||Other||In biggest single-day spike, UP sees 40 deaths and 6,023 fresh cases||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh saw the biggest single-day Covid spike this year with 6,023 people testing positive and 40 succumbing to the virus on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 6,34,033 and fatality count to 8,964. The number of active cases rose to 31,987. “Of the 31,987 active cases, 18,679 are in home isolation, 668 admitted to private hospitals and the remaining are in government Covid facilities. Till now, 6,04,979 people have recovered after being infected,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference. During the day, Lucknow logged 1,333 cases, Prayagraj 811, Varanasi 593, Kanpur 300, Gorakhpur 159, Jhansi 188, Gautam Buddh Nagar 125, Meerut 126, Janupur 109, Chandauli 108, Azamgarh 100 and Ghaziabad 76. Deaths were reported from Lucknow (6), Kanpur (5), Prayagraj and Varanasi (3), two each in Moradabad, Ghazipur, Amroha, Fatehpur, Ballia (4), one each in Gorakhpur, Bulandshahr, Rae Bareli and Hardoi. In the past 24 hours, 1,86,948 Covid samples were tested in UP while a total of 35942111 samples had been tested. “People coming from outside the state should stay in their homes for 7 to 10 days and take this as their social responsibility. If they have symptoms, they can visit the nearest hospitals,” said Prasad. For any problem call can be made on the helpline number 18001805145, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-biggest-single-day-spike-up-sees-40-deaths-and-6-023-fresh-cases-101617808767632.html
07-04-2021||Pune||PMC to procure Remdesivir injections||Pune: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to procure Rs1 crore worth of Remdesivir injections. PMC, on Wednesday, floated a tender for supply of Remdesivir to PMC hospitals. Assistant medical officers Anjali Sabne and Sanjeev Wavare floated the tender for the same. As there is a shortage of Remdesivir injections, hospital administrations are asking patient’s relatives to procure the medication. There are also complaints of patients being overcharged. Opposition parties, on Tuesday, criticised municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar for not procuring the medicines. Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) leaders, Aba Bagul of the Congress, Deepali Dhumal of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Prithviraj Sutar of the Shiv Sena, submitted a joint letter to PMC stating that it is the responsibility of the civic body to provide the medicine to patients at PMC hospitals. PMC has acted thereof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-procure-remdesivir-injections-101617808587742.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||Fire at hardware shop in Gurugram, no casualty reported||A fire broke out at a hardware shop in Sadar Bazar in Haryana's Gurugram, near Delhi, on Wednesday evening, news agency ANI reported. No casualty has been reported so far.The firefighting operation was launched as soon as the fire department received information about the blaze, officials said.The blaze quickly spread to area outside the shop, leading to chaos in the neighbourhood, Hindustan Times' sister publication Livehindustan reported.A nearby shop which sells tyres was also engulfed in fire, according to Livehindustan.The cause of the fire has so far not been ascertained.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/fire-at-hardware-shop-in-gurugram-no-casualty-reported-101617807651394.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Following complaints, Pune mayor instructs to covert Covid help desk into call centre, increase staff||Pune: With several complaints concerning the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) helpline for information on bed availability, Pune mayor Murlidhar Mohol has instructed the civic authority to open a call centre immediately. Mohol said, “It is true that complaints are coming in, but it is also true that the numbers are busy, which means the staff is attending to some other patient’s call. I have instructed municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar to increase manpower immediately and make it like a call centre.” As the second surge is high, there is bed shortage and relatives of positive patients are constantly trying the helpline numbers for availability of beds. PMC has 10 helpline numbers for information about bed availability. Mohol said, “I am personally following up whether the staff has increased and more lines are open.” One of the employees manning the phone lines, on condition of anonymity, said, “It takes four to five minutes per call. The flow of incoming calls is high. We need to take down the patient’s details, like when did s/he test positive, saturation levels, which all takes time.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/following-complaints-pune-mayor-instructs-to-covert-covid-help-desk-into-call-centre-increase-staff-101617807807479.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||SC to hear pleas of Maharashtra government, Anil Deshmukh against HC order on Thursday||The Supreme Court will on Thursday hear the pleas filed by Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh who have challenged the Bombay High Court order directing a CBI probe into the allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.As per the cause list uploaded on the apex court website, both the pleas would come up for hearing on Thursday before a bench comprising Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta.In its plea filed in the top court, Maharashtra government has questioned the procedure adopted by high court saying the state was heard on question of maintainability of the pleas seeking CBI investigation against Deshmukh on allegation of corruption, and the order too was reserved on that issue, but the court finally ended up directing the probe.After the high court order on April 5, Deshmukh, a veteran politician from Vidarbha, had resigned from the state government.In his appeal filed in the apex court, Deshmukh has said the high court order raises issues of seminal importance which “impact not just the federal structure of the country, impact on our polity, but also the manner in which, and the institutions through which investigations are to be conducted”.He said that without lodging an FIR, the court could have directed that an application be filed before the magistrate for investigation under section 156(3) of the CrPC.“The fact that the court did not direct the petitioners before the court to follow this procedure suggests that the court believed that entire state machinery was untrustworthy; that no investigation could have been made within the state by a state investigating agency, and reposed faith in an outside agency by referring to it as an ‘independent investigating agency’ knowing fully well that its credentials in the past are not such that the court can repose absolute faith in such an agency,” Deshmukh said in his plea.He said that in the annals of judicial history, there has hardly been an occasion when the court has taken the statements made against a sitting minister at face value and proceeded to direct an outside agency, without calling for a response from the minister, to conduct a preliminary inquiry.“That presently, the CBI today is being headed by an interim director, the legality of which is also sub-judice before this court. This also is a factor that should have been taken into account, before the court passed the order that it did”, the plea said.He said the court must have been aware of the fact that the Maharashtra government had withdrawn its consent for the CBI to investigate matters in the territory of the state.The former minister, who has sought ex-parte stay on the high court order said, that since now he has resigned from the post, the state machinery can freely conduct its investigations, and the apprehensions expressed by the high Ccourt contained in the impugned order no longer exist.Dealing with the allegations levelled by Param Bir Singh, Deshmukh said there is not an iota of substantive evidence that is placed before the court to even prima facie establish that any of the allegations made have an element of truth and is “pure hearsay”.Singh, in his plea filed on March 25, had sought a CBI probe against Deshmukh who, he claimed, had asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Waze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants. Deshmukh has denied any wrongdoing.Bombay-based lawyer Jayshree Patil, on whose criminal writ petition the high court had ordered the CBI probe, had on Tuesday filed a caveat in the top court seeking to be heard before any order is passed in the matter.In its 52-page judgement, the high court said Singh's allegations against Deshmukh had put at stake the citizen's faith in the state police.Such allegations, made by a serving police officer, against the state home minister could not be left unattended, and were required to be probed into, if prima facie, they made a case of a cognisable offence, the high court said.The high court's verdict came on three PILs including one filed by Singh and a criminal writ petition filed last month, seeking several reliefs as also a CBI probe into the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sc-to-hear-pleas-of-maharashtra-government-anil-deshmukh-against-hc-order-on-thursday-101617806881214.html
07-04-2021||Other||UP Board Class 10, 12 exams to begin from May 8||LUCKNOW UP Board High School (Class 10) and Intermediate (Class 12) examinations will now begin from May 8, instead of April 24. The decision to reschedule the exams has been taken in view of panchayat elections in the state, said an official on Wednesday.The Class 10 exams will go on for 12 working days and conclude on May 25. Likewise, the Class 12 exam will be completed in 15 working days and end on May 28, he said.Hindi and Elementary Hindi will be the first exam for high school students while Hindi and General Hindi will be the first papers for Intermediate students on May 8. The last paper of high school will be Mathematics on May 25. For intermediate, it will be civics scheduled on May 28, according to the revised date sheet.Students can get a revised date sheet for exams on the official website of the UP Madhyamik Shiksha Parishad.Last year also, the high school and intermediate examinations were completed in 12 and 15 working days, respectively, said the official.This year, 29,94,312 examinees, including 16,74,022 boys and 13,20,290 girls, are registered for the high school exam. Similarly, 26,09,501 examinees, including 14,73,771 boys and 11,35,730 girls, are registered for the intermediate exam.Last year, the UP Board exams began on February 18 and concluded in the first week of March, before the lockdown. This year, the exam is delayed by nearly two months as schools remained closed for months in wake of the Covid pandemic. Classes for 9 to 12 began in October, 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-board-class-10-12-exams-to-begin-from-may-8-101617806787340.html
07-04-2021||Ranchi||Lockdown in Raipur district from April 9 to 19 as Covid-19 cases surge||In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, the Chhattisgarh government on Wednesday announced a lockdown in Raipur district with effect from April 9 to 19, an official said.Raipur Collector S Bharathi Dasan has issued the order declaring the entire area of the district, including the state capital, as a containment zone and restricted several activities from 6 pm on April 9 till 6 am on April 19.Because of the steady rise in Covid-19 cases, it has become necessary to impose stricter restrictions on the movement of people and other activities to contain the spread of infection, the collector said in a press conference.Accordingly, during the lockdown period, the border of the district will be completely sealed and all shops, including those selling liquor, and commercial establishments will remain closed except medical stores.Offices of Central government, state government, semi-government, as well as private offices and banks will remain closed while those related to telecom, railway and airports will be allowed to function, the order said.All religious, cultural and tourism spots will remain shut and all kinds of public meetings, social, religious and political programmes will be banned during this period, it said.Hospitals and ATMs have been kept out of the purview of the lockdown, it said.Delivery of milk and newspapers will be allowed from 6 am to 8 am and between 5 pm and 6:30 pm.Home delivery of LPG cylinders is also allowed during the lockdown period.Industrial units and construction units will be allowed to function provided they accommodate workers in their respective premises and provide other necessary facilities, it said.Activities to contain the spread of the infection, including contact tracing, active surveillance, home isolation, distribution of medicine will continue, and all government employees related to these services will have to report to duty, as per the order.There will be no restriction on the people visiting centres for Covid-19 vaccination or for getting themselves tested, it said.Public transport services, including taxis and auto-rickshaws, will only be allowed to ply for railway stations, the airport, bus stands and hospitals, it said."This order will not be effective on the offices of Divisional Commissioner, Range IG, Collector, SP, ADM, Additional SP, Treasury, Chief Medical and Health Officer and offices functioning under them. However, the entry of common people will be prohibited in these offices during the lockdown period," it stated.Petrol pump operators will provide fuel only to government vehicles engaged in official work, ATM cash vans, ambulances and privates vehicles on a medical emergency, autorickshaws and taxis operated for railway stations, airport and inter-state bus stands, vehicles possessing e-pass, exams aspirants possessing admit cards, media persons and newspaper hawkers, it said.Raipur had reported 76,427 Covid-19 cases, including 1,001 deaths till Tuesday. The number of active cases is 13,107.In the last six days, the district witnessed 10,755 new cases and 93 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/lockdown-in-raipur-district-from-april-9-to-19-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101617805461735.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Giving powers to housing society heads to tackle Covid gets mixed response in Pune||Pune: The state government’s decision to give temporary powers to the chairpersons and secretaries of housing societies to allow them to ensure that Covid patients are quarantined in their homes and do not leave the societies, has come in for some criticism. State urban development minister Eknath Shinde, at a meeting on Tuesday, directed divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and chief executive officers of nagar panchayats and municipal councils, to implement the government order strictly, under the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Bombay Police Act. However, society members allege that the temporary powers could be used to settle scores with opponents and impose unilateral decisions leading to internal fighting. A section of the housing society office-bearers, however, have supported the move and said it would curb the surge in Covid-19 cases. Dhananjay Patil, an resident of Kalpvriksha Housing Society in Narhe, said, “There is no society in the city where there is no clash between society residents and office-bearers. We have seen that in otherwise normal situations, there is always a game of one-upmanship between society members and office-bearers. This power might be misused by society office-bearers and hence, the decision must be rescinded.” Sanjay Sharma, secretary, Tulips and Turnips Society in Yerawada, said, “The decision to empower the chairperson and secretary to keep Covid-19 patients indoors is welcome. It will ensure that residents don’t break the law and follow the health protocols, as it is in the interest of society.” Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) director Sanjeev Kumar Patil said, “Currently, the residents need to be disciplined as they are violating the protocols and guidelines with impunity.” BJP state vice-president Madhav Bhandari said, “This decision to designate the society chairperson and secretary as special police officers will trigger internal conflicts. Every society member is doing his/her level best to mitigate the crisis. Decisions like this will create tensions and spread misunderstanding in the societies. The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government is shirking away from its responsibility by taking such type of decisions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/giving-powers-to-housing-society-heads-to-tackle-covid-gets-mixed-response-in-pune-101617804027149.html
07-04-2021||Other||In a first, UP to transform five jails into high-security prisons by 2023||Under the pilot project, govt starts the process in dist jails of Lucknow, GB Nagar, Azamgarh, Chitrakoot besides Bareilly central prison  In a first-ever move, Uttar Pradesh has started a process for transforming five of its jails into maximum security prisons. Under the pilot initiative, the district jails of Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Azamgarh and Chitrakoot besides the central prison at Bareilly are being equipped with high-end gadgets for better security and surveillance, say state home department officials. “The work has started in earnest and we expect the five prisons to get fully ready in around two years’ time,” says additional chief secretary, home, Awanish Kumar Awasthi. “The plan is not just to arm the prisons with high-tech equipment, including a network of CCTV cameras with a central control room, but also to impart special training to jail staff to handle new-age equipment and also arm them with modern weapons needed to undertake their responsibilities effectively,” he added. Some of the equipment being installed in these prisons include non-linear junction detectors (used for detecting hidden electronic items like smart phones etc) besides dual-view baggage scanners, x-ray based full human body scanners, drone cameras to high-end hand-held metal detectors among others. After taking over, CM Yogi Adityanath in 2017 had initiated an exercise to equip prisons in the state with improved mobile phone jammers having proper power back-ups, CCTV cameras and metal detectors to check the activities of criminals who operate their gangs and execute crimes from behind the bars. The decision to transform the five prisons into high-security jails is in line with this very initiative, say the officials privy to the development. For this purpose, the state government has recently sanctioned ₹20.35 crore. In follow-up, UP prison administration and reforms department has already floated e-tenders for procuring dual-view baggage scanners and x-ray based full human body scanners that are to be procured at a cost of around over ₹6.5 crore. “For the staff of these jails also, night vision binoculars and body worn cameras are being procured,” said an official aware of the development. “In these jails, the state government also plans to put up concertina wire fencing (specially designed spiral wire, broadly used for fencing purposes) as well as construct meeting rooms having contactless glass akin to those in prisons in developed countries so as to prevent physical contact with visitors and chances of their passing on a banned item to an inmate,” the official added. “These prisons will also have effective and reliable intercom system, state-of-the-art firefighting capabilities like water mist and CFR fighting systems as well as adequate capacity to stop illegal and banned items from entering the prisons and their search by use of metal detectors and even deep search metal detectors that can detect items buried underground and in walls,” he added. 
07-04-2021||Pune||Rise in testing count delays RT-PCR reports by up to 36 hours leading to possible spread of infection in Pune||Pune: Medical labs are seeing a rise in people seeking Covid tests following new restrictions in place which makes it mandatory for workers to get a negative RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) report. The huge demand for tests is causing delay in furnishing reports which in some cases is almost 36 hours. While it may not lead to any delay in treatment of critical patients, it delays isolation of Covid positives and asymptomatic patients continuing to spread the infection in the community, according to public health experts. As of March 30, Pune has 36 RT-PCR and 56 RAT (rapid antigen test) laboratories in the district. As per the presentation by the district collector to the chief secretary, government of Maharashtra, the district has conducted 2,839,453 tests, of which 519,600 are positive which takes the positivity rate to 18.3%. Of this RT-PCR has a positivity rate of 19.29% and RAT of 16.73%. The collector in the presentation had highlighted that RT-PCR test capacity for the district needs to be increased as National Institute of Virology (NIV) and other central government labs has reduced their RT-PCR testing for district. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) recently made it mandatory for those in essential services to either get vaccinated or submit a negative RT-PCR report every 15 days. Pallavi Jain, managing director, Krsnaa Diagnostics Ltd, said, “The new restrictions in place in Pune and also the surge in Covid cases are definitely leading to more demand for testing in the city. Since the sample is collected it takes between 18 and 24 hours. Also, we have been strictly asked by the administration to first provide information, including address in case of positive report, to them before sharing it with the patients. Hence, it takes another six hours. In case of critical patients, we alert the hospital. However, until the SMS is not sent through and the detailed address is not in, the sample testing is put on hold which further delays it. Shortage of staff and the cost capping by the government has further added to the delay.” Another private city hospital lab manager said, “We have prioritised home sample collection of those bed ridden or critical patients who cannot visit us. We mostly request suspected patients to visit our nearest branch and submit the samples. We have advance booking for two days for home collection for samples and the reports come in by at least 36 hours. We have 2,200-2,300 samples pending for testing.” Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble Hospitals, said, “There is definitely a delay in submitting reports. In case of critical patients based on the HRCT (high-resolution computed tomography) we decide the treatment line without awaiting the report. However, in case of asymptomatic or those with mild symptoms, if the results come in late then they continue to spread the infection and the chain of infection continues to grow.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/rise-in-testing-count-delays-rt-pcr-reports-by-up-to-36-hours-leading-to-possible-spread-of-infection-in-pune-101617801746740.html
07-04-2021||Patna||Madhubani massacre case main accused arrested, links with BJP MLA alleged||Bihar police on Wednesday arrested the main accused in the Benni Patti massacre case, in which five upper-caste Rajput men, including a BSF officer, were gunned down at Mahmudpur village under Benipatti police station in Bihar’s Madhubani district on March 29. The main accused, Pravin Jha, is suspected to be the force behind a newly-formed private army named ‘Ravan Sena’, made up of upper caste ‘Maithil Brahmins’ in the region.Opposition Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) has alleged that Jha has links with former minister and BJP MLA from Benipatti, Binod Narayan Jha. “The BJP MLA has close links with Pravin Jha. The family of the deceased, locals have all vouched for it. Police should look into the call details of the BJP MLA and a fair investigation should be conducted,” Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, leader of the opposition, said in Patna on Wednesday.However, the BJP MLA has denied any link in a video message in circulation on social media.On the day of Holi, more than 50 armed men opened fire on members of Ranvijay Singh’s family, which was involved in a dispute between Muhammadpur and Gebipur villages over fishing from a pond. In the gang war like attack, Ranvijay Singh and his cousin brother Virendra Singh were killed on the spot. Three other family members -- Rana Pratap Singh (a BSF officer), Amrendra Singh (a cricketer) and Rudra Narayan Singh succumbed to their injuries a day later. Another injured person, Manoj Singh, was currently admitted to the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital.Family members of the deceased staged a protest demanding a CBI probe into the killings and threatened to die by suicide before the chief minister’s residence if the accused, named in their complaint, were not arrested within four days.Preliminary investigation suggested that the pond was owned by one Sanjay Singh (brother of Ranvijay), but another group from Gebipur wanted to capture it. On November 20, two separate cases were lodged by Sanjay and Mukesh Safi (a close associate of Pravin Jha), which led to Sanjay getting jailed.Additional director general (ADG) headquarters, Jitendra Kumar confirmed that the prime accused were arrested by a Special Investigation Team (SIT) led by Madhubani superintendent of police (SP) Dr Satya Prakash, who, acting on a tip-off, raided a house at Raghauni village, situated on Madhubani-Darbhanga border, falling under Bisfi police station and arrested four accused identified as Pravin Jha alias Ravan, Chandan Jha, Mukesh Safi, Bhola Singh and the house owner, for giving them shelter. A police post was also set up in the village to prevent any untoward incident.Darbhanga range IG Ajitabh Kumar told HT that the massacre was the result of a fight for supremacy between two groups and not two castes. “A case has been lodged against 35 persons and dozens of unidentified accused. 14 named accused have been arrested while property of one of the chief accused, Navin Jha, who is still absconding, has been attached,” said a police officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/madhubani-massacre-case-main-accused-arrested-links-with-bjp-mla-alleged-101617801207370.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Illicit liquor unit unearthed in Amritsar village, 3 held||The Amritsar district rural police on Wednesday busted another unit making illicit liquor at Fatehwal village in Ajnala sub division and arrested three residents. The police confiscated three stills, 60 tonnes of lahan (raw material used for making the hooch) and 90 litres of illicit liquor. The three accused, Sucha Singh, Kashmir Singh and Paramjit Singh, had been running the stills at their houses. Also read: Attari illicit liquor racket was running under ruling Congress sarpanch’s patronageThis is the eighth such racket to be busted in the past six weeks under the Punjab government’s Operation Red Rose. Senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya said that his team acted on a tip-off. A team including deputy superintendent of police, special branch, Sukhraj Singh, DSP, Ajnala, Vipan Kumar and inspector, special branch, Harsandeep Singh conducted a search and cordon operation in the village. “The team identified the homes where the liquor manufacturing business was underway and conducted a raid in the wee hours of Wednesday,” Dahiya said. The accused had been supplying the illicit liquor to Ajnala, Rajasansi and Majitha. A case was registered under the Excise Act. The police have busted such rackets in Chak Mishri Khan, Chapa Ram Singh, Lakhuwal, Khiala Kalan, Kotli Sakka, Jasso Nangal and Jethuwal villages and more than 600 tonnes of lahan has been seized over the past two months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/illicit-liquor-unit-unearthed-in-amritsar-village-3-held-101617798206977.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Major fire breaks out Mumbai's Kurla, no injuries reported||A fire broke out at the scrap godown in Mumbai's Kurla area on Wednesday. The fire was initially reported as minor, but later declared a major one, officials said. No injuries have been reported so far, they added."A level three fire reported at 4.18 pm in market of vehicle spare parts at CST Road in Kurla," officials said.The disaster management cell of BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation confirmed that no injuries have been reported so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/major-fire-breaks-out-mumbai-s-kurla-no-injuries-reported-101617797171007.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||30-kg heroin seized along border in Tarn Taran, Pak smuggler held||The Border Security Force (BSF) on Wednesday arrested a Pakistani smuggler trying to push in a consignment of heroin into Indian territory at Khemkaran in Bhikhiwind sub division of Tarn Taran district. Amjad Ali, 19, of Kharak village in Lahore, was arrested with 21kg of heroin and two smartphones. In another operation, the BSF’s 14 Battalion also seized 9kg of heroin and a plastic pipe being used to push in the contraband through the barbed wire fence. Also read: Pak smuggler shot dead, 22-kg heroin, 2 AK-47 rifles seized at Amritsar borderBSF officials said in the first incident, 9kg of heroin was seized at 12.30 am on Wednesday, while the second incident in which Ali was caught took place at 3,30pm. “BSF personnel noticed suspicious movement across the fence and ahead of the zero line. When the area was searched, nine packets of heroin, each weighing 1kg, were recovered,” a senior BSF official said. Ambush led to smuggler’s arrest On the second incident, the official said, “We had a specific input that some Pakistani men will attempt to smuggle drugs into Indian territory from a particular area. An ambush was laid, and the smuggler arrested.” He said that the driving licence and the Aadhar card of an Indian smuggler were recovered from the two smartphones seized from the arrested man. “It is suspected that the Indian accomplice was to collect the contraband. His details will be handed over to the police for further action,” the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/30kg-heroin-seized-along-border-in-tarn-taran-pak-smuggler-held-101617797005149.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||'Parties were being held': Delhi health minister on why night curfew was imposed||Delhi's health minister Satyendra Jain said on Wednesday that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government decided to impose a night curfew in the national capital following reports that parties and social gatherings were being organised at a time when Covid-19 cases have surged."We took the decision to impose a night curfew in the city, as reports were coming about parties and gatherings being held in various parts of the city. Given the situation right now, one person can spread to everyone else in a gathering and to more people, so we took the step," Jain said while interacting with reporters.Also Watch: Night curfew imposed in Delhi till April 30 | All you need to knowIt is not a harsh step and there are various categories of exemption, he added.Asked about the efficacy of night curfew in curbing cases, he said, "Let's wait and watch".Also Read: Night curfew to contain Covid-19 spike, puts wedding celebrations in crisisThe Delhi government on Tuesday imposed an immediate night curfew after a spike in number of Covid-19 cases. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 5,100 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, the highest since November 27 last year when the city reported 5,482 cases in a day.The AAP government said that "sudden increase in Covid-19 cases" and "high positivity rate" meant a night curfew was needed.The ban will be in place each night from 10pm to 5am till April 30, with only essential services or people travelling to and from vaccination centres allowed on the streets.In Pics: Delhi Police strictly enforces night curfewDr VK Paul, a member of NITI Aayog, said on Tuesday during a health briefing that the next four weeks would be very critical for the country.India, which has the world's third-highest number of infections after the United States and Brazil, has reported almost 12.7 million cases and more than 1,65,000 deaths.Single-day infections have been rising since early February, when they fell to below 9,000. On Wednesday, it reached another grim milestone when the daily caseload crossed 1.15 lakh-mark.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parties-were-being-held-delhi-health-minister-on-why-night-curfew-was-imposed-101617796560452.html
07-04-2021||Kolkata||'Was cornered in TMC for resisting cut money culture...': Rajib Banerjee||Former minister Rajib Banerjee, considered to be one of BJP's prized scalps in its quest to assume power in Bengal, alleged that he was relegated in the TMC for opposing "cut money culture" and had to face "step-motherly" treatment throughout his second term, which ultimately prompted him to sever ties with the ruling party.Banerjee also mocked the Trinamool Congress government for promoting the state's numero uno position in implementation of the MGNREGA, contending that the distinction is testimony of the lack of jobs for the youth of West Bengal.Click here for full election coverageThe former forest minister, once a key figure in the Trinamool Congress, said he had considered retiring from active politics, but took up the challenge to contest in the assembly elections with the hope that the BJP will usher in a new era of development in the state.Banerjee, 51, who switched over to the saffron camp in January, is vying for a third term from the Domjur constituency, where he has won twice as a TMC candidate since 2011.Referring to his "bitter experiences" in the Backward Classes Welfare Department, Banerjee said he had once received a complaint of irregularity in distribution of cycles among students under the 'Sabuj Sathi' project, and flagged it to the chief minister's office."The result of pointing this out was I was removed from the department, as I tried to put an end to the cut money culture," the former Backward Classes Welfare Department Minister told PTI in an interview on the sidelines of hectic campaiging.Accusing the TMC dispensation of not clearing files for development projects for his constituency, Banerjee claimed that he was shunted out of every ministry that he headed whenever he tried to come in the way of vested interests of a section of senior officials and party members."I had worked hard to get the nod for drinking water projects in Domjur, but then, a ₹33-crore proposal for free water connection to households was not approved. The local TMC administration is now demanding money from people to go ahead with it. I wanted to execute the project without charging a penny," he said.Attacking the TMC government over its "failure" to create job opportunities, Banerjee sought to punch a hole in the ruling party's poll plank of securing the the top spot for implementation of the 100-day rural job scheme, declaring it as "a reflection of West Bengal, a failed state"."There are over 5.5 lakh vacancies in state government departments, and no efforts were made to recruit people for the posts. Instead, the TMC dispensation hired a few thousand contractual workers."People do not have jobs, and that is why they sought work under the MGNRGA scheme. Youths are leaving the state," Banerjee, who holds an MBA degree, said.Asked about allegations that he enjoyed all the power and perks of his position before ditching the TMC prior to the elections, the former Irrigation Minister said people of the constituency are well aware of his development work in the area."Let the TMC leaders say whatever they want. People will decide on April 10 (the day of polling in Domjur)... I know they will not disappoint me, said Banerjee, who is believed to have considerable influence in several seats of Howrah district.The TMC turncoat, however, maintained that he has immense respect for TMC supremo and Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, and had to desert the party with a heavy heart as he was cornered."Unfortunately, I was not allowed to work independently in the second term and sidelined in the party. I had to face personal attacks for airing grievances against a section of top leaders."I was also meted out a step-motherly treatment ever since winning from the constituency with more than one lakh votes for a second term in 2016," he claimed.Banerjee also took a swipe at TMC's 'khela habe' (game will happen) poll slogan, insisting that such a discourse by the ruling party shows it has become politically bankrupt.Attired in a traditional 'kurta pyajama', Banerjee, the nephew of former state minister in the Congress government Mritunjay Banerjee, has been traversing the length and breadth of Domjur, around 16 km from Kolkata, exuding confidence of a hat-trick win.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/was-cornered-in-tmc-for-resisting-cut-money-culture-rajib-banerjee-101617796283227.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport sees over 5 million passengers in 3 months||Despite the pandemic hitting the aviation sector hard, there have been 5,091,730 passengers and over 49,160 flights across domestic and international destinations between January and March 2021 at Mumbai’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA).In these three months, CSMIA saw a footfall comprising over 521,570 international passengers on 7,759 flights as well as over 4,570,150 domestic passengers on 41,407 flights. During this period, Dubai emerged as the most popular international destination, as it catered to the highest traffic—over 160,169 passengers.Dubai was followed by Newark with 54,406 passengers and Male with 50,158 passengers at CSMIA. Amongst domestic destinations, Delhi saw the highest traffic with 6,57,467 passengers, followed by Goa with 436,899 passengers and Bengaluru with around 309,168 passengers.Also Read | Covid-19: Maharashtra records over 50k new cases, 297 fresh deathsCSMIA also saw the addition of new routes and destinations, including international ones such as Ras Al Khaimah and Batam, as well as domestic destinations such as Jharsuguda, Kishangarh and Agra among others in the first quarter of 2021.With an aim to enhance the overall safety and comfort of passengers, CSMIA had introduced RT-PCR test counters at the terminal on September 6, 2020. Since then it administered over 300,000 tests at the airport till March 2021.“CSMIA continues to remain a steady rock for passengers and its stakeholders in the face of unpredictable situations due to the pandemic and changing regulations of testing and quarantine requirements. The airport continually strives to provide the best services and facilities to its passengers to ensure a seamless and memorable experience of their journey. CSMIA is working diligently with its stakeholders, regulatory and government bodies to implement and communicate necessary protocols and procedures for passengers and personnel’s safety at the airport,” said the airport spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-sees-over-5-million-passengers-in-3-months-101617794845873.html
07-04-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19: Bengaluru under prohibitory orders. Here's the list of other worst-hit districts in Karnataka||The Karnataka government on Wednesday issued an order banning the use of swimming pools, gyms, party halls and other such shared spaces with immediate effect in view of the rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), news agency ANI reported. In wake of the Covid-19 situation in Bengaluru, restrictions under Section 144 CrPC will be imposed in the city from today, the order said. "Prohibit operation of amenities like swimming pool, gymnasium, party hall in apartment/residential complexes in Bengaluru city," it read.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageApart from Bengaluru, districts of Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru and Bidar were also witnessing a steep rise in infections, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar said."The cases are going up in five other districts apart from Bengaluru urban. We have taken note of it. We are in constant engagement and consultation with the district administrations. More vaccine doses have been sent. We have asked them to do more tests and also to track and trace primary contacts within 24 hours. Some more strict guidelines needed to be issued in Mysuru," Sudhakar told ANI.While Bengaluru Urban district alone reported 4,266 cases on April 6, Mysuru, Kalaburagi, Tumakuru and Bidar recorded 237, 185, 157 and 167 fresh cases respectively.Meanwhile, Karnataka was also listed among the eight states of India which have shown a rise in fresh cases accounting for 80.70 per cent of the new cases reported in the country in a day, Union health ministry said. The state, along with Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Uttar Pradesh, also accounts for 74.5 per cent of India's total active cases, according to the ministry.According to the state health department, Karnataka recorded 6,150 fresh Covid-19 cases and 39 new deaths on Tuesday. The active number of cases stands at 45,107.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid-19-bengaluru-under-prohibitory-orders-here-s-the-list-of-other-worst-hit-districts-in-karnataka-101617792262711.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Retired teacher held for raping 19-year-old student in Hisar||A 61-year-old retired government schoolteacher was arrested for raping a 19-year-old girl student for five years at a village in Hisar district, police said on Wednesday. In her complaint, the victim said her former teacher, who had retired in 2018, had been assaulting her sexually for the past five years. Also read: Woman abducted, gang-raped on pretext of lift by cab driver“Recently, he abducted and raped me. He threatened me with dire consequences if I told anyone about the incident,” she said. Hansi police spokesman Subhash Chander said the retired teacher was arrested on Tuesday. A case was registered against him under Sections 376 (punishment for rape) and 354 (assault or criminal force to woman with the intent to outrage her modesty) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) besides the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes Act, the spokesman added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/retired-teacher-held-for-raping-19-year-old-student-in-hisar-101617793344909.html
07-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka imposes restrictions under Sec 144 in Bengaluru city limits as Covid-19 infections surge||Due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, the Karnataka government on Wednesday ordered that restrictions under Section 144 of CrPC will be implemented in the city limits to contain the gathering of crowds. The Karnataka state disaster management authority issued the order to impose “certain reasonable restrictions for public safety and health”.“Prohibit operation of amenities like swimming pool, gymnasium, party halls etc in apartment/residential complexes in limits of Bengaluru City,” said the order signed by Kamal Pant, Commissioner of Police, Bengaluru City, which has been sent to all the police stations in Bengaluru.Also read | Punjab CM orders Covid-19 testing to be increased to 2 lakh per dayThe announcement comes a day after Karnataka state reported over 6,000 new Covid-19 infections on Tuesday, the highest single-day spike this year.On Wednesday morning, Union health ministry identified Karnataka to be one among 12 states where the daily new infections are increasing. The ministry also noted that the state accounted for 5.35 per cent of the overall active caseload in the country.Meanwhile, according to data from the state government’s latest health bulletin for Covid-19, Bengaluru Urban district alone reported 4,266 cases on April 6, which is 69.37 per cent of the new cases reported in the state. Also, with 455,025 total cases identified so far and 32,605 active cases currently, the district remains the worst affected by the coronavirus disease in Karnataka so far.Watch | ‘Covid second wave infecting young adults, children, pregnant women’: LNJP MD﻿While Bengaluru Urban remains a concern for the state government, state health minister Dr K Sudhakar said on Wednesday that five other districts are also witnessing a spike. “Covid-19 cases [are] rising in five other districts apart from Bengaluru Urban. We are in constant consultation with these districts. We have sent more vaccine doses to these districts and asked them to do more tests. Few guidelines need to be issued for Mysuru,” news agency ANI quoted him as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-imposes-restrictions-under-sec-144-in-bengaluru-city-limits-as-covid-19-infections-surge-101617791516002.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Sutradhara’s tales: Islamic powers conquer Deccan, Sufism arrives in Pune||The 13th century symbolises a vital change in the socio-political and cultural environment of Deccan, so much so that it was named as the Islamic or medieval period by colonial historians. In 1296, Ala-ud-din Khalji of the Delhi Sultanate successfully raided Devagiri. Khalji restored it to Ramachandra in return of his promise of payment of a high ransom and an annual tribute. However, this was not paid and the Yadava kingdom’s arrears to Khalji kept mounting. In 1307, Khalji sent an army commanded by Malik Kafur, accompanied by Khwaja Haji, to Devagiri. Their huge army conquered the weakened and defeated forces of Devagiri almost without a battle. Khalji reinstated Ramachandra as governor in return for a promise to help him subdue the Hindu kingdoms in South India. Ramachandra’s successor Simhana III challenged the supremacy of Khalji, who sent Malik Kafur to recapture Devagiri in 1313. Simhana III was killed in the ensuing battle and Khalji’s army occupied Devagiri. Thus, the mighty Yadava Empire was completely annexed by the Khalji sultanate in 1317. Malik Kafur conquered most parts of Maharashtra, including Pune, thus bringing the significant Deccan territory under Islamic rule.In the year 1320s, the Tughluq Dynasty occupied the Delhi throne and shortly after in 1327, Muhammad bin Tughluq’s shifted his capital from Delhi to Deogiri.This period was the most productive period in the work and ideology of the early Sufi Shaikhs, who also became the guiding factor for later mystics and rulers.Propagation of the Sufi sect in Deccan was greatly supported by spread of political powers. It was around the same time, mysticism movement in Islam in the form of Sufism started growing and many Sufi saints travelled with their disciples for propagation of the sect. The devotional mysticism of the Bhakti movement in Deccan provided an ideological overlap with the Sufism, which led to syncretic practices accepted by Dakkhanis.Deccan provinces provided fertile grounds for development of medicine, astrology and trade, some of the primary Sufi interests. It was during this time, Shaikh Nizamuddin Avaliya with his 700 followers descended south to propagate the Sufi sect. One of his followers, Sheikh Sallauddin Gazi Chisti, alias Sheikh Salla (son of Sheikh Abdulla of Ghor), came down to Pune with his four followers from the Middle East and settled on the banks of the river Mutha near present day Shaniwar peth. Pune Pet Kafiyat, a Maratha period manuscript discovered by Dr Uday Kulkarni documents a rather peculiar tale related to Shaikh Sallauddin. The saint Sallauddin was camping in the Masjid gardens (now absent) near Kumbhar Ves. The Saint performed the miracle of raising the dead bullocks belonging to the grief-stricken gardener of the temple named Divekar. The delighted gardener informed the keeper of the fort Kondhana (then Sinhagad), Annaji Shirke about the astonishing miracle and invited him to visit Shaikh Avaliya. Ailing son and limbless daughter of Annaji were healed completely by Shaikh Avaliya’s touch and recitation of verses. This incident helped build the trust of locals in the immigrant group of Sufis. Shaikh Sallauddin’s death in the year 1358 was commemorated by his followers by forcibly converting the Yadav period Narayaneshwar temple into his memorial dargah.This dargah lies to the left of Shaniwanwada, along the river Mutha, and is popularly known as Thorla (senior) Shaikh Salla Dargah. When the temple of Narayaneshwar was demolished, the Vedic Brahmin priest of the temple Shyambhat Rajarshi (Kulkarnis of Pune) converted to the Islamic faith and became disciples of Shaikh Salla Avaliya. He requested his teacher to grant him religious rights as per Islam and Avaliya arranged for him to be appointed as Kazi of the town of Pune. The Kazi of Pune and Pirjadye of the Shaikh Salla dargah are the successors of Shyam Bhat. Further, Shyam Bhat was conferred Inam of Mauje Erandwane and Mauje Kalas villages for the management of the Sheikh Salla Dargah. The main tomb, which has a plain doorway, is approached by a flight of steps. The space inside is very uneven and is now a regular burial ground with numerous graves around the central tomb, which is a circular domed room. The ruins of the original Yadava period Narayaneshwar temple are still scattered about to the south-west of Sheikh Salla’s tomb. They consist chiefly of stone columns and lintels, some in their places and others strewn over the ground. A few years later, Sayyad Hisamuddin Kattal Zanjani (a religious advocate belonging to the sect of Makhdum Mit Ashraf Samnani), came to Pune and settled on its banks near Kumbhar Ves. Saint Hisamuddin died in 1390. Punyeshwar Temple on the banks of Mutha near Kumbharwada was brought down and converted into the memorial dargah of Shaikh Hisamuddin. This led the fleeing of priest of Punyeshwar with the Shiv-linga to the base of Purandar fort.Behind the mosque, a flight of steps lead from Punyeshwar’s temple to the river bed. Pillars of this temple match the pillars of Kasba Ganpati temple. In the front courtyard to the left is a tiled building where a bier or tabut is kept and where congregations are held for prayer.The domed structure on the tomb was added later. It is the second oldest dargah in Pune built after Thorla Shaikh Sallah Durgah. The campus of Dhakta Shaikh Salla also houses the memorial of Mohiul–milaat the grandson of Aurangzeb Badshah, son of Kambaksh. Aurangzeb was in Pune in 1702 during his south Indian campaign. Aurangzeb had named the city of Pune as Muhiyabad, in his own name; Muhi-ud-Din or to commemorate his grandson, Muhi-us- Sunnat, according to some scholars.Apart from the mosques’ religious significance, they have great historical and architectural importance and are a designated protected heritage site. The socio-political changes of the 14th century begin a new chapter in Pune’s life and it let to restructuring of the settlement of Pune, politically, culturally and spatially…||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/sutradharas-tales-islamic-powers-conquer-deccan-sufism-arrives-in-pune-101617791245278.html
07-04-2021||Indore||Indore: 2 cops suspended after video showing them beating up rickshaw-puller surfaces on social media||Indore police suspended two policemen after a video went viral on social media showing them beating up a rickshaw-puller in Indore's Pardeshipura police station area.The viral clip shows two policemen roughing up a man having him pinned down to the road."In view of Covid spike, we have been urging people to wear mask and even levy a fine on the spot if found flouting the norms. Pardeshipura police were doing their job under 'Roko Toko' programme and saw this rickshaw-puller was not wearing mask," Indore Superintendent of Police, Ashutosh Bagri, said.The SP further said that the person was found to be criminally-minded and had a history of extortion and knife-wielding."When the police asked him to come to the police station, he started a brawl there and started scuffling with the police. The person, who made the video, cut the first half off the video and circulated with the intention of maligning the reputation of the police," Bagri added.The SP said whatever the two policemen did was still unjustifiable and the two policemen, Mahesh Prajapati and Gopal Jaat, have been suspended and attached to the SP office.On the other hand, the rickshaw-puller told ANI that he was going to Indore's Maharaja Yeshwantrao (MY) hospital to deliver food for his father who was admitted there."I was going to the hospital to deliver food for my father who is admitted there. My mask was hanging a little loose below my nose when the two policemen told me to come to the police station. I requested them to let me go for the time being and said I would come over there on my own," Krishna Kunjir, the rickshaw-puller said."But, they started beating me up. They even tightened the chain that I was wearing around my neck. I kept asking them to let me go but they did not listen," Kunjir added.However, the police told ANI that the person was criminally minded and already has two FIRs against him in connection with extortion and knife-wielding.Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Nihit Upadhyay is investigating the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-2-cops-suspended-after-video-showing-them-beating-up-rickshaw-puller-surfaces-on-social-media-101617790008796.html
07-04-2021||Dehradun||5 IIT Roorkee hostels sealed after 60 students test Covid positive||Five student hostels at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) Roorkee in Uttarakhand have been sealed and declared containment zones after 60 students tested positive for Covid-19 over a span of two days, said IIT officials. Fifty-four students were detected positive on Monday followed by six more on Tuesday evening. The institute has asked students not to return from home to hostels till further orders. “After the 60 students were tested positive in the institute, five hostels named Korle, Kasturba, Sarojini, Govind Bhavan and Vigyan Kunj have been sealed and declared containment zones by the Haridwar district health department. The institute at present has about 3,000 students, of which, about 1,200 are in these five hostels,” said IIT Roorkee media cell in-charge Sonika Srivastava. She said all the students of the above-mentioned hostels have been asked to remain inside their rooms, where they were being provided with food and other requirements. “The institute has turned its Ganga Bhavan hostel as the Covid care centre for treating infected students under the supervision of district health department. Apart from this, one guest house and another in-house establishment have been turned into quarantine centres for the first contacts of the infected students,” she said, and added that a committee has been formed to handle and manage the Covid-19 situation. Uttarakhand on Tuesday recorded its highest daily spike this year with 791 Covid-19 cases, taking the infections’ tally in the state to 1,03,602. With seven more deaths, Covid-19 death toll reached 1,736, a mortality rate of 1.68%. Dehradun district was the worst affected on Tuesday with 303 new cases followed by Haridwar-185 and Nainital-- 107. The number of active cases in the state rose to 3,607, including 1,446 cases in Dehradun, followed by 1,010 and 344 in Haridwar and Nainital districts respectively. 96,647 Covid patients have been cured, registering 93.29% recovery rate. The number of containment zones has increased to 24 from 14 on Monday due to the recent surge. Maximum of these were in Dehradun district- 12. After detection the infection, the institute’s management has asked other students to stay back at their homes till further orders. Also, the classes are being held online only, said Srivastava.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/5-iit-roorkee-hostels-sealed-after-60-students-test-covid-positive-101617790165111.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Night curfew to contain Covid-19 spike, puts wedding celebrations in crisis||One would imagine ticking off the last-minute wedding tasks, preparing for the celebrations for their big day but couples planning to tie the knot this month are in a bind following the imposition of night curfew from 10pm to 5am in Delhi and 8pm to 7am in Mumbai, to stem Covid-19 in both cities.While some have decided to postpone the date again, others are weighing alternate solutions, with day weddings being touted as one. “The moment it was announced, we received a call from the venue to move the function to the day, but it might be difficult,” says Saurabh Aswal, an IT professional who is getting married on April 25.  Another groom-to-be, Akhil Narang, a businessman, shares, “It is a state of chaos. The date is so near and the venues are saying they need to check the availability for day timings. We have already given ‘minimum guarantee’ to the venues but now with the option of day function, they’re not willing to reduce the cost. They need to understand that not all the guests will be able to attend in day time.”It is proving to be an equal drawback for couples who decided to skip the wedding venues in the Capital due to a cap on maximum guests to 100 and 200 and opted for venues in NCR, as now commuting and returning before the curfew timings may be of a concern. For Abhishek Pateria, a research scholar, who took two months off from his work in Poland for his wedding and booked a venue in Surajkund, Haryana, changes will be tough. “There’s no chance of postponing as I have to fly back or even switching to day functions due to shubh muhurat. It will be difficult for guests who will attend the wedding all the way from Delhi or Noida,” he says. Over the last year, wedding venues have started to observe the change in preferences of couples due to pandemic. Shivan Gupta , creative director, Amaara Farms says, “We have been receiving queries from couples for a brunch or moving towards day weddings, and also noticing the conscious efforts from our clients to keep their gathering intimate.”Not just the couples and venues but other wedding vendors such as planners and photographers are in conflict as well about last-minute refunds, cancellations and postponement challenges. Vishal Punjabi, founder and director, The Wedding Filmer, says, “There have been a few cancellations because family members have contracted Covid-19.” However, he feels that when things like this happen, it teaches us to value what we have. “Now isn’t the time to party and a wedding doesn’t have to be a big party,” he adds.As couples are navigating through the challenges to find an alternate solution, “They are taking suggestions to navigate the best possible ways to go ahead since so many vendors are involved. It has a lead to a lot of chaos and disturbance in the planning done so far. Due to very limited auspicious dates this year, the clients are not too convinced with the idea of even postponing the weddings,” says cinematographer Ritin Kumar, director and head storyteller, Cinelove Productions. Another wedding photographer, Amrit Arora, founder, The Wedding Files, shares, “I do have 6-7 weddings in Delhi for April. As of now, none of our clients called it off but one of them called to inform that they are planning to shift it to day wedding now. There were 2-3 queries which were going on and we were expecting them to get close but now they put it on hold.”For planners, the months put into planning and organising a wedding have gone down the drain. Aanchal Bagaria, co-founder, The Wedding Soul who had weddings scheduled in April with three-day affairs, says, “Now it’s all wrapped up to one single wedding to an afternoon lunch. Either couples are all together pushing dates to November, or opting for a sundowner wedding from 4-7pm. All our efforts and months of planning have gone in vain but have to face the fact.” She also states even for the month of May, weddings are uncertain as venues are not taking up bookings for large numbers. Wedding planners, Kaveri Vij and Akshay Chopra of Designer Events Inc. feels it is a recap of the last year as Vij says, “Just when we thought things have started to normalise, this comes a shocker. We are still hoping and keeping our fingers crossed that we do survive this. Few days before any wedding are the most hectic for us and we literally burn midnight oil to complete all the tasks at hand.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/night-curfew-to-contain-covid-19-spike-puts-wedding-celebrations-in-crisis-101617788790675.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab bans political gatherings, extends night curfew till April 30||As Covid cases continue to remain high in the state, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ordered a total ban on political gatherings till April 30 and said that violators, including political leaders, will be booked under the Disaster Management and Epidemics Act. The chief minister also announced extension of night curfew from 9pm to 5am, which hitherto was imposed in 12 districts, to the entire state and reduced the number of attendees at funeral/cremations/weddings to 50 people indoors and 100 outdoors. Wearing masks has been made mandatory for all government employees while in office. Also read: What is driving India’s second Covid-19 wave?Schools stay closed, but relief for shop owners in malls These restrictions, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, which include the closure of schools and educational institutions, shall remain effective till April 30. However, there was some respite for shop owners in malls, as the entry of 10 people in a shop at any given time has been allowed, as against the earlier order of not allowing more than 100 people in a mall at one time. This would imply that 200 people will be allowed in a mall with 20 shops at any given time. In his weekly review of the Covid situation, the chief minister expressed concern at the high positivity and mortality rates in the state. He said it was matter of concern that over 85% of cases in Punjab are of the UK strain, which is more contagious and virulent. He said he had no option but to go in for stricter measures to further control the surge, even though the number of positive cases had somewhat stabilised in the last few days due to curbs imposed earlier. He said he had been forced to order a ban on political gatherings, as his pleas to all parties to refrain from organising such events had been ignored, despite the fact that the Congress had unilaterally announced its decision of not holding any rallies or public meetings last month. Amarinder guns for rallies by Kejriwal, Sukhbir Expressing surprise at the behaviour of certain political leaders, including Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal, who had been attending political rallies without following safety protocols, the chief minister said such irresponsible conduct doesn’t behove them. “How do you expect people to be serious about the spread of the disease if senior political leaders behave like this?” he said, adding that his government would need to be tough to tackle such violations and political leaders would also need to be booked. He ordered the police and the district administrations to register cases against political leaders, organisers and participants of such gatherings under the DMA and Epidemics Act, besides booking the owners of the tent houses, who provide the infrastructure for such gatherings. He said even the venue owners, who would provide space for such events, will not be spared and they would be booked, and their venues sealed for three months. No social, cultural or sports gatherings allowed He said that no social, cultural or sports gatherings and related functions will be allowed till April 30. In-person public dealing shall be restricted in all government offices and online and virtual modes for grievance redressal shall be encouraged. All government employees will need to compulsorily wear a mask while attending office. Capt Amarinder Singh said restrictions of running cinema houses at 50% of their capacity and the closure of schools and educational institutions, except medical and nursing colleges, shall continue till April 30. The chief minister directed Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict implementation of the night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-bans-political-gatherings-extends-night-curfew-till-april-30-101617788188351.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra facing shortage of vaccine stock, many centres shut: Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra is facing shortage of Covid-19 vaccine stock and has had to shut down several vaccination centres across the state. It has already requested the Centre to provide adequate stock as it has set a target of inoculating 600,000 beneficiaries a day, said Rajesh Tope, state health minister of Wednesday.Tope urged the Centre to prioritise Maharashtra and, if required, to delay stock supplies to other states as it is the most affected state in the country.Maharashtra tops the chart in vaccinating the most beneficiaries across the country. Currently, it is vaccinating 450,000 beneficiaries a day and may touch the 500,000 mark, provided it gets adequate stock from the Centre, the health minister said.Also Read | India surpasses US to become fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country, says CentreThe demand to the Centre was made in a video conference meeting chaired by Union minister of health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan. Tope attended the meeting along with health ministers from six other states on Tuesday.“Union minister Prakash Javadekar had asked us to double the vaccination numbers and had assured [the centre would] provide adequate stock. We accepted it as a challenge and increased the daily vaccination numbers to 450,000 from 300,000. We will achieve the target of inoculating 600,000 beneficiaries daily in no time. However, we have started facing shortage of vaccine stock and have to shut down many centres across the state as there is no stock left,” the health minister told reporters.“Vaccination is the most effective measure to control the pandemic at present. We have urged the Centre to provide adequate stock and, if needed, they can delay supplies of the stock in other states as the daily cases have breached the 50,000 mark in Maharashtra,” Tope added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-facing-shortage-of-vaccine-stock-many-centres-shut-rajesh-tope-101617787824903.html
07-04-2021||Bangalore||RTC strike: Decision on invoking ESMA depending on situation, says Karnataka CM||With bus services being hit across the state, due to the strike by road transport corporations employees, Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Wednesday indicated that a decision on invoking Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) will be taken depending on the situation. Pointing out that the public were inconvenienced, he called on striking employees to get back to work. The CM also alleged that "selfish motives" of some people were behind the strike. "We have fulfilled 8 of their (workers) nine demands, despite this they are adamant and have stopped buses, and are creating trouble for the public. I appeal to them, get back to work, we can talk," Yediyurappa said. Speaking to reporters here, he said the government has agreed for an 8 per cent increase in salary as an interim relief, but it cannot be implemented immediately as the model code of conduct is in place and a letter has been sent to the Election Commission seeking permission. "Though we have made alternate arrangements with the help of private operators, still they (RTC workers) going for a strike, which is wrong... they should not give room for us to take strict measures and cooperate," he added. Workers of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), under the banner of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, have given a call for strike from April 7. The protest is against the government's "failure" to implement a salary under the 6th Pay Commission for the RTC workers. Alleging that despite knowing the reality some people were behind the strike for their "selfish motive", Yediyurappa said we will wait and see today and tomorrow and take strict action depending on the situation. Asked if the government will invoke Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA), he said, "we are discussing everything, depending on the situation, we will take appropriate decisions." The employees' league has decided to go ahead with the strike, despite the government warning of strict action and ruling out any negotiations with them. The government had also made clear that the implementation of the 6th pay commission for transport workers was not possible, but has agreed for an 8 per cent increase in salary as an interim relief. Responding to a question on complaints regarding private services including buses, autos and cabs charging exorbitantly, the CM said strict instructions have been given in this regard and on receiving any complaint action will be taken. "I appeal to them (private operators) not to charge exorbitantly taking advantage of the situation.. we will not allow it," he said. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who holds the Transport portfolio too said despite the government stating that it was ready for pay hike after permission from the election commission, some people have intentionally pushed for strike. "I wont say those behind it are from political parties or others, it will be known in the days to come.." he said without revealing much. The DCM said some buses are operating and their numbers will increase in all the four corporations in two days. "Private buses are being provided facilities at our bus terminals to operate from. They have been allowed to operate without permit, but with insurance for the convenience of the passengers. In two days we will increase their numbers and from tomorrow about 4,000 private buses, those who have surrendered permits, will operate" he added. Appealing to employees to get back to work, Savadi said income has completely stopped. "It will be difficult to pay salary in the days to come, as long as you continue the strike it will harm you.."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/rtc-strike-decision-on-invoking-esma-depending-on-situation-says-karnataka-cm-101617786755627.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Night curfew in Delhi to control Covid-19 spread. See pictures||Delhi, on Tuesday, joined the list of states that have imposed restrictions to control the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), as it implemented a night curfew from 10pm to 5am with immediate effect till April 30.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The national capital is among 11 states displaying an upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 infections, as per the data provided by the Union health ministry. On Tuesday, Delhi reported this year’s highest number of new cases as it crossed the 5,000-mark in the past 24 hours, according to the health bulletin.Here’s how the roads of Delhi looked last night after the curfew was imposed:All district magistrates, deputy commissioners of police, and authorities concerned have to ensure strict adherence with the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) order. Strict compliance to the night curfew was ensured by the police last night at every crucial point.Pregnant women, patients, those travelling to and from the railway stations, airport, state bus terminus are exempt from travelling during the restricted seven hours. Officials holding constitutional posts, and those related to the functioning of diplomats’ offices are also exempt from the restrictions on the production of a valid ID.Essential service providers involved in healthcare, medical, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence, fire, and other emergency services are also exempt.To reach home before 10pm, unusually heavy traffic was reported in parts of the national Capital. Many took to Twitter to complain about the traffic snarl that was caused last night. The Delhi metro rail corporation (DMRC) also advised the commuters to travel and reach their destination before 10pm as the metro commute after that is not allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/night-curfew-in-delhi-to-control-covid-19-spread-see-pictures-101617782601101.html
07-04-2021||Patna||Bihar court jails women drug smugglers jailed for 15 years||A district court at Bihar’s East Champaran has awarded 15-year jail terms to four women who were caught with narcotics smuggled from Nepal in 2016. The court of district and session judge Manoj Kumar Singh also imposed a fine of ₹1.5 lakh on each convict on Tuesday.The case dates back to September 21, 2016, when a Railway Protection Force (RPF) team nabbed the four women -- Ruby Devi alias Shakuntala, a resident of Raxaul; Sangita Devi alias Bagad, a resident of Turkaulia; Pinki Devi alias Sunaina and Rita Devi alias Baby, both from Banjaria, from a general compartment of Satyagrah Express at Narkatiaganj railway station.According to the special public prosecutor, Suresh Kumar, the RPF team got intelligence input from the 44th battalion of Sashastra Seema Bal (SSB) that four women were travelling in the train with banned drugs. The suspects were bringing narcotics from Nepal hidden in six bags. The RPF team, with the help of the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB), seized over 31kg of opioid from their possession.All the four women were arrested after they could not produce any licence or permit for carrying the contraband and a case under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act was registered against them.The 1,751-km border with Nepal is notorious for smuggling drugs, weapons and fertilizers, besides human trafficking, data showed. In February this year, three Nepali citizens were arrested with 265 kilograms of charas, hidden in a compartment made in a pickup van, in Gopalganj. SSB, which patrols the Indo-Nepal border, arrests hundreds each year for smuggling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-court-jails-women-drug-smugglers-jailed-for-15-years-101617784284595.html
07-04-2021||Jaipur||NCW chairperson discusses police's role in women safety with Rajasthan DGP||National Commission for Women's (NCW) chairperson Rekha Sharma on Tuesday held a meeting with Rajasthan Director-General of Police (DGP) M L Lather and discussed issues related to women safety in the state including the status of pending complaints.The NCW chief was briefed about the status of the complaints and various functions of the Rajasthan police.After the meeting with the DGP, the NCW chairperson spoke to ANI and said: "The police work when a crime happens but prevention of such crimes is the responsibility of the state government. I believe the state government is lacking in doing so. My office is trying to make an appointment with the chief minister to discuss the concerns about such incidents.""The state government has to work on social issues for women. There are several things that need to be monitored by the state government and not by the police. Police can only work on its level," she added.She further highlighted the need for a state commission in order to ensure proper communication between NCW and Rajasthan government.According to Sharma, information about several crime cases did not reach the NCW."The information about several cases that have been registered by the police did not reach us. Also, there is some communication problem at the Superintendent of Police- level so we will try to send the copy of reports directly to the DGP regarding the complaints reported to us," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/ncw-chairperson-holds-meeting-with-rajasthan-dgp-discusses-police-s-role-in-women-safety-101617778944496.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Thunderstorm in south Punjab leaves wheat growers worried||A strong thunderstorm swept across south Punjab on Tuesday night and led to the lodging of wheat crop ahead of next week’s harvest season besides damaging kinnow orchards where trees are in the early fruit bearing stage. Bathinda and adjoining districts also got mild rainfall after the high-velocity wind. It’s the second spell of rough weather in a fortnight when the semi-arid region has faced untimely rains and gusty winds. Also read: Punjab sets up 3,700 mandis for procuring wheat amid Covid surgeFarm experts say irrigated wheat fields, or the late sown varieties are likely to face maximum damage. According to Punjab Agricultural University’s observatory at the Bathinda-based regional research centre, south Malwa witnessed winds with a velocity of up to 92.6 kmph on Tuesday evening. The winds damaged vegetable and mustard crops in the final stage of harvest. Ripened wheat not prone to damage: Expert Mansa chief agriculture officer Manjit Singh said ripened wheat plants lose weight and they are not prone to much damage despite strong winds. Preliminary inputs don’t suggest any major crop loss due to the storm, he said. “Major rabi crop of the region is in the last phase of maturity and no widespread damage is expected from the thunderstorm. Field staff has been deployed to assess the extent of the crop damage,” he said. May delay harvest but not expected to hit yield Farmer Budh Singh of Bibiwala village in Bathinda’s periphery said the storm caused lodging of up to 60% of his wheat field on Tuesday night. Gurjit Romana, a farmer from Danewala Satkosi village near Abohar in Fazilka district, said the dust storm lasted for 40 minutes. “Kinnow orchards were worst hit, while lodging of mustard plants occurred,” he said. Balwinder Tikka, a progressive farmer from Malout in Muktsar district, said waterlogging in the low-lying fields will delay the wheat harvest. “The crop has been flattened in several areas though eventually a bumper yield is expected,” he said, adding that the inclement weather at this stage is a concern.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/thunderstorm-in-south-punjab-leaves-wheat-growers-worried-101617779784522.html
07-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh suspends bus operations with Chhattisgarh till April 15||The Madhya Pradesh government on Wednesday suspended bus operations with Chhattisgarh till April 15 in the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases in the neighbouring state.An order to this effect was issued by the Madhya Pradesh transport department.On Sunday, MP Chief Minister Shivraj Singh said the state government will restrict the movement of people from Chhattisgarh to curb the spread of Covid-19.As per the transport department's order issued on Wednesday, the movement of passenger buses between MP and Chhattisgarh will remain suspended from April 7 to 15.The decision has been taken in the public interest and to check the spread of the viral infection, the order said.The Madhya Pradesh government has already sealed the state's areas bordering Maharashtra, which has also witnessed a huge spike in Covid-19 cases.With the detection of 9,921 fresh cases on Tuesday, Chhattisgarh saw its highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the infection in March last year, taking the state's caseload to 3,68,269, as per official figures.The Covid-19 death toll in Chhattisgarh also rose to 4,416 as 53 more people succumbed to the disease on Tuesday.Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday reported 3,722 new cases of coronavirus, taking its tally to 3,13,971, while 18 fatalities pushed the death toll to 4,073, as per the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-suspends-bus-operations-with-chhattisgarh-till-april-15-101617778469052.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Wear masks, appeals Delhi govt as city sees ‘fourth wave’ of Covid-19 pandemic||Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday urged people to continue wearing masks, a day after the government announced a night curfew in the city-state amid rising daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in what has been termed as the “fourth wave” of the Covid-19 pandemic by the Delhi government.Also Read | Starting today, night curfew in Delhi from 10 pm to 5 am amid rising Covid cases“In the last three days, more than 2,000 beds have been increased in hospitals. I would like to appeal to the public to wear masks and maintain social distancing,” Jain said, according to news agency ANI. On Tuesday, the Delhi government announced a daily night curfew, with “immediate effect,” from 10pm-5am, till April 30.Also Read | Night curfew imposed in Delhi from today. Here's what's allowed, what's notJain, a leader of the ruling Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), was also asked about relaxations in the night curfew for the Indian Premier League (IPL) match in the city on April 29. “As of now, we’re concentrating on coronavirus, we haven’t thought about it (relaxations),” he said. Delhi is among six host cities of the IPL, along with Mumbai, Bengaluru, Chennai, Ahmedabad and Kolkata. The tournament begins on April 9.As of now, we are concentrating on Corona, we haven't thought about it: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on night curfew relaxations to be given to teams that are participating in the IPL match that is scheduled to be held in Delhi on April 29.District magistrates across the city received at least 30,000 applications seeking exemptions from the night curfew restrictions, officials aware of developments said.Also Read | Night curfew in Delhi: DM offices prepare as scramble for e-passes beginDelhi’s Covid-19 tally increased by 5,100 cases on April 6, the highest single-day rise in 2021, and the first time since November 2020 that more than 5,000 fresh infections were detected in the city. 17 more deaths were recorded due to the viral disease, according to the health department’s bulletin. The capital’s infection tally now stands at 685,062 which includes 656,617 recovered cases, 17,332 active cases and 11,113 deaths.🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 6th April 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/Hx6SHpu7MYOn Wednesday, the Delhi high court made it mandatory to wear masks even when driving alone. The masks, the court observed, would act as ‘suraksha kavach’ and prevent the spread of the deadly disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/wear-masks-appeals-delhi-govt-as-city-sees-fourth-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-101617777265797.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||45% turnout in four MCs, 59% vote in six nagar panchayats of Himachal||Nearly 45% voters exercised their franchise in the four municipal corporation elections, while 59% voted in the six nagar panchayats in Himachal Pradesh till 3pm on Wednesday. A total of 279 candidates are in the fray in 64 wards of the four municipal corporations of Dharamshala, Palampur, Mandi and Solan. Dharamshala will elect its civic body for the second time, while the other three corporations are newly formed. The elections are being contested on party symbols this time. State electoral officer Sanjeev Mahajan said Palampur recorded 49.87% polling, Mandi 52.42%, Dharamshala 40.79% and Solan 46.6%. He said Banuri ward in Palampur MC recorded the highest 54.94% polling, followed by 49.66% in Forsythganj in Dharamshala and 92.34% in Dhaundhi ward of Mandi. Also read: Himachal imposes fresh curbs on gatheringsPolling started on brisk note before slowing down Among the nagar panchayats, Nerwa recorded 54.37% polling till 3pm, Chirgaon 53.55%, Kandaghat 52%, Ani 49.12%, Amb 45.9% and Nirmand 43.10%. Polling was brisk in the early hours but slowed down as the day progressed. Kanwarjeet Singh, a voter in Dharamshala, said: “I voted early in the morning. People have turned up in good numbers to vote. Young people are enthusiastic.” After 5pm, counting of votes will begin and the results will be declared by late evening. Triangular contest between BJP, Congress, AAP The ruling BJP and opposition Congress are locked in a tight fight in the civic body elections, while the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) is trying to find a foothold in the hill state, making the contest a triangular one. The stakes are high for the ruling BJP, particularly for chief minister Jai Ram Thakur in his hometown of Mandi, as the saffron party looks to continue its winning streak in the elections. BJP faces rebellion in Mandi, Dharamshala and Palampur Capturing the Mandi Municipal Corporation is not going to be a cakewalk for the BJP in the face of rebellion by local MLA Anil Sharma, a former state power minister, who refused to campaign for the party. In Dharamshala and Palampur also, the ruling BJP faces rebellion from senior party leaders contesting the elections as independents after being denied the ticket. Voting on for 121 panchayats, too Six newly formed nagar panchayats, including Chirgaon and Nerwa in Shimla, Aani, Nirmand in Kullu, Kandaghat in Solan and Amb in Una are also going to the polls. Voting is underway in 121 panchayats in three blocks of Shimla and Mandi districts. The state electoral officer said that voting is being held in 48 panchayats of Chopal block and 24 panchayats of Totu block in Shimla district and 49 panchayats of Dharampur block in Mandi district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/voting-underway-for-four-mcs-six-nagar-panchayats-in-himachal-101617776484584.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Rickshaw driver, accomplice arrested for molesting woman in Mumbai a month ago||The Andheri police have arrested a rickshaw driver and his accomplice on Tuesday for molesting a 39-year-old woman a month ago.The incident took place at Gundavli service road on the Western Express Highway on March 7 at 12.45pm. According to the police, the woman, who is a homemaker, jumped off the moving rickshaw to save herself when the driver did not stop when she asked him to. The woman suffered injuries on her head and arms. In her statement, the woman said on the day of the incident, she was walking towards the bus stop after meeting her mother when the rickshaw stopped near her and its driver asked her if wanted a shared ride towards Kandivali. She alleged that when she her co-passenger touched her inappropriately and she asked the driver to stop, the men swapped places. The driver, identified as Surajkumar Rajbhar (29), molested her too while the co-passenger drove the rickshaw, forcing her to jump out of the running vehicle at Jogeshwari. Also Read | Former police inspector, 3 other cops booked for molestation, extortion in LucknowThe rickshaw sped away even as passersby rushed the woman to the hospital and contacted the police. Officers said as the CCTV recordings were not clear, they prepared a sketch of the two accused.“After questioning around 40 rickshaw drivers, we arrested Rajbhar on Tuesday, “ said a police officer.Rajbhar was out on bail for molesting a minor in Kandivali a few months ago. His accomplice has been identified as Aniket Jaiswal (21), also a rickshaw driver.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rickshaw-driver-accomplice-arrested-for-molesting-woman-in-mumbai-a-month-ago-101617775824121.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Private car is a public place, masks mandatory even when driving alone: Delhi HC||It is compulsory for people to wear a mask in a private vehicle even if they are driving alone, the Delhi High Court ordered on Wednesday, ruling that a private vehicle on the roads is also covered under the definition of a public place.The high court also chided four lawyers who petitioned the high court last year against fines imposed by the Delhi Police for violating the mask rule, observing that compliance by lawyers encourages common people also to wear the masks needed to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease.Justice Prathiba M Singh said a private vehicle on the road is a public place and it is mandatory to wear a mask even when one is travelling alone in the car. “A mask acts as a suraksha kavach (protective shield) which would prevent the spread of the deadly virus,” the high court said, recalling that several experts, doctors and researchers have emphasised on the need to wear face masks right from the early days of the pandemic.Saurabh Sharma, a lawyer who was fined ₹500 for not wearing a mask last year, had challenged the penalty in his petition filed in September last year. Sharma said the officers who imposed the fine had failed to provide any executive order to establish that it was mandatory to wear masks while travelling alone in a private vehicle.Sharma’s petition echoed a view that had been articulated by many people on and off social media who argued that people should be allowed to take off their masks when driving alone.The central government, which had first made it compulsory for people to wear masks in public places in April last year, did not take a stand and left it to state governments to see how they wanted to implement the rule. Residents of the national capital, however, have reservations about the high court ruling.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi’s joint RWA forum, said the decision was “not fair”. “We have no option other than to obey the court order. But I think wearing a mask while driving a car with all windows closed should not be made mandatory. When all windows of a car are closed and the person is in the vehicle then it is a private environment. The court should also take cognisance of political rallies and protests where hardly anyone is seen wearing masks or following social distancing norms,” Vohra said.Sanjay Rana, president of Greater Kailash-2 RWA, echoed Vohra’s statement, and said, “I feel that masks should be mandatory when a person is driving alone with the windows open; but if all windowpanes are closed and the driver is alone in the car, then there should be no such compulsion. The court  should do something about crowding in markets and other public places as it poses more danger than a single man driving a car.”A day before Saurabh Sharma filed his petition, the Chandigarh administration told police personnel to stop prosecuting people for not wearing masks if they are alone in the car.In this case, the Delhi government supported the prosecution of the lawyers during proceedings in the high court.It is not clear if the Delhi high court’s ruling would persuade other states to review their stand on this issue.Political parties seem to have opposing views on the ruling. Mudit Aggrawal, vice-president of Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, said, “I would urge the court to reconsider their decision… This would lead to unnecessary harassment and corruption without any actual benefits in controlling Covid-19 cases.” He added that by this logic, people must wear masks even at home especially if the door and windows are open.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, welcomed the decision.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “We support the court’s ruling. We have even run mask and sanitiser distribution campaigns. We call upon our workers to encourage use of masks by distributing them wherever they are needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/private-car-is-a-public-place-masks-mandatory-even-when-driving-alone-delhi-hc-101617775284405.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI may record Param Bir Singh’s statement in Bombay HC-directed inquiry today||A six-member team of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which arrived in Mumbai from Delhi on Tuesday, is expected to record the statement of former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in the preliminary inquiry ordered by the Bombay high court on April 5. The high court had ordered the inquiry based on a petition filed by city-based lawyer Dr Jaishri Patil seeking a probe into Singh’s allegations against former home minister Anil Deshmukh in his March 20 letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. Dr Patil had approached the high court after the Malabar Hill police failed to take cognizance of her March 21 letter seeking the registration of an FIR against Deshmukh. Dr Patil, in her petition, not only sought directions to the Malabar Hill police station to register an offence but also sought a CBI probe into the allegations. Also Read | Deshmukh, Maha govt move SC against high court’s order for CBI probeThe bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni in its 52-page order delivered on April 5 observed that as the police force was under home minister Deshmukh there could not be an unfair, impartial and unbiased inquiry and hence directed the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry within 15 days. The court, however, restrained the CBI from registering an FIR based on Dr Patil’s complaint. The court also left it to the discretion of the director of CBI to decide on the further course of action after the preliminary inquiry. After arriving in Mumbai on Tuesday, the CBI registered a preliminary inquiry and is expected to start recording the statements of Singh and other officers mentioned by Singh in his allegations. The statement of Dr Patil will also be recorded by the six CBI officers. The high court noted that it could not remain a “mute spectator” to the complaints received against high-level officers and ruled, “It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of state machinery, which would stare at face when confronted with the expectations of law and when such complaints are received against high-ranking public officials. This court cannot be a mute spectator in these circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-may-record-param-bir-singh-s-statement-in-bombay-hc-directed-inquiry-today-101617770124242.html
07-04-2021||Patna||Lone Lok Janshakti Party MLA Raj Kumar Singh joins JD(U) in Bihar||In another setback to the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), its only member of legislative assembly in Bihar, Raj Kumar Singh, joined the Janata Dal United JD(U) on Tuesday in presence of chief minister Nitish Kumar. Earlier in February, the party’s only member of legislative council (MLC), Nutan Singh joined the BJP. Now, the LJP has no representation left in the state legislature. Raj Kumar Singh, an MLA from Matihani constituency in Begusarai district, was served a show cause notice by the LJP last month for voting in favour of the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) candidate for the post of deputy Speaker. The switch comes in the backdrop of the assembly campaign in the run up to November 2020 assembly elections, which saw the LJP continuously target the JD(U) and chief minister Nitish Kumar, while being friendly to the BJP, which was in alliance with the JD(U) in the state. Though the LJP only won a single seat, the party’s 143 candidates badly hurt JD(U) candidates’ prospects on many seats, analysts say. Chirag Paswan-led LJP has seen heavy defection with over 200 party leaders and office bearers joining the JD(U) recently. Singh first sparked speculations of jumping the ship to the JD(U), following his meeting with the chief minister and a state minister last month.The LJP was founded in the year 2000 by former Union minister and Dalit icon Ram Vilas Paswan, who died on October 8, 2020 ahead of assembly elections in Bihar. Under senior Paswan, the party won 29 assembly seats in the 2005 Bihar assembly polls and emerged as a major force in the state. However, it saw a continuous decline ever since as its number of MLAs came down to 10 a few months later in 2006, when elections were held again in the state. In 2010 elections, the party could only win 3 seats. Later, in 2014 general elections, it won 6 of the 7 Lok Sabha seats it contested in alliance with the BJP. However, in assembly elections held a year later, it could only win two seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/lone-lok-janshakti-party-mla-raj-kumar-singh-joins-jd-u-in-bihar-101617768444228.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai housing societies will have to pay ₹10,000 if Covid norms are flouted||Mumbai housing societies, which have contributed maximum to the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city since February, will have to pay a penalty of ₹10,000 if they violate Covid-19 norms, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has ruled. If a housing society is found flouting the rules several times, they will have to pay ₹20,000 for the consecutive time.In the second wave of the pandemic, slums and chawls are reporting fewer cases than residential buildings in Mumbai. According to BMC's April 6 data (which has details till April 5), there are 73 active containment zones in the city, which includes slums and chawls, while 740 buildings remain sealed. The number of containment zones in the city is likely to go up as the civic body has decided to create micro containment zones consisting of one housing society having more than five active Covid-19 cases.The KW ward has the 196 actively sealed buildings, the highest in the city, followed by the D ward which has 116 sealed buildings.According to the new rules in the wake of the second wave of the pandemic, police personnel will be deployed at the entry gate of sealed buildings and no visitors will be allowed at the society which has more than five active Covid-19 cases. The housing societies will have to put up a board outside their gates informing visitors about the Covid-19 cases in their premises.Delivery of essential items will also not be allowed to flats falling in such micro-containment zones. Delivery will have to be made at housing society offices. To go out of the housing premises, for emergency, individuals of such micro-containment zones will need the permission of the society authorities and the police deployed at the gate.On Tuesday, Mumbai recorded 10,040 new cases. Maharashtra, on the other hand, reported 55,469 fresh Covid-19 cases. The second wave of the pandemic has proved to be more intense that the first one in Maharashtra and Mumbai as unprecedented rise has been recorded in the last one month.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-housing-societies-will-have-to-pay-rs-10-000-if-covid-norms-are-flouted-101617766740303.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra records over 50k new cases, 297 fresh deaths||Amid the partial lockdown imposed in Maharashtra, the state on Tuesday recorded 55,469 new Covid-19 infections (its second-highest single-day spike after April 4) and 297 deaths, taking the case tally to 3,113,354 and death toll to 55,469.Mumbai also registered 10,040 new cases and 32 deaths. The state has 472,283 active infections, as of Tuesday.According to the Centre’s Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), seven of the 10 districts with the most active cases in the country are in Maharashtra. These include Pune (84,309), Mumbai (79,368), Thane (61,127), Nagpur (57,372), Nashik (31,688), Aurangabad (17,818) and Ahmednagar (17,405). The other districts include Bengaluru Urban, Delhi, and Durg in Chhattisgarh. Also Read | Amid rising Covid cases, IMF raises India outlookMaharashtra accounts for 58% of all active cases and 34% of all Covid-related deaths in the country, the ministry said. Starting Monday 8pm, the state has imposed a partial lockdown with all non-essential shops shut, a night curfew of 11 hours, and a stricter weekend lockdown.Experts say that with the health infrastructure burdened, the restrictions can help control the spread. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state-appointed task force said that the situation will improve in the coming two to four weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-records-over-50k-new-cases-297-fresh-deaths-101617767063888.html
07-04-2021||Other||Pak smuggler shot dead, 22-kg heroin, 2 AK-47 rifles seized at Amritsar border||A Pakistani smuggler was shot dead and 22 kg of heroin besides two AK-47 rifles were recovered across the barbed wire fence near the Kakkar border outpost on the India-Pakistan border in Ajnala sub division of Amritsar district early on Wednesday. In a joint operation, the Border Security Force (BSF) and the Amritsar district rural police recovered four magazines of the AK series, a mobile phone and a plastic pipe being used by smugglers to push in the contraband through the fence. Also read: Cache of weapons recovered along Pak border in AmritsarMasterminds in touch with ISI identified The police identified two Indian nationals involved in getting the consignment smuggled through their Pakistani counterparts. They are Jagdish Bhura and Jaspal Singh of Gatti Rajoke village in Gurdaspur district. Police said Bhura is living in Belgium at present and has been involved in terror activities in India. The two have been in contact with Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI). Senior superintendent of police (rural) Dhruv Dahiya, who supervised the operation, said: “We had an input that Pakistani smugglers will push in arms and a consignment of drugs on Tuesday night.” A team, including deputy superintendent of police (detective) Gurinderpal Singh Nagra and assistant superintendent of police, Majitha, Abhimanyu Rana was formed to coordinate with the BSF and lay an ambush. He said a case was registered under the NDPS and Arms Acts at Lopoke police station. Bhura booked in Ferozepur also for weapon smuggling The SSP said Bhura had been coordinating with Pakistani smugglers to push in weapons into India. A case was registered against him at Ferozepur police station in July 2020. Besides ascertaining the identity of the Pakistani smuggler, the police are trying to zero in on the local links of Bhura and Jaspal Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pak-smuggler-shot-dead-22-kg-heroin-2-ak-47-rifles-seized-at-amritsar-border-101617765084309.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi border routes remain closed; traffic diverted||Tikri and Singhu, two important border roads between Delhi and Haryana, remained fully closed on Wednesday as farmers continued with their agitation against the three farm laws. Along the Delhi-UP border, one carriageway of the Ghazipur border is open for those travelling to Ghaziabad from Delhi, even as farmers continued blocking the other road of the elevated highway.The Delhi Police in its advisory have asked commuters to take routes passing through Anand Vihar, DND, Loni DND and Apsara borders. Both carriageways of the Delhi-Noida Chilla border are also open for motorists after remaining closed for several weeks until late January.Some other entry and exit points between Delhi and Haryana, passing through Auchandi, Piau Maniyari and Saboli and Mangesh borders, also continued to remain closed fully or partially.Also Read | Wheat procurement: Uncertainty over mode of payment haunts farmersMotorists travelling between Delhi and Haryana can take alternative routes via Lampur Safiabad, Palla and Singhu school toll tax borders or other routes passing through Gurugram and Faridabad, the traffic police said in an advisory. Farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders with Uttar Pradesh and Haryana since November last year, against the three newly enacted farm laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-border-routes-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101617764183838.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Covid cases cross 5,000-mark for first time since November 27||The Covid graph in the city continued its steep upward climb on Tuesday, with the number of daily cases breaching 5,000-mark — first time since November-end. The city on Tuesday recorded 5,100 new cases and 17 deaths due to the viral infection, even as it set a new record for daily tests.The increase in cases has been sharper during the “fourth wave” – as the Delhi government refers to the current surge, with the numbers rising from under 1,000 to over 5,000 in just 15 days..Experts, however, say this is the second spike that the city is witnessing.Despite the high number of cases, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – remained below 5% due to the high number of tests conducted. The city reported a positivity rate of 4.93% on Tuesday, with 103,453 test having been conducted the previous day, as per the health bulletin. Tuesday was the first time the city has seen over 100,000 tests in a day.“The number of cases has definitely gone up faster this time around. This is because many people who are positive are moving around and restaurants and gyms are open. Normally, there is a surge in cases within 60 to 100 days of easing of restrictions. This is the natural behaviour of the virus. And, this is likely to continue till April or maybe May,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. He headed Delhi government’s first committee on control and management of Covid-19 cases.He added that the number of cases this time might even cross the record of daily cases set during the “third” peak of November. On November 11, Delhi had reported 8,593 cases, the highest till date for the city.In addition to the night curfew, Sarin said that studies have shown that the restaurants should only offer outdoor seating or give takeaways.“Restaurants and bars lead to the spread of the infection; you have to remove your mask if you have to eat or drink. An interesting study from the Columbia district in Washington DC showed that when restaurants were opened up after following strict masking norms, the number of cases increased 10-fold and number of deaths five-fold in 100 days,” he said.The experts said that asymptomatic transmission was a major cause of concern during the current surge. “It has now been established that nearly 60% of the transmission can happen from asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases. Targeting only those with symptoms, such as fever, is not good enough. We need to trace more contacts and quarantine them,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.He added, “The pool of people transmitting silently will only increase as more and more people get vaccinated. This is because those who receive even one shot of the vaccine get some amount of immunity and are likely to have milder symptoms. They are also likely to not get tested and hence transmit it on to others.”Dr Sarin agreed, adding, “The antibodies which form after an infection or immunisation are almost same. And, over 50% of Delhi’s population is seropositive. They are moving around and if they get the infection, and they can, they will have mild symptoms and may pass on the infection to others.”Both experts said that there is a need to increase vaccinations. With the Centre opening up vaccination for everyone over the age of 45 years, Delhi’s drive has also picked up pace. A record 87,678 doses were administered on Monday, of which 73% were given at government facilities, said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.As per provisional reports, 74,642 doses were administered on Tuesday. This comes a day after the government announced that at least one-third of the vaccination centres in 33 Delhi government hospitals will run 24x7 Tuesday onwards.“Around 95% of the total slots in government centres were utilised as compared to 67% in private hospitals. The trend was the opposite initially when the vaccination drive had begun. However, people are now happy with the facilities in government centres and are coming there,” said Jain. So far, 1.38 million persons in Delhi have been administered at least one shot of the vaccine.Meanwhile, the cases increase, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences has stopped walk-in registrations at its out-patient clinics which had been restarted in December. “To optimise diversion of available manpower and material resources … Covid-19 disease, it has been decided to temporarily close down routine walk-in OPD,” read an order from the medical superintendent of the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-covid-cases-cross-5-000-mark-for-first-time-since-november-27-101617764044822.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky likely in Delhi today, air quality to deteriorate further||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Wednesday as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Wednesday is likely to be 21 degrees Celsius while maximum temperature is predicted to reach 37 degrees Celsius.The minimum temperature on Tuesday was 20.4 degrees Celsius, one notch above normal and maximum temperature was 38.2 degrees Celsius -- three degrees above normal.Delhi’s air quality was in the poor category on Wednesday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7 am stood at 286. On Tuesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 279, which is in the higher-end of the poor category.Also Read | India saw third warmest March in 121 years: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered "good", 51 and 100 "satisfactory", 101 and 200 "moderate", 201 and 300 "poor", 301 and 400 "very poor", and 401 and 500 "severe".On Tuesday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the Moderate category with PM10 continuing as the lead pollutant due to dominance of dust lifting under dry and warmer environments. Surface wind speeds are moderate and east north-easterly. A marginal increase in dust long-range transport is expected today [Tuesday] and tomorrow [Wednesday]. AQI is likely to marginally deteriorate and be in the moderate to poor category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-likely-in-delhi-today-air-quality-to-deteriorate-further-101617763463806.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi court grants bail to businessman in VVIP chopper case||A Delhi court has granted bail to businessman Anoop Kumar Gupta in connection with a money laundering case related to the alleged Rs3,600-crore AgustaWestland VVIP chopper case.Special judge Arvind Kumar granted the relief to the accused on Monday, noting that the investigation will take time to complete and he has been in custody since January 29, 2021. According to the Enforcement Directorate, 62-year-old Gupta through his companies, committed the offence of money laundering in proceeds of crime amounting to $24,624,298.Appearing for Gupta, senior advocate Vikas Pahwa rejected ED’s allegations and argued that these companies have no connection with AgustaWestland and have never received any money in their accounts.ED alleged that Gupta, the director of KRBL Limited, was arrested under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) in the AgustaWestland VVIP choppers case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-court-grants-bail-to-businessman-in-vvip-chopper-case-101617762143209.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Starting today, night curfew in Delhi from 10 pm to 5 am amid rising Covid cases||The Delhi government on Tuesday clamped a curfew on movement and assembly of people between 10pm and 5am every day until April 30, in an attempt to arrest spiking infections, mirroring similar restrictions in other major cities such as Mumbai reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 cases.Government officials, essential workers, those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, interstate bus terminals, Covid-19 vaccination centres or hospitals will be exempt from the seven-hour night curfew. All restaurants, markets, wedding halls, pubs and commercial establishments will have to now close by 10pm, but home delivery of food and other items will be allowed, said a senior government official.The night curfew is the first restriction imposed by the government in the Capital, where the rate of new cases has jumped 130% in just the past week. On Tuesday, the city recorded 5,100 cases and 17 deaths, the highest since November 27. The Capital also conducted more than 100,000 tests for the first time since the pandemic hit the country last March.Experts are divided, however, over the efficiency of night curfews in curbing infections, especially in the absence of any other curbs.“The trend needs to be monitored, and we are keeping a close watch on it. Currently, the positivity rate has crossed the 5% mark for the entire country. However, in Delhi, we are completely alert and are being cautious,” said health minister Satyender Jain.On Tuesday, largely on account of the increasing testing, the positivity rate — a measure of positive cases to total tests conducted — dipped below 5%, the threshold that the World Health Organization recommends must not be breached if testing is adequate. The rate had risen about 5% for the first time in the city in 124 days.The Delhi government order said the night curfew will come into effect immediately and be in force until April 30 or further orders.It added that employees of private companies and those involved in essential services will have to get e-passes for travelling within the city during the curfew. The e-passes applications are available on www.delhi.gov.in and passes will be required for those travelling for vaccination, which was expanded to operate 24 hours a day from Monday. Anyone with a medical emergency will also be exempted.Public transport, including Delhi Metro, shall function during the curfew hours for people exempted from the curbs.“The situation of Covid-19 in NCT [National Capital Territory] of Delhi has been reviewed and it has been observed that there has been a sudden increase in Covid-19 cases in recent past along with high positivity rate and therefore, it is felt that night curfew needs to be imposed in the territory of NCT of Delhi from 10pm to 5am, except for essential activities/services, as an emergency measure for well being and safety of people,” acting chief secretary Satya Gopal said, on behalf of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).Night curfews are among the most common non-pharmaceutical interventions used by governments to check the pandemic in Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra.In Maharashtra, which is contributing roughly half of all cases in India, authorities have imposed a night and weekend curfew, ordered non-essentials businesses to shut down, and asked most offices to switch to remote working.Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), said the night curfew will have a limited impact. “After 10pm, only restaurants, bars, and maybe some cinemas are open. All workplaces are closed, nobody goes to a mall after 10 o’clock...Simple measures like wearing a mask, staying at home, washing hands frequently, changing clothes soon after entering the home — these cannot be enforced all the time. And, ultimately these are the measures that help in curtailing the spread of the infection,” said Dr Khilnani.Delhi Police said it will enforce the rules, except for the exempted categories.“Delhi Police had earlier issued movement passes to facilitate the movement of persons engaged in essential services/commodities. Fresh movement passes will be issued on demand. Those requiring it and qualifying for it can also visit Delhi Police website to apply for it. All field functionaries will be available in their jurisdictions to enforce the DDMA order and to facilitate the exempted categories,” the police said in a statement. Officials said the police will start issuing passes in a few days to ease the application load on the state government’s website.In case anyone is found violating the instructions, the defaulting person(s) shall be proceeded against as per the provisions of sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws.The Delhi government order clarified that there was no restriction on interstate and intrastate movement, transportation of essential or non-essential goods. The order added no separate permission or e-passes will be required for such movement. Those arriving in the city at airports, railway stations, and interstate bus terminals will be allowed to travel on the production of valid tickets.A senior revenue official said the enforcement will be largely based on trust, like it was during the lockdown months last year. “The police and our enforcement officers are also able to judge who is telling the truth or who is faking it. No one will be distressed because of the curfew, but at the same time the rules will be followed in letter and spirit,” said the official on condition of anonymity.BS Vohra, president of east Delhi RWAs joint front, said the night curfew will create fear among the masses and make they stay indoors. “We support the move as it aims to discipline people and remind them that the virus is still far from gone. However, government should also launch a crackdown in markets and eating joints as Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is brazenly being flouted,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/starting-today-night-curfew-in-delhi-from-10-pm-to-5-am-amid-rising-covid-cases-101617749825918.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Smoke from fires in Uttarakhand worsens Delhi’s air quality||The Capital’s air quality index (AQI) has moved from moderate to poor to very poor over the past four days, the result of raging forest fires from Uttarakhand (and to a lesser extent, Himachal Pradesh) and winds blowing in from the northern state that has lost around 200 acres of forest to fires in the past few days.At 279, Delhi’s air quality was in the “poor” category overall on Tuesday, which according to the Central Pollution Control Board’s Sameer app means “breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure.”“Delhi’s air quality is on the poor zone as suddenly the dispersal of pollutants has gone down and pollutant load has increased because of many reasons and forest fires is probably one of them,” said Anumita Roy Choudhary, an air quality expert with Centre for Science and Environment.It isn’t just Delhi, several cities in the northern plains are facing the same problem. For example, Sharanpur in Uttar Pradesh recorded AQI of 331 on Tuesday and Yamunanagar in Haryana AQI of 289. And some areas in the foothills of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh witnessed haze like conditions on Tuesday.Uttarakhand has reported close to 100 forest fires in the last 48 hours and close to 250 in the past week. The intensity of forest fires in Himachal is lower, with close to 60 forest fires reported in the last 24 hours.Most of the forest fires are in lower hills, which have pine tree forests that shed highly immflamable needles in this season. As there is no mechanism to collect the needles, a spark can cause fire, said Himachal’s forest minister Rakesh Pathania.What has further contributed to forest fires is the dry hot weather. In the month of March and in first week of April, there was 79% rain deficiency in Uttarakhand and 65% in Himachal Pradesh, according to the India Meteorological Department.A CPCB official, who asked not to be named, said that till the last week of March the wind direction was taking the smoke from forest fires towards the north, thereby not contributing much to the air pollution levels in the plains.According to an Uttarakhand pollution control board official, there has been an increase in pollution levels in even within the state because of the forest fires. “We will be able to provide the data on the increase after few days as raw data was being analysed,” the official said.“There are some forest fires in Uttarakhand, but air quality hasn’t declined in NW India only because of that. Winds are northwesterly here. Air quality is in poor category mainly because of dust and lack of moisture. It will improve later today because a western disturbance is expected to bring rain,” said VK Soni, scientist in IMD’s air quality division.(With inputs from Jayashree Nandi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/smoke-from-fires-in-uttarakhand-worsens-delhi-s-air-quality-101617740401285.html
07-04-2021||Other||PAU does not practice what it preaches||Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) does not practise what it preaches. While the university experts were seen preaching to farmers about the methods to save water and promoting drip irrigation during an hour-long programme on the final day of the virtual Kisan Mela, the gardeners of the varsity were seen watering its lawns using hose pipes.Interestingly, the two-day virtual mela was based on the theme ‘Aao kheti kharchey ghataiye, vadhu paani, khad na payee; Sahayek dhandey naal apna ke, kheti laheywand banaiyeh (Let us cut farm expenses, reduce the use of water and fertilizers; adopt subsidiary occupations and make farming profitable)’.At a few places in the university, the taps were either broken or water was left running in utter disregard to the depleting groundwater level. The freshwater could be seen going straight into the sewerage or getting accumulated on the ground.The gardening staff appeared to be unaware of the latest techniques of water conservation and were seen watering the gardens using traditional methods.When contacted, estate officer Ashok Kumar said that the matter will be looked into. “Saving water is our top priority. The broken taps and pipes, if any, will be fixed. And wastage of natural resources will not be tolerated,” he added.PAU’s advice to farmers regarding water conservationDuring the virtual Kisan Mela, a panel session on ‘Natural resource management with special reference to water-saving technologies’ was organised wherein experts deliberated on water conservation technologies and shared their experiences. Ajmer Brar, a senior agronomist, was the moderator of the panel discussion.Rakesh Sharda, principal scientist, extension (soil and water engineering) advised the farmers to adopt drip irrigation system, which provides water as per the crop requirement.“It is a water-saving technology and 80% subsidy is being given by the Punjab government for this technique, ‘’ they said.Besides, there are two underground pipeline schemes for individual farmers (50% subsidy) as well as community (90% subsidy), they informed. Experts also suggested sowing of PR 126 rice variety which is early maturing and consumes less water.Besides, they appealed to the farmers to say no to paddy straw burning and instead adopt crop residue management technologies, such as PAU Happy Seeder and Super Seeder for soil health improvement and a pollution-free environment.Jaskarn Singh Mahal, director of extension education, who was the chief guest, said, “Last year, the virtual Kisan Mela was the first virtual mela of India. It has set a fine example in corona times.” He expressed his gratitude to chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, officials of the line departments, agricultural and veterinary scientists, farmers, farm women, and the rural youth for their participation in the mela.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pau-does-not-practice-what-it-preaches-101617740302938.html
07-04-2021||Other||No relief announced for Ludhiana factory next to roof collapse site||With one employee dead, another one lying critically injured at the hospital and machinery worth lakhs damaged, the owners of the factory next to the roof collapse site is left in the lurch as no compensation has been announced by the administration for the collateral damage they suffered. Seeking compensation, Sukhminder Singh and Tejinderpal Singh, the owners of GK Plating, said, “The debris from the auto parts factory fell into our factory and destroyed machinery worth over ₹10 lakh. Four of our employees were injured while one worker Sagar Kumar died. While two employees were discharged, another one, Santosh Kumar, is said to be critical. The government has announced ₹2 lakh compensation for the deceased and free treatment for the injured, but nothing has been announced for us, even as we suffered the losses without any fault on our end.” Tejinderpal said, “We were not even involved in the illegal activity and were not even aware of the illegal activity being taken up by the owner of the adjoining factory-- Jasmail Singh and Sons. Our machinery and shed worth over ₹10 lakh has been damaged. We have also taken up the matter with the administration but only assurances are being given by the officials.”The owners stated that the NDRF and SDRF teams are also dumping the debris of the building which collapsed in their factory, which might further damage the machinery which is left in the factory. Sukhminder Singh said, “The owner of the adjoining building should have informed us before taking up the construction work so that we could have kept the factory closed and ensured the safety of our labourers . No one is paying heed to our problem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-relief-announced-for-ludhiana-factory-next-to-roof-collapse-site-101617740121776.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 62 deaths, 2,924 Covid new cases||Punjab reported 62 coronavirus-related deaths and 2,924 new cases, according to a bulletin released by the state government on Tuesday.The active cases rose to 25,913 and 2,350 patients were cured, taking the number of recoveries to 2.24 lakh, according to a bulletin. The 62 new fatalities took the toll to 7,216, while the infection tally rose to 2,57,057 with 2,924 cases, the bulletin said.Mohali reported a maximum of 521 cases, followed by 401 in Ludhiana, 307 in Jalandhar, 290 in Patiala and 248 in Amritsar. Nine people succumbed to the infection in Amritsar, seven in Hoshiarpur, six in Jalandhar, five each in Gurdaspur, Kapurthala, Mohali and Ludhiana, among others, it said.There are 29 critical patients who are on ventilator support while 357 are on oxygen support. A total of 61,45,532 samples have been collected for testing so far. Patti MLA tests positiveTARN TARAN: Patti MLA Harminder Singh Gill has tested positive for coronavirus. Gill revealed this in a Facebook post on Tuesday and urged all who came in his contact to get themselves tested. On Monday, Gill held a press conference at the Patti civil hospital for highlighting the four-year achievements of the Congress government. Nearly 100 people gathered in the hospital and social distancing norms were violated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-62-deaths-2-924-covid-new-cases-101617740001919.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Pending results: Mumbai varsity allows students to apply online||In order to avoid crowding on university campuses, especially in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases, the University of Mumbai has now decided to take the process of pending results application online. Students whose results for the winter examinations had been held due to various reasons will now be allowed submit their application through email to respective departments at MU.“In the last one week two of our employees from the examination department tested positive for Covid, so we can’t take chances anymore. For the safety of staff and students, we’ve decided to allow students to submit their applications through email,” said a spokesperson for the varsity. He added that each department--Arts, Science, Commerce, Engineering and Technology and Law will have a separate email id and students can scan all the required documents and submit the same through email.“The department officials are continuously checking these emails and they’ll start the process immediately. This was the process will be faster and we’ll avoid crowding on our campus,” added the spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pending-results-mumbai-varsity-allows-students-to-apply-online-101617739821181.html
07-04-2021||Other||Life played a cruel joke, say kin of Ludhiana roof collapse victims||Three out of the four labourers who lost their life in Monday’s tragedy, hail from Khawaspur village of Araria district in Bihar and had migrated to Ludhiana in search of work and a hope of better future. All of them were the sole breadwinners of their families. The bodies of three of the victims, Mustkeen, Peechu of Kakowal road and Imitiaz of Kakowal road, were handed over to their kin after post-mortem while authorities are waiting for Sagar’s kin to reach Ludhiana.Mohammad Ehsan, brother of the victim, Mustkeen, said that all three brothers had migrated to Ludhiana just two months ago. “What will I tell Mustkeen’s wife and three children? Life has played such a cruel joke on them,” he said. “While I work in Gurdaspur, my two brothers Mustkeen and Mohammad Akram had been working in Ludhiana. I had asked Akram to find a job for Mustkeen at one place but the contractor took him along to the construction site,” Ehsan added.Mohammad Gulzar, son of the victim Mohammad Khurshid alias Peechu, said he, along with his father and two brothers, had migrated to Ludhiana in the hope of earning a decent living. “But after this tragedy, I don’t want to stay here anymore. I will return to my native village,” he said.Shamsul, the brother of the victim Imtiaz, said they had been working with the contractor Mohammad Harun for some time. While Shamsul managed to come out of the debris, his brother was not so lucky. “We had started working around 4am and fitted the jacks on the third floor. Just as we are were lifting the slab, the roof came crumbling down. “I was standing in a corner and fell into the adjoining factory and survived, but my brother was trapped inside and died,” he said.Imtiaz is survived by his wife and three children.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the bodies have been dispatched to Bihar in an ambulance after the postmortem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/they-had-come-to-ludhiana-in-hope-of-finding-jobs-lost-their-lives-101617739703886.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra notifies 269 sq. km. Kanhargaon Wildlife Sanctuary, state’s 50th||The Maharashtra revenue and forest department on Monday notified the Kanhargaon Wildlife Sanctuary, which will be spread over 269 square kilometres in Chandrapur district. This takes the state’s total tally of wildlife sanctuaries to 50. The move comes eight years after the proposal was first tabled in April 2013, with officials attributing the delay largely due to resistance from the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra, which had large-scale logging operations in the area.The move to notify the area as WLS under the Wildlife Protection Act (1972) — which received the chief minister’s assent during a meeting of the state wildlife board in December 2020 — will enhance protection for the area’s tiger population (20 tigers including cubs), and also give legal sanctity to this key wildlife habitat falling in the tiger corridor between Tadoba tiger reserve in Chandrapur and the Kawal wildlife sanctuary in Telangana’s Mancherial district.“The tiger population in Chandrapur has grown considerably over the last 10 odd years, and the area which has now been notified is a known tiger breeding area/ corridor that facilitates dispersal of the population from one protected area to another, between Tadoba and Kawal,” said state wildlife board member Kishor Rithe.The benefits of this move, Rithe said, would not only help to reduce human-tiger conflict in the region (which has seen over 150 human deaths due to tiger conflict in the last 13 years), but will also give an impetus to wildlife tourism and education measures. “There is a chance now to provide gainful employment to members of the local community, but also generate revenue for the state,” Rithe added.Of the 269 sq. kms, which have been notified on April 5, about 18 sq. kms. come under the Central Chanda forest division, while 251 sq. km. comes under the control of the Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra, which will no longer be allowed to harvest timber in the area. Instead, officials said, the state government would compensate the FDCM, which has sought allocation of alternate 250 sq kms of productive forest land. The FDCM has also sought employment for van majdoors as part of the Widlife Sanctuary.The area, which Rithe said is one of the last remaining tracts of primary forest in Maharashtra, boasts a rich biodiversity, including leopards, sloth bears, wild boar, wild dogs, jackals and gaur. “It is all the more important to bring the area under protection because it is a pristine forest. Even though a the forest area has been affected due to commercial forestry and timber extraction by the FDCM,we still have natural old trees and natural forest composition, which you rarely find in other parts of the state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-notifies-269-sq-km-kanhargaon-wildlife-sanctuary-state-s-50th-101617739581256.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Bhandup mall administrator gets relief||I
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Partial lockdown rules upset Maha traders||Calling the state’s order on conducting RT-PCR tests for workers with a 15-day validity impractical, the Maharashtra Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Agriculture (MACCIA) and the Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture have approached the government to roll back its decision. In its notification issued on Sunday, the state said all workers have to be vaccinated. It also stated that until they get vaccinated, the workers must carry a valid negative RT-PCR test certificate, which will be valid for 15 days. The rule will come into effect from April 10, the notification stated. The same rule applies to construction workers and e-commerce employees too. Sudhir Mehta, president, Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture, on Tuesday said, “Conducting RT-PCR tests every 15 days is completely untenable and will result in chaos. The order will instead delay the test results for those with symptoms. There might be small industries who would not bear the cost and instead ask temporary workers to not come in for a month.” Mehta said the trade body, with close to 3000 members, has also written the state to reverse the decision. Santosh Mandlecha, president of MACCIA, also said the decision is impractical. “The problem is the state is taking decisions without consulting the industry. It is practically impossible to conduct tests every 15 days,” Mandlecha said, adding all trade bodies were going to meet virtually on Tuesday evening, before presenting their demands to the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/partial-lockdown-rules-upset-maha-traders-101617739461794.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||All Mumbai beaches to stay shut till April 30: BMC||I
07-04-2021||Other||Day after roof collapse, Ludhiana MC recommends FIR against lintel lifting||A day after four persons died and seven others got injured as the roof of a building in Daba area collapsed when some workers were trying to raise the roof slab (lintel) with a jack, Ludhiana municipal corporation on Tuesday directed its building branch officials to keep a check on such illegal activities. They also directed the officials to lodge FIRs against owners and contractors indulging in the practice. Lifting of lintel with jacks is illegal but building owners prefer this over installing a new beam as its saves time and money. “Raising the height of a roof after installing a new beam takes around a month or so but lifting the lintel with jacks takes just around three to four days. The cost is also lower. While installing a new beam costs around ₹450-500 per sq feet, lintel lifting costs around ₹80-100 per sq feet. But the lifting of lintel is an extremely dangerous process and is never recommended by certified architects.”An MC official on the condition of anonymity said, “The illegal practice is prevalent in many parts of the city but it is difficult to keep track of where such activities are taking place as the jacks are kept inside the buildings. In Daba area itself, pamphlets of contractors offering such services can be seen pasted on the walls.” Municipal town planner (MTP) SS Bindra said, “The building where the mishap took place on Monday is about two decades old. The practice of lifting lintel is dangerous and illegal. We have recommended FIRs against building owners and contractors involved in this illegal activity.” Other illegal practicesDuring the site visit on Tuesday, cabinet ministers Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Sundar Sham Arora are said to have noticed several other anomalies in construction activities in Daba area and recommended action against erring owners. MTP Bindra said building inspectors of the area will soon be taking action against illegal construction works.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/day-after-roof-collapse-ludhiana-mc-recommends-fir-against-lintel-lifting-101617739341698.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Private schools tracking our social media accounts, allege parents||The All Parents’ Associations, Jalandhar, on Tuesday accused some schools of tracking their social media accounts and raising questions over their private trips after they expressed inability to deposit fees of their children. In a press conference, the parents said private schools were withholding the results of the students whose fees were not deposited. They accused the schools of not following the directions of the Supreme Court on the fee issue. Association president Raju Ambedkar said the result of his two children was withheld by a private school over pending dues. “When I expressed my inability to pay various funds, the school administration told me that I had money for private trips to Rajasthan but not for paying fee. Later, the management told me that they had seen pictures of my trip on social media,” he said. Chetan Sharma, another parent, said, “When we questioned a private school for charging different funds, a superintendent told me that we didn’t have money to pay fees of our child even my wife wore expensive jewellery.” They requested district administration to intervene in the matter and ensure the implementation of the Supreme Court directions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/private-schools-tracking-our-social-media-accounts-allege-parents-101617739282332.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees deserted streets, chaos on Day 1 of partial lockdown||htmetro@htlive.comMumbaiIt seemed a normal work day for Bhaskar Sawant, manager of an optician’s store at Parel in central Mumbai, till a police constable walked in. “The policeman told me there was a mini lockdown due to surge in Covid-19 and I needed to close down my shop till April 30,” rued Sawant. Sawant was under the impression that there would be a complete lockdown only on Saturdays and Sundays, while on other days, he would have to close by 8pm considering the night curfew in place. “How can we survive with such lockdowns? We could hardly survive last year somehow and any new one means massive losses,” rued Sawant.Similar confusion was witnessed in the adjoining Hindmata market. On being asked to down the shutters, the shop owners reached the Bhoiwada police station, but were told sternly that a mini lockdown was in place and only essential items are allowed.Across the state, traders resorted to sloganeering and protesting against the mini lockdown. The wholesale markets across the states however had announced the closure and many even closed their main shutters.Protests were held across the state at various places like Mumbai, Thane, Pune, Nagpur and Satara where traders were seen holding placards and sloganeering against the government.By afternoon, a majority of Mumbai wore a deserted look as shops were closed down and there were hardly any people on the streets. The wholesale markets which are normally full witnessed hardly any citizens.Nirmal Nahar, a cloth wholesaler from the Mangaldas market at Kalbadevi, who says that lockdown has come at the wrong time. “This is a wedding season and even Ramzan festival is arriving next week. This complete closure means total loss for me,” said Nahar. “The problem is if we shut shop, our consumers will buy from Gujarat.”On the streets, the citizens were also worried about the fall out of this mini lockdown. “We faced huge problems during the last lockdown and still we were not able to contain the Covid-19 virus. There are many things one needs apart from medicines and groceries. The government cannot deny us these,” said Mehboob Sayed, a resident of Pydhonie in South Mumbai.The state government’s decision to ensure 50 percent attendance in government offices and allow only companies with financial dealings to function in private officials witnessed a significant drop of commuters in trains and buses. “There was a noticeable dip in train passengers,” said a senior official of the central railways.The bus conductors refused to take standees which resulted in many of the passengers not being taken inside.Rahul Sharma, who travels from Shivaji Park to Byculla for work, said he could not take three buses as all seats were full. “I had to go to Mahim depot to get the bus. It was quite a comfortable travel as usually buses used to be fully packed,” said Sharma.Many running financial institutions also did not come to work as they have been asked to ensure that their workers are fully vaccinated fully or else have a RT-PCR negative Covid-19 test result every 15 days. Nitin Nikalje, owner, Gati Investments which deals in stocks and insurance, said it was better to skip work. “How can I force my employees to take the test every 15 days? They will not agree to it,” said Nikalje.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-deserted-streets-chaos-on-day-1-of-partial-lockdown-101617739281217.html
07-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana sees 5 more Covid deaths, toll reaches 1,182||Five persons died while 401 others tested positive for Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Tuesday. The fresh cases took the cumulative count to 36, 774 and the death toll to 1,182. Ludhiana now has 2,876 active cases.The latest fatalities include an 84-year-old man from Jodhan, a 71-year-old woman from Payal, a 64-year-old male from Khanna, a 57-year-old man from Khanna and a 52-year-old woman from Abdullahpur Basti.The new infections include three health care workers, seven teachers, two students and international travelers. The teachers are from Government Nursing College, Narangwal, Government High School, Rurka, Government High School, Daad, AS Model School, Khanna, MGM Dugri, and GNE Khanna. The students are from GNE College.14, 012 people inoculatedAs many as 14, 012 people turned up for Covid vaccination at various government and private health centres in Ludhiana on Monday. These include 5, 086 senior citizens and 7, 875 comorbid people aged between 45 and 59. So far, 2, 61, 576 people in the district have been inoculated against the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-sees-5-more-covid-deaths-toll-reaches-1182-101617739041712.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Doctors flag early lung infections as new Covid-19 concern||A couple from south Mumbai in their 60s consulted a doctor last week after having a fever for two days. As the doctor examined them with the help of a stethoscope, he heard what is known as bilateral crackles: typical sounds from the lungs that suggest pneumonia. A Covid-19 test returned positive and a CT scan of the lung confirmed pneumonia. But what surprised the doctor, consultant internist at Bhatia Hospital, Tardeo, was the progression of the lung infection. In the past, Covid-19 linked pneumonia was seen after at least 10 days of symptoms, but in this senior couple, pneumonia had set in on the third day.“Involvement of the lung within the second or third day of the onset of symptoms is concerning,” said Dr Samrat Shah, who treated the senior couple. Shah said that their lungs were considerably diseased, and the CT scan severity score was above 7, which meant that they had already crossed the mild stage.As Mumbai grapples with a surge on account of the second wave of the Covid pandemic, doctors across the city say that CT scans of positive patients are revealing faster pulmonary changes even as severity scores are rapidly turning to severe.Given their age, the couple was an ideal candidate for hospitalisation. But they could not find a bed in a private hospital. They were put on intravenous steroids and antiviral medication at home and are now on the road to recovery. According to Dr. Shah, almost 30% of his patients are coming with early lung infections. During the last wave, only some of the immunocompromised patients would turn up with such early infections, he said.Dr Khusrav Bajan, a physician, and intensivist at the PD Hinduja Hospital in Mahim said almost 15% of his Covid-19 patients are suffering from an early lung infection. “Last year, such cases were about 5% to 10%,” said Dr. Bajan, adding that the CT scans of these patients are deteriorating faster, within one or two days of admission.A CT-scan severity score, ranges from 0 to 25; 7 to 12 indicates moderate infection; above 12 indicates a severe infection; below 7 indicates mild infection.“I have so many patients who are slipping from a score of 5 to 20 within a day. They typically have pneumonia and acute respiratory distress. Also, a peculiar trend is that younger people, under 45 years of age, are coming with such early infections,” said Bajan.From reporting an average of 526 cases per day in January, Mumbai’s daily average rose to 655 cases per day in February and jumped exponentially to 2866 cases per day in March. The surge continues further this month with the city reporting an average of 9500 per day in the first five days. The active cases in the city have jumped by over 700% within a month’s time: from 9055 on March 5 to 73,281 on April 5.According to BMC’s Covid-19 dashboard, 12707 patients are currently hospitalised. Of these, 1776 are admitted to intensive care units. Another 1937 patients are admitted in Covid Care Centre (CCC2) that are meant for positive, asymptomatic patients. Around 2% of the total active cases are critical.“Even as the numbers have risen, and more patients are symptomatic, the response rate to therapy is much better. This helps as patients don’t get to the critical state,” said physician Dr. Pratit Samdani who is currently treating one unusual case of a 65-year-old jeweller who developed lung fibrosis on the seventh day of hospitalisation. Lung fibrosis is a severe condition wherein the lung tissues are severely scarred and the damage is irreversible. “We generally see fibrosis after three to four weeks. It is unusual to develop fibrosis so soon,” he said.However, experts also said that the sheer volume of Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave has resulted in doctors observing such trends more clearly. “Some patients definitely deteriorate faster. We are also seeing significantly affected lungs in patients but we did see a similar trend last year too,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a critical care physician at Fortis Hospital and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “I think what is concerning right now is the overwhelming number of cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/doctors-flag-early-lung-infections-as-new-covid-concern-101617738921137.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Pandemic effect: Hola Mohalla donations at Anandpur Sahib gurdwaras dip this year again||The donations offered by devotees at Anandpur Sahib gurdwaras during the Hola Mohalla festival dipped further for the second consecutive year as there was a less footfall due to the Covid-19 outbreak this time also. The total donations received this time at Takht Kesgarh Sahib, Kiratpur Sahib and 43 other historic gurdwaras managed by the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) around the historic town founded by ninth Sikh master Guru Tegh Bahadur are ₹58 lakh less than the previous year. It was here that his successor Guru Gobind Singh founded the order of Khalsa. The festival celebrations are held for 7 days. Malkeet Singh, manager of Takht Kesgarh Sahib and other historic gurdwaras run by the SGPC, said the heavy rush of devotees was witnessed for only 3 days this time. “Devotees donated ₹2.66 crore this time against the last year’s ₹3.25 crore. Even the last year’s donations were ₹70 lakh less than the preceding year due to the panic created by the pandemic,” he added. “This time, other factors also led to the less footfall. First, the Rupnagar district administration issued a statement that it will be mandatory for the devotees to carry a Covid-19 negative report for participating in the festival. Though the decision was modified later saying it will be applicable only for foreigners, it created confusion among people. Besides, the administration had announced that booths will be set up to conduct on-the-spot Covid-19 tests but nothing was done,” he claimed. The shutdown call given by the farmer unions on March 26 also contributed to a less footfall as many devotees could not come to Anandpur Sahib to participate in the festival which concluded on March 29, Malkeet Singh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pandemic-effect-hola-mohalla-donations-at-anandpur-sahib-gurdwaras-dip-this-year-again-101617738861669.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sets up 3,700 mandis for procuring wheat amid Covid surge||The Punjab food and civil supplies department has set up 3,700 mandis for wheat procurement starting from April 10, saying all measures have been taken to ensure compliance with Covid-19 protocols to avoid any rush that can potentially leading to pandemic spread. Of these, nearly half are permanent purchase centres while the rest have been created temporarily. The Punjab Mandi Board, which along with the food and civil supplies department regulates procurement in the state through four agencies, will start issuing passes to farmers from Wednesday (April 7) for bringing their produce to the mandis. Passes to the farmers will be issued 72 hours in advance. Nearly 130 lakh tonne wheat arrival is expected during the procurement season. The government on Monday received ₹21,658 crore from the Reserve Bank of India towards cash credit limit (CCL). But the issue over direct bank transfer (DBT) remains unresolved as the central government is not willing to relent to Punjab’s demand to allow payment to farmers though arhtiyas (commission agents). The Centre has fixed the minimum support price (MSP) of the crop ₹1.975 per quintal, hiking it by ₹50 from the last year’s ₹1,925. On Wednesday, the board is likely to issue 40,000 passes to the farmers to bring produce in a staggered manner. On Tuesday, produce started arriving in the mandis at Patran, Patiala, Sangrur, Mansa, Fatehgarh Sahib besides some parts of Bathinda, Samrala and Khanna. State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is expected to meet Union food and public distribution minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday to discuss the DBT issue seeking an extension of its implementation. Also, he will take up issues of rural development fund, movement of food stocks from the state godowns and release of pending incidentals. BJP questions state govt’s sincerity The BJP’s Punjab unit on Tuesday said the Amarinder Singh-led government in the state was playing “politics of deception” by scuttling Centre’s DBT scheme for state farmers. State general secretary Subhash Sharma said at the insistence of farmer organisations the then state government had agreed to implement the scheme in 2013 and submitted an affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana High Court assuring that suitable provisions would be made in the agriculture marketing rules. “The state government and the Centre signed pact in February to integrate an online payment system and agreed to make amendments to the Punjab Agricultural Produce Markets (General) Rules for transfer of funds to farmers directly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sets-up-3-700-mandis-for-procuring-wheat-amid-covid-surge-101617738745947.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||In SAD’s Ludhiana publicity blitz, Sr Badal is conspicuously missing||Ludhiana Even as the elections are still a year away, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) has already swung into poll mode. Besides, announcing five Vidhan Sabha candidates in the state, the party has launched a publicity campaign in Ludhiana through hoardings and billboards, but the face of party’s patriarch Parkash Singh Badal is conspicuously missing. The billboards, however, carry pictures of almost all top leaders, including party president Sukhbir Singh Badal, Bikram Singh Majithia, YAD president Parambans Singh Romana and Sharanjit Singh Dhillon. Party’s district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon distanced himself from the faux pas. “First the hoardings were installed by the Youth Akali Dal and not by SAD. I strongly believe that it (missing Senior Badal) was unintentional. Parkash Singh Badal is and will always remain the face of the party,” he said. In the hoardings, some YAD leaders have been congratulated for being appointed office-bearers. District (urban) president Gurdeep Singh Gosha said, “Parkash Singh Badal has spent his entire life in the service of the people of Punjab. He is inseparable from the party. It is an inadvertent mistake at printer’s end. In a day or two, new hoardings will be installed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-sad-s-ludhiana-publicity-blitz-sr-badal-is-conspicuously-missing-101617738742456.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab hands over BSP legislator Mukhtar Ansari to UP Police||A 38-member team of the Uttar Pradesh Police on Tuesday took gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari in its custody from the Rupnagar central jail. The move came more than a week after the Supreme Court directed the Punjab government to hand over the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MLA to UP authorities within a fortnight. The Mau legislator was taken in an ambulance to the Banda jail under heavy security at 2 pm. The 8-vehicle cavalcade also included a Vajra van. Earlier, a team of doctors conducted medical tests of Ansari, who has been in the Rupnagar jail since January 2019 in connection with an extortion FIR registered by a Mohali-based builder. The UP cops led by deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Satya Prakash reached Rupnagar at 4:30am and remained in the central jail for two hours to complete the formalities. The Yogi Adityanath-led government in UP had moved the apex court seeking the custody of Ansari, wanted in several criminal cases in the state, after the Punjab government refused to shift him. Inquiry ordered into abandoned ambulanceRupnagar senior superintendent of police (SSP) Akhil Chaudhary ordered a probe into the circumstances under which an ambulance (UP-41-AT-7171) that ferried Ansari from the central jail to a Mohali court on March 31 was found abandoned near a dhaba. As an FIR of fake registration was registered in Barabanki, a police headed by a DSP had reached Rupnagar to probe the case. The team found that the vehicle was not bullet proof and its chassis number was also the same as registered in UP. “Our technical team will inspect the vehicle once we reach UP,” DSP Naveen Kumar, who led the team from Barabanki, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hands-over-bsp-legislator-mukhtar-ansari-to-up-police-101617738683003.html
07-04-2021||Other||No more feared trapped, debris clearing on at Ludhiana roof collapse site||Rescue operations, led by the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and State Disaster Response Force (SDRF), continued at the roof collapse site in Baba Mukand Singh Nagar in Daba area for the second day on Tuesday. SDRF and district administration officials stated that though it is unlikely that more people may be trapped inside the building, they will continue with the debris clearing work to avoid taking chances. State disaster response force (SDRF) in-charge, inspector Manoj Singh said, “The rescue operation was very difficult. When a part of a building collapses, we have to move very slowly to prevent further damage as the lives of the rescue team members are also at stake in such operations.”Deputy commissioner Varinder Sharma said, “NDRF, SDRF, MC, fire brigade, and local police have been working tirelessly since Monday morning and 36 labourers have been rescued. Out of this, five are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the city. Two of them are in a critical condition. The bodies of the deceased have been handed over to the next of kin. The operation to clear the debris is going on and it is expected to take two more days. It is suspected that no one is now trapped in the building.” Cabinet ministers visit spotCabinet ministers Sundar Sham Arora and Bharat Bhushan Ashu visited the spot on Tuesday to take the stock of the situation. The ministers stated that an inquiry has already been marked to the divisional commissioner by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and strict action will be taken against erring officials, including those in the municipal corporation. Arora said the state government has already announced ₹2 lakh compensation for the families of deceased, besides offering free treatment for the injured labourers. Ashu appealed to people to not put any life at risk for their vested interests. He said the public should take proper permission from authorities for carrying out any construction work and once permission is given, all safety standards must be followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-more-feared-trapped-debris-clearing-on-at-ludhiana-roof-collapse-site-101617738441702.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC restrains Faridkot DC from holding meet to elect Kotkapura MC chief||The Punjab and Haryana High Court on Tuesday restrained Faridkot district administration from convening meeting of the municipal council to elect president of Kotkapura MC till further orders. The high court acted on the plea of Mahinder Kaur and one more, who had contended before court that the April 1 guidelines of urban local bodies department lay down that the selection of the president is to be made as per the reservation and out of the winning members of the ward concerned of that category would be violative of the Article 243-T of the Constitution. The Supreme Court has already opined that wherever office of the president of a municipality is required to be filled in by a member belonging to a Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribe or backward class as the case may be, it would be enough if one belongs to one of those categories irrespective of the fact whether they have been elected from a general ward or a reserved ward, the court was told about interpretation rendered by SC of the Article 243-T. A total of three backward class candidates have won from non-reserved wards but if state’s imposed condition is followed, these three candidates will be deprived of the chance to become the president. And if only one candidate is allowed to contest for the post of president, then no-confidence motion can never be moved against him as there would be no competition, thus defeating the purpose. The Kotkapura municipal council has 29 wards of which 10 were reserved. Only one candidate has won on the reserved category seat, as per the plea. The case will be taken up again on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-restrains-faridkot-dc-from-holding-meet-to-elect-kotkapura-mc-chief-101617738382257.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC employee’s killing: Daughter’s stalker, aide held; pistol used in crime recovered||Police on Tuesday solved the murder case of a Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) employee with the arrest of two men. Gurmej Singh, 45, of Jamalpura village was shot dead by unidentified assailants in June 2019. Those arrested have been identified as Jashanpreet Singh, alias Jashan, of Noordi village and Arshdeep Singh, alias Arsh, of Tarn Taran. Police said Jashan, who had been stalking the victim’s daughter, hatched a conspiracy to commit the crime with the help of Arsh and one Amritpal Singh of Bachre village. Gurmej, who had been living in the SGPC’s Tarn Taran quarters, was gunned down when he was on the way to his sister’s place in Alawalpur village. “My uncle used to visit us on his motorcycle every evening for fetching milk. Around 10 pm on June 25, 2019, I was informed that my uncle was lying dead on a road near Bachre village. We reached the spot and found that he was shot,” the victim’s nephew (sister’s son) had told the police. A case under sections 302 (murder) of the Indian penal code (IPC) and 25-27-54-59 of the Arms Act was registered against some unidentified persons at City police station in Tarn Taran. Addressing a press conference, senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale said, “We have also recovered a .32 calibre pistol and five cartridges from the possession of the accused. The same weapon was used to kill Gurmej. Jashan was obsessed with the victim’s daughter. The victim had thrashed the accused twice for stalking his daughter and the latter nursed a grudge against the victim.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-employee-s-killing-daughter-s-stalker-aide-held-pistol-used-in-crime-recovered-101617738262019.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||Mansukh Hiran murder case: NIA to quiz DCP-rank officer||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) will question a deputy commissioner of police (DCP)-rank officer of the Mumbai crime branch who allegedly visited the crime intelligence unit (CIU) office on March 3, when Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran – whose body was found from a Mumbra creek – was present at former police officer Sachin Vaze’s office in CIU.At the time, Vaze was the head of CIU. He was arrested by NIA on March 13 for allegedly planting an SUV with 20 loose gelatin sticks and a threating letter near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia in February. Hiran is linked to the SUV.“The agency wanted to verify certain details with all the people concerned in the case who were present at the CIU office when Hiran had met Vaze. The agency will verify details and examine the facts,” said an NIA official.However, a senior Mumbai Police officer clarified that the DCP in question had visited the CIU office for some other work and was not part of the conversation between Vaze and Hiran.As of now, NIA has recorded the statements of around 40 people and further investigations are on in the Antilia explosives scare as well as Hiran’s death case, added the NIA officer.On Monday at 11.40pm, a group of eight to 10 NIA officers – while recreating the crime scene in the Hiran death case – took Vaze to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) after they discovered during investigation that the suspended cop had taken a train from there to Kalwa station on March 4, the day Hiran went missing. A team from Pune’s Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CSFL) was also present at the time of crime scene recreation, and they recorded a video of Vaze walking on platform number 4, from where he had boarded a train around 7pm on March 4.Hiran was allegedly murdered on March 4 and his body was found floating in a creek at Retibunder in Mumbra the next day. The Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) was investigating the Hiran murder case, before it was handed over to NIA.ATS officers during their probe had found that Vaze had got off at Kalwa railway station and had allegedly contacted Hiran around 8.29pm. They spoke for around 11 minutes and Vaze allegedly asked him to meet near Ghodbunder Road. However, he requested Hiran to tell his family that he was going to meet an officer named Tawade from Kandivli police station. Vaze allegedly called Hiran from a mobile number provided by another arrested accused Naresh Gor. He also did not use his mobile phone to make the call. The phone used to call Hiran was later destroyed, said NIA.On Monday night, the officials also took Vaze to Kalwa railway station by road, where he was made to walk from the platform to the station’s exit, said the NIA officer. The agency has also taken custody of the CCTV footage of CSMT and Kalwa station, added the officer.NIA had seized a high-end bike in the case from Daman on Monday. It is registered at Thane in the name of a woman, suspected to be known to Vaze, said NIA. She was seen in a CCTV grab while entering a five-star hotel at south Mumbai, where Vaze was staying between February 16 and 20, with a currency counting machine. The bike was bought five years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mansukh-hiran-murder-case-nia-to-quiz-dcp-rank-officer-101617738261013.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement: Uncertainty over mode of payment haunts farmers||Even as wheat procurement is slated to start in Punjab on April 10, uncertainty continues to loom large around the process on the ground.Field officials engaged in the massive procurement exercise said on Tuesday that elaborate arrangements are being made across the state for the smooth purchase, but there is still no official word on the mode of payment to farmers.Officials familiar with the development say though the Punjab government has been stating that payments will be done through arhtiyas, quoting Agriculture Produce Market Committee (APMC) rules, but explicit details in this regard are still awaited.“We understand that arhtiyas will stay in the picture for wheat procurement as directions have been issued by the state authorities that the farmers will be allowed to come to grain markets and other procurement centres on basis of coupons issued through the commission agents,” said a district official. For the second consecutive year, wheat will be procured in a staggered manner to avoid mass gatherings in view of the second wave of Covid-19 outbreak. The Food Corporation of India (FCI) in March had asked the state government for the land records of farmers to enable direct, online payment of minimum support price (MSP). The payment is routed through arhtiyas or commission agents under current practice.People familiar with the development say according to a nine-page communication of the food and civil supplies department dated Apri 1, payment for wheat purchase will be done online through Punjab government’s “anaaj kharid portal”.“We are yet to get the standard operating procedure (SOP) for the online payment. The state authorities have directed the mandi board to make all arrangements to purchase each foodgrain in mandis. All purchase agencies are working in tandem for procurement,” said the district mandi officer of Bathinda Preet Kanwar Singh Brar.Punjab is expected to produce 130 lakh MT and FCI is scheduled to buy 20% or 26 lakh MT. Rest stock will be bought by four state agencies where Pungrain will buy 29.9 lakh MT followed by Markfed and Punsup at 28.60 lakh MT each. Punjab warehouse is slated to procure 16.9 lakh MT.Bathinda, the largest district of southern Punjab is expected to procure 10.31 lakh metric tonne wheat, a marginal increase of 31,000 MT than the previous season.Besides 182 conventional mandis, additional 150 sites will be used for purchase in a phased manner.Fazilka district food and supplies controller (DFSC) Gurpreet Kang said a shortage of bags will be overcome before the mass arrival of rabi crop in the next few days as bulk supplies of gunny and plastic bags are underway.“There are no serious space constraints and the old stock is continuously transported by different agencies. For this year, FCI has ensured to provide ample storage space,” said Kang.Mansa district mandi officer Rajnish Goel said a farmer will be entitled to sell 50 quintals of produce“From today we started Covid-19 vaccination for all those eligible persons engaged in procurement including, arthiyas, loaders, mandi board officials and farmers,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-procurement-uncertainty-over-mode-of-payment-haunts-farmers-101617738143147.html
07-04-2021||Other||Deterred from harassing women, two miscreants assault, rob Good Samaritan||Two unidentified men assaulted a hosiery worker and took away his mobile phone and ₹1 lakh from the hosiery unit, after he tried to stop them from harassing two women.The victim, Jai Bahadur, 47, of Mohalla Namdhari Dharmshala, said that he works at a hosiery factory in Daba. On Monday evening, two women entered the factory and told him that they were being chased by two men. When the men reached the factory, Jai Bahadur tried to protect the women, but the former started attacking him with sharp-edged weapons. They then snatched his phone and some cash kept in the factory and fled. Jai Bahadur’s colleagues rushed him to the hospital, where he is currently under treatment. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Meet Singh of Daba police station said a case under Section 379-B (snatching) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against unidentified men. He added that closed-circuit television cameras in the area are being scanned to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/deterred-from-harassing-women-two-miscreants-assault-rob-good-samaritan-101617738141543.html
07-04-2021||Other||Allegations against Anil Deshmukh: CBI team reaches Mumbai, begins probe||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has registered a preliminary inquiry based on the Bombay high court (HC) order on the petition filed by lawyer Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil. In her petitions, Patil had sought directions to Malabar Hill police station to take cognisance of her letter, which sought an inquiry into the allegations by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. According to CBI sources, a team comprising six officers reached Mumbai from Delhi on Tuesday. The half-a-dozen officers will probe the allegations and it involves examining several persons including Mumbai Police officers, hotel owners, restaurants etc, said an officer who didn’t want to be named. Officials cited above said they will examine Singh, who had levelled serious allegations against Deshmukh in a letter written to state chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, days after he was shunted out to a low key post in the department. The agency will also record Patil’s statement. They added Deshmukh is also likely to be examined in the later. HC on Monday, in its 52-page judgment, had directed CBI to conclude the preliminary probe within 15 days. The court had observed that Malabar Hill police had failed to take action on Patil’s complaint, which had pointed to a “cognisable offence” being committed by Deshmukh. HC noted that it could not remain a “mute spectator” to the complaints received against high-level officers and ruled, “It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of state machinery, which would stare at face when confronted with the expectations of law, and when such complaints are received against high-ranking public officials. This court cannot be a mute spectator in these circumstances.” It further observed that as the state police force was under Deshmukh [he resigned after HC’s directions for probe], it would serve the ends of justice if a preliminary probe was conducted by an independent agency such as CBI. “Deshmukh is home minister. The police department is under his control and direction. There can be no fair, impartial, unbiased and untainted probe if the same were entrusted to the state police force. As of necessity, probe has to be entrusted to an independent agency like CBI,” noted the bench in its judgment on Monday. “The allegations made by Shri Param Bir Singh are serious in nature and against the highest functionary of the government of Maharashtra, when it comes to the functioning of the police department. Prima facie, the issues are such that the very faith of citizens in the functioning of the police department is at stake. If there is any amount of truth in such allegations, certainly it has a direct effect on the citizens’ confidence in the police machinery in the state. Such allegations, therefore, cannot remain unattended and are required to be looked into in the manner known to law when prima facie they indicate commission of a cognisable offence. It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of the state machinery, which would stare at the face when confronted with the expectations of the law and when such complaints are received against high-ranking public officials,” the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allegations-against-anil-deshmukh-cbi-team-reaches-mumbai-begins-probe-101617738142027.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Moga SHO shifted, ASI suspended over illegal detention, torture in custody||Moga An assistant sub-inspector was suspended and an inspector was transferred in connection with the illegal detention and alleged torture of some men in custody, the video of which was making rounds on the social media. The cops have been identified as ASI Amarjeet Singh and Moga City-1 SHO inspector Jaswant Singh.Police officials confirmed that the men were locked up and confined to a stock without registration of an FIR. Action against the erring cops came after advocate HC Arora sent a demand notice to the chief secretary and police brass.In the video circulating on the social media, the youths can be seen sitting with their feet fixed to a stock (called ‘kath’ in local parlance). The video was recorded by a social activist on March 26 and released a few days ago.HC Arora said, “With their legs and feet fixed to the ‘kath’, they cannot go even go to the toilet. It is inhuman and humiliating. It is a violation of fundamental rights to life and dignity of a person. I will move high court to end this practice at police stations.”Social activist Mohinderpal Singh Loomba, who had recorded the video, said, “On March 25, an advocate, who works at district attorney office, and his friend scuffled with a 21-year-old security guard and a 25-year-old employee of a courier company over parking space. The police picked both the youths the same day and shackled them in the ‘kath’. I went to the police station as one of the youths was from my village and recorded the video.”“The ASI, Amarjeet Singh, demanded ₹20,000 from us and also beat up them in front of us,” said Loomba.Barjinder Singh, DSP city-1, said, “There was no case registered against the youths when the video was recorded. We have taken strict action after receiving demand notice through an advocate in the matter.”SSP Moga Harmanbir Singh Gill said, “We have taken strict action and transferred the SHO while the ASI has been suspended.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/moga-sho-shifted-asi-suspended-over-illegal-detention-torture-in-custody-101617737849533.html
07-04-2021||Other||1 more Maharashtra min will resign in 8 days: State BJP chief||High on morale, after two Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) ministers’ resignation in the past 35 days, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has decided to up the ante against the state government. Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Tuesday said that one more MVA minister will resign in the next eight days.Speaking at Pune on the occasion of BJP’s 41st foundation day, Patil said there are at least seven ministers with serious criminal offences in MVA government.“There are six-seven ministers in the state cabinet who are facing serious criminal charges. One of the ministers is facing imprisonment for assaulting a policeman, while another has recently revealed his relationship outside wedlock. One minister’s son-in-law is in jail in connection with a drug case, while another is facing charges of beating a party worker. We are not interested in taking the resignation of any minister, but it is going to happen naturally. Like in cricket, the first few batsmen bat for a longer time, but the tail-enders fall quickly. Similarly, the next resignations from MVA ministers will come at shorter intervals,” he said, adding that while the list of wrongdoings of some MVA ministers has already been in the public domain, a few more names will be added to it in the next few days.“The MVA government will collapse under its own deeds. There is no need to put in special efforts to topple it. BJP will fight the elections on its own and form the government without joining hands with any other party,” Patil said.According to BJP leaders, the state unit has decided to go become more aggressive against MVA government over the issues of corruption and lockdown. “We have no specific strategy to topple the [Uddhav] Thackeray government as it would not benefit us in any given way. Even immediate elections would not help us in winning the seats required to form the government. As such, our aim is to taint the ruling parties as much as possible and create negative public sentiments against them. For that, we have been capitalising every given opportunity, which keep coming without any great effort,” said a BJP leader, requesting anonymity.On Monday, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis had also said that more names will come to light for their involvement in the “extortion” case during the Central Bureau of Investigation’s (CBI) probe. “There are few more names that will be exposed in the course of investigation. The alleged involvement of the [former] home minister is just the tip of the iceberg. I believe many heavyweights from the ruling parties are involved in the entire case of extortion,” he said.Maharashtra Congress’s general secretary Sachin Sawant said that the claims by BJP leaders are out of the helplessness and grid for power. “They are talking about the charges faced by our ministers but what did they do about their ministers who faced even more serious charges? CBI had lodged an FIR (first information report) against Sambhaji Patil Nilangekar (labour minister in the Fadnavis government), despite which he was made a minister. Many other ministers from their cabinet faced serious charges, but were clean chits. There is no substance in what Patil is saying,” said Sawant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1-more-maharashtra-min-will-resign-in-8-days-bjp-chief-101617737841056.html
07-04-2021||Mumbai||55,469 new Covid-19 cases reported in Maharashtra||Amid the partial lockdown imposed in the state, Maharashtra on Tuesday recorded more than 50,000 cases with 55,469 new Covid-19 infections (its second-highest single-day spike after April 4) and close to 300 deaths with 297 deaths, taking the tally to 3,113,354 and toll to 55,469. Mumbai also registered upwards of 10,000 new cases, with 10,040 new cases and 32 deaths. The state has 472,283 active infections, as of Tuesday. According to the Centre’s Ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW), seven of the top 10 districts with high active cases are in Maharashtra. These include Pune (84,309), Mumbai (79,368), Thane (61,127), Nagpur (57,372), Nashik (31,688), Aurangabad (17,818) and Ahmednagar (17,405). The other districts include Bengaluru Urban, Delhi, and Durg in Chhatisgarh. The state accounts for 58% of all active cases and 34% of all Covid-related deaths in the country, the ministry said. Starting Monday 8pm, the state has imposed a partial lockdown with all non-essential shops shut, a night curfew of 11 hours, and a stricter weekend lockdown.Experts say that with the health infrastructure burdened, the restrictions can help control the spread. Dr Shashank Joshi, a member of the state-appointed task force said that the situation will improve in the coming two to four weeks.Cases in Maharashtra have increased from an average of 3,000 in February to more than 40,000 every day since April 1. The state’s weekly positivity rate had also decreased to 6% towards the beginning of February, which has now increased to 24% last week.However, amid the grim statistics, the state on Tuesday said that more than 8 million people have been vaccinated in the state. Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, state health department, said the state had received more than 10 million dose, of which, 8.8 million has been utilised. The state vaccine wastage is around 3% and more than 400,000 people are being vaccinated every day in the state, Vyas said. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Monday, also wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide more doses, especially for the six affected districts in the state. On Tuesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope also reiterated the state’s demand for more doses. In his interaction with union health minister, Tope also said that the Centre must ask states to divert their oxygen supply to Maharashtra, considering the increasing number of cases in the state. “The state produces 1200MT of oxygen, of which, 80% has been reserved for medical and pharmaceutical purposes. However, the demand in the state is increasing. The Centre must direct states which are not utilising much oxygen to divert it to Maharashtra,” Tope is said to have informed the Centre. He also reiterated the demand for opening vaccination for all those above 25 years of age||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/55469-new-covid-19-cases-reported-in-maharashtra-101617737727513.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||CII to partner with Punjab govt for infrastructure gap analysis||The Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) will partner the Punjab government to carry out an infrastructure gap analysis for a development roadmap for the state. CII Punjab chairman Bhavdeep Sardana and vice-chairman Amit Thapar, who met Punjab chief minister’s chief principal secretary Suresh Kumar, chief secretary Vini Mahajan and other top officials of state government here on Tuesday, said the gap analysis will look at the existing industry and the type of industry required along with the infrastructure requirement. “It will also study the available infrastructure, what is needed and the gap. We will take inputs of sectoral experts from the industry having first-hand experience. They can give their customised inputs and practical solutions, telling us about policy changes and rail or road linkages, landing sites and other facilities are needed to give a push to industrial infrastructure in the state. This will be done jointly with the government,” the newly elected state head of CII, one of the largest industry bodies in the country, said, listing robust infrastructure, better freight connectivity, ease of doing business and capacity building initiatives among priorities. At the meeting, the state government also sought CII’s help to reach out to homegrown entrepreneurs and encourage them to invest more in the state, particularly in industrial parks, cycle valley and pharmaceutical cluster, according to the industry body. CII also agreed to set up focused sectoral sub-groups of its prominent members which would work with the state government. The meeting was the first between CII’s new team and the state’s bureaucratic top brass. The state industry had faced a double whammy during the year gone by – first ravaged by the coronavirus-induced six-week long national lockdown, and then the farmers’ agitation, particularly the two-month rail roko, that brought the movement of raw material and manufactured goods in and out of the state to a halt. ‘INDUSTRY HAS BOUNCED BACK, CREDIT OFF-TAKE UP’ Sardana said the industry has bounced back from the impact of Covid-19 and the protest related disruptions. He said production capacities are getting expanded and fresh investments being made with credit off-take also showing up. “The industry suffered losses and its patience was tested, but it was a temporary phase and the state government was supportive. We support farmers and want these issues to be resolved amicably,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cii-to-partner-with-punjab-govt-for-infrastructure-gap-analysis-101617737662165.html
07-04-2021||Other||Our aim is to create transparent police force: New Maharashtra home min||Maharashtra’s new home minister Dilip Walse Patil, who assumed the charge on Tuesday, has plenty of challenges before him to ensure the ‘cleansing’ of the police force from the current mess. The minister, on day one of his new role, has hinted at transparency in administrative dealing and ‘zero political interference’ in police force. Experts in the police force and the home department feel that if the home minister walked the talk, the task will be half completed. Soon after taking the charge, Walse Patil said there would be no political interference in the police administration. “The general public, especially the women, keep a lot of hope from the police force. Our aim is to make the force public centric and maintain maximum transparency in administration.” When asked about the groupism and factionalism within the police force, the minister said, “I am yet to hold meetings with senior police and home department officers. I am yet to take stock of the situation. The police force should work unitedly without any infighting. We will attempt to put things in place.” Walse Patil is taking charge at a time when the partners of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government were caught unaware by the Bombay high court’s Monday ruling, forcing the alliance to drop Anil Deshmukh as the home minister. The resignation came on the heels of two serious allegations of ‘forced extortion’ and corruption in police transfers. Former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in his letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had alleged that Deshmukh had asked crime branch officers to collect ₹100 every month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours. Another IPS (Indian Police Service) officer and former intelligence department chief Rashmi Shukla had submitted a report last August to the state government over the alleged exchange of money for police transfers. Taking the cognisance of Singh’s allegations, HC had ordered a preliminary inquiry by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) against Deshmukh. “The image of not only Mumbai and Maharashtra Police, but also that of the government has maligned. The corruption in the police force or by politicians is a known fact, but their open endorsement [for corruption] affects the public sentiment a lot. It seems that the new home minister knows where it has hurt the most and hence, spoke about transparency, zero interference and people-centric police force. The indiscipline, groupism and sycophancy in the force need to be dealt with iron hands, and at times with a pinch of sacrifice of power and gains,” said an IAS (Indian Administrative Service) officer from the government. Officials from the home department also pointed out at the undesired political interference in police postings and transfers, which take a toll on discipline and lead to more corruption. “The Supreme Court directives given in 2006 in the Prakash Singh case are blatantly violated while appointing senior officers. The recommendations by the Police Establishment Boards are overruled without just reasons. This not only leads to the discontent among meritorious police officers, but also gives encouragement to malpractices intended towards wooing the political bosses. I have worked with the then home minister RR Patil, who would respect the views of the officials, and at times would have courage to justify the decision on record while overruling our recommendations,” said a retired IAS officer, requesting anonymity. Walse Patil said transfers will take place as per the set system. “There is system in place at various levels for the transfers of various posts in the police force. The decision about the postings and transfers would be taken accordingly,” he said. Retired IPS officer Sudhakar Suradkar said the biggest challenge before the new home minister would be to control and reduce political interference and give a free hand to the police force. “Also, high-ranking police officers should respect their own powers, without bowing before their political bosses. I firmly believe that an uncontrolled police personnel inclines towards criminal act and should be controlled by their bosses, court and by public sentiments.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/our-aim-is-to-create-transparent-police-force-new-maharashtra-home-min-101617737661027.html
07-04-2021||Other||Fadnavis writes to Maharashtra CM, calls for relaxation of curbs||Mumbai Terming it an ‘undeclared month-long lockdown’, leader of Opposition in legislative Assembly Devendra Fadanvis has asked the state to revisit the curbs imposed in Maharashtra amid the rising Covid-19 cases. He has written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday, demanding changes in the lockdown norms.Fadnavis has also pointed at the discrepancies in lockdown norms. “You have allowed the transportation to operate, but related businesses such as spare parts shops and garages have been shut. There are many such examples that have emerged out of the [state’s] notification issued. It has led to discontent among people, leading to the protests in many parts of the state. The decision of restrictions on small shopkeepers, hoteliers and salons needs to be tweaked immediately by issuing a revised order,” he wrote.Fadnavis also said that Thackeray, during their conversation ahead of imposing the stricter curbs, had spoken about only a two-day lockdown. “But the type of curbs that have been imposed, it appears to be an undeclared month-long lockdown,” said Fadnavis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fadnavis-writes-to-maharashtra-cm-calls-for-relaxation-of-curbs-101617737486920.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Day after Ludhiana factory roof collapse, factory owner arrested||Ludhiana A day after four workers died after the roof of a factory in Baba Mukand Singh Nagar of Daba collapsed, police arrested the factory owner Jaswinder Singh Sonu of Dashmesh Nagar on Tuesday. According to the police, the accused was contemplating to leave the city to avoid arrest. He will be produced before a court on Wednesday. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said contractor Mohammad Harun is still on the run and a hunt is on for his arrest. The accused told the police that he wanted to install machines on the third floor of the factory, but there was less space, so he decided to lift up the roof. Sonu said he contacted Harun, who assured to complete the work in a day without disturbing the factory work. The contractor along with the labourers reached the factory and started work. He told the police that after the roof had collapsed, he fled out of fear.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/day-after-ludhiana-factory-roof-collapse-factory-owner-arrested-101617737486454.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||New order lists J&K DDC chiefs above MPs||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday issued a revised warrant of precedence, placing the status of chiefs of the district development councils (DDCs) on par with those of the mayors of the Jammu and Srinagar MCs.The order, which was issued by the Hospitality and Protocol Department, came nearly a month after the newly-elected DDC members staged a protest over the issue of protocol and monthly honorarium. The latest warrant of precedence also places DDC members above Members of Parliament in terms of precedence. Besides this, the order also put ”District Magistrates, Officers of the rank of Brigadiers and equivalent, Major Heads of Department, Conservator of Forests, District & Session Judges, Chairpersons, Block Development Councils, Presidents of Municipal Councils and Municipalities under the same protocol.” In the maiden DDC polls in the UT, Farooq Abdullah-led People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) won 110 seats while the Bharatiya Janata Party emerged as the single largest party by securing 75 seats. On March 9, the newly-elected DDC members, irrespective of their parties, boycotted a two-day programme and staged a protest against a government order on their honorarium and protocol here. “This is our insult and humiliation,” Shabir Ahmad Lone, DDC member from Rafiabad, said then. The protest was, however, called off a day later following an assurance by Lt Governor Sinha to address the issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/new-order-lists-j-k-ddc-chiefs-above-mps-101617737362680.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||As cases surge, officials told to keep close watch on 4 Valley dists||Authorities in Kashmir are anticipating a spike in the cases of Covid-19, especially in four districts of the Valley in the coming days, including the summer capital Srinagar.The deputy commissioners of Srinagar, Baramulla, Budgam, and Kupwara, besides Kulgam, have been directed to take immediate steps, sources said. J&K has been witnessing a steep rise in daily caseload, most of which are being reported from Kashmir, especially Srinagar, Baramulla and Budgam. On Sunday, J&K had logged 573 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day addition after December 3. Officials said at least nine lakh people have been vaccinated and efforts are underway to accelerate the drive in all 20 districts of the UT.Officials say Kashmir divisional commissioner Pandurang K Pole, who chaired a meeting on March 30, had issued the directions while expressing a “serious concern” over the anticipated coronavirus cases in the four districts of the Valley. In the meeting, sources said that analysis of performance of the districts was also discussed. Anantnag conducted the minimum number of tests per million population followed by Kupwara, while Srinagar has the highest cases per million population, followed by Ganderbal.“Many of the districts have tested less number of symptomatic cases during the week which include Kulgam, Baramulla, Anantnag, Kupwara and Shopian,” a senior official has said. The official said that directions have been issued to vaccinate people who are engaged in the tourism sector. “It was decided in the meeting that staff deputed on the Amarnath Yatra will be inoculated as well,” said an official.In the meeting, special emphasis was laid on tracing and testing mechanisms. The divisional commissioner expressed satisfaction over the tracing, but asked to put more focus on contact-tracing. “Also, it was directed to notify new micro containment zones and 100% testing of all people within three days,” the official said. It was observed that Baramulla has the highest fatality rate at 2%, followed by Kulgam (1.95%). J&K on Tuesday, meanwhile, logged 561 new cases taking the tally to 1, 34,015. With two fresh fatalities, the UT’s death toll reached 2,012. The active case count reached 4,483, while recoveries hit 1, 27,520 (95.15%) as 230 patients recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-cases-surge-officials-told-to-keep-close-watch-on-4-valley-dists-101617737361559.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||₹26-lakh graft: Himachal HC asks agri director to explain his position||Taking exception to the order passed by director of agriculture qua imposing only a minor penalty of censure upon the petitioner in a case of proven embezzlement of ₹26.6 lakh in sale proceeds, the Himachal high court on Tuesday directed the director of agriculture to explain his position on the next date of hearing. A division bench comprising Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan and Justice Chander Bhusan Barowalia passed these orders on a writ petition challenging the penalty order passed by the director. The petitioner has alleged that he has been mala fide involved in a fictitious case and even in the departmental inquiry initiated against him, no proper opportunity was afforded to him and no rules or principles of natural justice were followed. The court observed that the record reveals that even the employer — the director of agriculture — had come to a firm conclusion that the petitioner had misappropriated ₹26.69 lakh of the sale proceeds and had not deposited this amount in the government treasury, yet he, instead of imposing major penalty on the petitioner, only imposed a minor penalty of ‘censure’. The court said it has failed to understand and appreciate as to what was the source of power or authority of the director of agriculture to pass an order of censure. The court directed the respondent state to file reply within a period of four weeks and posted the matter for May 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/26lakh-graft-himachal-hc-asks-agri-director-to-explain-his-position-101617737301577.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Navratri mela: Slot-wise entry at Mata Mansa Devi shrine||During the Chaitra Navratri Mela from April 13 to April 21, devotees will be allowed entry into the Mata Mansa Devi Temple in Panchkula and Kali Mata Mandir in Kalka in 15-minute slots. While 180 people will be allowed in one slot at Mata Mansa Devi Temple, 120 will be allowed at Kali Mata Mandir. The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by the deputy commissioner Mukesh Kumar Ahuja and chief administrator of the Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board, Mukul Kumar, on Tuesday. To be allowed entry, devotees need to get an e-token through the board’s website, www.mansadevi.org.in. The token will be sent to their mobile number, which they can show to get entry. Also, those who want a preferential Darshan at Mata Mansa Devi through the lift entry, can register by paying ₹50 per person.Roadside shops selling prasad and other goods on the temple premises will not be allowed to setup. The Mata Mansa Devi Shrine Board will make arrangements for prasad at subsidised rates of ₹100 and ₹50. The board has also made arrangements for live Darshan on its Facebook page and on YouTube.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/navratri-mela-slot-wise-entry-at-mata-mansa-devi-shrine-101617737241752.html
07-04-2021||Other||Students and parents in Maharashtra ‘storm’ Twitter against offline SSC, HSC exams||With a surge in the Covid-19 cases in the city and the state, parents and students from across the state conducted a Twitter storm on Tuesday morning with #CancelBoardExams. Parents and students took to social media to urge government officials to cancel board exams and mark students on the basis of online or internal assessments. “Please do not expose the students and their near ones and risk their lives, by forcing them to give offline exams in this second wave of Covid-19 which is affecting youngsters too at a rapid speed!,” stated one such tweet. Students urged all the boards to cancel Class 10 and Class 12 board exams this year. “These are unprecedented times, and the government should treat the year as an exceptional one and mark students on the basis of internal assessments now,” stated another student from the city. Meanwhile, the education department is mulling various options for conducting the exams in the current scenario. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad will be holding a series of meetings with several stakeholders to come up with various contingencies for the exams. “Opinions are being sought from various experts and stakeholders to understand if there can be back up options in case the exam cannot be conducted on the dates scheduled. All possible options are currently being chalked out and explored,” said a senior official from the department. While the HSC (Class12) exams will be held from April 23 to May 21, SSC (Class10) exams will be conducted from April 29 to May 20. Nearly 3.3 million students appear for Class 10 and Class 12 exams from the Maharashtra board every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-and-parents-in-maharashtra-storm-twitter-against-offline-ssc-hsc-exams-101617737181006.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sethi Dhaba owner’s gold chain snatched in Zirakpur||Two motorcycle-borne miscreants on Tuesday snatched the gold chain of Sethi Dhaba owner in Zirakpur.As per information, Vijay Sethi, owner of the dhaba was on a morning walk around 6.50am near his house on VIP Road when two miscreants came near him on a bike. One of them got down and snatched his gold chain and fled on the bike.The police have registered a case against the unidentified miscreants under Section 379-B of the IPC at Zirakpur police station. The victim could not see the vehicle registration number of the bike, but the CCTV camera footage of the area was being scanned, police said.Snatchers strike thrice in ChandigarhThree snatching incidents were reported from different parts of the city in the past 48 hours.In the first case, Pooja Kheterpal of Sector 85, Mohali, told the police that her purse was snatched in Sector 34, Chandigarh on Monday evening. She was leaving a relative’s place and as she was about to get in her car, a motorcycle-borne miscreant sped away with her purse which was carrying her mobile phone and ₹7,000 cash. A case under Sections 379-A and 356 of the IPC was registered at Sector 34 police station.In the second case, Mohit Sharma of Sector 47, Chandigarh, reported that two unknown persons aboard an autorickshaw snatched his bag carrying his phone and ₹6,000 cash near a petrol pump in Sector 31 on April 5 around 3am. He had just returned from Ambala and was walking home alone when the snatchers struck. A case under section 379-A of the IPC has been registered Sector 31 police station.In a similar case, Kailash of Sector 4 filed a police complaint stating that an unknown autorickshaw driver sped away after snatching his mobile phone near Sector 8/9 dividing road late on Monday night. Police have registered a case under Section 379-A of the IPC inthe matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sethi-dhaba-owner-s-gold-chain-snatched-in-zirakpur-101617737121462.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||After HC rap, Panjab University announces senate poll schedule||Panjab University on Tuesday announced the polling dates for various constituencies of senate, which are pending since August last year.The move comes days after the Punjab and Haryana high court pulled up PU vice-chancellor (V-C) Raj Kumar for the delay and told the university to conduct the senate polls within two months.The revised polling dates were proposed by the varsity and have been approved by the Vice-President of India, M Venkaiah Naidu, who is the chancellor of PU.The polling will start from April 26 with the constituency of faculties which has 12 candidates in the fray and 754 eligible voters.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the university chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected.The four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020. While the elections were scheduled in August last year, these were postponed twice by V-C Raj Kumar due to the pandemic.According to the revised dates finalised by PU, the election for the constituencies of principals of technical and professional colleges and the staff of technical and professional colleges will be held on May 3.The polling for the constituencies of professors and associate/ assistant professors of the university teaching departments is scheduled on May 10, while the constituency of heads of affiliated arts colleges will go to polls on May 16. Also, election for the constituency of associate professors/ assistant professors of affiliated arts colleges will take place on May 16.As per the election schedule, polling for the registered graduate constituency, which is the largest among the constituencies of the PU senate, will be held on May 16. The registered graduate constituency has 3,61,879 eligible voters for which polling booths are set up in different states apart from Chandigarh and Punjab.Former senator Navdeep Goyal, who is contesting from faculties, said, “This is a positive step taken by the university in the wake of the high court ruling. The governing body should be in place for the smooth functioning of the university.”Last week, hearing the plea of seven former senators who had moved the high court on December 22 seeking directions to PU to hold the senate polls, the bench of justice Fatehdeep Singh had observed that provisions on governance have been thrown “off to the winds” and the university is being run as a “one-man show”. “No doubt the V-C is empowered to postpone the elections for the time being, but this does not clothe him with unbridled powers to carry on indefinitely when throughout the country elections are being held,” the bench added.PU had earlier written to six states for permission to set up polling booths for the conduct of senate polls. However, only Punjab and Delhi have given permission so far. PU’s official spokesperson Renuka Salwan said, “The other states have been intimated about the directions of the high court for the conduct of senate polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-hc-rap-panjab-university-announces-senate-poll-schedule-101617737072024.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid Covid surge, eight more patients die in Punjab’s Mohali||Mohali district reported eight deaths due to Covid-19 on Tuesday, an all-time high that was previously recorded during the first wave on September 14 last year.Adarshpal Kaur, civil surgeon, Mohali, said, all those who died on Tuesday were having comorbidities. With this, the death toll has gone up to 458, with 25 being reported in just six days this month. Meanwhile, a day after the district breached the 500 mark in daily cases, 326 more surfaced on Tuesday, taking the total to 29,037. Mohali has been reporting 300+ cases for the past one month, which have bumped up the number of active cases to 3,913, highest across the tricity.Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases, with 146 surfacing on Tuesday, followed by 100 in Dhakoli, 49 in Kharar, 13 in Gharuan, seven in Boothgarh, five in Dera Bassi, four in Kurali and two in Banur. Even as the number of those recovered jumped to 24,666 with 220 being discharged on Tuesday, recovery rate stands at a lowly 85%. “We will conduct a death audit of all the patients who have died. On Tuesday, the positivity rate came down to 11%. We are monitoring the situation, and as of now, we are not planning any more restrictions,” said deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan. The district is already under a night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-covid-surge-eight-more-patients-die-in-punjab-s-mohali-101617737001507.html
07-04-2021||Other||Polling for 404 seats in south ends, high voter turnout||Chennai/Thiruvanthapuram Marking the end of the election cycle, the single-phased polls across 404 seats in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry on Tuesday concluded peacefully even as few incidents of clashes and complaints against candidates were reported from some areas. The electoral process, which was held from 7 am to 7 pm, registered a high voter turnout as officials ensured strict security and adherence to Covid-19 protocols. Those arriving at poll stations were provided hand sanitisers to clean their hands and a disposable glove. Some people who arrived without masks were asked to wear one to be able to vote. In Tamil Nadu, a voter turnout of 71.79 per cent was recorded as polling in 234 seats was conducted at a brisk pace across the state. On Tuesday, the state held its first assembly election after the death of two Dravidian stalwarts and former chief ministers M Karunanidhi of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and J Jayalalithaa of All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). The DMK-led alliance is looking to unseat the AIADMK government after being out of power for 10 years.Chief minister Edapaddi Palaniswami, accompanied by his grandson, cast his vote at Siluvampalayam in his native Salem district and urged all people to do the same. “I request (all) to perform our democratic duty,” he told reporters.Celebrities like Rajinikanth was among the early voters while top actor Vijay rode a bicycle to the polling booth leading to speculation by social media users who asked if it was a subtle ‘sign’ of opposition to rise in fuel prices. His publicist, however, clarified that he cycled as the booth was nearby and he didn’t want to create any parking issues. After visiting a poll booth in Coimbatore, Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) chief ministerial candidate Haasan alleged cash distribution and submitted a complaint in this regard. “There is widespread cash distribution. They are giving tokens for it to be exchanged for cash. I got these reports,” he told reporters. Chief electoral officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo sought a report from Chennai district election officer on an AIADMK complaint against DMK chief M K Stalin’s son and Chepauk-Tiruvallikeni candidate Udhayanidhi for sporting the party flag and rising sun symbol on his white shirt. Similarly, the DMK complained against BJP Thousand Lights candidate Khushboo Sundar for coming to the polling station in a car bearing the party flag. DMK candidate for Thondamuthur assembly segment, Karthikeya Shivesenapathy lodged a complaint alleging that he was mobbed by some AIADMK workers, when he was proceeding to a polling station. A minor clash ensued between workers of the two parties which was quickly resolved by local police. Stone pelting was reported in Theni district from where deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam is contesting. His son and Lok Sabha MP O P Ravindranath’s car was reportedly damaged, prompting additional forces to take position in the area. CEO Sahoo, meanwhile, dismissed reports that the electronic voting machines (EVMs) at a polling station in Virudhunagar displayed only a particular symbol regardless of whichever candidate they selected. Only the symbol that was chosen gets recorded in the EVM and the same was corroborated in the Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail units, he said.The officer also brushed aside reports that one or two poll officials died during duty.Voters who had tested positive for Covid-19 were allowed to cast their ballot during the last hour of polling (6 pm to 7 pm) and were provided with PPE kits, officials said. DMK MP Kanimozhi, who tested positive for Covid-19 last week, arrived at her polling booth in an ambulance during this period to cast her vote. Kerala, which is witnessing a fierce fight between the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), registered heavy polling with 73.58 per cent of the total 2.4 crore voters casting their franchise in 140 seats. Despite the scorching heat and sporadic rain in many parts, people stood in long queues to take part in the electoral process. Three senior citizens, waiting to cast their vote in Pathanamthitta and Kottayam districts, collapsed and died, officials said.Constituencies in northern Kannur, Kozhikode, Palakkad and Thirssur were among those districts which recorded comparatively higher polling percentage while southern districts like Pathanamthitta and Idukki reported lower percentage, according to people familiar with the developments.Barring a few complaints of bogus voting and altercation between rival party workers, polling turned out to be peaceful in the state where the LDF is attempting to buck the trend of political parties swapping power every five years to return for a historic second consecutive term by beating the UDF. A traditional third in the state’s bipolar politics, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance has also made some swift moves to stay afloat, including naming Metro Man E Sreedharan as its chief ministerial candidate. “The BJP will have an impressive show this time. There’s no doubt about it. I will win from the Palakkad constituency with a big margin. My entry into the BJP has given a different image to the party,” Sreedharan, who is contesting from Palakkad constituency, was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after casting his vote. Senior Congress leader AK Antony believed that the UDF will make a strong comeback. “For the last few days, an anti-government wave is sweeping all over the state. The voters of Kerala will throw LDF out of power. The UDF will come back with thunder. The Congress-led UDF government will be formed in Kerala strengthening Congress leaders Sonia Gandhi and Rahul Gandhi in their fight against anti-people policies of the Centre,” he told reporters after casting his vote in the state capital. In Taliparambha in north Kerala, the UDF sought re-polling in several stations, alleging booth capturing and bogus voting. In Kazhakootam (Thiruvananthapuram), a violent clash between Communist Party of India (Marxist) and BJP workers left five persons injured from both camps. The ruling party workers also allegedly manhandled Abdul Rasheed, the UDF’s candidate from Adoor.A presiding officer in Payyanur constituency in Kerala’s Kannur was hospitalised after he was allegedly attacked by CPI(M) activists for reportedly preventing a man from voting without an identity document. Voting was stopped for half an hour and another officer was appointed to replace him. In a month-long campaign, political parties have clashed on contentious issues, including allegations of gold smuggling against some officials in the chief minister’s office and the controversy around the entry of all women in to the Sabarimala Temple. The temple issue, however, returned on polling day after G Sukumaran Nair, general secretary of the Nair Service Society, a socio-educational body of the upper caste Nairs, said devotees were yet to get justice and this would reflect in the assembly results. “The NSS general secretary and opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala gave an impression that the election was a battle between believers and non-believers. Invoking religious issues is against the poll code of conduct,” state law minister A K Balan said in his complaint to the chief electoral officer. For the 30-member Puducherry assembly,81.64 per cent of 1,004,507 electors exercised their franchise to decide the fate of 324 candidates. The Union Territory slipped into a political crisis shortly before the elections were announced, when the Congress-led government fell due to defections.Yanam, where the AINRC leader N Rangasamy is contesting, registered a higher percentage of polling than the other three regions from the beginning. Rangasamy is seeking election to the territorial Assembly from Thattanchavady segment in Puducherry region also.The contest here is keen between the AINRC-led NDA and the Congress-led Secular Democratic alliance.There was tight security across all booths and polling remained peaceful throughout the day.Several leaders, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi and Priyanka Gandhi Vadra urged voters to cast their votes. Union home minister Amit Shah and defence minister Rajnath Singh also appealed to voters in the four states and one Union Territory to exercise their franchise in record numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/polling-for-404-seats-in-south-ends-high-voter-turnout-101617736820959.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fresh curbs on gatherings announced in Panchkula||Two days after Panchkula district touched the peak of 200 daily Covid-19 cases, the administration issued fresh restrictions for public gatherings. District magistrate Mukul Kumar said that according to the standard operating procedures and guidelines issued by the State Disaster Management Authority, Haryana, a maximum of 50% of the hall capacity will be allowed with a ceiling of 200 people for organising functions in indoor spaces. The capacity will be specified by urban local bodies or the department concerned, keeping in view various factors, including the number of chairs, seating or standing capacity and covered area. In open spaces, up to 500 people have been allowed, though a ceiling of 50 has been imposed on funerals.Organisers of social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious and political functions or of any other congregations have been told to take prior permission from the district magistrate.“Any violation will invite immediate penal action under Sections 51 of 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides legal action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code,” the order mentioned.Meanwhile, 169 new cases of Covid-19 were reported on Tuesday, taking the district’s count to 13,946. While 1,135 cases are active, 12,655 patients have recovered and 156 have succumbed to the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fresh-curbs-on-gatherings-announced-in-panchkula-101617736761607.html
07-04-2021||Other||Opposition, party members slam BSY over Covid orders||Bengaluru: The opposition and a section of the Bharatiya Janata Party has hit out at chief minister BS Yediyurappa for his U-turns on Covid-19 related decisions and raised questions over the quality of administration and leadership. “Without any doubt, the government is taking Covid-19 very lightly. We can’t see even 10% of the steps taken during the first 30 days of the pandemic. Apart from there is no consolation or any attempt to take the experts and the Opposition into confidence over the steps taken by the government to fight the pandemic. A decision such as allowing full occupancy in theatres and to open gyms etc is not the right step, but the government is not ready to listen to anyone,” said Congress legislator and former minister HK Patil. A BJP leader, who didn’t want to be named, said that Yediyurappa’s indecisiveness is putting the state government in a difficult position. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi is leading the country by example during the pandemic, but here in our state, the leader is confused. Taking a U-turn has become a trend for the state government. This needs to be changed,” he said. The BS Yediyurappa-led government since the start of the Covid-19 induced national lockdown last year, has reversed its orders quite a number of times, drawing flak from different quarters. On May 3, 2020, during the peak of the nationwide lockdown, the Karnataka government started facilitating Sharmik trains to ferry migrant workers to various states. Just three days later, the BS Yediyurappa-led government decided to stop these trains and within two days reversed this decision. Close to a year later, as the state witnesses a second wave of infections, the government on Sunday decided to reduce the occupancy of movie theatres to 50 % and close down gyms in the state as a preventive measure. But this decision was reversed within a day. These are several such instances when the state government did flip-flops on key decisions on Covid-19 prevention. Yediyurappa’s indecisiveness has been a matter of discussion since the beginning of the Covid-19 crisis. In April 2020, during the lockdown, the government first allowed the movement of two-wheelers and the opening up of the Information Technology (IT) offices with one-third of the workforce. But on April 19, just a day before this decision was to be implemented, the order was rolled back. Within few days, on May 1, 2020, Yediyurappa announced that migrant labourers would have to pay for buses ferrying them. Even this decision was reversed on May 2, 2020, after objections were raised by activists, claiming the bus operators are charging exorbitant fares. Then came the decision to stop the Sharmik trains for migrant workers after a meeting with a real estate delegation on May 6. “The government allegedly told that letting migrants go home would severely hamper developmental, construction and other industrial activities. But when media started showing stories about the migrant workers walking back home since there were no trains, he reversed the decision within two days,” said Vinay Srinivasa, a Bengaluru-based lawyer and activist. The other decision that he reversed were stopping the supply of free food to daily wage workers in government-run Indira Canteens. This decision was pulled back within 24 hours of its announcement on March 23, 2020. Another section of the saffron party, however, argued that this shows that the government believes in course correction based on expert opinion. Defending the chief minister, revenue minister R Ashok said that the situation in the state is changing constantly and the chief minister is taking decisions that would ensure people’s safety and economic activities. “This simply shows that the chief minister is willing to listen to both the health experts and the industry, act without any ego,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/opposition-party-members-slam-bsy-over-covid-orders-101617736520891.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 2,099 new Covid cases, 9 deaths||Haryana recorded 2,099 new Covid-19 cases and nine fatalities on Tuesday while the health department administered 84,950 vaccine doses to the beneficiaries during the second mega-vaccination day of the week.Gurugram continued to be the most affected district with 604 cases, followed by Faridabad with 237, Panchkula 169, Karnal 137, Yamunanagar 135, Ambala 106, and Kurukshetra 101. While two patients each succumbed to the infection in Ambala and Karnal, one each died in Sonepat, Yamunanagar, Sirsa, Fatehabad and Kaithal.Additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora, said now the cumulative number of people vaccinated so far has risen to 20.97 lakh.While 1.90 lakh healthcare workers (HCWs) have been given the first shot of Covid-19 vaccine, around 1.15 lakh HCWs got the second dose. The ACS health said 1.20 lakh frontline workers (FLWs) have been administered the first dose of the vaccine, and 43,916 the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-2-099-new-covid-cases-9-deaths-101617736465674.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||Night curfew back in Chandigarh||Amid a steep surge in Covid-19 cases, the Chandigarh administration on Tuesday decided to enforce night curfew in the city from 10pm to 5am. Formal orders will be issued on Wednesday and will come into effect immediately.During the curfew hours, no gatherings, parties or non-essential activities will be allowed. Even restaurants will be required to close by 10pm.Stricter measures like weekend curfew and closure of apni mandis and other crowded places will also be considered, unless people start abiding by the guidelines for Covid appropriate behaviour, said UT administrator VP Singh Badnore while chairing a review meeting where the decision was taken. He also directed police to ensure strict implementation of the night curfew. The curfew will be reviewed in case the situation improves.The move comes on the day the Centre raised concern over the pandemic situation in Chandigarh.The UT again recorded 300+ cases on Tuesday, with 319 people testing positive. Two deaths were also reported. While more than 1,700 cases have been added to the tally within six days this month, the number of active cases has bumped up to 3,037, among the highest since the outbreak last March. Though 25,375 of the 28,798 people tested positive so far have been cured and discharged, recovery rate has dropped to 88%. On February 13, when the UT had lowest number of active cases (123) this year, recovery rate was 97.7%.‘Big jump in cases for a small UT’Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan, during a media briefing in New Delhi on Tuesday, flagged Chandigarh as the only area of concern among small states and union territories. Bhushan said that Chandigarh is a small UT in terms of population as well as area, but Covid-19 cases being reported daily have gone up from less than 20 on an average to 287, while average deaths have remained between 1 to 3.While noting that positivity rate has climbed to 14%, the health secretary appreciated the fact that the share of RT-PCR tests as compared to the lesser reliable antigen tests has increased to 81%.Even on March 24, the Union health ministry had listed Chandigarh among eight states and UTs that have led to an exponential increase in the number of active cases in the country.In response to this, the Centre had deputed a three-member team in the city to assist the local administration. It has observed that contact tracing and vaccination coverage need to be improved, though no formal report has been submitted yet.Get tested, vaccinated: BadnoreDuring the review meeting, Badnore expressed serious concern over the rising numbers. He appealed to market associations to ensure that their employees are tested and vaccinated, as provisions for both are available at government centres for free.He also directed hospitals to ensure that all health workers get themselves vaccinated at the earliest, as the administration is considering withdrawal of priority to frontline workers soon. Coverage stands at 54% and 60% among healthcare and other frontline workers, respectively. While urging eligible citizens to get vaccinated, he directed all to avoid non-essential travel outside the city, keeping in view the high rate of infection spread all over the country.Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director principal, Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, informed Badnore that many patients from Punjab and Haryana who can be easily treated in their district hospitals are unnecessarily travelling to Chandigarh and crowding the hospital beds. She said Sood Dharamshala in Sector 22 will be opened on Wednesday to take care of mild Covid cases. Municipal commissioner KK Yadav said 52 teams have been constituted to conduct sanitation operations across the city and MC teams are tracing on an average 15 contacts of each positive case. The central team had recently told the UT to increase this number of 25-30. 28 new micro-containment zones, total reaches 75 The Chandigarh administration on Tuesday declared 28 more micro-containment zones in the city. With this, the total has increased to 75 within a month, said Arun Gupta, UT home secretary, during the Covid-19 review meeting. Deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar said the affected areas were identified by a committee on the basis of the number of cases being reported from there. While three micro-containment zones have been declared in Sectors 28 and 30, there are two each in Sectors 22, 27, 41 and 44 besides Manimajra (Pipliwala Town and Uppal Apartments). Others are spread across Sectors 10, 11, 19, 20, 46, 48 and 63 besides Ram Darbar, Hallomajra, Kishangarh, Mauli Jagran and Dhanas.Brar said regular screening and monitoring of the areas will continue and frequent sanitisation will be conducted. He also advised the residents to strictly maintain social distancing norms, wear masks and follow hand hygiene. Helpline numbers issuedThe administration has made Covid helpline for patients under home isolation operational at Chandigarh Housing Board office again. The numbers are 7657977818, 7657977819 and 7657977820.Dedicated phone numbers of the help desk at GMSH, Sector 16, are 9779558282, 0172-2752038, 0172-2720105 and 0172-27228703.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/night-curfew-back-in-chandigarh-101617736401814.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC seeks vigilance response on plea alleging scam in medicine purchase||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has sought response from the Haryana vigilance bureau and Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a plea alleging scam in the purchase of medicine in Haryana.The plea by Hisar resident Jagwinder Singh Kulharia alleges instances of serious offences of the institutionalised form of corruption in the purchase of medicines and medical equipment in at least nine districts in Haryana.It estimates the scam at ₹300 crore and further alleges that the purchases were made from the firms, which were running out of fake addresses. The petition was listed before a single judge bench in February, which forwarded the matter to the chief justice in view of larger public interest involved.On Tuesday, the HC bench of chief justice RS Jha issued notice of motion in the matter in which the vigilance department and ED have been arrayed as parties.The petitioner is a retired deputy superintendent from the health department and claims that he had a “deep knowledge of corruption and money laundering happening in the sale-purchase of medicines and equipment.”The petitioner, through the RTIs, obtained documents on the basis of which he requested the vigilance bureau to register FIRs.However, the department, rather than registering the FIR, disclosed his name and contents of information to the officers who are potential accused in the scam, culminating into the victimisation and threats to the petitioner, the plea alleges before HC seeking probe by the ED.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-seeks-vigilance-response-on-plea-alleging-scam-in-medicine-purchase-101617736289187.html
07-04-2021||Chandigarh||E-commerce giant to set up fulfilment centre in Haryana’s Manesar, to be one of its largest centres in Asia||The Haryana government accorded approval to allot 140-acre land to online shopping platform, Flipkart, for setting up what will be one of its largest centres in Asia at Patli Hajipur in Manesar spread across three million square feet covered area.The approval was granted in a meeting of the Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board (HEPB), held under the chairmanship of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, in Chandigarh on Tuesday. Deputy CM Dushyant Chautala, who holds the industry department portfolio, was also present.An official spokesperson said that the HEPB granted approval in view of the increasing demand of warehousing from e-commerce companies.According to the state government, the land allotted at ₹3.22 crore per acre to Instakart Services Private Limited, a Flipkart Group company, will give impetus to further investments in the region and boost market access opportunities.“Representatives of Flipkart Group said that Instakart is planning to set up a series of fulfilment centres and associated logistics infrastructure across India to enable its market growth,” the spokesperson said.“To achieve this goal, the company aims to provide best services to customers and is thus planning to construct regional distribution centres (RDC) across country to strengthen its network,” the official added.The company is planning to build a logistics campus in the NCR, in proximity to Gurugram. They are planning to build a campus spread over 140-acre to cater to the demand in North India.“This centre will essentially cater to parcel goods, white goods and furniture,” the spokesperson said.The land has been allotted with the condition that the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) will not provide either external or internal infrastructure for the site and creating it will be the responsibility of the allottee. “Only the infrastructure development charges will be levied,” an official said.The allotment was earlier approved by the executive empowered committee in October last year at ₹3.09 crore per acre bare shell cost.While Flipkart had deposited about ₹22 crore as earnest money, the allotment process was put on hold after the deputy CM had intervened to seek clarifications on the allotment price of ₹3.09 crore per acre.Subsequently, the HEPB had asked the HSIIDC to put a few more warehousing sites for e-auction to explore the market. In January, the HSIIDC had put up four warehousing sites of comparatively smaller sizes for auction, but there was zero response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ecommerce-giant-to-set-up-fulfilment-centre-in-haryana-s-manesar-to-be-one-of-its-largest-centres-in-asia-101617736161757.html
07-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 second wave: HC asks authorities to ensure cent percent face masking||Stressing on the need to combat the second wave of Covid-19, the Allahabad high court on Tuesday directed district administrations, including police authorities, across the state to earnestly get into action and see that there was 100% masking in every district of the state.The court further directed the director general of police (DGP) to chalk out a plan at his level for this purpose.Hearing a PIL related to spread of Covid-19 in the state, a division bench comprising Chief Justice Govind Mathur and Justice Siddhartha Varma also directed the district administrations, including police authorities, to see that no crowding takes place anywhere in the state.“If it finds that any particular place is likely to get crowded, then it should cordon off that area and see that people do not get into huddle,” the court said.Regarding the forthcoming panchayat polls in the state, the court directed that these elections should also be conducted in a manner that no congregation of people takes place. “Be it nomination, canvassing or actual voting, it should be seen that all Covid-19 protocols are observed,” the court said.Besides, the court further directed the state government to check the viability of vaccination for one and all and not for just citizens above the age of 45 years. “Government should check the viability of inoculating such students who are to appear in the Uttar Pradesh high school and intermediate examinations. In fact a door-to-door vaccination programme should be chalked out,” the court added.The court also directed the state government to also examine viability of imposing night curfew to check late evening social gatherings. “The state government may also examine viability of providing masks and sanitizers to all by utilising the amount recovered on account of violation of Covid-19 protocol,” the court observed.While listing the next hearing of the case on April 8, the court said the general public should also realise its responsibility towards Covid-19 protocol. Elaborating the need for passing these directives, the court observed, “Though the state government has taken necessary steps to meet the threat of the second wave of Covid-19, but it is noticed that the directions have not been complied with by the public at large and that is an issue of concern. Having considered all the objective conditions, we deem it appropriate to direct the district magistrates of all districts in the state of Uttar Pradesh to ensure strict and definite compliance of the directions issued by the government of Uttar Pradesh from time to time to meet with the threat of Covid-19.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-second-wave-hc-asks-authorities-to-ensure-cent-percent-face-masking-101617735740845.html
07-04-2021||Lucknow||Attack on Unnao Judge: Bar Council submits probe report, seeks explanation from lawyers involved||The Bar Council of Uttar Pradesh has completed the probe into the March 25 Unnao incident, in which a group of lawyers had allegedly attacked additional district judge, and has submitted its report to the chairman of Bar Council seeking explanation from the lawyers involved in the incident. Prahlad Tandon, additional district judge, Unnao, was allegedly attacked by lawyers in the court room on March 25. Tandon is also special judge (Pocso Act court). After the incident, Tandon had resigned. However, his resignation is yet to be accepted.“We have completed the probe and have submitted the report to chairman of the Bar Council (of Uttar Pradesh) Rohitashwa Kumar Agrawal. Eight lawyers involved in the incident have been identified. They have been issued show cause notice seeking explanation for their involvement in the incident,” said lawyer Prashant Singh ‘Atal’. Lawyers Prashant Singh and Ajay Yadav are members of the committee constituted by the Bar Council to probe the incident. “On instructions of Bar Council, the Unnao Bar Association has suspended all the eight lawyers and we have recommended stern action against them,” said Singh and added that “The Bar Council has taken a tough stand on the incident. No lawyer involved in the attack will be spared. Their licence (to practice law) will be revoked.” The incident had led to widespread resentment among judicial officers and lawyers across the state. They had demanded stern action against those responsible for the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/attack-on-unnao-judge-bar-council-submits-probe-report-seeks-explanation-from-lawyers-involved-101617735561289.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Night curfew in Delhi: DM offices prepare as scramble for e-passes begin||District magistrates across Delhi received at least 30,000 applications seeking exemptions from the city’s night curfew restrictions announced on Tuesday, said officials with knowledge of developments.Having received the night curfew order just nine hours prior to its implementation, city authorities also started preparations to issue the necessary passes and coordinate efforts to enforce the curbs.The city government on Tuesday clamped a curfew on movement and assembly of people between 10pm and 5am until April 30. Government officials, essential workers, those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, interstate bus terminals, Covid-19 vaccination centres or hospitals will be exempt from the seven-hour night curfew, according to the order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).The district magistrate of south zone called an emergency meeting of the district disaster management authority to fix responsibility for each stakeholder. “We have asked the South Delhi Municipal Corporation to ensure that restaurants and other non-essential shops are shut by 10pm. The deputy commissioner of police (DCP) will ensure there is no movement or assembly of people during the curfew hours, except for those exempted,” said a senior district official, who did not wish to be named.Also Read| Traders say Delhi govt should have consulted before announcing night curfewThe south district received around 2,500 applications for e-passes, the official added.Ramchandra Shingare, additional district magistrate (east) said police was asked to barricade roads to ensure restricted movement of traffic.“We have asked Delhi Police for enhanced deployment of staff in the night to implement the curfew. The police will barricade the roads and ensure no movement of people, except the exempted categories, without e-pass,” Shingare said.Sub-divisional magistrates (SDMs) in all districts have been directed to be on the field from 9pm to midnight to monitor the situation, said officials with knowledge of developments. District magistrates have also ordered deployment of administration teams to assist the police. Also, the district control room will work round-the-clock at the DM’s office to monitor the curfew and issue e-passes, said officials in several districts.The east district received around 1,500 applications for e-passes, of which 250 were rejected and around 180 were approved.The New Delhi and the Southwest districts received at least 4,000 applications each.A senior official in the New Delhi district said they cleared about 1,000 applications. “It is likely that the police will also soon start issuing these passes, then the pendency will reduce. It will also help to enforce the curfew better as verifying the applications individually takes time. A number of people have been assigned to handle e-pass applications,,” said the official.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said the government was alert and keeping a “close watch” on the situation.“The positivity rate yesterday was 5.54%, and around 65,000 tests were conducted. Orders were issued to escalate the number of beds in both private and Delhi government hospitals. Almost 5,000 beds are being added for Covid positive cases,” he told reporters.Police said that it will strictly enforce the night curfew order and soon issue movement passes on demand to those eligible.“Delhi Police will strictly enforce it except for the exempted categories mentioned in the order,” said Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.Police had earlier issued movement passes to facilitate the movement of persons engaged in essential services and commodities, Biswal said.“Fresh movement passes will be issued on demand. Those eligible can also visit Delhi Police website to apply for it. All field functionaries will be available to enforce the DDMA order and facilitate the exempted people,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-in-delhi-dm-offices-prepare-as-scramble-for-e-passes-begin-101617735023079.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||One arrested over demolition of Sai Baba statue||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Tuesday said they arrested a 50-year-old man in connection with the demolition of a statue of Shirdi Sai Baba in a temple in South Delhi’s Shahpur Jat last week. Police said the arrested man, identified as Padam Panwar, was purportedly seen in a video clip, which was widely circulated on social media, proclaiming that Sai Baba is a Muslim and not a God.Panwar, a resident of Shahpur Jat, was arrested on Monday, a day after police registered a case under Indian Penal Code sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs), said a senior police officer who did not want to be named.The officer said that police began enquiring into the demolition after receiving a complaint from local devotees on April 3. The first information report was registered on April 4. “Panwar was arrested after his role was confirmed. He has been sent to jail,” the officer added.Police said that during questioning, some people claimed that they intended to replace the statue as it was found to be cracked. However, when HT contacted Panwar, he had said that he decided to get it removed as Sai Baba was a Muslim. “I personally got the statue installed in 2009. But now that I got to know that Sai Baba was a Muslim, I got the statue removed. Sai Baba was no God, he was a common man,” Panwar, who is in the real estate business, had said.In the video doing the rounds of social media, a man is purportedly seen using tools to demolish the statue after which Panwar comes to the fore, and says, “This temple was constructed by my ancestors even before Shirdi Baba was born. But I have got to know he is Muslim. He cannot share the same space that is occupied by Hindu gods.”A video also emerged in which Panwar is purportedly seen in the company of Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati -- a priest of Dasna Devi temple in Ghaziabad -- who was booked by the Delhi Police on Saturday for allegedly making inflammatory comments against the Prophet at a press conference in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-arrested-over-demolition-of-sai-baba-statue-101617735021989.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Traders say Delhi govt should have consulted before announcing night curfew||As the clock struck eight, Amrit Kishore quickly packed the last set of cotton t-shirts that were put on display outside his 30-square-feet shop in Sarojini Nagar before he could pull down the shutter and travel nearly 35 kms on his scooter to reach his residence at Jharoda in the southwest Delhi.“It would be better if the government had given us some more time. Traders would be more prepared,” said Kishore, referring to the government announcing a night curfew in the city on Tuesday in the light of a severe spike in the Covid-19 cases in the Capital. On Tuesday, Delhi recorded 5,100 new cases and 17 more deaths.Market associations, traders and business owners across the city said they were not prepared for a curfew with some of them saying that to ensure that they reach home by 10pm, they will have to shut their shops early. Several of them also criticised the government’s move questioning the efficacy of night curfews in arresting the rapid spread of Covid-19.During the seven-hour curfew period, from 10 pm to 5 am, movement of only government officials, healthcare workers, those working for essential services or arriving at airports, railway stations or interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) and those travelling for Covid-19 vaccination or any medical treatment will be allowed“We hardly got time to initiate an awareness drive. People learnt about the night curfew after they arrived in the market today. We still managed to ensure that all shops are closed by 8.30pm. On usual days, they wrap up by 10 pm. Several traders come from faraway places such as Ghaziabad and Gurugram. The night curfew will pose additional challenges for them,,” said Ashok Randhawa, president of Sarojini Nagar mini market welfare association.Devraj Baweja, general secretary of confederation of Sadar Bazar traders’ association, said it was a difficult task today to ensure that the market closed exceptionally early on Tuesday. “Also, the news of the night curfew spread panic among traders and workers. The government should have done this in a more systematic manner and given more time to the traders,” Baweja said.The night curfew meant restaurants, bars and pubs in the city had to wrap up quickly for Tuesday and make plans for the days ahead.Manpreet Singh, treasurer of the National Restaurants Association of India, said the government should have held discussions with hotels and restaurant groups before taking the decision. “I personally do not see a solution in night curfews, especially when the central government has also said that such a curb is not much efficient. It will adversely affect hotels and restaurants which are already in poor shape because of the pandemic and lockdown.”The night curfew also means several hotels now have to make special arrangements for clients who had already booked halls for weddings and private functions this month.Rohit Arora, area general manager of The Park hotel in Connaught Place said, “We adopted flexible timings for weddings and other events. We have rescheduled the events to a couple of hours earlier, which allows both the guests to enjoy their event and us to be a law-abiding entity. We are sensitive about guest security and place utmost importance on safety and hygiene, hence in case of weddings, we are requesting guests to stay back in our hotel rooms for the night. As far as dining is concerned, our in-house guests are welcome to eat till midnight. We stand both by the law and order and our patrons to operate smoothly.”Several banquet hall and hotel owners in the city said that they started calling up their clients after the news of the night curfew broke out on Tuesday, telling them that they will have to wrap up the celebrations by 10 pm now.“Several clients were already agitated after the government limited the number of guests in marriage functions. Now the night curfew order means they will have to wrap up their limited celebrations too by 10 pm. It is getting difficult for us to convince them. But it is a government order and has to be followed,” said Purushottam Kalra, president of Shamiyana Dealer Vyapar Sudhar Samiti – an association of banquet halls in the city.Last month, the government imposed a cap of maximum 200 guests for marriage functions hosted outdoors, 100 for indoors and 50 for funerals.Sandeep Khandelwal of Delhi hotels and restaurants owners’ association said: “The government should have talked to hotel, restaurant and banquet hall owners before taking this call. Compliance was difficult on Tuesday because the order was issued on such short notice. But the coming days will pose financial challenges. The hospitality industry is already in poor shape.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traders-say-govt-should-have-consulted-before-announcing-curfew-101617735021364.html
07-04-2021||Other||CM orders speeding up redesigning of major arterial roads||New Delhi: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday directed public works department (PWD) officials to expedite work on redesigning major arterial roads measuring 540 kilometres and also asked them to complete the project within its 2023 deadline. Kejriwal also visited a redesigned road stretch, which is being redeveloped on a pilot basis, near Sriniwaspuri in south Delhi to review the project.The instructions were issued by the CM on Tuesday, during a meeting to review the status of the ongoing road redesigning and streetscaping project.“The process of designing the roads should be done in a swift manner and the project should be completed within the stipulated deadline, i.e., by 2023. The PWD should ensure the removal of all obstacles, the project needs to be completed in two years. The tender process and other formalities should be completed as soon as possible for rapid completion of the project,” Kejriwal said in a statement issued by the government. PWD officials assured the chief minister that the tender process would be completed in the one to two months and work would begin by the middle of this year, a statement issued by the government said. The government further said that considerable progress has been made on a 35km stretch under the pilot project. The deadline to complete the pilot projects is October 2021. “Redevelopment of about 5.5 km-long road from Ring Road (AIIMS) to Ashram has been completed. Redevelopment of about 6 km of road from Wazirpur Depot Crossing to Rithala Metro Station is ongoing. Work is also underway on a road of about 5.2 km from Britannia Chowk to Outer Ring Road in Pitampura’s West Enclave area. Similarly, the work of beautification of a 3.1-km-long road from Shivdaspuri Marg to Patel Road, Moti Nagar T-Point to Pusa Road and Laxmi Nagar to Karkari Mor on Vikas Marg is underway,” the statement said. It added that the work will be completed by the end of this year. The government further said that redesigning of roads will eliminate bottlenecks and improve aesthetics of the road stretch. “Currently, a road turns from four lanes to three lanes or from six lanes to four lanes. This suddenly increases the pressure of vehicles at a place on the road and creates a bottleneck. After redesigning of roads, this problem will be eradicated by improving the geometry of roads. The space alongside the roads will be optimised. Sidewalks will be created and a separate segment for non-motorised vehicles will also be made,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-orders-speeding-up-redesigning-of-major-arterial-roads-101617735020755.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Only those involved in essential services to be allowed on Metro, DTC buses||New Delhi: Only those identified as essential service providers will be allowed to take public transport such as the Metro and DTC buses between 10pm and 5am during which a curfew will remain in effect to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in the city, an order by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) says.Officials of the Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and the Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System (DIMTS) Limited that run the 6,600-odd state-run buses in the city, and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) said their operations will continue as usual, but entry of passengers will be strictly regulated on the basis of ID cards and e-passes after 10pm.The DMRC advised commuters to plan their travel according to the restrictions and reach their destinations by 10pm.Anuj Dayal, executive director, corporate communications, DMRC, said, “In view of the imposition of night curfew in Delhi starting tonight, entry in Metro from 10pm to 5am will be allowed only to those passengers who fall in essential category as per govt order, after verification of their valid IDs by DMRC or CISF personnel.”Metro users commuting between Delhi and NCR will have to plan travel as it takes over an hour to complete end-to-end journey on Yellow line (Samaypur Badli to HUDA city centre) and Blue line (Noida City centre to Dwarka sector 21). There are no restrictions on public movement in Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram.After the DMRC tweeted a travel advisory after the DDMA order, commuters posted several queries regarding the restrictions. “What if someone boards a train at 9:30 and has an hour long journey, Would you throw him out at 10PM?” tweeted KD Singh in response to DMRC’s travel advisory.In DTC buses, officials said, marshals and conductors will enforce the night curfew. A DTC spokesperson said, “The corporation will follow the DDMA order in letter and spirit. Our major bus operations happen during the morning hours, while during the night, the frequency and the number of buses on the road is comparatively less. Bus marshals and conductors will be responsible for checking the IDs and e-passes of passengers,” said the spokesperson.A senior transport department official said cluster buses will be available only for passengers involved in essential services and those falling in the exempted category carrying valid ID cards or e-passes. Delhi has around 2,900 cluster buses which operate between 4.30am and 11.30pm. “This timings will remain the same,” the official said.The official said the same rule will apply to cabs and auto-rickshaws. “In general, there will be fewer cabs and autos available because demand will reduce as most people will stay indoors post 10 pm. The Delhi police and enforcement officers from the district magistrate’s offices will do random checks on the roads. So, it is better to avoid venturing out during the night, unless it’s a health emergency,” the official said.Uber and Ola did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/only-those-involved-in-essential-services-to-be-allowed-on-metro-dtcbuses-101617734962285.html
07-04-2021||Other||Emergency vehicles to be allowed in revamped Chandni Chowk stretch: Jain||New DelhiVehicles pressed into emergency and those under essential services will be allowed into the revamped areas of Chandni Chowk where entry of motorised vehicles is to be barred from 9am to 9pm on April 17, public works department (PWD) minister Satyendar Jain said on Tuesday. As part of the much-delayed Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, a 1.3km stretch of the main road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri mosque has been completely pedestrianised. The stretch is likely to be inaugurated on slated for inauguration on April 17, after which entry of all motorised vehicles will be banned on it between 9am and 9pm. While reviewing the ongoing work on Tuesday, Jain said that vehicles such as ambulances, fogging vehicles, police vans, bank cash and security vans, and those providing essential services will be allowed on to the revamped area. He also directed officials to create standard operating procedures (SOPs) for essential and emergency services in the area. “Chandni Chowk is a historical site. It has been made beautiful to promote tourism and it is the responsibility of all of us to maintain its beauty. It is the responsibility of Delhi Police to ensure that rules are followed. It will be the responsibility of the local police to ban the entry of motor vehicles in the restricted area,” said Jain in a statement, shared by the government on Tuesday. He added that only authorised manual rickshaws, color-coded in a particular style, will be allowed to enter the revamped stretch. Shopkeepers in the area too will be allowed to move their wares only on these rickshaws. While the redevelopment project was proposed in 2006, work on the project finally started in December 2018 following the directions and under monitoring of the Delhi high court. In December 2018, Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia laid the foundation stone for the project. During the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric cables have been shifted underground, with facilities such as toilets and benches for sitting being provided. CCTV and streetlights in the area are yet to be completely installed. On Tuesday, Jain also instructed officials to install powerful LEDs in the area since the current lights on the stretch were feeble in terms of security considerations. Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), which is the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, said that finishing touches were being given ahead of the inauguration of the 1.3-km stretch on April 17. “The inauguration is scheduled for April 17 and whatever work remains will be completed by then,” said Panigrahi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/emergency-vehicles-to-be-allowed-in-revamped-chandni-chowk-stretch-jain-101617734961224.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Admission process for EWS, disabled students in entry-level classes begins today||The online registration process for admission to entry-level classes for seats reserved under the reserved economically weaker section (EWS), disadvantaged groups (DG), and children with disabilities categories for the academic session 2021-22 in the city’s private schools will begin from Wednesday, the Delhi government said.Under the Right to Education (RTE) Act of 2009, at least 25% of seats in entry-level classes — nursery, kindergarten, and Class 1— have to be reserved for EWS/DG (22%) and children with disabilities (3%). HT had on Sunday reported that while the new academic session had started in schools across the national capital last week, the admission process for these 25% reserved seats was delayed, causing anxiety among parents seeking to enrol their children in private schools.Officials at the DoE had cited the Covid-19 pandemic as the reason behind the delay in starting admissions for the reserved seats. This year, the application process for 75% general category seats too had been delayed by over two months due to the pandemic.According to a notification released by the Directorate of Education (DoE) on Tuesday, the forms for reserved categories will be available on the official website (edudel.nic.in) from Wednesday, and the last date of submission of the same will be April 26. The first list of selected candidates will be released on April 30. Applicants have been asked to file only one application. “Multiple applications filed by any individual applicant shall lead to cancellation of candidature of the applicant, even after succeeding in the draw of lots,” the notification said.All private schools affiliated by the three municipal corporations — north, south, and east — as well as the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) will also be in the computerised admission system.The DoE has fixed an upper age limit of 5, 6, and 7 years as of March 31, 2021, for admission in nursery, kindergarten, and Class 1, respectively. The minimum age for admission in these classes is 3, 4, and 5 years as of March 31, 2021, respectively. However, the upper age limit for children with disabilities is 9 years for admission to these classes.Families having less than an annual income of ₹1 lakh can apply for admission under the EWS category. “Any person residing in Delhi, having the residence proof of Delhi and requisite Income Certificate (less than one lakh rupees annually) issued by the Revenue Department of GNCT of Delhi, BPL/AAY( ration card/ food security cardholder) are eligible for applying in these private unaided recognized schools for admission of their ward under EWS category,” the notification read.Under the disadvantaged groups category, Schedule Caste, Schedule Tribe, Other Backward Class (non-creamy layer), orphans, transgender, and all children living with or affected by HIV, can apply, according to the DoE notification. Applicants under the children with disabilities category must have to submit a disability certificate issued from a government hospital as per the guidelines issued under the Right of Persons With Disabilities Act, 2016.“Income certificate is also not required for applicant sunder Children with Disabilities Category,” the notification added.Meanwhile, some experts raised concerns over the short period for the application process this year. Ekramul Haque of Mission Taleem, an organization working with EWS children in Delhi, said, “It will be very difficult for poor children to fill forms at such short notice. It has to be opened for at least a month. Poor children should not be made to pay for the lack of planning and foresight of the education department.”Anil Kumar, a labourer at Molarband extension in Badarpur who is seeking admission for his sons, aged 5 and 6, said he was relieved that the government initiated the admission process for reserved category.“I was really worried due to the delay in the commencement of admission process. I just hope that my sons get seats in a good private school under the EWS category,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/admission-process-for-ews-disabled-students-in-entry-level-classes-begins-today-101617734960721.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||‘Distracted’ while driving, woman runs over elderly couple in Dwarka||A 79-year-old doctor and his 62-year-old wife died after they were hit and run over by a car being driven by a 28-year-old woman at Sector-11, Dwarka in southwest Delhi on Sunday evening, the police said. The couple was out for an evening stroll when the accident took place at around 6.30 pm. The accident was captured in a CCTV camera installed at a mosque across the road.The driver, identified as Deepakshi Choudhary, was arrested and booked for rash driving or riding in a public way and causing death by negligence, a case regarding which was registered under Indian Penal Code’s Sections 304A and 279 at Dwarka South police station. Choudhary, who works in a multinational company, was later released on bail from the police station itself. Her grey Baleno car involved in the accident was impounded by the police.The dead couple was identified as Shanti Swaroop Arora and his wife Anjana Arora. They lived in Appu Enclave in Sector-11, Dwarka and their children are settled in the US. Choudhary lives in the same society, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said.There were claims that Chaudhary was learning how to drive when the accident took place. However, the information could not be verified independently. Quoting Chaudhary’s statement on how the accident took place, DCP Meena said she told the police that she was thinking about something and lost focus because of which she lost control over the vehicle.Police said Chaudhary did not flee the mishap spot and accompanied the injured couple to the hospital. She was at the hospital when the police team reached there after receiving a call about the accident.In the 6.09 minutes video footage, the couple is seen walking on Masjid Wali Road and two more men are seen there. After crossing the building on which the CCTV is installed, the couple takes a U-turn and go to the left side of the road when suddenly, a grey car moving at a slow speed in the middle of the road starts moving towards them and hit them. The couple falls on the road and the car runs over them. While the elderly man is trapped under the car, his wife is struck under in the back portion of the vehicle, the video shows.The footage shows two people rushing towards the car as the driver comes out and go where the woman’s body is seen trapped under the vehicle. Chaudhary can then be seen taking out her cellphone from the car and calling someone frantically.More people rushed to the accident site and pushed the car to rescue the woman trapped underneath. After she was taken aside, some people tried to lift the front portion of the car to take out the injured man. However, when they failed, the went towards the driver side and again tried to lift the vehicle a bit to pull the man from under the vehicle.Sheikh Abdullah, who was involved in the rescue operation, said he had come to the mosque to perform evening prayers when he heard a commotion outside and rushed to see what happened.“It was horrible. The elderly man was injured but conscious while I rushed him to a nearby hospital in my car. On the way, he was talking to me and saying he had suffered fractures in his left hand. He also enquired about his wife and asked me to stop my car so that he could see if his wife was also being taken to the hospital. She was unconscious and taken to the hospital in the same car that ran over her,” said Abdullah, who runs a diagnostic centre in Palam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elderly-couple-run-over-by-car-in-dwarka-succumb-to-injuries-101617734842295.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Couple die by suicide inside Paharganj hotel, leave note behind||A couple allegedly died by suicide inside a hotel room in central Delhi’s Paharganj on Tuesday afternoon, the police said, after recovering a suicide note in which it was mentioned that the two were in a relationship, but the woman’s family was marrying her to someone else against her wishes.Police said the couple, both in their 30s, are Delhi residents.Deputy commissioner of police (central) Jasmeet Singh said that around 3.15pm, the police received information that a couple, who had checked into a Paharganj hotel on Tuesday morning, were not responding to repeated knocks on their door by hotel employees. A police team rushed to the spot, broke open the door and found the two unconscious. The team then rushed the two to Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, where doctors declared them brought dead.Police said they have sent the bodies for autopsy and suspect that the two may have consumed poison. Police said, prima facie, they do not suspect any foul play but are awaiting the final autopsy reports, even as they continued with their preliminary enquiry.(If you need support or know someone who does, Help is just a call away: Snehi: 011-65978181; Sumaitri: 011-23389090)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/couple-die-by-suicide-inside-paharganj-hotel-leave-note-behind-101617734783714.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||One killed as girder falls on parked trucks||A 50-year-old watchman was killed after a concrete and iron girder of an under-construction railway bridge fell on four trucks in west Delhi’s Dayabasti near Punjabi Bagh on Tuesday morning, police said.Police identified the victim as Ram Bahadur, who worked as a watchman for trucks parked underneath the bridge. “He was sleeping in one of the trucks on which the beam fell. He was crushed to death,” said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam.While a statement issued by the northern railway claimed the girder fell “during construction of a grade separator at Dayabasti”, police said that no construction work was going on at the site for the past one and a half years or so.Police said Bahadur, who hailed from Fatehpur in Uttar Pradesh, was living in Ashoka Park near Mata Mandir in Punjabi Bagh. While a few locals reached the spot after the collapse “around 10 pm”, a police officer, who did not want to be named, said that the locals didn’t reach out to them as it was dark and they did not notice anyone trapped under the girder.In the morning, when Bahadur did not return home, his family members went to the spot along with some locals and found him trapped in one of the damaged trucks. His nephew called the police and informed about the incident, the officer said.In the statement, the railways said that the grade separator at Dayabasti is being constructed by one of the agencies of northern railway and the work is in progress. Around 10 pm on Monday, one of the girders launched for the viaduct of the grade separator fell down, damaging some of the unauthorised vehicles parked below it, the statement said.“Further investigation by the police is going on to find out any casualty/trapped person below the fallen girder. Reasons for the incidence is being examined,” the statement read.Delhi Fire Services (DFS) chief Atul Garg said that two fire tenders along with the rescue teams were also sent to the spot. Apart from the local Punjabi Bagh police, teams of disaster management and CATS ambulance also reached the mishap spot. The girder was removed using a hydraulic crane, following which Bahadur’s body was taken out and shifted to a government hospital mortuary. Police said a case was registered.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-killed-as-girder-falls-on-parked-trucks-101617734783084.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||RWAs promise all help to authorities as Covid night curfew begins||Resident Welfare Associations of the city said they will ensure that all colony gates are closed early, as well as extend all possible cooperation to the police and district administration officials to ensure that no Covid-19 protocols are violated during the night curfew, which comes into effect from Tuesday.Several RWAs, on Tuesday, started sharing messages about the night curfew on their WhatsApp groups, along with copies of the government order, while appealing to the residents to adhere to rules, they said.The Delhi government on Tuesday imposed a night curfew — that will be in place every day from 10pm to 5am — in order to arrest the rapid spread of Covid-19 in the city. Delhi on Tuesday added 5,100 fresh cases, at the back of 103,453 tests, returning a positivity rate of 4.93%The night curfew will be in place at least till April 30. During the seven-hour curfew period, movement of only government officials, health care workers, those working for essential services or arriving at airports, railway stations or interstate bus terminals (ISBTs) and those travelling for Covid-19 vaccination or any medical treatment will be allowed, said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in its order.“We will ensure that the colony and park gates are closed early and limit entry-exit points after 10pm. Food delivery service providers will be asked to call clients on reaching the colony gates so that even if they get access, they do not have to walk into buildings looking out for addresses floor by floor. Residents can step out and pick up their food orders if needed,” said Rajiv Kakria, member of the residents’ welfare group in Greater Kailash-1.Saurabh Gandhi, general secretary of United Residents of Delhi, which is a collective of around 1,800 RWAs in the city, said: “For residential areas which have proper gates, adhering to a night curfew is not that difficult. The problem is with those which do not have gates and those close to market areas. In these areas, the RWAs have to invest a lot of effort to ensure compliance.”“In such areas, the RWAs have to work closely with the police and district administration. They help decide where temporary barricades are to be installed, which access routes should be kept open and what mechanisms should be in place for emergencies. The WhatsApp groups play an important role. In these groups, the RWAs also share with their residents, updates on Covid-19 in their area, which gives them a fair idea of the situation and helps in ensuring adherence to regulations,” said BS Vohra, president of the East Delhi RWA front – another collective of resident groups.Amit Agarwal of United Residents Joint Action, a collective of around 2,700 RWAs in the city, said: “RWAs in the city are always there to help the government implement regulations that are aimed at controlling Covid-19. But the government should consider consulting them before regulations, such as the night curfew, are drafted.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rwas-promise-all-help-to-authorities-as-covid-night-curfew-begins-101617734782368.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||As new cases rise, police step up watch on Covid violators||New Delhi:As Covid-19 cases are steadily increasing across the city, prompting the state government to impose night curfew starting Tuesday, prosecution data related to violation of Covid-19 guidelines shows police have caught at least 1,800-2,000 persons every day over the past few days.Until last month, police were issuing fines to only around 130-160 persons every day for violating Covid measures, such as the use of mask and social distancing, which have been set in place to reduce the spread of the infection. With night curfew already in place to tackle the fourth wave, Delhi police officers said that they have increased enforcement across the city.Data on police prosecution, seen by HT, shows that in February, when the positivity rate had reached a low of 0.17% (February 16) and cases had declined, only 40 persons were fined on an average each day for not wearing masks. The Covid-19 cases started increasing since mid-February and in March, at least 501 persons were fined every day. The average figure has now increased to at least 1,718 every day ( between April 1 and 6).To be clear, the daily prosecution number is close to what it was during the third wave of the infection in October-November. Delhi was recording a daily average of 3,451 new cases in October and 6,122 in November.Police data shows that in the past five days, cases have been registered against a wide spectrum of people, ranging from the owner of a small eatery in Gole Market to the management of a posh resto bar in Connaught Place. Apart from this, at least three persons were fined inside a city five-star hotel for not wearing masks and a night club owner in west Delhi was also fined for not adhering to the guidelines.While the first offence only attracts a fine, police said they would register an FIR if the person continues to violate the guidelines.“For those not following Covid-appropriate behaviour, we are registering cases under the Indian Penal Code and the Epidemic Disease Act. This includes owners of shops, restaurants and the places where they were not adhering to social distancing norms. Separately, we are issuing fines of ₹2,000 to those who are not wearing masks,” said deputy commissioner of police and Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal.The DCP said that separate teams have been formed in every police station to ensure that residents are following social distancing norms, especially in the evening when restaurants and markets see a high footfall. “The number of teams to check on Covid enforcement at each police station has also increased. Our aim is not to fine citizens but to ensure that they follow Covid-appropriate behaviour, so that the infection is under control,” he said.During the weekend, police had registered at least 17 FIRs during a special drive on checking for violations. In west Delhi alone, especially in restaurants at Rajouri Garden, Raja Garden and Tilak Nagar, police conducted inspections and fined owners/management of 14 establishments for violating the guidelines. The enforcement, police said, would be inside the establishments as well as on the road.With people arguing and refusing to pay ₹2,000 fines, police have also started taking videos of violators. “We are recording the videos as evidence in cases, where people contest and refuse to accept that they were not wearing masks or violating social distancing. We are inspecting banquet halls, restaurant, and night clubs where the footfall is very high in the evening hours,” a police officer, who did not wish to be named said.During the first three waves of the infection, the fine was only ₹500. The fine was increased to ₹2,000 on November 19, last year, when government and police agencies realised that citizens were not willing to follow the mask rule during the third wave.The Delhi government had on Friday said that the city was witnessing the fourth wave of the infection. For the last 10 days, the city has recorded 2,923 cases on an average each day. Police said the enforcement on roads will increase until the fourth wave of the infection recedes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-new-cases-rise-police-step-up-watch-on-covid-violators-101617734781768.html
07-04-2021||Other||HC seeks clarity on plan to demolish Lal Masjid||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Tuesday sought to know from the Centre and Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) by Wednesday if they had plans to demolish the Lal Masjid, an ancient mosque situated on a disputed land near Lodhi Road in the national capital.Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva, while hearing a plea by the Delhi Waqf Board challenging the demolition order of the ancient mosque alongside the Link Road in Aliganj village, adjourned the matter to Wednesday after the counsel for the Centre sought time to take instructions.The judge said that he is ready to give as much time as possible but the status should not change.“I will give you as much time as you want, but don’t change the status. We will have it tomorrow, but you should not come tomorrow and say, ‘Sorry, we have demolished the building’. I will then haul up your officials for contempt,” the court remarked during the hearing.The plea filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, for the Waqf Board, has said that the authorities have asked them to vacate the mosque for its demolition even though the land dispute is pending in the Waqf Tribunal.The petition has also said that the land in question has been occupied for the graveyard and Lal Masjid “since time immemorial”. However, in 2017, the land of the graveyard was taken by the authorities, a dispute which is pending adjudication in the Waqf Tribunal.On Tuesday, appearing for the board, senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose, told the court that the land dispute has been pending since 2017 and has still not been decided because of various problems with the Waqf Tribunal, including the Tribunal stopping work twice due to problems in its constitution.Senior advocate Ghose also said that even though the Tribunal was made functional and appointments were made after court orders, it again stopped operations since December 2020, due to problems in its constitution and a vacancy of two members.He said that the authorities are taking advantage of this situation and on March 31, the SHO of Basti Nizamuddin police station visited the mosque and allegedly said that it will be demolished to use the area for the CRPF canteen, barracks for men and parking of CRPF vehicles, among others. He also allegedly asked the Imam to vacate the mosque.Ghose sought that the Tribunal be constituted and the matter be decided before taking any untoward step.The Delhi government, represented by advocate Jawahar Raja, told the court that the appointment of the members in the Waqf Tribunal will be completed within four weeks. The court took the statement on record and posted the matter for further hearing on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-seeks-clarity-on-plan-to-demolish-lal-masjid-101617734781204.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Flyover to decongest Narela-Bawana opens||Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal inaugurated a 1.68-km-long flyover-cum-road overbridge at the railway crossing between Narela and Bawana in north Delhi on Tuesday.The ₹389-crore project, constructed by the Delhi Development Authority (DDA), is aimed at providing seamless connectivity between Narela and Bawana — two important residential and industrial hubs. The railway crossing, DDA officials said, is a major traffic choke point.Puri tweeted, “In this era where completion of projects on time is the new norm, I was delighted that the Road Overbridge at Narela for which foundation stone was laid on 29 Dec 2017, was inaugurated today.”The six-lane elevated corridor has been constructed on Urban Extension Road-1, around 2.5 km away from NH-4. This will connect NH-44 (GT Karnal Road) and Bawana-Auchandi Road. Nearly 80,000 vehicles pass through the railway crossing daily.The project, DDA officials said, is crucial for the development of Narela where the land-owning agency has close to 30,000 flats under various stages of construction. DDA is planning to develop Narela as the next sustainable sub-city and is a priority area.“Funds have been allocated for transport infrastructure projects... [like] the DMRC’s Rithala-Narela corridor with Alipur in Narela. We have also allocated funds for the construction of UER –II stretch in Delhi that is being executed by the NHAI,” said a DDA official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/flyover-inaugurated-in-narela-101617734723011.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||‘New curriculum till Class 8 in some east Delhi schools’||The Delhi government is planning to introduce its new curriculum on a pilot basis for students up to Class 8 in its east district’s zone number two schools in July, officials familiar with the development said on Tuesday.The east district’s zone number two has over 60 schools spread across areas such as Mayur Vihar, Trilokpuri, Mandawali, Ashok Nagar, Patparganj, and IP extension, among others.The Delhi government had in last July formed a committee — Delhi Curriculum Reform Committee — for the creation of a new curriculum for children up to the age of 14 years in line with the globally renowned best practices and educational reforms. The committee was mandated to re-imagine the current curriculum, pedagogical practices and provide a roadmap for an innovative, student-friendly module for pre-primary, primary, and upper primary classes in Delhi schools.A senior official of the government’s education department, who wished not to be named, said, “The government has contemplated on piloting the curriculum it is creating from the public schools of a particular zone in east Delhi . The idea behind implementing the curriculum in a pilot way is to figure out what challenges can come and how they can be ironed out.”A member of the curriculum reform committee, also requesting anonymity, said that the project will be implemented on a pilot basis from July onwards in the east Delhi district’s zone-2. “The curriculum is only for students of nursery to Class 8, and therefore it won’t be very challenging to implement. The curriculum is very transformative. It will bring out a very new learning system among the children of Delhi. The committee is meeting on April 8 to discuss further details of its implementation, including training of teachers,” the committee member said.Seema Singh Rathi, principal of Sarvodya Kanya Vidyalaya in Mayur Vihar said, “We have heard that our zone is likely to be the first to implement the Delhi government’s new curriculum. However, we have not received any official communication yet. If implemented, it will be a great opportunity for our teachers and students.”The Delhi government has also announced the implementation of its own education board — known as Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) — in 20-25 schools from this academic session onwards. “The government is yet to finalise the names of the 20-25 schools. However, the new education board will be implemented in schools situated in different districts,” the education department official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-may-introduce-new-curriculum-on-pilot-basis-in-some-east-delhi-schools-from-july-101617734721684.html
07-04-2021||Delhi||Affluent pockets have high caseload, more hot spots||New Delhi: South Delhi district has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases and micro-containment zones as on April 4, a weekly summary of the cases of the viral infection and the hot spots in the national capital prepared by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) shows.Of the 12,050 total Covid-19 active cases as on April 4 evening, 1,916 were in south Delhi, followed by 1,570 in south-west Delhi and 1,559 each in south-east and north-west districts in the city. The lowest number of cases are in neighbouring districts of northeast Delhi (220) and Shahdara (539), the DDMA report showed.Also, as on April 4 evening, the report showed, of the 3,090 containment zones in the city, 749 were in south Delhi – the highest among the 11 revenue districts.According to Delhi government’s daily bulletin, the total active cases in the capital on Tuesday stood at 17,332. The city reported 5,100 fresh cases on Tuesday -- the highest this year -- which came on the back of 103,453 tests -- the maximum ever.As the Capital faces what experts call a fourth wave of Covid infections, the total number of active cases rose to 17,332 and total number of containment zones to 3,291 on Tuesday, the government’s daily health bulletin said. On Tuesday, the city recorded 5,100 new cases -- the highest daily spike in cases this year.Senior officials in the revenue and health departments said that at this particular juncture, several affluent colonies in the city have a disproportionately high caseload, which also reflects in the high number of micro-containment zones created in these areasDistricts such as south Delhi, south-east Delhi, south-west Delhi and north-west Delhi – which top the list in terms of caseload – have relatively high number of planned colonies, gated communities and high-income localities, compared to districts such as north-east Delhi and Shahdara, which mostly have densely populated low-income group colonies and unplanned neighbourhoods.Some of the localities that have been identified by the DDMA as high caseload areas include Vasant Kunj, Pitampura, Greater Kailash I & II, Dwarka, Rohini, Paschim Vihar, Vasant Vihar, Mukherjee Nagar, RK Puram and Lajpat Nagar, senior officials said, adding that each of these areas have 30 to 70 containment zones.Delhi’s health minister Satyendar Jain said the government has scaled up testing and micro-containment efforts in these areas. “Experts have told us that in the previous waves of Covid-19 in the city, the densely populated areas witnessed extremely high caseload. So, the antibody prevalence is likely to be higher in those areas. That is one reason why in this particular wave so far, affluent colonies are witnessing high number of cases.”Rajiv Kakria, member of the residents’ welfare group in Greater Kailash-1, said they were helping the government in efforts to curb the spread of the infection.“In colonies with a high number of cases, resident groups are helping with organising test camps, ensuring delivery of essential goods to doorsteps of home isolated patients, making separate arrangements for garbage collection from residences of patients and conducting awareness camps to boost the vaccination drive.”Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the division of epidemiology and communicable diseases in the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said, “The government’s assessment makes sense in this regard. In the previous surge in cases recorded in last November, which was the worst so far, we have seen the virus rage through densely populated neighbourhoods, with disproportionately higher cases emerging in slums, unauthorised colonies and low-income localities. So, at this point of time, the antibody prevalence is likely to be high in such areas. That means, affluent colonies are likely to witness relatively high cases.”More than 56% of the 28,000 people sampled during Delhi’s fifth serological survey in late-January this year were found to have developed antibodies against the Sars-CoV-2 virus.In 2020, Delhi witnessed three distinct phases of severe spikes in Covid-19 cases – in June, September and November. At its worst, the Capital recorded 8,593 new cases in a day on November 11.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/affluent-pockets-have-high-caseload-more-hot-spots-101617734722305.html
07-04-2021||Other||Surge continues, city records 5100 fresh Covid cases||New DelhiThe Covid graph in the city continued its steep upward climb on Tuesday, with the number of daily cases breaching 5,000-mark — first time since November-end . The city on Tuesday recorded 5,100 cases and 17 deaths due to the viral infection, as reported in Delhi’s daily health bulletin. The increase in cases has been sharper during the “fourth wave” – as the Delhi government refers to the current surge, with the numbers rising from under 1,000 to over 5,000 in just 15 days. . Experts, however, say this is the second spike that the city is witnessing.Despite the high number of cases, the positivity rate – proportion of samples that return positive among total tested – remained below 5% due to the high number of tests conducted. The city reported a positivity rate of 4.93% on Tuesday, with 103,453 test having been conducted the previous day, as per the health bulletin. Tuesday was the first time the city has seen over 100,000 tests in a day. “The number of cases has definitely gone up faster this time around. This is because many people who are positive are moving around and restaurants and gyms are open. Normally, there is a surge in cases within 60 to 100 days of easing of restrictions. This is the natural behaviour of the virus. And, this is likely to continue till April or maybe May,” said Dr SK Sarin, director of Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. He headed Delhi government’s first committee on control and management of Covid-19 cases. He added that the number of cases this time might cross the numbers seen during the peak of November. Delhi had reported 8,593 cases on November 11, the highest till date for the city. In addition to the night curfew, Sarin feels that the restaurants should only open outdoor seating or give takeaways. “Restaurants and bars lead to the spread of the infection; you have to remove your mask if you have to eat or drink. An interesting study from the Columbia district in Washington DC showed that when restaurants were opened up after following strict masking norms, the number of cases increased ten-folds and number of deaths five-fold in 100 days,” he said. The experts said that asymptomatic transmission was a major cause of concern during the current surge. “It has now been established that nearly 60% of the transmission can happen from asymptomatic or mildly symptomatic cases. Targeting only those with symptoms, such as fever, is not good enough. We need to trace more contacts and quarantine them,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonary medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. He is currently the chairman PSRI Institute of Pulmonary, critical care and sleep medicine. He added, “The pool of people transmitting silently will only increase as more and more people get vaccinated. This is because those who receive even one shot get some amount of immunity and are likely to have milder symptoms. They are also likely to not get tested and hence transmit it on to others.” Dr Sarin agreed, adding, “The antibodies which form after an infection or immunisation are almost same. And, over 50% of Delhi’s population is seropositive. They are moving around and if they get the infection, and they can, they will have mild symptoms and may pass on the infection to others.” Both said there is a need to increase vaccination. With the Centre opening up vaccination for everyone over the age of 45 years, Delhi’s drive has picked up pace. A record 87,678 doses were administered on Monday, of which 73% were given at government facilities, said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. As per provisional reports, 74,642 doses were administered on Tuesday. This comes a day after the government announced that at least one-third of the vaccination centres in 33 Delhi government hospitals will run 24*7 Tuesday onwards. “95% of the total slots in government centres were utilised as compared to 67% in private hospitals. The trend was the opposite initially when the vaccination drive had begun. However, people are now happy with the facilities in government centres and are coming there,” said Jain. So far, 1.38 million persons in Delhi have been administered at least one shot of the vaccine. As the cases increase, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences has stopped walk-in registrations at its out-patient clinics which had been restarted in December. “To optimise diversion of available manpower and material resources for the care and treatment of … Covid-19 disease, it has been decided to temporarily close down routine walk-in OPD … registrations,” read an order from the medical superintendent of the hospital. The clinics will continue to follow up with their existing patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/surge-continues-city-records-5100-fresh-covid-cases-101617734721122.html
07-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand announces fresh curbs to tackle Covid-19; schools to shut, markets will close after 8 pm||With the rise in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Hemant Soren government in Jharkhand on Tuesday came with a number of fresh restrictions to curb the spike of the disease.“In a bid to curb the sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, some restrictions have been imposed. I would like to appeal to the people of the state to follow the government guidelines, use masks and maintain social distancing,” CM Soren said. He warned of harder decisions if Covid-19 cases continue to rise.Schools, park, gymnasiums, exhibitions, fairs, sports events will not function, effective from April 8 to April 30, as per the decision taken at a high-level meeting of the state disaster management authority, chaired by the chief minister at Project Building.However, offline classes for students of class-10 and 12, who would be taking their board examinations this year, have been permitted, stated the order issued by the state home and disaster management department on Tuesday.Jharkhand government allowed schools to function for classes 10 and 12 from December 21 last year in view of the upcoming board examinations. On February 18, the state government allowed schools to re-open for students above class-8 from March 1, along with colleges, coaching centres, cinema halls, swimming pools, parks, fair, sports events and training institutions.Shops, restaurants and clubs have been restricted to open after 8 pm. However, take home and home delivery of food from restaurants have been permitted.Public gatherings at religious places and restaurants have been restricted to 50 per cent of the total capacity. Not more than five people will be allowed to congregate at any public place, as per the order. Banquet halls cannot be used for any purpose except for weddings or last rites.All indoor or outdoor congregations have been prohibited in the state with the exception of marriage functions which have been capped to 200 people. Not more than 50 people will be allowed at funerals.Jharkhand follows in the steps of several other neighbouring states, such as Bihar, Odisha and Chattisgarh, to contain the spread of Covid-19.The Bihar government ordered all schools, colleges and coaching centres to remain close from April 5 to April 11, while the number of passengers in public transport vehicles has been restricted to 50 per cent of total capacity till April 15. All functions, excluding marriages and funerals, at public places have been barred.The Odisha government imposed a night curfew in 10 districts where cases of Covid-19 are on a surge. Chhattisgarh government has ordered a completed lockdown in Durg district from April 6 to April 14, while section-144 has been imposed in Raipur. Schools have been ordered to stay shut till further notice.Jharkhand saw a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in the recent past. The state registered 4,824 cases between April 1 and April 6 - most of them from the capital city Ranchi where 2,575 cases were registered during the period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-announces-fresh-curbs-to-tackle-covid19-101617732309253.html
07-04-2021||Gurugram||No plans for night curfew, says Gurugram administration||Despite a rapid spike in Covid-19 infections over the last three weeks, officials of the Gurugram administration said they had no plans yet of imposing a night curfew in the city, like in neighbouring Delhi.The district officials said that they are focussing on containing the infections by strictly enforcing social distancing norms.Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, said a decision on night curfew will have to be taken by the State Disaster Management Authority. “There is no such plan (night curfew) as of now and no such directions have not been conveyed by the state government,” he said.In the last three weeks, the city has witnessed a rapid spread of the Covid-19 infection. The district reported 3,355 active cases on Tuesday evening, a sharp spike from around 600 active cases on March 15. There has been a sharp rise in positivity rate as well, from 2.5% to 7.8% in this period.On Tuesday, the city reported 604 new Covid-19 cases, which took the tally to 65,138 cases in the district. However, there was no Covid-related death on Tuesday, with the toll remaining at 368 in the district so far.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that their prime focus was to curb the spread by expanding testing and increasing the vaccine outreach. “We have already allowed private hospitals to tie up with industries, vaccine camps will also be set up in malls and shopping centres. A large scale vaccination drive is on the anvil in Manesar industrial area, in collaboration with the local units, from Wednesday,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-plans-for-night-curfew-says-gurugram-administration-101617731601064.html
07-04-2021||Other||Goa to belatedly implement new Motor Vehicle Act from May 1||The Goa government will belatedly begin implementing the new Motor Vehicles Act from May 1 this year, levying heavy fines on traffic rule transgressors, Goa’s transport minister Mauvin Godinho said. “We had delayed the implementation because the repairs of roads were not being taken up in due earnest by the government. The repairs of roads all over Goa is (now) being undertaken on a war footing,” transport minister Mauvin Godinho said. The Motor Vehicles Act , which became law back in 2019 after it was passed by Parliament, involves steeper fines running into thousands of rupees. It was not adopted by the state government after a backlash by the public over demand for ‘decent’ roads. “We are going to adopt the new Motor Vehicle Act which was long overdue. The new MV Act will be implemented from May 1 and we are going to use this intervening period to bring about an awareness about its implementation,” Godinho added. The state government has notified the new law which would now mean that road users will have to pay steeper fines ranging from ₹1,000 for failing to wear seat belts, to ₹10,000 for not allowing emergency vehicles to pass with an even higher fee for a second subsequent offence. “All ADTs (assistant directors of transport) are going to hold programmes in their respective jurisdictions to educate people on traffic rules. The simple narrative is going to be, ‘if you don’t break the rules, there is no question of paying fine’,” Godinho said. Goa’s vehicle density is among the highest in the country with the vehicle to population ratio nearly at 1:1 with more than 14-lakh vehicles on the roads for a population that is a little over 15-lakh.The Opposition has, however, alleged that the conditions of the roads are not satisfactory for the implementation of the Act.“Bankrupt @BJP4Goa Government which has failed to provide proper motorable roads now increases fines for traffic violations further pushing common man into financial disaster. Will @goacm take responsibility of casualties & fatal accidents due to bad infrastructure?” Leader of Opposition, Digambar Kamat tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/goa-to-belatedly-implement-new-motor-vehicle-act-from-may-1-101617723140745.html
07-04-2021||Pune||2.8 lakh lockdown violators booked, ₹13.57 crore recovered in fines||The Pune police have taken action against nearly 2.80 lakh people in the city and fines around ₹13.57 crore have been recovered from them. Taking into account the rising Covid-19 cases in the city, the PMC had ordered to shut all types of establishments, except essential services. Besides, the police have taken action against 984 persons in the city for walking on the streets without masks on and fines have been collected from them. The mini lockdown being implemented by the district administration in Pune is seeing harsher measures like road closures through barricading by Pune police to prevent citizens from travelling from one area to another. The road closure strategy for nakabandi will put severe restrictions on travel within the city and help in breaking the chain. DCP (traffic) Rahul Srirame said that barricading is being done at important junctions as part of nakabandi operations to bring unnecessary commuting to a halt to break the chain of Covid-19. On weekdays, night curfew will be enforced from 6 pm to 7 am. From Friday onwards, there will be a complete lockdown between 6 pm and 7 am until Monday morning. No one will be allowed to leave their home without a valid reason or permission. Medical and other essential services will be excluded from this restriction. Ravindra Shisve, joint commissioner of police informed that the police had been trying to create awareness of the lockdown orders during the last two days. “Punekars have responded positively to the order. All the establishments were being closed by 6 pm and no one was stopped and questioned by the police while going home from work,” he said. Police have taken a public awareness drive while enforcing the night curfew in the last two days and police vans patrolling the roads could be seen informing the public about the restrictions imposed by the civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/28-lakh-lockdown-violators-booked-rs-13-57-crore-recovered-in-fines-101617722359857.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Covid-19 forces business owner to move from mandaps to mobile mandaps||With restrictions on travel and weddings curtailing any kind of celebration during Covid, Dayanand Darekar, an old hand in the business of mandaps has come up with an unique idea- mobile multifunction hall unit, which can travel to wherever one wishes to get married or even hold a family function. “I am in the business of weddings and giving mandap equipment for weddings, or any auspicious function, but lately due to Covid-19, and the latest lockdown has been bad for business with the weddings getting smaller and people not eager to spend a lot. Hence, I thought of giving a portable moving wedding hall which will be equipped with all the necessary amenities required to accommodate around 150 people,” said Darekar. Darekar has made a movable foldable multipurpose hall which is affixed on a trailer and can be moved across the state. “It is built on a trailer of the size 30 x 40 feet, it is air-conditioned, has a good sound system built in, generators, lights, and a stage too. We also provide with decorations and the catering too, all in ₹50,000 only,” said Darekar, who is in the business of mandaps for 20 years. For the past week, Darekar is flooded with bookings from across the state for his mobile wedding hall.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-forces-business-owner-to-move-from-mandaps-to-mobile-mandaps-101617721039601.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Autorickshaws hit despite PMPML shutdown||With no public buses plying on the road, many autorickshaw drivers are feeling the pinch of losing out on daily earnings. Despite the PMPML shutdown, scores of autorickshaws are standing vacant in the city awaiting passengers. “Enforcing the lockdown and shutting down PMPML buses have been a bad idea. We used to get many of our passengers who would alight from the buses and then prefer us to take them to the city’s peth areas. But with almost every shop closed, there are hardly any passengers,” said Ravindra Poredi who has been a licensed auto rickshaw driver for past 23 years in the city. Poredi along with other driver friends stand at the Shri Sadguru Jungli Maharaj rickshaw stand daily. “We have been waiting since morning and there have been no trips at all. We are here to help people get them to their destination, but no one seems to be out,” said Sanjay Saswade. Although there are none of the regular travellers, these rickshaw owners are not afraid of the Covid-19 virus and are in fact willing to help any passenger reach the nearest Covid testing centre. “I dropped a senior citizen to Ruby Hall clinic, she had trouble breathing, but I was glad to be of help,” said Rahim Habib Sheikh, who has been plying an auto rickshaw in city for 20 years. “We are not afraid of ferrying passengers or even Covid positive patients, we are well equipped with sanitizers, and a thick plastic screen,” said Sunil Kadam who comes daily from Wagholi to ply his rickshaw in the city. The rickshaws outside KEM hospital are now often used to ferry discharged patients home. “We are called out by the security guard of the hospital and then also informed by the hospital staff accompanying the patient that we should sanitize the rickshaw after we drop them to their destination,” said Laxman Suryavanshi, who has ferried several patients home. “The biggest worry that most autorickshaw drivers face is of not earning enough. When everything was normal, we would make around ₹400 to ₹500 but now, it is difficult to get a trip above ₹100. This way, we won’t be able to look after our family nor pay instalments for the rickshaws,” said Rakesh Pardeshi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/autorickshaws-hit-despite-pmpml-shutdown-101617720979606.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Swimming pools pile-up losses in Pune, professional swimmers hit||Swimming pools were yet to recover from the losses of the 2020 lockdown and a fresh set of restrictions until April 30 have been put them in a state of limbo. In the last 12 months since March 2020, pools were allowed for all for only two months in February and March 2021. In the month of November, only sportspersons were allowed to train. “The four months of February, March, April and May are important months for the business and in the rest of the eight months, financial management is done by the profit earned in four months,” said Narendra Acharekar, coach, Harmony Aquatic Club, Kothrud. In Pune, there are around 60 swimming pools where professionals and non- professionals practice swimming. Maintenance along with the payment of staff and electric bills costs around ₹45,000 which is spent on pools every month. “Even if the pool is not functional, you cannot skip maintenance. Every month the chemicals which are used to keep the water clean and swimming friendly costs around ₹25,000 need to be changed. We have somehow managed all this expenses for one year but if another long lockdown happens then it will put us in a big trouble because we cannot stop the payment of staff in lockdown as well,” said Acharekar. Along with non-professional swimmers, professionals who have upcoming tournaments in the coming months will miss the pool practice due to lockdown. “There are nationals in June and July and only physical exercise will not help swimmers from Pune so at least the government should allow competitive swimmers to train. It will help them a lot and some activity at pool will be also continued,” said Vinay Marathe, proprietor, Champion Aquatic Club, at Bal Gandharva. Sadhvi Dhuri who won five gold medals and one silver at the Khelo India University Games in February 2020 said, “Not all the swimmers can go out of the city to train so professional swimmers’ practice should be allowed. Last one year was tough and staying away from the pool for so many days affected the performance.” Lifeguards find it difficult to survive Rakesh Bhagat who has worked as a lifeguard at Harmony Aquatic Club since 2009 fears a repeat of the 2020 lockdown. “It was worse, I got married in February 2020 and the state was under lockdown from March. I thank Acharekar sir for taking care of my house rent and providing me with groceries. My livelihood can only come on track when pools will remain active. The current situation of helplessness invites suicidal thoughts to minds,” said Bhagat who is unable to find other jobs due to the Covid crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/swimming-pools-pile-up-losses-in-pune-professional-swimmers-hit-101617720019579.html
07-04-2021||Pune||Confusion, fear, anger on day 1 of new restrictions for Pune’s traders, shop owners||PUNE It was total confusion for traders, shop owners and other businesspersons across the city on Tuesday, the first day of the new restrictions imposed in the state. Thousands of small shop owners opened up in various parts of Pune in the morning, most unaware about the new orders – only stores offering essential services were allowed to be open; and others who knew the orders, but decided not to follow it. Local district, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) authorities and the police department went on the rounds of the city, appealing to shop owners and traders to shut their shops as per the new restrictions.“I opened up my shop as per my daily routine at 9 am and started cleaning, when suddenly a friend of mine came told me about the restrictions. If we are told to be shut till April 30 then it is very difficult to survive financially. I have rented this shop for ₹15,000 and am already going in a loss for the last one year,” said Ramesh Rathod, a cloth shop owner in Katraj. Umesh Chavan, owner of a stationary shop in Shivajinagar, said, “Government offices and their work is going on, and we are told to close down. To break the chain of Covid infection, closing shops is not the solution. I was aware that shops are to be closed, but I opened up today.”At Laxmi road and other major markets in the city, many traders and shop owners are opposed to this decision. “There is lot of anger amongst shop owners against this closing down of shops ahead of the festival and wedding seasons. Soon, Gudhipadwa, Ramnavmi and wedding seasons is to come. Last year we accepted it as Covid was new for every one of us, but now we cannot afford to keep the shops closed for a single day,” said Nitesh Chopada, secretary, Laxmi road Ganpati chowk traders association. Even the public is unhappy with the decision taken by the state government.Rasika Mehta, a working professional said, “Post lockdown of last year, slowly the entire ecosystem of markets, offices and industries is coming on track. And suddenly it is stopped by these new restrictions. We need to take safety precautions, but at the same we cannot put a break on the running economy of the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/confusion-fear-anger-on-day-1-of-new-restrictions-for-city-s-traders-shopowners-101617716839392.html
07-04-2021||World||UK govt insists vaccine program on track despite AstraZeneca restriction||The UK government said it remains on course to meet its Covid-19 vaccination targets, and moved quickly to assuage safety concerns after AstraZeneca doses were effectively ruled out for people under 30.“When you get the call, get the jab,” Health Secretary Matt Hancock said Wednesday on Twitter, shortly after the UK’s drug regulator issued its highly-anticipated safety review of Astra’s vaccine. The UK is “on track” to offer a first vaccine dose to all adults by the end of July, he said.The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency said 79 people among the more than 20 million who have received the Astra shot in Britain had suffered rare blood clots, 19 of whom had died. But while it found a “reasonably plausible link” to the vaccine, it did not block its usage.“No effective medicine or vaccine is without risk,” MHRA Chief Executive Officer June Raine told reporters.Instead, the government’s vaccine advisory committee recommended that people aged 18 to 29 should be offered an alternative vaccine where possible.The decision was a crucial one for Boris Johnson’s government, not least because Astra’s vaccine -- which was developed with Oxford University -- is the workhorse of the program and is made in the UK Meeting the inoculation target is also central to his ambition to fully reopen the economy on June 21.UK Recommends Not Using AstraZeneca Vaccine on Those Under 30The concern now will be whether confidence has been knocked in the Astra vaccine among people aged over 30 -- just as ministers prepare to unlock restaurants and shops that have been shuttered for months next week.Shops and hairdressers in England are due to reopen on Monday, but the reopening of indoor hospitality and entertainment in mid-May, as well as international travel, is dependent on the vaccine program continuing at pace.For those under 30, the immediately available alternative to Astra is the Pfizer-BioNtech vaccine, which has been in circulation since December. The UK began the rollout of Moderna Inc.’s vaccine on Wednesday.The Johnson & Johnson vaccine, which only requires one shot rather than two like the others, could become available “over the summer,” Jonathan Van Tam, England’s deputy chief medical officer, said at the briefing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-govt-insists-vaccine-program-on-track-despite-astrazeneca-restriction-101617818234477.html
07-04-2021||World||Crowned, de-crowned, crowned again; chaos at Sri Lankan beauty pageant||The Mrs Sri Lanka beauty pageant descended into chaos at the weekend when a former title holder declared that the winner was ineligible because she was divorced, and forcibly removed her crown.A video of the Sunday event opened with the 2019 winner of the competition and reigning Mrs World, Caroline Jurie, speaking to the audience shortly after the winner and runners-up were announced in Colombo."There is a rule that you have to be married and not divorced, so I am taking my first steps, saying that the crown goes to the first runner-up," Jurie said, before walking across the stage to remove the crown from Pushpika De Silva, standing with a bouquet of flowers in her arms.Jurie started pulling out hairpins from De Silva's hair, managed to remove the crown and placed it on the head of the competition's runner-up, as De Silva left the stage. Celebratory music played in the background throughout the incident.In a Facebook post on Monday, De Silva said she was not divorced but separated, writing in Sinhala: "If I wasn't fit at the beginning of this tournament they could have removed me."The prize was returned to her on Tuesday at a news conference, after pageant organisers confirmed she was not a divorcee. They have also apologised to her.The winner of the Mrs Sri Lanka contest goes on to compete in the Mrs World contest. Jurie, who won that competition in 2020 in Las Vegas, could not immediately be reached for comment via her social media pages.The official Mrs. World Instagram account acknowledged De Silva's victory in a brief post with her photo on Tuesday."A true queen is not a woman who snatches another woman's crown, but a woman who secretly sets another woman's crown!!" De Silva said in her post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/crowned-de-crowned-crowned-again-chaos-at-sri-lankan-beauty-pageant-101617816221270.html
07-04-2021||World||Causal link between AstraZeneca and clots 'plausible but not confirmed': WHO||The World Health Organization's advisory vaccine safety panel said on Wednesday a causal link between the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and rare cases of blood clots with low platelets is "considered plausible but is not confirmed".The independent experts, in a statement issued after a review of the latest global data, said that specialised studies were needed to fully understand the potential relationship between vaccination and possible risk factors."It is important to note that whilst concerning, the events under assessment are very rare, with low numbers reported among the almost 200 million individuals who have received the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine around the world," the panel said.It added that it would meet against next week to review additional data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/causal-link-between-astrazeneca-and-clots-plausible-but-not-confirmed-who-101617815411565.html
07-04-2021||World||Sri Lanka to ban 11 Islamic organisations including ISIS, Al Qaeda||Sri Lanka will ban 11 Islamic radical organisations, including the Islamic State (ISIS) and Al Qaeda, for their links to extremist activities, according to an official announcement on Wednesday.A statement from Attorney-General Dappula de Livera’s office said that he had authorised to proscribe 9 local extremist groups alongside Al Qaeda and ISIS.Officials said the proscription will come into force with a gazette to be issued soon.In the immediate aftermath of the 2019 Easter Sunday suicide attacks that killed 270 people, including 11 Indians, Sri Lanka banned the local Jihadi group National Thowheeth Jamaath (NTJ) and two other groups.A special probe panel appointed in 2019 by former president Maithripala Sirisena had recommended the banning of Muslim extremist organisations which advocate radicalism in the Buddhist majority country.The report had also asked for the banning of an extremist Buddhist group, BBS or the Forces of Buddhist Power.The panel said that BBS action had contributed to the radicalisation of Muslims.The panel had found Sirisena and the then top security police brass culpable for failing to prevent the attacks despite having prior intelligence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sri-lanka-to-ban-11-islamic-organisations-including-isis-al-qaeda-101617814895022.html
07-04-2021||World||Backlash after Pakistan PM Imran Khan links rape to how women dress||Pakistan rights campaigners have accused Prime Minister Imran Khan of "baffling ignorance" after the former playboy cricketer blamed how women dress for a rise in rape cases.In a weekend interview on live television, Oxford-educated Khan said an increase in rapes indicated the "consequences in any society where vulgarity is on the rise"."The incidents of rape of women... (have) actually very rapidly increased in society," he said.He advised women to cover up to prevent temptation."This entire concept of purdah is to avoid temptation, not everyone has the willpower to avoid it," he said, using a term that can refer to modest dress or the segregation of the sexes.Hundreds have signed a statement circulating online Wednesday calling Khan's comments "factually incorrect, insensitive and dangerous"."Fault rests solely with the rapist and the system that enables the rapist, including a culture fostered by statements such as those made by (Khan)," the statement said.The Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, an independent rights watchdog, said Tuesday it was "appalled" by the comments."Not only does this betray a baffling ignorance of where, why and how rape occurs, but it also lays the blame on rape survivors, who, as the government must know, can range from young children to victims of honour crimes," it said.Pakistan is a deeply conservative country where victims of sexual abuse are often viewed with suspicion and criminal complaints are rarely seriously investigated.Much of the country lives under an "honour" code where women who bring "shame" on the family can be subjected to violence or murder.It regularly ranks among the worst places in the world for gender equality.Nationwide protests erupted last year when a police chief admonished a gang-rape victim for driving at night without a male companion.The Franco-Pakistani mother was assaulted in front of her children on the side of a motorway after her car ran out of fuel.Last year, Khan was also criticised after another television appearance where he failed to challenge a Muslim cleric's insistence that coronavirus had been unleashed because of the wrongdoings of women.The latest controversy comes as the organisers behind International Women's Day marches battle what they have called a coordinated disinformation campaign against them, including doctored images and videos circulated online.It has led to blasphemy accusations -- a hugely sensitive issue in Pakistan where allegations have previously led mobs to attack people.The organisers of the annual rally have called for the prime minister to intervene.In his weekend TV appearance, Khan also blamed divorce rates in Britain on the "sex, drugs and rock and roll" culture that began in the 1970s, when the twice-divorced Khan was gaining a reputation in London as a playboy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/backlash-after-pakistan-pm-imran-khan-links-rape-to-how-women-dress-101617814765217.html
07-04-2021||World||Dozens missing, death toll climbs to 140 in Indonesia landslides||The death toll from mudslides in eastern Indonesia has risen to 140 with dozens still missing, officials said Wednesday, as rain continued to pound the region and hamper the search.East Flores district on Adonara island suffered the highest losses with 67 bodies recovered so far and six missing. Mud tumbled down from surrounding hills early on Sunday, catching people at sleep. Some were swept away by flash floods after overnight rains caused rivers to burst their banks.On nearby Lembata island, the downpour triggered by Tropical Cyclone Seroja sent solidified lava from a volcanic eruption in November to crash down on more than a dozen villages, killing at least 32 and leaving 35 unaccounted for, according to the National Disaster Mitigation Agency.Hundreds of police, soldiers and residents dug through the debris with their bare hands, shovels and hoes searching for those buried. Relatives wailed Wednesday as they watched rescuers pull out a mud-caked body, place it on a bamboo stretcher and take it away for burial.“Please find my father and mother who are still buried ... whatever their condition,” Suzanna Tasoin cried to rescuers struggling to dig up tons of volcanic materials and rocks with farm tools at Waimatan village on Lembata island, “We want to bury them with the respect they deserve.”In all, landslides and flooding have killed at least 126 across several islands in Indonesia as well as 27 people in neighbouring East Timor. Thousands of homes have been damaged and thousands of people displaced by the weather, which is expected to continue until at least Friday as the storm moves south toward Australia.Rescue efforts were being hampered by the rains and the remoteness of the area, where roads and bridges were damaged in many places.Rescue personnel with excavators and tons of food and medicine were being deployed from Makassar city on Sulawesi island, but were hindered by bad weather and extremely high waves.Five helicopters were helping to reach isolated areas of the islands, National Disaster Mitigation Agency chief Doni Monardo told reporters late Wednesday.He said evacuees were in dire need of basic necessities such as blankets, mats, tents, baby food and medical services.The government provided tens of thousands of anti-coronavirus masks, and Monardo said authorities would set up health posts at refugee camps to test people for the virus.He said six navy ships, including a hospital ship, carrying more goods were expected to arrive on Friday to relieve overwhelmed hospitals and clinics in East Nusa Tenggara, one of Indonesia's poorest provinces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dozens-missing-death-toll-climbs-to-140-in-indonesia-landslides-101617813592708.html
07-04-2021||World||Russia ready to supply military equipment to Pakistan, hold more drills: Lavrov||Russia stands ready to supply special military equipment to Pakistan to strengthen its counter-terrorism capabilities, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said on Wednesday as Islamabad rolled out the red carpet for the visiting leader. Lavrov, who travelled to Islamabad from New Delhi, also spoke of Russia’s plans to conduct more military and naval exercises with Pakistan and to further deepen bilateral ties. Lavrov also met Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and Prime Minister Imran Khan, who raised the Kashmir issue during their talks. Foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi personally received Lavrov – the first senior Russian leader to travel to Pakistan in almost a decade – at the airport on his arrival on Tuesday, signalling the importance attached to the visit by Islamabad. “We’ve confirmed that we stand ready to strengthen the anti-terrorist potential of Pakistan, including by supplying Pakistan with special military equipment. This serves the interests of all states of the region,” Lavrov said during a joint news conference with Qureshi after their meeting on Wednesday. “We also agreed that we need to further conduct exercises and drills in the mountains called Druzhba (friendship) and maritime exercises called the Arabian Monsoon,” he added. The Druzbha exercise between the Pakistani and Russian militaries, which began in 2016, usually features special forces from both sides. A Russian Army contingent visited Pakistan last November for the latest edition of the drill. Russia had angered India by supplying a limited number of Mi-35M helicopter gunships to Pakistan in 2018. Lavrov’s comments about potential supplies of special military equipment, even to bolster Pakistan’s counter-terrorism capabilities, are unlikely to go down well in New Delhi, which perceives such arms deals as a provocation. Without directly referring to the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue that includes India, Australia, Japan and the US, Lavrov took a swipe at US-backed strategies that he said were affecting stability in the Asia-Pacific region. Lavrov has been critical of the Indo-Pacific concept, which is the focus of the Quad. Noting that he and Qureshi had discussed the situation in the Asia-Pacific, Lavrov said: “Here we see uncertain processes that happen because the US promotes divisive strategies that change everything and the stability in the region. We are categorically against new division lines. Instead we promote the preservation of those structures that have been here, including the key role of Asean.” There was no immediate reaction from Indian officials to Lavrov’s comments. Enhanced defence and security cooperation also figured in Lavrov’s meeting with Pakistan Army chief Gen Bajwa. According to a readout from the Pakistani military’s media arm, Bajwa said that “Pakistan values its relations with Russia and reciprocates the desire for enhanced bilateral military cooperation”. Bajwa welcomed all initiatives to bring peace and stability to Afghanistan. “We have no hostile designs towards any country and will keep on working towards a cooperative regional framework based on sovereign equality and mutual progress,” he said. Both Qureshi and Prime Minister Khan raised the Kashmir issue in their discussions with Lavrov. Qureshi said at the joint news conference that he had told Lavrov about the “fragility of the situation on our border with India” and concerns about the situation in Jammu and Kashmir and human rights issues. However, Qureshi also acknowledged that tensions with India had reduced after the Indian and Pakistan armies recommitted themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in February. During his meeting with Lavrov, Khan underlined the importance that Pakistan attaches to relations with Russia as a “key foreign policy priority”, and expressed satisfaction at “steady growth in bilateral ties, including deepening cooperation in trade, energy, security and defence”, according to a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office. “With reference to the situation in [Jammu and Kashmir], the Prime Minister shared Pakistan’s perspective on issues of peace and security in South Asia, including the need for peaceful resolution of the Jammu and Kashmir dispute,” the statement said. Lavrov said at the joint news conference that he and Qureshi had touched upon the fact that India and Pakistan have started talks on the normalisation of relations. “We welcome that,” he said. The reception given to Lavrov in Islamabad was in contrast to his brief visit to New Delhi, where he only held talks with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar. Lavrov didn’t meet the Indian prime minister - usually a part of any senior Russian leader’s visit to New Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-ready-to-supply-military-equipment-to-pakistan-hold-more-drills-lavrov-101617812548628.html
07-04-2021||World||UK to offer non-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine to under-30s over blood clot link||The U.K. recommended not using AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine on those under the age of 30 after drug regulators there and in the European Union highlighted a possible link with a rare type of blood clot in the brain.The assessments follow an increasing number of reports of side effects in people who’ve received the Astra dose. Despite this, both the U.K. and EU agencies agreed that the benefits of the shot outweigh the risks.In its latest recommendation, the European Medicines Agency said that “unusual blood clots with low blood platelets should be listed as very rare side effects.” The U.K. is advising that those under 30 be offered an alternative to Astra if one is available.The latest assessments of the Astra vaccine, which was developed with the University of Oxford, comes amid increasing public wariness about the shot, with patients from Bucharest to Calais canceling scheduled appointments as they await more clarity.The warning could threaten the European Union’s vaccination campaign, which was just beginning to kick into a higher gear after a sluggish start. EU health ministers will meet this evening to discuss the path forward with AstraEMA Executive Director Emer Cooke tried to counter any public worries by pointing out that the vaccine is vital in fighting a virus that’s causing “thousands of deaths” every day. June Raine, chief executive of the U.K.’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, stressed that the specific clotting side effects were very rare.“Covid-19 is a very serious disease with high hospitalization and death rates,” Cooke said at a press conference. “This vaccine has proven to be highly effective. It prevents severe disease and hospitalization and it is saving lives.”Also Read | AstraZeneca Covid vaccine possibly linked to rare blood clots: EU drug regulatorConcerns about the vaccine are centered on an unusual type of blood clot in the brain called cerebral venous sinus thrombosis. It has occurred together with low levels of blood platelets after vaccination.“These clotting disorders are very rare side effects of the vaccine,” said Sabine Strauss, the head of the EMA’s safety committee. The group hasn’t identified a “definite cause” or a patient profile that would be most at risk, according to Strauss.The EMA’s safety committee based its latest analysis on a review of 84 cases of clotting, with most to the brain area, that had been reported by March 22 -- by which point 25 million people in the U.K. and Europe had received the Astra shot.By April 4, the reported clotting instances had increased to 222 -- again, with most to the brain area -- out of 34 million people who’d received the shot. Those updated figures do not change the agency’s recommendation, it said.Generally speaking, these clots occur most commonly in women between the ages of 30 and 45, EMA officials have said, a group that in the EU has been disproportionately vaccinated with Astra’s shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-offer-non-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-to-under-30s-over-blood-clot-link-101617807529451.html
07-04-2021||World||Pakistan issues visas to over 1,100 Indian pilgrims||Pakistan has issued visas to more than 1,100 Indian Sikh pilgrims to participate in the annual Baisakhi celebrations during April 12-22. The visas were issued as a special gesture by the Pakistan government in “view of the importance of Baisakhi for Punjabis and Sikhs marking the start of their new year”, the Pakistan high commission said on Wednesday.The move comes amid a perceived thaw in bilateral relations about the time that Indian and Pakistani militaries began adhering to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) in Jammu and Kashmir in February. The Pakistan government recently deferred a move to import cotton and sugar from India in order to control prices and overcome a domestic shortage after facing opposition from some federal ministers. The Pakistan high commission extended special felicitations to those celebrating Baisakhi and hoped the visiting pilgrims would have a “fulfilling yatra”.Under the framework of the India-Pakistan Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines of 1974, a large number of Sikh pilgrims from India visit Pakistan to observe various religious festivals and occasions every year. The issuance of pilgrimage visas is part of the Pakistan government’s efforts for facilitating visits to religious shrines, the high commission said. “This also reflects the commitment of the government of Pakistan to faithfully implement the bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-issues-visas-to-over-1-100-indian-pilgrims-101617805227864.html
07-04-2021||World||AstraZeneca Covid vaccine possibly linked to rare blood clots: EU drug regulator||The EU’s drug regulator on Wednesday said that the reported cases of blood clotting should be listed as a possible side effect of AstraZeneca's vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). "One plausible explanation for the combination of blood clots and low blood platelets is an immune response, leading to a condition similar to one seen sometimes in patients treated with heparin," the European Medicines Agency (EMA) said.The findings come at a time when countries around the world are trying to intensify their vaccination drive amid a fresh wave of infections. However, the health agency reiterated that the benefits of AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine in preventing the disease outweigh the overall risk. It also didn't place any age restrictions on administering the vaccine in the younger population, as some countries have done.“The risk of mortality from Covid is much greater than the risk of mortality from these side effects,” Emer Cooke, the agency's executive director, told a press briefing.Also Read | AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine risk-benefit 'still largely positive': WHOSeveral European countries have temporarily suspended the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine amid concerns over the reports of blood clotting in vaccinated individuals. The Netherlands halted vaccination in people under the age of 60 as a "precautionary measure" following the death of a woman who had received an AstraZeneca shot. France, Germany, and Sweden are among the European nations restricting AstraZeneca use in younger people, while Denmark and Norway have completely paused its use. Last week, the UK’s medicine regulator confirmed the death of seven individuals from unusual blood clots after they were administered with AstraZeneca vaccine. At least 79 cases of blood clots were reported in Britain as of March 31, according to the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA), triggering fresh concerns over a possible link between cases of blood coagulation and the AstraZeneca vaccine. The UK’s drug regulator is set to address safety concerns surrounding AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine separately on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-covid-vaccine-possibly-linked-to-blood-clot-event-eu-drug-regulator-101617804772514.html
07-04-2021||World||UK to brief on AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine as safety concerns grow||The U.K.’s drug regulator will address safety concerns surrounding AstraZeneca Plc’s Covid-19 vaccine on Wednesday, as fears grow that the government’s inoculation targets will be put at risk.Representatives from the U.K.’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency and the government’s vaccine committee will speak at 3 p.m., at the same time as the European Medicines Agency holds its own press briefing.They will update on their investigations into potential links between the AstraZeneca vaccine, which was developed with Oxford University, and rare cases of brain blood clots in adults. On Tuesday, a trial of the Astra vaccine among children was paused to await the findings of the U.K. review.It comes as a vaccine by Moderna Inc. began to be rolled out in the U.K. for the first time, the third approved coronavirus shot alongside those from Astra and partners Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE. The U.K. has ordered 17 million doses of Moderna’s two-shot vaccine, enough for 8.5 million people.The success of the vaccine program is crucial to Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s ambition to fully reopen the U.K. economy on June 21. The U.K. has ordered 100 million doses of the Astra vaccine, and 40 million doses of Pfizer.TargetsConcerns are growing that a setback with the Astra shot could mean the U.K. misses its target to vaccinate all adults by the end of July, although the government insists it remains on track.The pound extended losses ahead of the briefing, hitting its weakest level against the euro in a month.U.K. ministers have repeatedly said the benefits of the vaccine in preventing coronavirus far outweigh any risks.‘No Proof’“There is no proof as yet that there is any causal links on the very, very rare occasions that there have been talks about blood clots,” Business Minister Paul Scully told Sky News on Wednesday. “The AstraZeneca vaccine is safe; it has saved thousands of lives.”But some scientists have urged caution while investigations are carried out. Maggie Wearmouth, a member of the U.K.’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization, suggested that “perhaps slowing things down” might be wise.Speaking in a personal capacity, she told the Daily Telegraph: “The issue is about safety and public confidence. We don’t want to cover anything up that we feel that the public should be knowing.”Adam Finn from the University of Bristol, also a member of the JCVI, said it was possible that Moderna or other vaccines could be reserved for younger groups in case Astra’s use was restricted.‘On Track’Vaccination centers and pharmacies are facing a “significant reduction” in supply of doses during April, meaning that older people waiting for second doses will be prioritized over younger people getting their first shot.The pace of the rollout across England is now estimated at an average of 2.7 million doses a week until the end of July -- “considerably slower” than a previous forecast of 3.2 million a week, according to a modeling paper from scientists on a government advisory committee.“There will be a slight reduction in April, but the key thing to remember is that that doesn’t mean that we’re not on track to meet our pledges,” said Johnson’s official spokesman Jamie Davies.The U.K. remains “on track” to offer a first dose to all over-50s by April 15, and to all adults by the end of July, he added.Johnson Faces Political Fight Over U.K. Covid Passports PlanThree in five adults in the U.K. have been vaccinated so far and the most recent government data shows that more than 31.6 million people have received a first dose, and 5.5 million have had a second dose.On a visit on Tuesday to an Astra manufacturing plant in Macclesfield, northwest England, Johnson urged people to keep getting their shots: “keep going out there, get your jab, get your second jab.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-to-brief-on-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-as-safety-concerns-grow-101617802762388.html
07-04-2021||World||US disbursed over 150 million stimulus payments in Biden relief plan||The Biden administration has officially distributed more than 150 million stimulus checks as of Wednesday from the $1.9 trillion coronavirus relief bill, one of the key benchmarks the president had hoped to hit during his first 100 days in office.The Treasury Department and the Internal Revenue Service have sent out roughly 156 million payments to people, totaling roughly $372 billion, according to the Treasury Department. The majority of these latest payments went to Social Security recipients and beneficiaries, providing a cash infusion more than a year into the pandemic.During the transition, Biden aides said the president’s chief goals for his first 100 days in office included distributing relief checks, re-opening schools and heightening the pace of vaccinations. On Tuesday, the White House announced it had surpassed its goal of delivering 150 million shots to Americans since he first took office. Originally, the White House had set a goal of delivering 100 million inoculations during the first 100 days.This is the fourth block of relief checks the federal government has sent since the president signed the American Rescue Plan, and this one includes 25 million payments for a total value of $36 billion.The largest group of recipients in this batch is Social Security beneficiaries who did not file tax returns in 2019 or 2020; this includes people who receive Social Security retirement, survivor or disability benefits. Other payments went to Americans on Supplemental Security Income and Railroad Retirement Board beneficiaries.The IRS sent the checks weeks after the agency first started to process payments for other Americans, a delay which annoyed Democrats on Capitol Hill.Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee have been urging the IRS to expedite the payments, arguing they unnecessary delays hurt vulnerable Americans. The delay in payments for about 30 million Social Security beneficiaries stemmed from the Social Security Administration not sending the IRS an updated list of eligible people until March 25, according to House Democrats.The majority of people who receive their payments -- 25 million of them -- will do so through direct deposit, whereas more than 1 million people will receive paper checks. The Treasury Department and IRS started to process the payments on Friday, April 2, for an official payment date of April 7.Veterans Affairs beneficiaries are to receive their payments on April 14.The IRS has an online tool for people to check the status of their payment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-disbursed-over-150-million-stimulus-payments-in-biden-relief-plan-101617798221615.html
07-04-2021||World||North Korea tells WHO it's still coronavirus-free||Isolated North Korea has continued to claim a perfect record in keeping out the coronavirus in its latest report to the World Health Organisation.At the beginning of the pandemic more than a year ago, North Korea described its efforts to keep out the virus as a “matter of national existence.”It shut its borders, banned tourists and jetted out diplomats. It still severely limits cross-border traffic and has quarantined tens of thousands of people who have shown symptoms.But it still says it has found no case of COVID-19, a widely doubted claim given its poor health infrastructure and a porous border with China, its economic lifeline.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn an email to The Associated Press on Wednesday, Edwin Salvador, WHO's representative to North Korea, said the North has reported it tested 23,121 people for the coronavirus from the beginning of the pandemic to April 1 and that all results were negative. Salvador said the North said 732 people were tested between March 26 and April 1.WHO officials say the North is no longer providing the UN agency with the number of people it quarantines with suspected symptoms.North Korea said Tuesday it would skip the Tokyo Olympics to protect athletes from the “world public health crisis caused by COVID-19.”The UN-backed programme to ship COVID-19 vaccines worldwide said in February that North Korea could receive 1.9 million vaccine doses in the first half of this year.However, COVAX has since warned of global shortages because the Serum Institute of India, which is licensed to produce the AstraZeneca vaccine, is putting its supplies into domestic demand while India's virus caseload is surging.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/north-korea-tells-who-it-s-still-coronavirusfree-101617797013060.html
07-04-2021||World||US military cites rising risk of Chinese move against Taiwan||The American military is warning that China is probably accelerating its timetable for capturing control of Taiwan, the island democracy that has been the chief source of tension between Washington and Beijing for decades and is widely seen as the most likely trigger for a potentially catastrophic U.S.-China war.The worry about Taiwan comes as China wields new strength from years of military buildup. It has become more aggressive with Taiwan and more assertive in sovereignty disputes in the South China Sea. Beijing also has become more confrontational with Washington; senior Chinese officials traded sharp and unusually public barbs with Secretary of State Antony Blinken in talks in Alaska last month.A military move against Taiwan, however, would be a test of U.S. support for the island that Beijing views as a breakaway province. For the Biden administration, it could present the choice of abandoning a friendly, democratic entity or risking what could become an all-out war over a cause that is not on the radar of most Americans. The United States has long pledged to help Taiwan defend itself, but it has deliberately left unclear how far it would go in response to a Chinese attack.This accumulation of concerns meshes with the administration’s view that China is a frontline challenge for the United States and that more must be done soon — militarily, diplomatically and by other means — to deter Beijing as it seeks to supplant the United States as the predominant power in Asia. Some American military leaders see Taiwan as potentially the most immediate flashpoint.“We have indications that the risks are actually going up," Adm. Philip Davidson, the most senior U.S. military commander in the Asia-Pacific region, told a Senate panel last month, referring to a Chinese military move on Taiwan.“The threat is manifest during this decade — in fact, in the next six years,” Davidson said.Days later, Davidson's expected successor, Adm. John Aquilino, declined to back up the six-year timeframe but told senators at his confirmation hearing: "My opinion is, this problem is much closer to us than most think.”Biden administration officials have spoken less pointedly but stress the intention to deepen ties with Taiwan, eliciting warnings from Beijing against outsider interference in what it considers a domestic matter.On Wednesday, Taiwanese Foreign Minister Joseph Wu said the military threat against his country is increasing, and while he said it was not yet “particularly alarming,” the Chinese military in the last couple of years has been conducting what he called “real combat-type” exercises closer to the island.“We are willing to defend ourselves, that’s without any question,” Wu told reporters. “We will fight a war if we need to fight a war, and if we need to defend ourselves to the very last day, then we will defend ourselves to the very last day.“Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin calls China the “pacing threat” for the United States, and the military services are adjusting accordingly. The Marine Corps, for example, is reshaping itself with China and Russia in mind after two decades of ground-focused combat against extremists in the Middle East.Hardly an aspect of China's military modernization has failed to rile the U.S. military. Adm. Charles Richard, who as head of U.S. Strategic Command is responsible for U.S. nuclear forces, wrote in a recent essay that China is on track to be a “strategic peer” of the United States. He said China's nuclear weapons stockpile is expected to double “if not triple or quadruple" in the next 10 years, although that goes beyond the Pentagon's official view that the stockpile will “at least double” in that period.Taiwan, however, is seen as the most pressing problem.U.S. officials have noted People’s Liberation Army actions that seem designed to rattle Taiwan. For example, Chinese aerial incursions, including flying around the island, are a near-daily occurrence, serving to advertise the threat, wear down Taiwanese pilots and aircraft and learn more about Taiwan’s capabilities.Chinese officials have scoffed at Davidson's Taiwan comments. A Ministry of Defense spokesman, Col. Ren Guoqiang, urged Washington to “abandon zero-peace thinking” and do more to build mutual trust and stability. He said that “attempts by outside forces to use Taiwan to seek to restrain China, or the use by Taiwan independence forces to use military means to achieve independence, are all dead ends.”The implications of a Chinese military move against Taiwan and its 23 million people are so profound and potentially grave that Beijing and Washington have long managed a fragile middle ground — Taiwanese political autonomy that precludes control by Beijing but stops short of formal independence.Predictions of when China might decide to try to compel Taiwan to reunite with the mainland have long varied, and there is no uniform view in the United States. Larry Diamond, a senior fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution, said last week he doubts Chinese leaders are ready to force the issue.“I don’t think it’s coming soon,” he said.The Trump administration made a series of moves to demonstrate a stronger commitment to Taiwan, including sending a Cabinet member to Taipei last year, making him the highest-level U.S. official to visit the island since formal diplomatic relations were severed in 1979 in deference to China. The Biden administration says it wants to cooperate with China where possible but has voiced its objections to a wide range of Chinese actions.Last week, the U.S. ambassador to the Pacific island nation of Palau, John Hennessey-Niland, became the first serving U.S. ambassador to visit Taiwan since Washington cut ties with Taipei in favor of Beijing.China is a frequent target of criticism in Congress. Concerns about countering its growing military might are reflected in passage of the Pacific Deterrence Initiative, funded at $2.2 billion for 2021. Davidson wants it to support, among other initiatives, establishing a better air defense system to protect the U.S. territory of Guam from Chinese missiles and preserving U.S. military dominance in the region.Rep. Adam Smith, a Washington Democrat and chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, is skeptical of the military's fixation on dominance.“Given the way the world works now, having one country be dominant is just hopelessly unrealistic,” he said in a recent online forum sponsored by Meridian, a nonpartisan diplomacy center. He said the U.S. military can maintain sufficient strength, in partnership with allies, to send the message: “China, don't invade Taiwan because the price you're going to pay for that isn't worth it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-military-cites-rising-risk-of-chinese-move-against-taiwan-101617795699110.html
07-04-2021||World||European Commission head taken aback as Erdogan and her colleague snap up the chairs||European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen was taken aback to find her fellow top EU official taking the only chair available next to Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan when the duo visited Ankara, and her spokesman made that clear on Wednesday.Footage from their meeting on Tuesday showed the first female head of the EU executive, the only woman in the talks, gesturing in disbelief and uttering a surprised sigh as Erdogan and European Council President Charles Michel took the two centre-stage seats prepared, relegating her to an adjacent sofa."The president of the Commission was clearly surprised," said the EU executive arm's spokesman, Eric Mamer."The president (von der Leyen) should have been seated in exactly the same manner as the president of the European Council and the Turkish president."The Turkish government did not immediately respond to a request for comment.However, a member of the European parliament, Sophie in 't Veld, asked why Michel had not reacted.While the Commission conveyed von der Leyen's irritation, an EU official who declined to be named said that to do so might have provoked a "protocol and political incident, both towards Turkey and the European Council"."Turkey meant no disrespect," the official said. "It extended a very courteous welcome to both presidents and strictly adhered to international protocol."In the past, three chairs were provided when the Turkish leader visited Brussels for talks with the heads of the Commission and the European Council, which collectively represents the bloc's 27 member states.Mamer said von der Leyen decided not to make "an issue out of it" and in the conversation brought up women's rights and the Istanbul Convention on violence against women, from which Turkey withdrew last month.Ties between Brussels and Ankara have been strained since a coup attempt in 2016 prompted a crackdown on civil rights in Turkey, but they are now testing a cautious rapprochement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/european-commission-head-ursula-von-der-leyen-taken-aback-as-erdogan-and-her-colleague-snap-up-the-chairs-101617794901289.html
07-04-2021||World||Iranian ship said to be Revolutionary Guard base in Red Sea off Yemen attacked||An Iranian ship believed to be a base for the paramilitary Revolutionary Guard and anchored for years in the Red Sea off Yemen has been attacked, Tehran acknowledged Wednesday.Iran's Foreign Ministry confirmed the attack on the MV Saviz, suspected to have been carried out by Israel — though Tehran did not immediately blamed its regional archenemy. The assault came as Iran and world powers sat down in Vienna for the first talks about the U.S. potentially rejoining the tattered deal aimed at curbing Iran’s nuclear program, showing events outside the negotiations could derail those efforts.The ship's long presence in the region, repeatedly criticized by Saudi Arabia, has come as the West and United Nations experts say Iran has provided arms and support to Yemen's Houthi rebels in that country's yearslong war. Iran denies arming the Houthis, though components found in the rebels' weaponry link back to Tehran.Iran previously described the Saviz as aiding in “anti-piracy” efforts in the Red Sea and the Bab el-Mandeb strait, a crucial chokepoint in international shipping. A statement attributed to Foreign Ministry spokesman Saeed Khatibzadeh described the ship as a commercial vessel.“Fortunately, no casualties were reported ... and technical investigations are underway," Khatibzadeh said. "Our country will take all necessary measures through international authorities.”In an earlier state TV statement, an anchor cited a New York Times story, which quoted an anonymous U.S. official telling the newspaper that Israel informed America it carried out an attack Tuesday morning on the vessel. Israeli officials declined to comment about the assault when reached by The Associated Press, as did the Saviz's owner.Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz, while refusing to say if his country launched the attack, described Iran and its regional allies as a major threat.“Israel must continue to defend itself,” Gantz told journalists. “Any place we find an operational challenge and necessity, we will continue to act.”Iranian President Hassan Rouhani called the Vienna talks a “success” while speaking to his Cabinet on Wednesday.“Today, one united statement is being heard that all sides of the nuclear deal have concluded that there is no better solution than the deal,” he said.Iran's semiofficial Tasnim news agency, believed to be close to the Guard, reported that a limpet mine planted on Saviz's hull caused the blast. A limpet mine is a type of naval mine that is attached to the side of a ship, usually by a diver. It later explodes, and can significantly damage a vessel. Iran did not blame anyone for the attack and said Iranian officials likely would offer more information in the coming days.In a statement, the U.S. military’s Central Command only said it was “aware of media reporting of an incident involving the Saviz in the Red Sea.”“We can confirm that no U.S. forces were involved in the incident,” the command said. “We have no additional information to provide.”The Saviz, owned by the state-linked Islamic Republic of Iran Shipping Lines, came to the Red Sea in late 2016, according to ship-tracking data. In the years since, it has drifted off the Dahlak archipelago, a chain of islands off the coast of the African nation of Eritrea. It likely received supply replenishments and switched crew via passing Iranian vessels using the waterway.Briefing materials from the Saudi military earlier obtained by the AP showed men on the vessel dressed in military-style fatigues, as well as small boats capable of ferrying cargo to the Yemeni coast. Those materials also included pictures showing a variety of antennas on the vessel that the Saudi government described as unusual for a commercial cargo ship, suggesting it conducted electronic surveillance. Other images showed the ship had mounts for .50-caliber machine guns.The Washington Institute for Near-East Policy has called the Saviz an “Iranian mothership” in the region, similarly describing it as an intelligence-gathering base and an armory for the Guard. Policy papers from the institute don't explain how they came to that conclusion, though its analysts routinely have access to Gulf and Israeli military sources.The Saviz had been under international sanctions until Iran's 2015 nuclear deal with world powers, which saw Tehran receive relief from sanctions in exchange for limiting its enrichment of uranium. The Trump administration later renewed American sanctions on the Saviz as part of its decision to unilaterally withdraw from the accord.In June 2019, Saudi Arabia flew a critically ill Iranian off the Saviz after Tehran made a request through the United Nations for assistance.Amid the wider tensions between the U.S. and Iran, a series of mysterious blasts have targeted ships in the region, including some the U.S. Navy blamed on Iran. Among the ships damaged recently was an Israeli-owned car carrier in an attack Netanyahu blamed on Iran. Another was an Iranian cargo ship in the Mediterranean Sea.Iran also has blamed Israel for a recent series of attacks, including a mysterious explosion in July that destroyed an advanced centrifuge assembly plant at its Natanz nuclear facility. Another is the November killing of Mohsen Fakhrizadeh, a top Iranian scientist who founded the Islamic Republic’s military nuclear program two decades ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iranian-ship-said-to-be-revolutionary-guard-base-in-red-sea-off-yemen-attacked-101617794061344.html
07-04-2021||World||May shoot down Chinese drones in South China Sea: Taiwan||Taiwan has spotted Chinese drones circling the Taipei-controlled Pratas Islands in the South China Sea and may shoot them down if they stray too close, a government minister said on Wednesday, a move that could dramatically increase tensions with Beijing.Speaking at parliament, Lee Chung-wei, who heads the Ocean Affairs Council under whose purview the Coast Guard falls, said that they had recently spotted Chinese drones circling the Pratas, though they have not flown over the islands."They have never entered our restricted waters and airspace, they've just flown around them at a certain distance," Lee said.While China recognises no Taiwanese claims of sovereignty, its aircraft and ships generally stay outside Taiwan's restricted zone, which extends 6 km from its coast.Asked how the Coast Guard would react if a Chinese drone entered that restricted zone, Lee said they had rules of engagement."After it enters it will be handled under the rules. If we need to open fire, we open fire."The Pratas lie at the top end of the disputed waterway, and have become a relatively new source of intrigue between Chinese-claimed Taiwan and Beijing.In recent months Taiwan has complained of repeated Chinese air force activity near the islands, which Taiwan's Coast Guard only lightly defends though there are periodic deployments of marines. There is no permanent civilian population, only occasional visiting scientists.In October, Hong Kong air traffic controllers warned off a Taiwanese civilian flight flying to the Pratas on a routine weekly supply run, forcing it to turn back.The Pratas, the closest Taiwan-controlled territory to Hong Kong, have also taken on extra significance since anti-government protests began in the Chinese-run city.Taiwan has intercepted at least one boat close to the Pratas carrying people fleeing from Hong Kong trying to make their way to Taiwan.Taiwan's other main South China Sea island is Itu Aba, also known as Taiping Island, which is part of the Spratly archipelago.Lee said they have not spotted Chinese drones there.Apart from China and Taiwan, Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines and Vietnam also have competing claims for islands and features in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/may-shoot-down-chinese-drones-in-south-china-sea-taiwan-101617793697324.html
07-04-2021||World||China’s new way to support Xinjiang ‘forced labour’ cotton: Blur out Western brand logos||Amid a huge backlash in China against Western fashion brands over Xinjiang cotton row, Chinese TV stations have found a new way to show support for the controversial way to produce cotton - blurring out Western brand logos in their programmes. According to a BBC report, the post-production editors of various shows are now censoring everything from T-shirts to shoes, leading to delay in some broadcasts.Last month, China launched a PR war on Western brands, including H&M, Nike and Adidas, that were critical of human rights abuses against Uyghurs and other minorities in the Xinjiang region. The controversy kicked off after a due diligence report of H&M, released in October 2020, was recently translated and circulated on the Chinese microblogging platform Weibo.In the report, the Swedish clothing company had referred to the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI)’s statement on cotton from Xinjiang. BCI, a non-profit group promoting sustainable cotton production, had announced the suspension of its activities, citing "increasing risks" of forced labour. H&M maintains on its website that it neither works with any garment manufacturing factories located in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region (XUAR) nor sources products from the region, one of the world's top cotton-producing areas.Also Read | A statement by Nike, H&M on Uighurs. One year later, a backlash by BeijingThe stance of Western fashion retailers over rights abuses in Xinjiang triggered massive outrage on social media. Chinese celebrities jumped on the bandwagon and severed ties with Western brands to express support for Xinjiang cotton. China’s foreign ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying told reporters at a regular briefing that Chinese people won’t allow “foreigners to eat China's rice while smashing its bowls.”Blurring out brand logos on television programmes is the latest way to show support for Xinjiang cotton which, according to BBC, has led to “unintentionally funny results.” In episodes of the show ‘Sisters Who Make Waves’, the blurred out shoes of actors and singers give an impression as if they are floating on clouds.Contestants of a reality show Chuang 2021 had worn clothes with Western logos from head to toe, eventually leaving no option for post-production editors other than blurring out entire bodies.Several leaked documents from China have revealed Beijing’s brutal and systematic crackdown on Uyghurs in which the officials have termed the action as a “struggle against terrorism, infiltration and separatism”. China has denied all of these allegations, claiming it has just taken these measures to lift Uighurs out of poverty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-new-way-to-support-xinjiang-cotton-blur-out-western-brand-logos-101617791786459.html
07-04-2021||World||China condemns 2 ex-Xinjiang officials on separatism charges||China has sentenced a former education official and a former legal official in the northwestern region of Xinjiang to death with a two-year reprieve on charges including separatism and bribe taking.Sattar Sawut and Shirzat Bawudun are the latest of many Xinjiang bureaucrats, almost all members of the Muslim Turkic Uyghur minority group, to be sentenced on national security charges in what China calls a campaign against “two-faced officials” who are seeking to undermine Chinese rule from within the system.Such sentences are usually commuted to life in prison after two years with good behavior. Both men pleaded guilty and neither would file an appeal, said Wang Langtao, vice president of Xinjiang's regional higher people's court.National security cases are heard behind behind closed doors and it wasn't exactly clear when the men had been tried or when their sentences had been handed down. Sattar Sawut was detained in 2018. It was clear when Shirzat Bawudun had been held.The court on Tuesday said Sattar Sawut, the the former head of the regional education department, “incorporated ethnic separatism, violence, terrorism, and religious extremism content into minority-language textbooks.”“Sattar Sawut took advantage of compiling and publishing ethnic language textbooks for primary and secondary schools to split the country, starting in 2002.He instructed others to pick several people with separatist thoughts to join the textbook compilation team, the court found," the official Xinhua News Agency said, citing comments by Wang at a news conference.Wang said Shirzat Bawudun, the former head of the Xinjiang regional justice department, was convicted of “splitting the country" for having colluded with the East Turkistan Islamic Movement and having “offered help to separatists and religious extremists, and collaborated with overseas separatist forces."The ETIM is listed as a terrorist group by the United Nations, although many experts question whether it exists in operational form.Shirzat Bawudun met with ETIM representatives and encouraged others to join the group, Wang said. He also “carried out illegal religious activities at his daughter's wedding" and accepted bribes totaling 11.12 million yuan (USD 1.7 million), Wang said.Following terror attacks that killed thousands, China launched a sweeping security campaign in Xinjiang, detaining more than 1 million Uyghurs, Kazakhs and members of other minority Muslim groups in prison-like reeducation centers where they are told to denounce Islam and traditional culture, learn Mandarin Chinese and swear fealty to the ruling Communist Party and its leader, Xi Jinping.That crackdown has been accompanied by the arrests of leading Uyghur academics and other public figures, mostly on charges of separatism.China denies any abuses, saying the centers were aimed at teaching job skills and deradicalizing those influenced by anti-Chinese jihadi teachings. It says its policies have prevented any new terrorist attacks taking place for more than four years.Beijing has also vociferously attacked claims of forced labor in factories and cotton fields and encouraged an unofficial public boycott of foreign companies that have spoken out on the matter.It calls US sanctions against officials associated with persecution in Xinjiang a former of political persecution that will have no effect on government policy.The court said textbooks approved by Sattar Sawut were used for 13 years, bringing “grave consequences." It said the 2003 and 2009 editions of the textbooks contained 84 passages preaching ethnic separatism, violence, terrorism and religious extremism and that several people were inspired by the books to participate in a bloody anti-government riot in the regional capital Urumqi in 2009.Others, the court said, became inspired to become “key members of a separatist group headed by former college teacher Ilham Tohti," a Uyghur economist serving a life sentence on a separatism charge since 2014.Sattar Sawut also abused his official positions to accept bribes worth 15.05 million yuan (USD 2.3 million), the court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-condemns-2-ex-xinjiang-officials-on-separatism-charges-101617788850535.html
07-04-2021||World||Taiwan will fight ''to the very last day'' if China attacks||Taiwan's foreign minister on Wednesday said the island will defend itself “to the very last day” if attacked by China.Joseph Wu said China's attempts at conciliation while engaging in military intimidation are sending “mixed signals” to the island's residents.China claims Taiwan as its own territory to be won over peacefully or by force.Wu noted China flew 10 warplanes into Taiwan's air defense identification zone on Monday and deployed an aircraft carrier group for exercises near Taiwan.“We are willing to defend ourselves, that's without any question," Wu told reporters. “We fill fight a war if we need to fight a war, and if we need to defend ourselves to the very last day, then we will defend ourselves to the very last day.“China does not recognize Taiwan's democratically elected government, and leader Xi Jinping has said “unification” between the sides cannot be put off indefinitely.“On the one hand they want to charm the Taiwanese people by sending their condolences, but at the same time they are also sending their military aircraft and military vessels closer to Taiwan aimed at intimidating Taiwan's people," Wu said at a ministry briefing.“The Chinese are sending very mixed signals to the Taiwanese people and I would characterize that as self-defeating," Wu said.The vast improvements in China's military capabilities and its increasing activity around Taiwan have raised concerns in the U.S., which is legally bound to ensure Taiwan is capable of defending itself and to regard all threats to the island's security as matters of “grave concern."China's military said Monday the new naval drills were meant to help it "safeguard national sovereignty, security and development interests,” terms often interpreted as being directed at Taiwan's leadership that has refused to give in to Beijing's demands that it recognize the island as part of Chinese territory.Taiwan and China split amid civil war in 1949, and most Taiwanese favor maintaining the current state of de facto independence while engaging in robust economic exchanges with the mainland.China has also created conditions for greater economic integration, while also targeting some communities such as pineapple farmers in hopes of weakening their support for the island's government.Chinese diplomatic pressure has been growing also, reducing the number of Taiwan's formal diplomatic allies to just 15 and shutting its representatives out of the World Health Assembly and other major international forums.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/taiwan-will-fight-to-the-very-last-day-if-china-attacks-101617791272259.html
07-04-2021||World||Former Italian PM Berlusconi in hospital since Tuesday: Report||Former Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi has been in hospital since Tuesday afternoon for check-ups, two sources from his Forza Italia party said on Wednesday.One of the sources said the 84-year-old media tycoon went to the San Raffaele hospital in Milan for follow-up tests after contracting the new coronavirus in September last year.This is the second time in just a few weeks that Berlusconi finds himself in hospital after another routine check-up at the end of March. Forza Italia said at the time he had been admitted for clinical monitoring and adjustment to an ongoing therapy.Berlusconi, who underwent major heart surgery in 2016 and has also survived prostate cancer, was also admitted to hospital in January this year because of heart problems.Shares in Mediaset, the broadcaster controlled by the Berlusconi family, were up 0.8% by 0930 GMT, compared with a flat Milan blue-chip index.Traders had previously cited speculation about potential ownership changes at the group if Berlusconi's condition worsened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-italian-pm-berlusconi-in-hospital-since-tuesday-report-101617790900192.html
07-04-2021||World||EU agency to share results of probe into AstraZeneca Covid-19 shot||The European Union's medicines regulator will announce the conclusions of its investigation into the possible connection between AstraZeneca's coronavirus vaccine and rare blood clots later Wednesday.Earlier this week, a senior official from the European Medicines Agency, or EMA, said there was a causal link between the AstraZeneca vaccine and the rare blood clots that have been seen in dozens of people worldwide, among the tens of millions who have received at least one dose.Marco Cavaleri, head of health threats and vaccine strategy at the Amsterdam-based agency, said in comments to Rome’s Il Messaggero newspaper on Tuesday that “it is becoming more and more difficult to affirm that there isn’t a cause-and-effect relationship between AstraZeneca vaccines and the very rare cases of blood clots associated with a low level of platelets.”But Cavaleri acknowledged the agency hadn't yet figured out how exactly the vaccine might be causing these rare side effects. The agency said its evaluation “has not yet reached a conclusion and the review is currently ongoing.”The EMA, World Health Organization and numerous other health authorities have said repeatedly that the AstraZeneca vaccine is safe and effective and that the protection it offers against Covid-19 outweighs the small risks of rare blood clots.Last week, the EU medicines regulator said “there is no evidence that would support restricting the use of this vaccine in any population,” though an expert said more brain clots were being reported than would be expected, and it would continue to assess incoming data.In March, more than a dozen countries, including Germany, suspended their use of AstraZeneca over the blood clot issue. Most restarted — some with age restrictions — after the European Medicines Agency said countries should continue using the potentially life-saving vaccine.But the frequently changing advice in some countries on who can take the vaccine has raised concerns that AstraZeneca's credibility could be permanently damaged, spurring more vaccine hesitancy and prolonging the pandemic.In Britain, which has given out more doses of AstraZeneca vaccine than any other country, the medicines regulator reported there were 22 reports of rare brain and other clots, including people who had a low blood platelet level, among more than 18 million who got at least one dose.Any further doubts about the AstraZeneca vaccine would be a setback for the shot, which is critical to Europe’s immunization campaign and a linchpin in the global strategy to get vaccines to poorer countries.The AstraZeneca vaccine is cheaper and easier to use than rival vaccines from Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna and has been endorsed for use in more than 50 countries, including by the 27-nation EU and WHO. US authorities are still evaluating the vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-agency-to-share-results-of-probe-into-astrazeneca-covid-19-shot-101617789325607.html
07-04-2021||World||Leaders of Russia and China tighten their grips, grow closer||They're not leaders for life — not technically, at least. But in political reality, the powerful tenures of China's Xi Jinping and, as of this week, Russia's Vladimir Putin are looking as if they will extend much deeper into the 21st century — even as the two superpowers whose destinies they steer gather more clout with each passing year.What's more, as they consolidate political control at home, sometimes with harsh measures, they're working together more substantively than ever in a growing challenge to the West and the world's other superpower, the United States, which elects its leader every four years.This week, Putin signed a law allowing him to potentially hold onto power until 2036. The 68-year-old Russian president, who has been in power for more than two decades — longer than any other Kremlin leader since Soviet dictator Josef Stalin — pushed through a constitutional vote last year allowing him to run again in 2024 when his current six-year term ends. He has overseen a systematic crackdown on dissent.In China, Xi, who came to power in 2012, has imposed even tighter controls on the already repressive political scene, emerging as one of his nation's most powerful leaders in the seven decades of Communist Party rule that began with Mao Zedong's often-brutal regime.Under Xi, the government has rounded up, imprisoned or silenced intellectuals, legal activists and other voices, cracked down on Hong Kong's opposition and used security forces to suppress calls for minority rights in Xinjiang, Tibet and Inner Mongolia.Xi has sidelined rivals, locked up critics and tightened the party's control over information. An ongoing crackdown against corruption has won popular support while also keeping potential competitors in line.His steady consolidation of power led to the removal of term limits on the Chinese presidency in 2018, demolishing a convention the party had established to prevent a repeat of the abuse produced by Mao's one-person rule.Xi further telegraphed his intention to remain in power by breaking from tradition and not indicating a preferred successor.One who appeared eager to take on the role, Sun Zhengcai, was brought down in 2017 and sentenced to life in prison on corruption charges.And in Russia, Putin's most outspoken critic, Alexei Navalny, was arrested in January upon his return from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from a nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin — an accusation Russian authorities have denied. In February, Navalny was sentenced to 2½ years in prison.In defying the West, Putin and Xi both have tapped nationalist feelings. Russia's 2014 annexation of Ukraine's Crimea propelled Putin's approval ratings to nearly 90 per cent before they slackened amid economic woes and unpopular pensions reform.But the impact of Putin's and Xi's enduring retention of power hardly ends at their respective nations' borders. It ripples outward into the geopolitical balance of power in countless ways.As Moscow's relations with the West sank to post-Cold War lows amid accusations of election meddling and hacking attacks, Putin has increasingly sought to strengthen ties with China.And while China so far has avoided a showdown with the West like Russia's, it is coming under growing pressure from Washington and its allies over Beijing's human rights record in Xinjiang, Hong Kong and the South China Sea.U.S. President Joe Biden has taken an increasingly tough line with both leaders, recently describing Putin as a “killer” and having his top national security aides excoriate China for a litany of issues.Such approaches suggest that Moscow and Beijing will have incentives to build an even stronger alliance.Like their nations, the two leaders themselves have fostered a closer relationship, too.Putin and Xi have developed strong personal ties to bolster a “strategic partnership” between the two former Communist rivals as they vie with the West for influence.And even though Moscow and Beijing in the past rejected the possibility of forging a military alliance, Putin said last fall that such a prospect can't be ruled out entirely.While both Putin and Xi each appear to be firmly entrenched, numerous challenges persist. The pandemic, for one, posed a major challenge for both rulers, and they took a similarly cautious approach when it struck.Putin responded last spring by introducing a sweeping six-week lockdown that severely hurt the already weak Russian economy. His approval rating plummeted to a historic low of 59%. Later, the government eased restrictions and steered clear from new lockdowns, helping reduce economic damage and shore up Putin's ratings.Xi remained out of the public eye in the first uncertain weeks, possibly fearing that any misstep could have given rivals a chance to topple him. In the end, China controlled the pandemic better than many other places, enhancing Xi's position as leader.Xi must also figure out how to satisfy ambitious young politicians who may see their careers being stymied by his lengthy tenure. And he has to demonstrate that his extended rule will not lead to the excesses of the Mao years, especially the disastrous and deeply traumatic 1966-76 Cultural Revolution.“Xi has to manage an essential paradox. He venerates Mao and is building the same cult of personality and centrality of the party,” said Daniel Blumenthal, director of Asian Studies at the American Enterprise Institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/leaders-of-russia-and-china-tighten-their-grips-grow-closer-101617789326051.html
07-04-2021||World||Dubai orders deportations for naked balcony photo shoot||Dubai will deport a group of people involved in a naked photo shoot on a high-rise balcony in the emirate, authorities said after criticising the incident as out of line with the values of the United Arab Emirates.The group of naked women posing for a photographer last week along a balcony railing in the upscale Dubai Marina area was visible from neighouring buildings. Images of the shoot circulated on social media."The individuals involved will be deported from the United Arab Emirates. No further comment shall be made on the matter," Dubai's Attorney General Essam Issa Al Humaidan said in a statement published by Dubai Media Office on Tuesday.The statement did not provide details on the nationalities of those involved.Dubai Police had on Saturday announced the arrest of those involved and warned against "such unacceptable behaviours which do not reflect the values and ethics of Emirati society".The emirate of Dubai is a regional business and tourism hub where foreign residents and visitors - drawn to its sun-drenched beaches, luxury lifestyles and business environment - vastly outnumber Emirati nationals.Foreigners have in the past fallen foul of laws in the UAE, a federation of seven Muslim emirates, on indecency and alcohol consumption, such as for kissing in public.The UAE in November amended a number of laws on issues such as cohabitation, alcohol and divorce, in a liberalising move seen as a push to make the country more attractive to foreign investment and tourism.However laws against immoral and debauched acts remain in the Federal Penal Code. Dubai Police also said the UAE has laws against sharing pornographic or other material that may prejudice public morals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dubai-orders-deportations-for-naked-balcony-photo-shoot-101617786555318.html
07-04-2021||World||Workers clear last train from deadly crash site in Taiwan||Cabin exposed, with half of its walls and roof gone, workers pulled out the last remaining train car in Taiwan's worst rail accident in seven decades.The crash site on the island's east coast was cleared, barring one car that was moved to the side of the tunnel where the train hit a construction truck that had fallen onto the track. Fifty people died and over 200 were injured in the crash on Friday.The driver of the truck, Lee Yi-hsiang, who is also the manager of the construction site above the tracks, has been detained on charges of causing death by negligence. He has apologised for the accident and promised to cooperate with investigators.While an initial report from transport safety officials said the brakes on the truck were not engaged, prosecutors declined to say what caused the vehicle to fall down the slope.Taiwan's Minister for Transportation and Communications Lin Chia-lung said Wednesday that he had offered his formal resignation to the island's president and premier.“I want to again express my deepest apologies to all the victims and their family and I will also take the political responsibility after completing all the relief work,” he said at a hearing by members of the transportation committee of the Legislative Assembly. “I will face it fully and meet it bravely.”The meeting started off with a moment of silence for the victims but quickly turned acrimonious when a group of opposition Nationalist Party politicians held up signs calling for the resignation of the minister and Premier Su Tseng-chang, shouting, “The government is a killer and must step down.”Members of the committee took turns to raise questions about the crash and rescue. One lawmaker asked Lin why certain safety improvements had not been completed since the last major train crash in 2018, which killed at least 18 people. Among those was an automatic system that would check on the condition of slopes by the railway tracks.They also raised concern over the slow reform of the indebted Taiwan Railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/workers-clear-last-train-from-deadly-crash-site-in-taiwan-101617785583419.html
07-04-2021||World||A third of Covid-19 survivors suffer neurological, mental disorders: Study||One in three Covid-19 survivors in a study of more than 230,000 mostly American patients were diagnosed with a brain or psychiatric disorder within six months, suggesting the pandemic could lead to a wave of mental and neurological problems, scientists said on Tuesday.Researchers who conducted the analysis said it was not clear how the virus was linked to psychiatric conditions such as anxiety and depression, but that these were the most common diagnoses among the 14 disorders they looked at.Post-Covid cases of stroke, dementia and other neurological disorders were rarer, the researchers said, but were still significant, especially in those who had severe Covid-19."Although the individual risks for most disorders are small, the effect across the whole population may be substantial," said Paul Harrison, a professor of psychiatry at Oxford University who co-led the work.Max Taquet, also an Oxford psychiatrist who worked with Harrison, noted that the study was not able to examine the biological or psychological mechanisms involved, but said urgent research is needed to identify these "with a view to preventing or treating them".Health experts are increasingly concerned by evidence of higher risks of brain and mental health disorders among Covid-19 survivors. A previous study by the same researchers found last year that 20% of COVID-19 survivors were diagnosed with a psychiatric disorder within three months.The new findings, published in the Lancet Psychiatry journal, analysed health records of 236,379 Covid-19 patients, mostly from the United States, and found 34% had been diagnosed with neurological or psychiatric illnesses within six months.The disorders were significantly more common in Covid-19 patients than in comparison groups of people who recovered from flu or other respiratory infections over the same time period, the scientists said, suggesting Covid-19 had a specific impact.Anxiety, at 17%, and mood disorders, at 14%, were the most common, and did not appear to be related to how mild or severe the patient's Covid-19 infection had been.Among those who had been admitted to intensive care with severe Covid-19 however, 7% had a stroke within six months, and almost 2% were diagnosed with dementia.Independent experts said the findings were worrying."This is a very important paper. It confirms beyond any reasonable doubt that Covid-19 affects both brain and mind in equal measure," said Simon Wessely, chair of psychiatry at King's College London."The impact Covid-19 is having on individuals' mental health can be severe," said Lea Milligan, chief executive of the MQ Mental Health research charity. "This is contributing to the already rising levels of mental illness and requires further, urgent research."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-third-of-covid-19-survivors-suffer-neurological-mental-disorders-study-101617785119257.html
07-04-2021||World||Google AI scientist Bengio resigns after colleagues' firings||Google research manager Samy Bengio said on Tuesday he was resigning, according to an internal email seen by Reuters, in a blow to the Alphabet Inc unit after the firings of his colleagues who questioned paper review and diversity practices.Though at least two Google engineers had earlier resigned to protest the dismissal of artificial intelligence (AI) researcher Timnit Gebru, Bengio is the highest-profile employee yet to depart.Google confirmed Bengio's resignation and his email. Bengio did not respond to requests for comment. Bloomberg earlier reported the news.A distinguished scientist at Google, Bengio spent about 14 years at the company and was among its first employees involved in a decade-old project known as Google Brain that advanced algorithms crucial to the functioning of various modern AI systems.Andrew Ng, an early Brain member who now runs software startup Landing AI, said Bengio "has been instrumental to moving forward AI technology and ethics." Another founding member, Jeff Dean, now oversees Google's thousands of researchers.Google Brain researcher Sara Hooker in a tweet described Bengio's departure as "a huge loss for Google."In the internal email Bengio had sent, he said he decided to leave Google to pursue "other exciting opportunities" and that his last day would be April 28.Google fired staff scientist Margaret Mitchell in February after alleging she transferred electronic files out of the company. It fired fellow researcher Gebru in December after she threatened to quit rather than retract a paper.Mitchell has said she tried "to raise concerns about race and gender inequity, and speak up about Google's problematic firing of Dr. Gebru." Gebru has said the company wanted to suppress her criticism of its products and its efforts to increase workforce diversity. Google has said it accepted her offer to resign.Bengio had defended the pair, who co-led a team of about a dozen people researching ethical issues related to AI software. In December, Bengio wrote on Facebook that he was stunned that Gebru, whom he was managing, was removed from the company without him being consulted.Though he did not mention the firings in his farewell note, they influenced his decision to resign, people familiar with the matter said, speaking on condition of anonymity.Bengio wrote in the email, "I learned so much with all of you, in terms of machine learning research of course, but also on how difficult yet important it is to organize a large team of researchers so as to promote long term ambitious research, exploration, rigor, diversity and inclusion."Nicolas Le Roux, a Google Brain researcher, told Reuters that Bengio had devoted himself to making the research organization more inclusive and "created a space where everyone felt welcome."Google recently moved oversight of the AI ethics team from Bengio to vice president Marian Croak. In February, Croak told staff at a town hall that Google wanted management that could focus fully on that area, saying it had just been a small part of what Bengio was supporting.Google also pledged several changes at the town hall aiming to regain researchers' trust, Reuters previously reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/google-ai-scientist-bengio-resigns-after-colleagues-firings-101617785104258.html
07-04-2021||World||Prince Harry, wife Meghan's first Netflix project to focus on Invictus Games||Britain's Prince Harry and his wife Meghan will produce their first Netflix Inc series that will focus on athletes competing in the Invictus Games for injured veterans in The Hague in 2022.Harry will appear on camera in the documentary series called "Heart of Invictus" and serve as an executive producer through the couple's Archewell Productions, Netflix said in a statement on Tuesday.The series will provide behind-the-scenes stories of athletes and organizers as they prepare for the event, which has been delayed until next spring due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Netflix said.Orlando von Einsiedel will direct the multi-episode series and Joanna Natasegara will be its producer, Netflix said. The duo produced the Oscar-winning short documentary "The White Helmets" about a rescue group in Syria.The Invictus Games is a multi-sport event created in 2017 by Prince Harry - who served as a soldier in Afghanistan - for military personnel wounded in action.The couple, who has been in the news following an interview with U.S. chat show host Oprah Winfrey last month, signed a multi-year production deal with Netflix in September. Harry and Meghan now live in Southern California after making a final split with the British royal family.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-harry-wife-meghan-s-first-netflix-project-to-focus-on-invictus-games-101617779193269.html
07-04-2021||World||Florida evacuations order lifted as danger from leaky wastewater reservoir fades||Evacuation orders were lifted on Tuesday for hundreds of residents near Tampa Bay in Florida as crews relieved pressure on the containment wall surrounding a leaky wastewater reservoir, reducing the threat of a toxic flash flood.Residents and local businesses were permitted to return after data from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers showed a diminished risk of a catastrophic collapse at the site of the former Piney Point phosphate plant.The Army Corps and local public safety crews have worked around the clock for days pumping hundreds of millions of gallons of water out of the reservoir to ease pressure on its weakened containment wall.The crisis began last Thursday when officials discovered leaks in the structure, lined with tall stacks of phosphogypsum waste, an industrial byproduct from fertilizer manufacturing known to emit radon, a cancer-causing radioactive gas.State environmental officials have said tests of water seeping from the reservoir showed it was not radioactive.But local authorities nevertheless said they feared that an all-out, uncontrolled breach of the wall could unleash a 20-foot torrent of untreated wastewater into the surrounding area, and they ordered a mandatory evacuation of more than 300 nearby homes as a precaution over the weekend. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis declared a local state of emergency on Saturday."We're now ending our fifth day since learning of a breach at the site, and I am in awe over the state, federal and local cooperation to ensure the safety of our residents," Manatee County Commission Chairman Vanessa Baugh said in a statement announcing the lifting of the evacuation.While the pumping operation eased the threat to homes and businesses adjacent to the reservoir, the wastewater drainage was being routed into a nearby Gulf Coast seaport, posing environmental concerns there.Ed Sherwood, executive director of the Tampa Bay Estuary Program, said pumping the nutrient-dense discharge into Port Manatee at the mouth of Tampa Bay could spawn algal blooms toxic to marine life in the estuary.(Reporting by Steve Gorman in Los Angeles; Editing by Kenneth Maxwell)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/florida-evacuations-order-lifted-as-danger-from-leaky-wastewater-reservoir-fades-101617762777623.html
07-04-2021||World||A timeline of Australia's Covid-19 vaccine plan mired in European back-and-forth||Australia said on Wednesday the European Union asked it to withdraw export permit applications for exports of AstraZeneca's COVID-19 vaccine, and its denial that it blocked shipments were simply "semantics".The dispute emphasises the challenge facing European nations to vaccinate their populations and the impact on any vaccine export restrictions on countries that had pre-ordered doses.Here's a timeline of how the shipment of 3.1 million doses of AstraZeneca's vaccine from Europe to Australia has stalled.SEPTEMBER 2020:Australia orders 3.8 million doses of Europe-manufactured COVID-19 vaccine being trialled by Oxford University and AstraZeneca Plc for early 2021 delivery that is to underpin the early stages of Australia's inoculation programme, now running behind schedule.Australia bankrolls biopharma CSL Ltd to make another 30 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine domestically, later increased to 50 million.NOVEMBER 2020:Australia also orders 10 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine being developed by Pfizer and BioNTech.JANUARY 2021:European Union grants conditional approval for AstraZeneca vaccine.Australia grants Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine approval. Prime Minister Scott Morrison says he plans to have 4 million of the country's 25 million population vaccinated by the end of March.EU introduces export controls over vaccine, citing supply shortage.AstraZeneca says only 1.2 million offshore-manufactured vaccine doses can be delivered to Australia by end-March, due to export controls.FEBRUARY 2021:First Pfizer vaccines arrive in the country; first inoculations take place.Australian health authorities approve AstraZeneca vaccine.Australia receives first shipment of the AstraZeneca vaccine from Europe, with 300,000 doses.AstraZeneca applies to the EU for export licence to ship another 500,000 doses, which are being made in Italy, to Australia, according to Morrison.EU tells AstraZeneca to re-submit application for just 250,000 doses. Australia agrees to a temporary reduction, Morrison says.MARCH 2021:EU blocks the shipment of 250,000 doses - that had already been negotiated down from 500,000 - to Australia, says Morrison.Australia writes to EU requesting 1 million doses of its original 3.8 million order to help with "humanitarian crisis" in neighbouring Papua New Guinea.Australia reaches end-March milestone with about 600,000 vaccine doses administered, compared to 4 million target.APRIL 6:Morrison says end-March target was missed because 3.1 million AstraZeneca vaccine doses ordered from Europe and due by end-march were not delivered.EU denies blocking vaccines to Australia other than one shipment of 250,000 AstraZeneca doses from Italy.APRIL 7:Morrison says the EU has not responded to Australia's request for 1 million AstraZeneca vaccines for Papua New Guinea and invites EU to send outstanding 3.1 million doses to confirm it has not blocked exports.Locally-manufactured AstraZeneca vaccines are being administered. A shipment of 400,000 offshore-produced AstraZeneca doses are due by the end of April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-timeline-of-australia-s-covid-19-vaccine-plan-mired-in-european-backandforth-101617765958771.html
07-04-2021||World||Moderna Covid-19 vaccine rolled out in UK for the 1st time||The U.K. will begin rolling out the Moderna Inc. vaccine on Wednesday, bolstering Britain’s Covid-19 immunization program amid concerns over AstraZeneca Plc’s shot and a shortfall of doses this month.Health Secretary Matt Hancock said the Moderna shot would first be offered in west Wales. It is the third approved vaccine to be offered in Britain, alongside shots from AstraZeneca and partners Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE, and its rollout is around two weeks earlier than expected.The UK has ordered 17 million doses of Moderna’s two-shot vaccine, enough for 8.5 million people.The success of the vaccine program is crucial to Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s ambition to fully reopen the U.K. economy on June 21. On Tuesday, he sought to reassure people over the Astra vaccine amid ongoing concerns in Europe over possible side effects.It later emerged that vaccinations of children in a study of the shot developed by Astra and Oxford University have been paused while the U.K.’s drug regulator investigates rare cases of blood clots in adults. No safety issues have arisen in the children’s trial, Oxford said.“The U.K. government has secured vaccines on behalf of the entire nation and the vaccination program has shown our country working together at its best,” Hancock said in an emailed statement. “Wherever you live, when you get the call, get the jab.”‘On Track’The government has insisted it is on track to meet its target to vaccinate all adults by the end of July, despite a reduction in doses this April and a potentially slower pace than expected in the months ahead. Vaccination centers and pharmacies are facing a “significant reduction” in supply during April, NHS England warned last month -- meaning that older people waiting for second doses will be prioritized over younger people getting their first shot. The pace of the rollout across England is now estimated by the Cabinet Office at an average of 2.7 million doses a week until the end of July -- “considerably slower” than a previous forecast of 3.2 million a week, according to a modeling paper from scientists on a government advisory committee published Monday.Johnson’s official spokesman Jamie Davies said the government “never talked about details around supplies and deliveries” of vaccines.“There will be a slight reduction in April but the key thing to remember is that that doesn’t mean that we’re not on track to meet our pledges,” Davies told reporters on Tuesday. The U.K. remains “on track” to offer a first dose to all over-50s by April 15, and to all adults by the end of July, he said.The rollout of the Moderna shot in the U.K. is earlier than expected. Vaccines minister Nadhim Zahawi told the BBC on Tuesday it would happen “around the third week of April”.Three in five adults in the U.K. have been vaccinated so far, Hancock said on Twitter. The most recent government data shows that more than 31.6 million people have received a first dose, and 5.5 million have had a second dose.Speaking on a visit to an Astra manufacturing plant in Macclesfield, northwest England, Johnson urged people to listen to the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, the U.K.’s drug watchdog.“Their advice to people is to keep going out there, get your jab, get your second jab,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/moderna-covid-19-vaccine-being-rolled-out-in-uk-for-the-1st-time-101617752420285.html
07-04-2021||World||China's capital is color-coding buildings to boost Covid-19 vaccination levels||Beijing is putting up color-coded signs on buildings in its financial district to indicate what percentage of workers inside have received Covid-19 vaccines, a move aimed at accelerating the Chinese capital’s immunization rollout amid intensifying government pressure.The financial district is leading the campaign to to ‘green code’ its buildings, putting up green circular signs that indicate more than 80% of those working in the building have been vaccinated. Yellow notices are for those with 40% to 80% immunization rates, while red logos indicate fewer than 40% of people are protected.While no penalties or specific consequences have been announced for low vaccination rates, many buildings have organized on-site immunization drives to make it easier for workers to get their shots. The stepped up efforts are adding extra pressure to local officials and employers amid fears that lagging vaccination rates may put reopening the economy at risk.China has set a goal of vaccinating 40% of its total population, or some 560 million people, by end of June. Tens of millions of workers at state-owned enterprises, party members, and college students are required to get immunized unless they provide a medical reason, while the government is offering incentives including small gifts and free rides to vaccination appointments to encourage the shots.The office signs build on a system China introduced last year that requires people to show a green code, indicating they are at low risk of having been exposed to Covid-19, before being permitted to enter almost all public venues, including restaurants, shops, and hotels. The assessment comes from built-in smartphone apps designed by China’s two biggest Internet companies that pull personal data from phone carriers and government departments.China has given about 4.5 million doses of vaccine on average each day for the past week. That’s close to the 5 million a day needed to reach an additional 417 million people, the number that will allow it to meet its vaccine goal before July.While the pace is significantly faster than the 3 million doses per day given on average in the U.S., it’s a much smaller proportion of the population. Only five doses per 100 people have been given so far in China, trailing the 56 per 100 people in Israel and 26 per 100 in the U.S., Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker shows.For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-capital-is-color-coding-buildings-to-boost-covid-19-vaccination-levels-101617777979892.html
07-04-2021||World||Indonesia landslides death toll rises to 119, dozens missing||The death toll from mudslides in eastern Indonesia has risen to 119 with scores still missing, officials said Wednesday, as rain continued to pound the region and hamper the search.The village of Lamanele on Adonara island suffered the highest losses with 60 bodies recovered so far and 12 missing. Mud tumbled down from surrounding hills early on Sunday, catching people at sleep.On nearby Lembata island, the downpour triggered by Tropical Cyclone Seroja sent solidified lava from a volcanic eruption in November to crash down on more than a dozen villages, killing at least 28 and leaving 44 unaccounted for, according to the National Disaster Mitigation Agency.Hundreds of police, soldiers and residents dug through the debris with their bare hands, shovels and hoes searching for those buried. On Tuesday, relatives wailed as they watched rescuers pull out a mud-caked body, place it on a bamboo stretcher and take it away for burial.In all, landslides and flooding have killed at least 119 across several islands in Indonesia as well as 27 people in neighboring East Timor. Thousands of homes have been damaged and thousands of people displaced by the weather, which is expected to continue until at least Friday as the storm moves south toward Australia.Rescue efforts were being hampered by the rains and the remoteness of the area, where roads and bridges were damaged in many places.Rescue personnel with excavators and tons of food and medicine were being deployed from Makassar city on Sulawesi island, but were hindered by a lack of sea transportation. National Disaster Mitigation Agency chief Doni Monardo called on the private sector to support relief efforts.Three helicopters began reaching isolated areas of the islands on Tuesday, and President Joko Widodo held a Cabinet meeting in Jakarta to speed up the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesia-landslides-death-toll-rises-to-119-dozens-missing-101617770702996.html
07-04-2021||World||Oil prices rise on stronger economic outlook, US stockpile draw||Oil prices edged higher on Wednesday on the prospects for stronger global economic growth amid increased COVID-19 vaccinations and a report that crude inventories in the United States, the world's biggest fuel consumer, fell.But optimism over talks between the United States and Iran and an impending increase in supply by major oil producers capped gains.Brent crude futures for June rose by 24 cents, or 0.4%, to $62.98 a barrel by 0403 GMT while U.S. West Texas Intermediate crude for May was up 20 cents, or 0.3%, to $59.53."Optimism on the global economic outlook boosted sentiment in the crude oil market," analysts from ANZ bank wrote in a note on Wednesday.Prices were buoyed as data on Tuesday showed US job openings rose to a two-year high in February while hiring picked up. This followed earlier data showing improvement in the services sectors in the U.S. and China.The International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday unprecedented public spending to fight COVID-19 would push global growth to 6% this year, a rate unseen since the 1970s.Optimism on a wider rollout of vaccines also boosted prices with U.S. President Joe Biden moving up the COVID-19 vaccine eligibility target for all American adults to April 19.U.S. crude oil stockpiles fell more than expected in the week ended April 2, while fuel inventories rose, according to three market sources, citing American Petroleum Institute (API) figures ahead of government data on Wednesday.Oil production in the U.S. is expected to fall by 270,000 barrels per day (bpd) in 2021 to 11.04 million bpd, the Energy Information Administration (EIA) said on Tuesday, a steeper decline than its previous monthly forecast for a drop of 160,000 bpd.Iran and world powers held what they described as "constructive" talks on Tuesday and agreed to form working groups to discuss potentially reviving the 2015 nuclear deal that could lead to Washington lifting sanctions on Iran's energy sector and increasing oil supply.Oil prices dropped earlier this week after the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and allies, known as OPEC+, agreed to gradually ease oil output cuts from May."Crude prices seem poised to consolidate as energy traders need to see how exactly OPEC+ follows through with their plan to boost output, and if the EU will near virus immunity by the end of June," said Edward Moya, senior market analyst at OANDA.(Reporting by Jessica Jaganathan; Editing by Christian Schmollinger)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/oil-prices-rise-on-stronger-economic-outlook-us-stockpile-draw-101617770659969.html
07-04-2021||World||Kim Jong Un says North Korea facing its 'worst-ever situation'||North Korean leader Kim Jong Un has acknowledged his country was facing the “worst-ever situation” as he addressed thousands of grassroots members of his ruling party during a major political conference in Pyongyang.Experts say Kim is facing perhaps his toughest moment as he approaches a decade in rule, with North Korea's coronavirus lockdown unleashing further shock on an economy devastated by decades of mismanagement and crippling U.S.-led sanctions over his nuclear weapons programme.The North's official Korean Central News Agency said Kim made the comments during an opening speech at a meeting of the Workers' Party's cell secretaries on Tuesday.“Improving the people's living standards ... even in the worst-ever situation in which we have to overcome unprecedentedly numerous challenges depends on the role played by the cells, the grassroots organizations of the party,” Kim said.He urged members to carry out the decisions made at a party congress in January, when he vowed to bolster his nuclear deterrent in face of US pressure and announced a new five-year national development plan. The congress came months after Kim during another political conference showed unusual candor by acknowledging that his plans to improve the economy weren't succeeding.During Tuesday's speech, Kim also criticised the party's grassroots units for unspecified “shortcomings” that should be immediately corrected to ensure the “healthy and sustainable” development of the party.Party cells, which consist of five to 30 members, are the smallest units of party authority that oversee the works and lives at factories and other places. The network is an important tool for Workers' Party to perpetuate its power. The previous conference of cell secretaries was held in 2017.The economic setbacks have left Kim with nothing to show for his ambitious diplomacy with former President Donald Trump, which collapsed over disagreements in lifting sanctions for the North's denuclearization steps.The North has so far rejected the Biden administration's overture for talks, saying that Washington must discard its “hostile” policies first, and dialed up pressure by resuming tests of ballistic missiles last month after a yearlong pause. (AP)AMS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kim-jong-un-says-north-korea-facing-its-worst-ever-situation-101617774238070.html
07-04-2021||World||India’s ‘double mutant’ Covid strain found in US||A “double mutant” strain of the coronavirus first discovered in India has now been detected in the US. The first confirmed infection was reported on Monday. It was found in a patient tested by Stanford Health Care Clinical Virology Laboratory in California, according to news reports. The case was detected in the San Francisco Bay Area, as reported by The Hill.The new strain of the coronavirus is called “double mutant” because it carries two mutations of the pathogen.It has hit the US amid growing concerns about an impending surge fuelled by new variations and complacency following reports of high vaccination rates.“This Indian variant contains two mutations in the same virus for the first time, previously seen on separate variants,” Peter Chin-Hong, an infectious diseases expert at University of California San Francisco, told San Francisco Chronicle.A response was awaited from the Center of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) to a request for confirmation of news reports about the new variant.EMA has ‘not yet reached conclusion’ on AZ vaccineThe EU’s drug regulator said on Tuesday it is still deciding whether the AstraZeneca vaccine causes blood clots, after a top official said there was a clear link. The European Medicines Agency’s (EMA) safety committee “has not yet reached a conclusion and the review is currently ongoing”, the Amsterdam-based EMA said in a statement. “We will communicate and hold a press briefing as soon as the review is finalised.”The statement came after the EMA’s head of vaccine strategy, Marco Cavaleri, was quoted in the media as saying there was a “clear” connection and the agency would announce it.US President Joe Biden was set to announce on Tuesday that all adults in America will be eligible for Covid-19 vaccines by April 19, two weeks earlier than his previous goal, a White House official said. He will also announce that 150 million doses of vaccine were administered within his first 75 days in office.Brazil’s brutal surge in deaths will soon surpass the worst of a record January wave in the US, climbing well beyond an average 3,000 Covid-19 fatalities per day, scientists are saying, as contagious new variants overwhelm hospitals. Brazil’s overall death toll trails the US outbreak, with nearly 333,000 killed, compared with more than 555,000 dead in the United States.New Zealanders and Australians rushed to book flights on Tuesday as the tourism industry welcomed the “lifeline” of a travel bubble between the largely Covid-free neighbours.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-double-mutant-covid-strain-found-in-us-101617765300743.html
07-04-2021||World||New UK regulator set to curb tech giants power over news publishers||Britain's new regulator for tech giants Facebook and Google launches on Wednesday with an initial remit to see if a code of conduct could improve the balance of power between the platforms and news publishers.The Digital Markets Unit (DMU), based in the Competition and Markets Authority (CMA), has been set up to stop big tech companies abusing their market dominance after the competition regulator said existing rules were not enough.The power and reach of big tech has grown faster than governments' ability to keep them in check.A row, now resolved, between Facebook and the Australian government in February over payment for local news highlighted the disparity.The tech company blacked out news content in response to planned legislation, a move condemned by publishers and politicians in multiple countries.Britain's Digital Secretary Oliver Dowden said he had asked the DMU to look at how a code could govern the relationships between platforms and content providers, such as news publishers, to ensure they were as fair and reasonable as possible."The Digital Markets Unit has launched and I've asked it to begin by looking at the relationships between platforms and content providers, and platforms and digital advertisers," he said in a statement."This will pave the way for the development of new digital services and lower prices, give consumers more choice and control over their data, and support our news industry, which is vital to freedom of expression and our democratic values."The unit was set up after the CMA concluded last year that Google had significant market power in search and in search advertising, and Facebook had significant market power in social media and in display advertising.Britain said the unit would coordinate with international partners that are also grappling with tech regulation.Dowden will host digital and tech ministers in April to discuss coordination on information sharing and joining up regulatory and policy approaches, the government said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-uk-regulator-set-to-curb-tech-giants-power-over-news-publishers-101617752446207.html
07-04-2021||World||Malaysia’s former PM Najib served with bankruptcy notice over tax bill||Malaysia’s former prime minister Najib Razak said he was served with a bankruptcy notice by the Inland Revenue Board for failing to pay a tax bill totaling 1.74 billion ringgit ($420 million).He said the “tyrannical” tax imposed on him has no merit and has asked his lawyer to obtain a stay order, according to his Facebook post late Tuesday.The bankruptcy notice came as he began his appeal against his conviction last year on charges in a case involving millions he received from a former unit of troubled state fund 1MDB. Malaysia’s court ruled in 2020 that Najib must pay 1.69 billion ringgit in taxes, a bill he has disputed.Being a bankrupt would mean he would lose his parliamentary seat and will be ineligible to contest for party polls and national elections, he said.He said the case relates to 3 billion ringgit put in an account under his name that was used to receive donations for corporate social responsibilities and political purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/malaysias-former-pm-najib-served-with-bankruptcy-notice-over-tax-bill-101617762397569.html
07-04-2021||World||Facebook removes accounts tied to Iranian exile group||Facebook said Tuesday it has removed hundreds of fake accounts linked to an Iranian exile group and a troll farm in Albania.The accounts posted content critical of Iran's government and supportive of Mujahedeen-e-Khalq, a dissident group known as MEK. In many cases, the Facebook and Instagram accounts used fake profile names and photos.Facebook determined the accounts were being run from a single location in Albania by a group of individuals working on behalf of MEK. Facebook found other telltale clues suggesting a so-called troll farm, in which workers are often paid to post content, including misinformation, to social media. Facebook says it removes such accounts based on how they behave, not on the material they post.For one, researchers found that the activity seemed to follow the central European workday, with posts picking up after 9 a.m., slowing down at the end of the day, and with a noticeable pause at lunch time. Facebook, however, said it did not find evidence of people being paid.“Even trolls need to eat,” said Ben Nimmo, who works on Facebook’s global threat intelligence investigations, on a conference call with reporters Tuesday.The National Council for Resistance in Iran, an umbrella group that includes MEK, said in a statement that that no accounts affiliated with it or MEK have been removed. The group also denied the existence of an Albanian troll farm affiliated with MEK.MEK is a leading group opposing the Iranian government. It killed Americans before the 1979 Islamic Revolution and was labeled as a terrorist organization by the State Department until 2012. Nevertheless, U.S. politicians from both parties including Rudy Giuliani and Newt Gingrich have given paid speeches to MEK in the past.The network of fake accounts was most active in 2017 and again in late 2020, Facebook said. In all, more than 300 accounts, pages and groups on Facebook and Instagram were removed as part of the company's action. Around 112,000 people followed one or more of the Instagram accounts.In some cases, the fake accounts used photos of Iranian celebrities or deceased dissidents. A small number of the more recent Instagram accounts appear to have used profile pictures that were computer generated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-removes-accounts-tied-to-iranian-exile-group-101617761494567.html
07-04-2021||World||Millionaires in New York set to face highest tax rates in US||The highest-earning New Yorkers would face the nation's steepest income tax rate under a budget lawmakers expected to vote on and pass Tuesday.It would serve as a win for the Democratic party's left wing, who say that millionaires in Manhattan penthouses have fared far better amid the pandemic then struggling small businesses and low-income New Yorkers.States including California, Minnesota and Washington are also considering wealth taxes, raising taxes on capital gains or setting new top income tax rates. President Joe Biden — who said on the campaign trail he'd raise income taxes on high earners — has proposed tax hikes on wealthy individuals and families and a corporate tax rate increase to pay for his infrastructure plan.Democrats in New York hope the tax increase could bring in at least $2.8 billion this upcoming year and prevent the need for spending cuts in years to come.New York’s top income tax rate is currently 8.82% for income over roughly $1 million, while New York City residents face an additional 3.88% top tax rate.New York is now set to raise the combined top tax rate for New York City millionaires above California’s top income tax rate of 13.3%.New Yorkers who make over $1 million would face a 9.65% income tax rate. That increases to 10.3% for taxpayers who make between $5 million and $25 million, and 10.9% for those who make over $25 million.“Working and middle-class taxpayers will receive the relief they desperately need, while the wealthiest New Yorkers will help their neighbors,” Stewart-Cousins said in a statement announcing that legislative leaders and Cuomo reached a budget deal Tuesday.The exact language of the tax hike wasn't available online until late Tuesday evening. New York was also set to raise the corporate tax rate from 6.5% to 7.25% for taxpayers with net incomes over $5 million. That move — along with a reinstatement of the capital base tax — would raise $750 million this upcoming year.Democrats won control of the state Senate in 2018, but they gained more leverage last year by winning a veto-proof supermajority.Cuomo expressed newfound openness to raising taxes on top-earners this year — his budget proposal included a limited, temporary tax increase on high-earners if New Yorkers didn't receive extra COVID-19 aid.He's also long warned that raising taxes on the wealthy could drive them out of New York at a time when the state's economy is still recovering from COVID-19 economic shutdowns last week. His budget director, Robert Mujica, has said the top 1% of earners pay 40% of New York’s income taxes.And Mujica has said an additional $12 billion in expected federal COVID-19 aid could prevent the need for a tax hike.But Democratic legislative leaders who have pushed forward with a proposed tax hike said there's no conclusive evidence that tax hikes drive out the rich. And they criticize years of “fiscal austerity” under Cuomo, as health care costs rise and educational advocacy groups call for more spending on schools.Medicaid costs have skyrocketed as New York has boosted enrollment, raised the minimum wage for all workers and taken on more Medicaid bills once shouldered by counties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/millionaires-in-new-york-set-to-face-highest-tax-rate-in-us-101617761524551.html
07-04-2021||World||Facebook says data on 530 million users 'scraped' before September 2019||Facebook Inc on Tuesday said a recently reported data leak affecting potentially 530 million users stemmed from a misuse of a feature in 2019 and that the company had plugged the hole after identifying the problem at the time.Business Insider reported last week that phone numbers and other details from user profiles were available in a public database. Facebook said "malicious actors" had obtained the data prior to September 2019 by "scraping" profiles using a vulnerability in the social media service's tool to sync contacts.The company said it identified the issue at the time and modified the tool."As a result of the action we took, we are confident that the specific issue that allowed them to scrape this data in 2019 no longer exists," Facebook said in a blog post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-says-data-on-530-million-users-scraped-before-september-2019-101617761692075.html
07-04-2021||World||First Covid-19 vaccine shot alone not protective: Chile study||A study in Chile, which has one of the furthest-advanced vaccination campaigns in South America -- mainly with China's Coronavac, has found that a first dose alone does not protect against coronavirus infection.The study by the University of Chile found inoculation to be 56.5 percent effective in protecting recipients two weeks after the second dose, and 27.7 percent effective within the first two weeks.But for a single dose, efficacy in the 28 days between the first and second dose was only three percent -- on par with the margin of error in such studies, it said.Researchers looked at the combined effect of Coronavac, which accounts for about 93 percent of doses being administered, and the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine.It estimated Coronavac's efficacy in real-life conditions at 54 percent -- in line with trial results in Brazil.The Pfizer jab has been estimated to be about 94 percent effective in an Israeli study.Chile has so far given at least one shot to 7.07 million people, and both shots to 4.04 of 15.2 million inhabitants being targeted for vaccination.Like the rest of Latin America, the country has seen a steep rise in new infections and has surpassed the daily rate of the first wave last year, with more than 8,000 new cases per day."Getting vaccinated very significantly decreases the possibility of infection, it does not eliminate it, but it decreases it a lot, therefore you have to get vaccinated," University of Chile rector Ennio Vivaldi told a virtual press conference.But it was also clear that the first dose on its own "does not have any relevant effect after four weeks" which means the recipient was for all intents and purposes just as vulnerable to infection as a non-vaccinated person.The study estimated that for people between 75 and 79 -- targeted in the initial vaccination campaign -- there would have been 80 percent more infections without the vaccine.For those aged 70 to 74, the percentage dropped to 60 percent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/first-covid-19-vaccine-shot-alone-not-protective-chile-study-101617756070311.html
07-04-2021||World||US says 'won't comment' on Pakistan's move against importing sugar from India||The United States on Tuesday said that it encourages India and Pakistan to have a direct dialogue between them on issues of concern.However, the State Department refrained from commenting on the recent decision of the Pakistani Cabinet not to import sugar and cotton from India.Also Read | Imran Khan explains why Pakistan cabinet decided against sugar import"I wouldn't want to comment on that specifically," State Department spokesperson Ned Price told reporters at his daily news conference."What I would say is that we continue to support direct dialogue between India and Pakistan on issues of concern," Price said in response to a question.Also Read | Pakistan’s flip-flop on India reflects divisions within Imran Khan govtIn a volte-face, Pakistan's Cabinet on April 1 rejected the proposal of a high-powered committee to import cotton and sugar from India, with Foreign Minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi asserting that there can be no normalisation of ties until New Delhi reverses its decision to revoke the special status of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-says-won-t-comment-on-pakistan-s-move-against-importing-sugar-from-india-101617756475255.html
07-04-2021||World||Amazon boss Bezos backs Biden's proposal to hike US corporate tax rate||Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos endorsed President Joe Biden’s focus on building up the country’s infrastructure Tuesday and said the company even supports a corporate tax rate hike to help pay for it.Also Read | Biden's economic plan gets boost from Senate procedural rulingBezos’ statement, posted on the company’s website, was notable because it came after Biden singled out the company for criticism about how much it pays in federal taxes when he recently unveiled his $2.3 trillion infrastructure proposal.Biden has proposed hiking the U.S. corporate tax rate to 28% from 21% to help pay for his plan, an idea that Republican leaders are panning as harmful to economic growth. Democrats will surely cite support from individual companies to undercut that argument.“We recognize this investment will require concessions from all sides — both on the specifics of what’s included as well as how it gets paid for (we’re supportive of a rise in the corporate tax rate),” Bezos wrote. “We look forward to Congress and the Administration coming together to find the right, balanced solution that maintains or enhances U.S. competitiveness.”Bezos was careful not to endorse a specific plan. Rather, he said “we support the Biden Administration’s focus on making bold investments in American infrastructure.”Also Read | Joe Biden's infrastructure plan to boost job growth, says economic adviserThe company would benefit from the investments made in roads, bridges, airports and broadband. Business groups have joined in the call for more public works investment by the federal government, but they have generally balked at Biden’s call for raising the corporate income tax, with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce describing Biden’s proposal as “dangerously misguided when it comes to how to pay for infrastructure.”Along with partially undoing the corporate tax cut put in place during President Donald Trump’s administration, Biden also wants to set a minimum U.S. tax on overseas corporate income, and to make it harder for companies to shift earnings offshore.Amazon has long been criticized for paying virtually no federal taxes in the U.S. for years even as it built an e-commerce empire that currently has a market value of $1.6 trillion.That has changed slightly in recent years as the Seattle company has become more profitable. Last year, it reported paying $1.7 billion in federal taxes on its U.S. income of $20.2 billion, working out to an effective tax rate of about 8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/amazon-boss-bezos-backs-biden-s-proposal-to-hike-us-corporate-tax-rate-101617755520273.html
07-04-2021||World||White House aims to create legal ways for Central Americans to migrate: US envoy||The White House is looking to create legal ways for Central American migrants to reach the United States, U.S. President Joe Biden's special envoy Ricardo Zuñiga said on Tuesday, amid a sharp rise in illegal crossings over the past few months.Zuñiga, Biden's envoy to the so-called Northern Triangle countries in Central America, said on a visit to Guatemala that the White House was looking to offer protections to migrants amid a push by Biden to reshape the U.S. border policy.A jump in immigration from the three Northern Triangle countries of Guatemala, Honduras and El Salvador has posed one of the biggest political challenges to the new Biden administration.A day after meeting with Guatemalan President Alejandro Giammattei, Zuñiga met most of his government's senior cabinet ministers to discuss how to improve security as well as economic and societal conditions that drive Guatemalans to migrate."We are here to also talk about the need and the efforts of the White House to create legal means for migration so that people do not have to use irregular and dangerous routes," Zuñiga said in a press conference."We also want to make sure that there are ways and means of accessing protection for people who require that protection," he added.Murders and kidnappings of Central American migrants along their treacherous journey to the United States, especially in Mexico, has led to the criticism that the Biden administration and U.S. policies expose migrants to such great risks.Zuñiga will also visit El Salvador later this week and discussed migration "in a comprehensive fashion" with Honduran Foreign Minister Lisandro Rosales last Friday, according to a ministry statement on Monday.U.S. authorities caught more than 171,000 migrants along the U.S.-Mexico border in March, the highest monthly total in two decades and the latest sign of the mounting humanitarian challenge confronting Biden's administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/white-house-aims-to-create-legal-ways-for-central-americans-to-migrate-us-envoy-101617752473200.html
07-04-2021||World||Brazil's Covid-19 deaths on track to pass worst of US wave||Brazil's brutal surge in Covid-19 deaths will soon surpass the worst of a record January wave in the United States, scientists forecast, with fatalities climbing for the first time above 4,000 in a day on Tuesday as the outbreak overwhelms hospitals.Brazil's overall death toll trails only the US outbreak, with nearly 337,000 killed, according to Health Ministry data, compared with more than 555,000 dead in the United States.But with Brazil's healthcare system at the breaking point, the country could exceed total U.S. deaths, despite having a population two-thirds that of the United States, two experts told Reuters."It's a nuclear reactor that has set off a chain reaction and is out of control. It's a biological Fukushima," said Miguel Nicolelis, a Brazilian doctor and professor at Duke University, who is closely tracking the virus.On Tuesday, the Health Ministry reported another 4,195 COVID-19 deaths in the past 24 hours, well above the country's prior single-day record. Brazil has set daily death records every week since late February, as a more contagious local variant and meager social distancing efforts fuel an uncontrolled outbreak.With mass vaccinations curtailing the U.S. outbreak, Brazil has become the epicenter of the pandemic, contributing about one in four deaths per day globally, according to a Reuters analysis.President Jair Bolsonaro has pushed back against mask-wearing and lockdowns that public health experts consider the best way to lessen virus transmission.The country dragged its feet last year as the world raced to secure vaccines, slowing the launch of a national immunization program.Despite the recent surge, Brazilian officials are insistent that the country can soon return to something resembling business as usual."We think that probably two, three months from now Brazil could be back to business," Economy Minister Paulo Guedes said during an online event on Tuesday. "Of course, probably economic activity will take a drop but it will be much, much less than the drop we suffered last year ... and much, much shorter."Bolsonaro has responded to growing political pressure with a dramatic shakeup of a half dozen ministries, putting loyalists in key roles ahead of what may be a tough re-election campaign next year against his political nemesis.While the president has shifted his tone on immunizations, touting vaccines he had recently disdained, the far-right former army captain continues to battle in the courts against state and municipal restrictions on economic activity.With weak measures failing to combat contagion, Brazil's Covid-19 cases and deaths are accumulating faster than ever.Nicolelis and Christovam Barcellos, a researcher at Brazilian medical institute Fiocruz, are separately forecasting that Brazil could surpass the United States in both overall deaths and the record for average deaths per day.As soon as next week, Brazil may break the record U.S. seven-day average for Covid-19 deaths, according to a model by the influential Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington. The U.S. average for daily deaths peaked at 3,285 in January.The IHME forecast does not currently extend beyond July 1, when it projects Brazil could reach 563,000 deaths, compared with 609,000 total U.S. fatalities expected by then.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-covid-19-deaths-on-track-to-pass-worst-of-us-wave-101617752519217.html
07-04-2021||World||'Passed 150 million': Joe Biden on Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in US||US President Joe Biden on Tuesday visited a Covid-19 vaccination centre just before his remarks announcing that every adult in America will be eligible for a Covid-19 vaccine by mid-April.Biden spent some time at a vaccination site run by Neighborhood Health inside Virginia Theological Seminary's Immanuel Chapel in Alexandria.Also Read | Biden to widen vaccination eligibility for all American adultsHe spoke to workers seated at a white table where people get themselves checked in for their Covid-19 shot. He asked roughly how many people a day come through, to which an official said about 300 people a day.He also spoke about encouraging a community spirit to get vaccinatedThe Neighborhood Health sees a count of 300 people on a regular basis, say the health workers. An estimate of about 20,000 doses, 5,000 shots a week is administered by the non profit.At one point Biden leaned over and whispered to the workers: "We passed 150 million yesterday."Approaching three people receiving a shot near where the pool was held, POTUS said: "You're doing the right thing...really important. And when you go back when you go home, get all your friends, tell them, 'Get a shot when they can,'" he said. "We're going to be able - everyone's going to be able to before the month is out. Every age."The US president reassured people and said: "All these strains you're hearing about. You should not worry.""They are more virulent. They are ...more dangerous but the vaccines work on all of them.""Hopefully we're going to get good enough, pretty soon, where we have enough that we can give the rest of the world. Because this is something that's not just... we can solve it here in America. We don't solve it around the world - you can't build a wall or fence high enough to keep out a virus," he said.Asked if the worst of the coronavirus pandemic was behind us, POTUS said: "I think If everyone continues down the road that we're on now, it will be behind us but it's not over yet. We're in a situation where I believe by end of the summer, we'll have a significant portion of the American public vaccinated."Later at the White House Biden announced that every adult in the US will be eligible to be vaccinated for COVId-19 by April 19, which is two weeks earlier than May 1 deadline that Biden had previously targeted."By no later than April 19, every adult aged 18 years and above will be eligible to be vaccinated. No more confusing rules. No more confusing restrictions" said Biden In his remarks at the White House on Tuesday.According to the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 167m doses have so far been administered in the US. While 40 per cent of adults have received at least one shot, about a quarter have completed their course of vaccinations, including 55 per cent of people aged over 65.Meanwhile, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention announced it has awarded Virginia $77.1 million to support local efforts to increase vaccine uptake by expanding COVID-19 vaccine programs and ensuring greater equity and access to vaccine by those disproportionately affected by the virus.The United States is averaging more than 64,000 new cases each day, a 20 percent increase from two weeks earlier, the NYT reported adding the country is averaging over 800 Covid-19 deaths each day, the lowest level since November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/passed-150-million-joe-biden-on-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-in-us-101617754807141.html
07-04-2021||World||Russia may be 'slowly killing' Alexei Navalny, says Amnesty International||Alexei Navalny, the prominent opponent of Russian President Vladimir Putin, is incarcerated in conditions that amount to torture and may slowly be killing him, human rights group Amnesty International said on Wednesday.Amnesty International said Navalny, who last year was poisoned with a military grade nerve agent, was now being subjected to sleep deprivation and did not have access to a doctor he could trust in jail."Russia, the Russian authorities, may be placing him into a situation of a slow death and seeking to hide what is happening to him," Agnes Callamard, Amnesty International's secretary general, told Reuters ahead of the publication of the group's annual report."Clearly the Russian authorities are violating his rights. We have to do more," she said. "(They) have already attempted to kill him, they are now detaining him, and imposing prison conditions, that amount to torture."Navalny went on a hunger strike last week in an attempt to force the prison holding him outside Moscow to provide him with proper medical care for what he said was acute pain in his back and legs.The Kremlin has declined to comment on his health, saying it is a matter for the federal penitentiary service. The penitentiary service last week said the 44-year-old was receiving all necessary treatment.Navalny was jailed in February for two and a half years for parole violations that he called politically motivated. Moscow, which has cast doubt over his poisoning, paints Navalny as a Western-backed troublemaker bent on destabilising Russia.Callamard said Navalny's ill-treatment came at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic had exacerbated inequalities and increased state-sponsored repression in some countries.Certain governments had instrumentalised the pandemic against minority groups to repress dissent and human rights, while in other countries there had been a near-normalisation of emergency measures that restricted civil liberties, she added."COVID has amplified oppression," Callamard said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-may-be-slowly-killing-alexei-navalny-says-amnesty-international-101617754019210.html
07-04-2021||World||Lavrov, Kerry ‘run into each other’ at hotel, have brief chat||Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov and US special presidential envoy John Kerry met briefly in the Indian capital on Tuesday and talked about climate-related matters.Lavrov and Kerry were in India for separate bilateral meetings – the Russian minister met his Indian counterpart to prepare the grounds for an annual summit while the US envoy was holding talks aimed at mitigating India’s fossil energy use.“The two ran into each other by happenstance staying at the same hotel and chatted for a few minutes about climate,” the US embassy said without giving details.People familiar with developments on the Russian side also confirmed the encounter. The people said on condition of anonymity that the meeting was sought by the US side and lasted almost 15 minutes.Kerry, in his previous role as secretary of state in the Barack Obama administration, and Lavrov had played key roles in the protracted negotiations that led to the 2015 Iran nuclear deal.The US embassy said that over the next few days, Kerry will meet with a range of representatives of the Indian government, private sector and non-governmental organisations.Lavrov travelled to Pakistan from India hours after his talks with external affairs minister S Jaishankar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lavrov-kerry-run-into-each-other-at-hotel-have-brief-chat-101617745652630.html
07-04-2021||World||Talks to save Iran nuclear deal get off to good start||Iran, Russia and the United States reacted positively Tuesday to the opening exchanges in a first day of talks in Vienna aimed at rescuing an international agreement on Tehran's nuclear programme.US President Joe Biden has said he is ready to reverse the decision of his predecessor Donald Trump to withdraw from the landmark 2015 agreement, negotiated to ensure that Iran never developed a military nuclear programme.And after Moscow gave a positive assessment of the opening of the talks earlier Tuesday Washington's reaction a little later was also upbeat. Iran too, described the opening talks as constructive."I can say that overall, the meeting was constructive," the head of the Iranian delegation, Abbas Araghchi, said in a video on Iranian broadcaster Irinn.The United States was not present at those discussions because Iran has refused to meet the US delegation so long as its sanctions against Tehran remain in place. The European Union is acting as an intermediary.Mikhail Ulyanov, Russia's Vienna-based envoy to international organisations, said Tuesday's meeting between those parties still in the deal -- Iran, China, Britain, France, Germany and Russia -- had been "successful".It would take time to restore the agreement, he said."The most important thing after today's meeting of the Joint Commission is that practical work towards achieving this goal has started," he tweeted."We do see this as a constructive and certainly welcome step," US State Department spokesman Ned Price said of the talks a little later."It is a potentially useful step as we seek to determine what it is that the Iranians are prepared to do to return to compliance with the stringent limitations under the 2015 deal, and as a result what we might need to do to return to compliance ourselves," he added.'Back on track'Since Trump pulled the US out of the deal with Iran in 2018, re-imposing sanctions on Tehran, the remaining parties have been struggling to save the agreement, as Iran has gradually stepped up its nuclear activities.Tehran is demanding an end to the crippling sanctions Trump imposed -- before which Iran will not meet the US delegates.Talks between the delegates from the remaining members of the 2015 agreement will continue Wednesday at the luxury hotel in Vienna, a diplomat familiar with the discussions said.The US delegation is due to meet in a different high-end hotel, also in downtown Vienna, with EU negotiators acting as go-betweens.At the same time, two expert-level groups -- on sanctions lifting and nuclear issues -- are working "to identify concrete measures to be taken by Washington and Tehran" to restore the deal, Ulyanov said."We need to make the best of this diplomatic space to bring the JCPOA back on track," said a tweet from EU diplomat Enrique Mora, the chair of Tuesday's meeting, referring to the pact by its acronym."Our clear goal is to return to full and effective implementation of the agreement by all sides," he added.Ahead of the talks, US special envoy Rob Malley suggested that the United States could be open to lifting sanctions and returning to the deal, comments welcomed by Iran government spokesman Ali Rabiei."We find this position realistic and promising. It could be the start of correcting the bad process that had taken diplomacy to a dead end," he told reporters in Tehran.Iran confirmed in January it was enriching uranium to 20 percent purity, well beyond the threshold set by the deal.Rabiei reiterated Iran was ready to reverse the steps it had taken as soon as all sanctions imposed during the Trump administration are lifted.'Complex process'EU spokeswoman Nabila Massrali warned of a "complex process" ahead, stressing that it was too soon to anticipate the outcome.It would take "joint efforts", she said, to see "what sanctions can be lifted and how to settle the nuclear issue".Kelsey Davenport, director for Non-proliferation Policy at the Arms Control Association think-tank, argued on the eve of the talks for a "bold first step by both sides" to inject "much-needed momentum" into the process.Washington, for example, could unfreeze Iranian funds held in foreign banks and facilitate humanitarian trade, and Tehran could stop enriching uranium beyond the levels agreed in the 2015 accord, said Davenport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/talks-to-save-iran-nuclear-deal-get-off-to-good-start-101617744575670.html
07-04-2021||World||Key witness in George Floyd murder trial seeks to avoid testifying||A key witness in the trial of the Minneapolis police officer accused of murdering George Floyd sought Tuesday to avoid giving evidence as his lawyers said he could incriminate himself on separate charges.Morries Hall, who was with Floyd in his car shortly before his death, is in custody and appeared by video camera at the hearing after he was subpoenaed to testify."There's really a very small narrow topic that might be permissible," Judge Peter Cahill said as Hall's lawyers argued that it was impossible for him to be cross-examined without incriminating himself.Hall is seen as a potentially important witness for the defense of former police officer Derek Chauvin, who was seen in a phone video kneeling on the neck of a handcuffed Floyd for more than nine minutes.The harrowing footage of Floyd's May 25, 2020 arrest touched off protests against racial injustice and police brutality in the United States and around the world.Minneapolis police chief Medaria Arradondo testified on Monday that Chauvin violated training policies by kneeling on Floyd's neck after he had stopped resisting.Further witnesses on Tuesday largely took the same line as they were questioned over Chauvin's actions.Shown a picture of Chauvin kneeling on Floyd's neck, Lieutenant Johnny Mercil, the police's use-of force coordinator, said it was not an authorized restraint."We tell officers to stay away from the neck when possible. And if you're going to use body weight, to pin it on their shoulder," Mercil said during cross-examination.Prosecutors are seeking to prove that Floyd's death was due to asphyxiation, while Chauvin's defense claims it was due to illegal drugs in Floyd's system.Chauvin's lawyer Eric Nelson confirmed he wanted to ask if Hall sold or gave Floyd drugs.Hall's lawyer said "there's an allegation here that Mr Floyd ingested a controlled substance as police were removing him from the car... This leaves Mr Hall potentially incriminating himself."The judge said he would rule later on Hall's request not to testify.Chauvin, who was sacked from the police force after the incident, has pleaded not guilty to charges of murder and manslaughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/key-witness-in-george-floyd-murder-trial-seeks-to-avoid-testifying-101617744137236.html
07-04-2021||World||Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny's supporters denied prison visit and detained||Supporters of Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny were detained Tuesday outside a penal colony east of Moscow where the Kremlin critic is currently serving time.Navalny has been on hunger strike for nearly a week to protest what he says is the failure of authorities to provide proper medical treatment for his back and leg pains.Doctors from the Navalny-backed Alliance of Doctors union and supporters of the politician gathered in front of the prison. Navalny's physician and the union leader Dr. Anastasia Vasilyeva tried to get inside to meet with prison officials and see Navalny or talk to the prison medics about his condition, but were turned away.Local police said they detained nine people who allegedly “breached public order.” They included Vasilyeva and a CNN crew. Vasilyeva and the journalists were soon released, while other members of the union remained in custody.Navalny, 44, is Russian President Vladimir Putin’s fiercest domestic opponent. He was arrested in January upon returning to Moscow from Germany, where he spent five months recovering from a nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Russian authorities have rejected the accusation.A court ordered Navalny in February to serve 2 1/2 years in prison for violating the terms of his probation, including when he was convalescing in Germany, from a 2014 embezzlement conviction. Navalny has rejected the conviction as fabricated, and the European Сourt of Human Rights found it “arbitrary and manifestly unreasonable.”Authorities transferred Navalny last month from a Moscow jail to the IK-2 penal colony in the Vladimir region, 85 kilometers (53 miles) east of the Russian capital. The facility in the town of Pokrov stands out among Russian penitentiaries for its especially strict inmate routines, which include standing at attention for hours.Within weeks of being imprisoned, Navalny said he developed severe back and leg pains and was effectively deprived of sleep because a guard checks on him hourly at night. He went on a hunger strike last Wednesday, demanding access to proper medication and a visit from his doctor.Russia's state penitentiary service has said Navalny is receiving all the medical help he needs, but Vasilyeva and others from the Alliance of Doctors had vowed to go to the prison on Tuesday if the politician wasn't allowed a visit from a qualified independent physician by Monday night.“We're gathering there not to protest. We're gathering there to save a man who, like any one of us, has the right to life and health,” Vasilyeva said in a YouTube video Monday.In an Instagram post Monday, Navalny said that three of the 15 people he is housed with were diagnosed with tuberculosis. He said he had a strong cough and a fever with a temperature of 38.1 degrees Celsius (100.6 F).The newspaper Izvestia carried a statement from the state penitentiary service late Monday saying Navalny had been the prison's sanitary unit after a checkup found him having “signs of a respiratory illness, including a high fever.”It was unclear Tuesday whether there had been any changes to the politician's condition.Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Navalny would receive the necessary medical care but no preferential treatment.“Of course, there can be no talk about special conditions for one of the convicted persons,” Peskov said during a conference call with reporters. “There are certain rules for inmates who get sick. If the illness truly takes place, any relevant treatment will be provided.”Vasilyeva from the Alliance of Doctors said Tuesday she and her colleagues will keep coming to the colony. “I see only one option. If nothing happens, then we will come here tomorrow and the day after tomorrow. We will keep coming with our colleagues, requesting information and (trying to) be involved in (Navalny's) treatment somehow,” Vasilyeva said. “We can't back down. It's a matter of a person's life and death.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kremlin-critic-alexi-navalny-s-supporters-denied-prison-visit-and-detained-101617733500716.html
07-04-2021||World||AstraZeneca’s UK vaccine trial in children paused, says AFP quoting Oxford University||Vaccinations of children in a study of the Covid-19 shot developed by AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford have been paused while the U.K.’s drug regulator investigates rare cases of blood clots in adults.The vaccine researchers are awaiting the results of a review by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency, the UK’s drug watchdog, “before further vaccinations,” the university said in an emailed statement. No safety issues have arisen in the children’s trial, he said.The trial plans to enroll 300 children aged 6 to 17, Oxford has said. As many as 240 children will receive the coronavirus vaccine and the remainder a meningitis shot, which should produce similar side effects. Initial data from the trial is expected by the summer, according to the university.Parents and children continue to attend all scheduled visits and can contact the trial sites if they have any questions, the university said in the email. The Wall Street Journal reported the pause in the study earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazenecas-uk-vaccine-trial-in-children-paused-says-report-101617733787767.html
07-04-2021||World||7 deaths in UK among AstraZeneca jab recipients after blood clots||The UK medical regulator said Saturday that out of 30 people who suffered blood clots after receiving the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, seven have died.The British acknowledgement of deaths comes as several European countries have paused the use of the AstraZeneca jab over a potential link to blood clots.The UK's Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency said in a statement that "Out of the 30 reports up to and including 24 March, sadly 7 have died."The Netherlands on Friday halted vaccinations with the AstraZeneca jab for people under the age of 60 after five new cases among women, one of whom died.Germany took a similar decision earlier this week.The European Medicines Agency (EMA), which like the World Health Organization previously declared the AstraZeneca vaccine safe, is expected to announce updated advice on the issue on April 7.The EMA said again on Wednesday it believes the vaccine is safe and that experts have found no specific risk factors such as age, gender or medical history.The UK regulator said that the 30 reports of thrombosis, submitted by medics or members of the public via a government website, came after 18.1 million doses of the vaccine had been administered in the country.Most of the cases (22) were cerebral venous sinus thrombosis, a rare condition when a blood clot forms in the brain.Eight other cases saw people suffer thrombosis and low levels of blood platelets, which help blood clot.There were no reports of blood clots from the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine it said, adding that "our thorough review into these reports is ongoing."The regulator's website says that on the basis of current data, the benefits of the vaccines against Covid-19 "continue to outweigh any risks".AstraZeneca said last month following US efficiency trials that its vaccine is 79 percent effective at preventing the disease and does not increase the risk of blood clots.The UK has administered more than 31 million first vaccine doses, using both the Oxford-AstraZeneca and the Pfizer-BioNTech jabs. People cannot choose which one they get.The UK in June 2020 ordered 100 million doses of the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine and supported its development. It also ordered 30 million doses of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine the same year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/7-deaths-in-uk-among-astrazeneca-jab-recipients-after-blood-clots-101617438589413.html
07-04-2021||India||Covid: Gujarat imposes new curbs as HC says situation going ‘out of control’||With Covid-19 cases breaching the 3,000-mark for the second consecutive day, the Gujarat government on Tuesday announced a night curfew from 8 pm to 6 am in 20 cities from Wednesday till April 30.The government’s decision came hours after the high court cited that the virus situation was getting “out of control” and suggested that a curfew or lockdown be imposed for a few days to break the infection chain.In its order, the government restricted the crowd at weddings to 100 people and to 50 for political and social functions. It also directed government offices to remain closed on all Saturdays for this month.Taking note of the surge in cases earlier in the day, Chief Justice Vikram Nath had said: “The issue is that things are going out of control. Now this time, Ahmedabad is in pretty bad state with 700-plus cases yesterday (Monday).”“It would be a situation where again a lockdown will have to (come)... May be three-four day of curfew or a lockdown may, you know, check the situation at the moment. Then you can open it after three-four days. But, two or three days of curfew will help I think,” he added.Advocate-General Kamal Trivedi, who was representing the state, said the government would suitably respond to the suggestions on weekend curfew but pointed that a lockdown could increase the hardships faced by the people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/guj-imposes-new-curbs-as-hc-says-situation-going-out-of-control-101617735980889.html
07-04-2021||India||Days after ambush, Maoists say missing jawan in their custody||RAIPUR The Maoists on Tuesday evening released a statement confirming that the missing CoBRA (Commando Battalion for Resolute Action) commando is in their custody and sought the appointment of a mediator to whom he could be handed over.On Saturday, 22 members of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite CoBRA unit, District Reserve Guard (DRG), and the Special Task Force (STF) lost their lives in a five-hour long clash with Maoists, with reports suggesting that around 20 Maoists were also killed. The Maoists, however, claimed in their statement that only four of their cadres were killed.One trooper was missing and it was believed he was abducted by the Maoists, which the Tuesday release by the CPI (Maoist) confirmed. The missing CoBRA commando, Rakeshwar Singh Manhas is from Jammu.”The jawan has not been located till now . A searching drive is underway. We got information through a Maoist press release about a jawan in their custody. We are still verifying the press release and appropriate decisions will be taken accordingly,” inspector general of Bastar, P Sunderaj, said.In 2012, Hyderabad-based professor G Hargopal and former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer B D Sharma had acted as mediators when Sukma collector Alex Paul Menon was abducted by the rebels.Shubharashu Chaudhary, a peace activist working in Bastar, believes that local journalists should be roped in to hold talks as soon as possible. “Local journalists should be appointed by the government as a mediator as soon as possible “Chaudhary said.A press note issued by Maoist Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee, said: “The state government should appoint interlocutor, we will then handover the jawan to them. Until then, the jawan will be safe in the custody of Jantana Sarkar”.The statement added that four Maoist cadres were killed in Saturday’s encounter and that they seized a huge number of arms and ammunition after the attack.“Total 14 weapons and around 2,000 bullets were seized after the encounter,” the statement said. It also claimed that at least 150 villagers have been killed in operations of security forces since November 2020.In Saturday’s encounter, out of the 22 deaths, the CRPF lost eight men, including seven commandos of CoBRA and one jawan of the Bastariya battalion; eight of the other deceased were from the DRG and six from the STF.On Monday, Sunderaj said the state police were committed to bringing the commando back if reports of him being abducted were confirmed.Meanwhile, the family members of the jawan have appealed to his abductors to release him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/days-after-ambush-maoists-say-missing-jawan-in-their-custody-101617735860907.html
07-04-2021||India||After protests, new orders puts J&K DDC chiefs at par with mayors||The Jammu and Kashmir administration on Tuesday issued a revised warrant of precedence, placing the status of chiefs of the district development councils (DDCs) at par with those of the mayors of the Jammu and Srinagar municipal corporations.The order, which was issued by the Hospitality and Protocol Department, came nearly a month after the newly-elected DDC members staged a protest over the issue of protocol and monthly honorarium.The latest warrant of precedence also places DDC chairmen above Members of Parliament in terms of precedence.Besides this, the order also put ”District Magistrates, Officers of the rank of Brigadiers and equivalent, Major Heads of Department, Conservator of Forests, District & Session Judges, Chairpersons, Block Development Councils, Presidents of Municipal Councils and Municipalities under the same protocol.”In the maiden DDC polls in the Union territory, Farooq Abdullah-led People’s Alliance for Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) won 110 seats while the Bharatiya Janata Party emerged as the single largest party by securing 75 seats,On March 9, the newly-elected DDC members, irrespective of their parties, boycotted a two-day programme and staged a protest against the warrant of precedence. Some of them also demanded a hike in their honorarium.“This is our insult and humiliation,” Shabir Ahmad Lone, DDC member from Rafiabad, said then.The protest was, however, called off a day later following an assurance by Lt Governor Sinha to address the issue.The old honorarium ensured ₹35,000 per month to a DDC chairperson, ₹25,000 per month to vice chairperson and ₹15,000 per month to a DDC member. The new honorarium is yet to be released.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-protests-new-orders-puts-j-k-ddc-chiefs-at-par-with-mayors-101617735800830.html
07-04-2021||India||Another record, over 115,000 new Covid cases in India in one day||India set yet another record for daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with 115,320 new infections reported across the country on Tuesday – the second time in three days that the country has broken previous single-day case records, highlighting the dangerous rate at which the second wave is growing.The previous record for daily cases (103,796) was set on Saturday when new infections in the country had crossed the 100,000 mark for the first time since the start of the outbreak.A total of 630 new deaths were reported across India on Tuesday, taking the total number of fatalities due to the viral outbreak in the country to 166,229, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.The number of active cases in the country, meanwhile, also continued to surge as the recoveries failed to keep up with the huge surge in cases. As of Tuesday night, there are 843,754 active cases of Covid-19 in India.After Tuesday's tally, the seven-day average of new cases across India is 93,041 – just shy of the record high of 93,617 on September 16, 2020, considered the peak of the first wave. At the current pace, the trajectory appears set to surpass the previous peak on Wednesday. India is currently the world’s biggest Covid-19 hot spot, having surpassed the rate of daily cases in the US and Brazil last week.India’s second wave of Covid started around the third week of February, and since then, the alarming rate of new infections has forced several state government to reintroduce curbs on social movements. The rate at which cases have been rising, however, has been far more rapid than in the first wave.Maharashtra, India’s hardest-hit state, continued to dominate daily statistics with 55,469 new infections on Tuesday. With 9,921 new cases on Tuesday, Chhattisgarh had the second-highest number of daily infections in the country. Both of these states have seen their seven-day averages (48,560 and 5,949, respectively) surpass the peak of the first wave.Along with these two, three other states have so far surpassed their peaks from the first wave – Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. The seven-day average of daily infections in these states is 2,791, 2,970 and 2,895, respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-record-115k-new-covid-cases-in-one-day-101617735560795.html
07-04-2021||India||‘Outstretched’ SII chief seeks ₹3,000-crore fillip to boost supply||At a time when the demand for the Covid-19 vaccine is rising in the country amid a surge in new cases, the chief executive officer of Serum Institute of India (SII), Adar Poonawalla, on Tuesday said that the company was “very outstretched” for capacity at the moment.He added that SII needed around ₹3,000 crore to scale up production from the current capacity of 60 to 65 million per month, and that the process would take roughly three months.“We are supplying the vaccine in the Indian market at approximately ₹ 150-160. The average price of the vaccine is approximately $20 ( ₹1,500)... because of the Modi government’s request, we are providing vaccines at subsidised rates... It is not that we are not making profits... but we are not making a super profit, which is key to re-investing,” Poonawalla told NDTV.“This (the amount needed) would be roughly ₹3,000 crores. The process takes 85 days, so it would be just under three months before we scale up operations,” he added.The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine is manufactured by SII and sold in India under the brand name Covishield.“We are supplying two million doses per day. It varies... but we are making between 60 and 65 million per month. We have given, so far, over 100 million doses to India, and exported over 60 million,” Poonawalla said in the interview, adding that supply constraints will only ease once other manufacturers also scale up capacity.“We hope that, with them, even Covishield will increase capacity to 100 to 110 million doses a month (but) that’s only going to happen from June. That’s where we are at the moment,” he said.Covishield is one of the two Covid-19 vaccines approved for use in India. The other Covid-19 vaccine is Covaxin that is co-developed by Bharat Biotech and India Council of Medical Research.“Very stressed to put it quite frankly. The globe needs this vaccine... we are prioritising the needs of India (but) we are still short of being able to supply to every Indian,” Poonawalla told NDTV.Last month, COVAX facility, a global risk-sharing mechanism for pooled procurement and equitable distribution of Covid-19 vaccines, said that it was looking at supply delays to the tune of at least 60-70 million doses produced by SII to lower-income countries because India was slowing down its Covid-19 vaccine exports.“We provided Serum Institute of India 150 million in pre finance to ramp up production. Our agreement stipulates 50% of production to be given to COVAX. Through Serum Institute of India, COVAX provides Covid-19 vaccines to more than 60 low income countries, primarily in Asia and Africa. If Government of India bans export of doses, all those countries would suffer,” Anuradha Gupta, deputy, chief executive officer, Gavi- the vaccine alliance that is co-leading COVAX facility, told HT on March 26..||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/outstretched-sii-chief-seeks-3k-cr-fillip-to-boost-supply-101617735022504.html
07-04-2021||India||Early lung infections new Covid concern||A couple from south Mumbai in their 60s consulted a doctor last week after having a fever for two days. When the doctor examined them with the help of a stethoscope, he heard what are known as bilateral crackles, sounds from the lungs that suggest pneumonia. Sure enough, in both their cases, a Covid-19 test returned positive and a CT scan of the lung confirmed pneumonia. But what surprised the doctor, a consultant internist at Bhatia Hospital, Tardeo, was the progression of the lung infection. In the past, Covid-19 linked pneumonia was seen after at least 10 days of symptoms, but in this senior couple, pneumonia set in on the third day. And that, experts say, may well be the story of Mumbai’s second wave. “Involvement of the lung within the second or third day of the onset of symptoms is concerning,” said Dr Samrat Shah, who treated the senior couple. Shah said their lungs were considerably diseased, and the CT scan severity score was above 7, which meant that they had already crossed the mild stage of the infection. CT scans of many positive patients are revealing faster pulmonary changes even as severity scores are rapidly rising, doctors said. The result: more patients require intensive treatment and hospitalisation, although, on the positive side, most recover. Given their age, the couple were put on intravenous steroids and antiviral medication and are now on the road to recovery. According to Dr. Shah, almost 30% of his patients are showing signs of early lung infections. During the last wave, only very few patients would show up with such early infections, he said. Dr Khusrav Bajan, a physician, and intensivist at the PD Hinduja Hospital in Mahim said almost 15% of his Covid-19 patients are suffering from an early lung infection. “Last year, such cases were about 5% to 10%,” he added. A CT-scan severity score ranges from 0 to 25; 7 to 12 indicates moderate infection; above 12 indicates a severe infection; below 7 indicates mild infection. “I have so many patients who are slipping from a score of 5 to 20 within a day. They typically have pneumonia and acute respiratory distress. Also, a peculiar trend is that young people, under 45 years of age, are coming with such early infections,” said Dr Bajan. From reporting an average of 526 cases per day in January, Mumbai’s daily average rose to 655 cases per day in February and jumped sharply to 2866 cases per day in March. The city reported an average of 9500 per day in the first five days of April. The number of active cases in the city has jumped by at least 700% within a month’s time: from 9055 on March 5 to 73,281 on April 5. According to BMC’s Covid-19 dashboard, 12707 patients are currently hospitalised. Of these, 1776 are admitted to intensive care units. Another 1937 patients are admitted in Covid Care Centre (CCC2) that are meant for positive, asymptomatic patients. Around 2% of the total active cases are critical. “Even as the numbers have risen, and more patients are symptomatic, the response rate to therapy is much better. This helps as patients don’t get to the critical state,” said Dr. Pratit Samdani who is currently treating one unusual case of a 65-year-old jeweller who developed lung fibrosis on the seventh day of hospitalisation. Lung fibrosis is a severe condition wherein the lung tissues are severely scarred and the damage is irreversible. “We generally see fibrosis after three to four weeks. It is unusual to develop fibrosis so soon,” he said. Some experts say it is possible that the sheer volume of Covid-19 cases in the ongoing second wave has resulted in doctors observing such trends more clearly. “Some patients definitely deteriorate faster. We are also seeing significantly affected lungs in patients but we did see a similar trend last year too,” said Dr Rahul Pandit, a critical care physician at Fortis Hospital and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “I think what is concerning right now is the overwhelming number of cases.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/early-lung-infections-new-covid-concern-101617734961707.html
07-04-2021||India||Jab for those who ‘need’ it, not those who ‘want’ it: Centre||As India faces the worst wave of the Covid-19 pandemic yet, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and chief ministers of several states have appealed to the central government to open vaccination for all people above 18, even as Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan resorted to semantics in the health ministry’s briefing on Tuesday, saying “the aim is not to administer the vaccine to those who want it, but to those who need it”.Experts pointed out that in the case of the coronavirus disease, no one is safe till everyone is safe – and in this case this means everyone over the age of 18 (neither of the vaccines in use in India has yet been approved for those below the age of 18). Other experts pointed that even if vaccines must be administered in a prioritised manner, it would make sense to prioritise urban centres, especially those that are seeing a huge surge in infections.“In cities, if we immunise about 30-40% (given that 45-55% have been infected), we should be in reasonable shape and begin to see slowing. However, there are lots of caveats such as duration of protection, variant escape, etc. In rural areas, we will need greater coverage to see a difference. But ultimately we will need to get everyone immunised including children,” said Dr Gagandeep Kang, one of India’s top vaccinologist.In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, IMA said: “At present, we are vaccinating the population above 45 years. In view of the rapid spread of the second wave of the disease, we suggest that our vaccination strategy needs to be geared up with immediate effect. All citizens above 18 years of age shall be permitted to receive Covid vaccination.”Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote a similar letter to the PM, seeking removal of the age bar on vaccination. “I appeal to the Prime Minister and the Central government to allow the vaccination for all by removing the age bar,” the letter read. “Also, in addition to the two vaccines currently being used in India, other vaccines should be allowed, so that more and more people can be vaccinated in the earliest possible manner,” it added.India is expected to approve the Sputnik V vaccine shortly.Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, and his Maharashtra and Delhi counterparts, Uddhav Thackeray and Arvind Kejirwal, have made similar appeals to the Centre. On Monday, Kejriwal wrote to the Prime Minister, saying “if rules for opening new centres are simplified and everyone is allowed to be vaccinated irrespective of age, then the Delhi government can vaccinate all Delhi residents within three months.”India has so far administered 84 million vaccine doses till Tuesday night, according to HT’s vaccine tracker. Of this, 10,904,088 people have received both doses and 62,257,181 have received one dose. On Monday, the country vaccinated 4,300,966 people, a new high. According to an HT analysis last week, if India vaccinates 4 million people a day, it would have completely vaccinated 50 million people (both doses) by May 15 and 100 million people by June 16. It takes two weeks after the second dose for the vaccine to be completely effective.On Tuesday, India added a record 115,320 new cases in a single day, taking its overall tally of cases to 11,789,781; 630 people died from Covid-10 on Tuesday. The current seven-day average of cases is 93,041.IMA has also suggested that private sector family clinics should be included actively in the vaccination drive along with private hospitals. Making vaccination certificate mandatory for entering public places and to receive products under the public distribution system were among the several suggestions made by the doctors’ body as ways to dispel vaccine hesitancy.In the health ministry briefing, Bhushan sought to explain the rationale for the government’s phased approach to vaccination.“It is a common question that is being asked these days that why are not Covid-19 vaccinations being opened for all; why can’t all adults be given it. To those, I want to say that Covid-19 vaccination drive is essentially meant to serve two purposes: to prevent deaths and the other purpose is to protect your health care system. In the middle of a pandemic, the main aim is not to administer the vaccine to those who want it but to those who need it. The most vulnerable in the country have to be protected, and that is what is being done globally also,” said Bhushan.“The basic aim is to reduce death through vaccination. The other aim is to protect your healthcare system. If healthcare workers, doctors, nurses, paramedics and others fall sick, who will work in hospitals? So the aim, for any country, is to protect those who are the most vulnerable,” he said.Bhushan later told ANI it was “a fallacy that our vaccination process is heavily regulated and controlled by the state”.Niti Aayog member (health) Dr VK Paul said: “What we know so far is that all vaccines that are being used, including the two being used in ,India reduce mortality, severity of the disease, protect lives and keeping that in mind priority groups have been decided. We have to protect our most vulnerable.” He said the priority groups have been decided based on people vulnerable to mortality.“Pandemic situation no doubt has deteriorated in the country, as there has been a serious rise in Covid-19 cases. It has risen like a wave, and this time the speed of rise is greater than the previous time,” said Paul.India’s vaccine drive began on January 16 with health care workers, and on February 2 with frontline workers, and then moved, on March 1, to people over the age of 60 and those over the age of 45 but with conditions that make them vulnerable to Covid-19.On April 1, the country started vaccinating everyone over the age of 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jab-is-for-those-who-need-it-not-those-who-want-it-health-secy-101617734900780.html
07-04-2021||India||Andhra HC suspends elections to block, zilla parishads scheduled for Thursday||The Andhra Pradesh High Court on Tuesday issued interim orders suspending the elections to the mandal (block) parishads and zilla parishads in the state, which are scheduled to be held on Thursday (April 8). The High Court cited insufficient time for the enforcement of the model code of conduct for its decision.A single-judge bench of the High Court, comprising Justice U Durga Prasada Rao, gave the orders after hearing a batch of petitions filed by the Telugu Desam Party (TDP), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Jana Sena Party.Justice Rao agreed with the contention of the petitioners that the state election commission (SEC) had not followed the Supreme Court orders directing that the model code of conduct should be brought into force at least four weeks before the polling date.The HC ordered that the notification issued by newly-appointed SEC Neelam Sawhney on April 1, and all the actions taken thereafter, be withheld. The court did not accept the SEC’s argument that the four-week gap between the notification and polling date for enforcement of the model code of conduct was only a suggestion and not a compulsion.Justice Rao posted the case to April 15 for further hearing and directed the SEC to file a counter by then. It also asked the SEC to follow the Supreme Court guidelines on the enforcement of the model code of conduct for four weeks before the polling date.An official in the state government said the SEC was contemplating challenging Justice Rao’s interim order by filing an emergency petition before a division bench late in the evening or Wednesday morning.Sawhney, who replaced Nimmgadda Ramesh Kumar as the SEC on April 1, announced the schedule for the conduct of mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs) and zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) within hours of taking charge.As per the schedule, the polling will be held on April 8 and the results will be declared on April 10. Since the polling process commenced in March 2020, before it was postponed due to the outbreak of Covid-19, there was no need for the issuance of fresh notification, Sawhney said.In all, there are 660 ZPTCs and 9,984 MPTCs in Andhra Pradesh, of which as many as 126 ZPTCs and 2,363 MPTCs were elected unanimously during the beginning of the election process in March 2020. As per the schedule announced on April 1, the campaigning came to an end by 4 pm on Tuesday.The opposition parties found fault with the SEC for hurriedly announcing the schedule without following the SC guidelines on the model code of conduct. The TDP said it would boycott the elections, alleging the ruling YSR Congress party of trying to bulldoze the election process with the help of the SEC and the police machinery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-hc-suspends-elections-to-block-zilla-parishads-scheduled-for-thursday-101617734841822.html
07-04-2021||India||Justice NV Ramana appointed as CJI||President Ram Nath Kovind on Tuesday appointed justice NV Ramana as the Chief Justice of India (CJI) with effect from April 24. Justice Ramana, 63, will serve till August 26, 2022.The presidential notification followed the recommendation made by incumbent CJI SA Bobde to the union law ministry on March 24 regarding appointment of justice Ramana as his successor.“In exercise of the powers conferred by clause (2) of Article 124 of the Constitution. The President is pleased to appoint Sri Nuthalapati Venkata Ramana, judge of the Supreme Court, to be the Chief Justice of India with effect from April 24, 2021,” the notification issued by the law ministry stated.Justice Ramana was appointed a permanent judge of the Andhra Pradesh high court in 2000 and was elevated as chief justice of the Delhi high court in 2013. On February 17, 2014, he was elevated as a Supreme Court judgeWith this, both the CJI and the central government have followed the seniority norm, as laid down under the memorandum of procedure (MoP) for judicial appointments. As per the MoP, appointment to the office of the Chief Justice of India should be of the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court, considered fit to hold the office.The speculations around appointment of justice Ramana as the next CJI had ensued in the wake of a formal complaint against him by Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, who accused the senior judge of influencing the state high court and stalling investigations into the Amaravati land scam case in which the judge’s daughters were also being probed. Jagan contended in a letter to the CJI that the Andhra Pradesh high court was being used to “destabilise and topple my democratically elected government”.On the day justice Bobde recommended justice Ramana as the top judge, the Supreme Court also issued a short statement about the dismissal of Reddy’s complaint.Over the years, justice Ramana has been a part of several landmark judgments. He headed the bench which in January last year ruled that access to the internet is a fundamental right by extension while pulling the government up for the telecommunications blackout in Jammu & Kashmir after abrogation of Article 370. The bench then ordered the J&K administration to review all orders pertaining to the imposition of curbs on telecom and internet services and put them in the public domain.Adjudicating a bunch of petitions on the Kashmir restrictions, justice Ramana’s bench also underscored the significance of the freedom of the press. “Responsible governments are required to respect the freedom of the press at all times... journalists are to be accommodated in reporting and there is no justification for allowing a sword of Damocles to hang over the press indefinitely,” his verdict held.In a more recent ruling, a bench headed by justice Ramana held in February the restriction against grant of bail in a stringent law like The Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967 “per se does not oust the ability of Constitutional Courts to grant bail on grounds of violation” of a fundamental right like the right to a speedy trial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/justice-ramana-appointed-cji-101617734784335.html
07-04-2021||India||Ansari’s wife approaches SC||New DelhiGangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afshan Ansari has moved the Supreme Court seeking safety for the Mau MLA while he is being shifted to Banda district jail in Uttar Pradesh from Rupnagar jail in Punjab, and also during his trial in pending cases in the state. Afshan, alleging imminent threat to Ansari’s life, has sought intervention of the top court to ensure that her husband is not killed in a so-called fake encounter.“The petitioner is in complete fear that now any time an untoward incident can happen to her husband but for protective directions passed by this Hon’ble Court,” Afshan said in her plea.The court is expected to hear her petition on Friday. The petition has cited various attempts to eliminate Ansari over the years and alleged that Brajesh Singh, a mafia don and a former UP BJP MLA, is conspiring to kill Ansari with the state’s support. Earlier, Afshan wrote to President Ram Nath Kovind expressing similar fears and said that her husband was a witness in a murder case in which Singh and one of his accomplices are prime accused.The Supreme Court on March 26 allowed a transfer petition filed by the UP government seeking transfer of Ansari from Ropar jail in Punjab to Banda in UP. Ansari was initially lodged in a jail in UP as an undertrial when the Punjab Police obtained production warrant against him on a complaint of extortion and criminal intimidation and brought him to Punjab. As the Punjab government refused to shift Ansari back to UP citing his medical condition -- he is reportedly suffering from hypertension, diabetes, back pain, skin allergy and depression -- the UP government moved the top court, which allowed his transfer by an order last month. A hundred-member team of UP Police was in Punjab on Tuesday to bring Ansari to Banda district jail. They left in the afternoon and were expected to reach Banda by early morning Wednesday. Ansari has to stand trial in at least 14 cases in UP on charges of murder, extortion and under the Gangster Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ansaris-wife-approaches-sc-101617734720686.html
07-04-2021||India||Deshmukh, Maha govt move SC against HC’s order for CBI probe||A day after resigning as Maharashtra’s home minister, Anil Deshmukh moved the Supreme Court on Tuesday and said that the Bombay high court order for a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into allegations of extortion against him “impacts the federal structure”, and could lead to a “biased investigation”, apart from destabilising the state government.The Maharashtra government also filed a separate petition in the apex court against the Monday order by the high court, complaining that the CBI investigation was ordered without any fact or formal pleadings and that the central agency was roped in without letting the state agencies first conduct their investigation.The CBI has registered a preliminary inquiry to investigate allegations against Deshmukh after the Bombay high court order, people familiar with the matter said late on Tuesday.The high court’s decision to allow the CBI inquiry came after former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh alleged that Deshmukh asked policemen, including suspended officer Sachin Vaze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants, and other sources. The allegations followed drama over police investigations into the discovery of an explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, and the alleged murder of a man linked to the car.On Tuesday, the Maharashtra government argued out that the state, for valid reasons, has already withdrawn its general consent to the CBI to carry out investigations in Maharashtra, and that the high court should have remained mindful of this aspect before ordering the probe.While the two petitions were filed in the Supreme Court on Tuesday, Singh -- whose accusations and a petition before the high court led to the preliminary inquiry by CBI -- and another petitioner before the high court , Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil, have also filed their caveat in the apex court to ensure no order is passed without hearing them. The petitions are yet to be assigned a date of hearing.Deshmukh resigned on Monday, hours after the order by the high court asking CBI to conclude a preliminary inquiry within 15 days, making him the most high-profile casualty so far in the twists and turns over the discovery of the explosives and the death of Mansukh Hiran.As the row reached the Supreme Court, Nationalist Congress Party leader Deshmukh emphasised that the high court, relying on certain unsubstantiated allegations by Singh, entrusted the probe to an agency “which the state government has the least confidence in”, and that “such processes may well be followed to destabilise the government”.“In the annals of judicial history, there has hardly been an occasion when the court has taken the statement made against a sitting minister at face value and proceeded to direct an outside agency, without calling from for a response from the concerned minister, to conduct a preliminary inquiry,” said Deshmukh’s plea, filed through advocate Sudhanshu S Choudhri. The petition, which HT has seen, was settled by senior advocate Kapil Sibal, who is expected to represent Deshmukh in the apex court.Questioning the credentials of CBI, Deshmukh added that, presently, the agency was also being led by an interim director, and the legality of this ad hoc arrangement was already questioned before the Supreme Court.He said that the high court should have given sufficient time to the state agencies to carry out the probe at the first instance and only in the case of any lapse should a probe, preferably by a team of officers nominated by the court under its supervision, have been contemplated. But the investigation was handed over to an agency “under the control of the central government”, he added.“The court chose not to follow that procedure, thereby showing utter lack of confidence in the state machinery as if every investigating officer lacked the confidence of the court in conducting a fair and impartial inquiry,” read Deshmukh’s petition, which added that this assumption was “unsustainable and without any demonstrable reason”.Requesting the court to stay the order, the petition said the chief reason cited by the high court for a CBI probe was that Deshmukh served as the home minister, but now that he has resigned, the state machinery must be allowed to freely conduct its investigation.The state government, in its appeal, highlighted that Maharashtra had already ordered a judicial probe into the allegations on March 30 by retired Bombay HC judge KU Chandiwal and that the high court could not have straightaway passed the order of a CBI probe without examining the formal pleadings and submissions of the state.The state’s petition added that the accusations by Singh were unsubstantiated and that there was no justification to hand over the probe to the CBI, whose jurisdiction had been ousted by the Maharashtra government by withdrawing its general consent. Senior advocate Abhishek Manu Singhvi is expected to argue for the state government’s petition.Singh first approached the Supreme Court for a CBI probe but was asked to go to the Bombay HC at the first instance. Apart from him, a bunch of public interest litigations were also filed in the high court, which on Monday ordered CBI to complete a preliminary inquiry within 15 days and thereafter proceed in accordance with the legal procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deshmukh-maha-govt-move-sc-against-hc-s-order-for-cbi-probe-101617734660807.html
07-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh takes over Mukhtar Ansari’s custody from Punjab||Chandigarh/Lucknow A team of at least 100 officials of the Uttar Pradesh police on Tuesday took custody of gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari from the Punjab police.Officials at the Central jail in Punjab’s Ropar handed over the Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mau MLA to the police team from UP’s Banda, led by deputy superintendent of police Satya Prakash, after a team of doctors examined Ansari.A senior official said Ansari was handed over to the UP police at around 2.10 pm on Tuesday and the contingent is likely to reach Banda by Wednesday morning.UP police, equipped with sophisticated weapons, are bringing Ansari back to the state in an anti-riot vehicle, Vajra.The action has come after the Supreme Court directed Punjab to grant Ansari’s custody to UP after the Yogi Adityanath-led government in the state moved the top court against the Punjab government’s refusal to transfer him.Ansari has been lodged in Ropar jail since January 2019 in connection with an extortion case.The official said that all security measures have been employed to ensure Ansari’s safe transfer after a Special Task Force from UP was assigned to chalk out a route plan. Other prisons in UP have also been asked to prepare in case of any last-minute changes due to security reasons.Banda jailor Pramod Tiwari said all security arrangements in the jail have been beefed up.“Security personnel have been posted inside as well as outside the jail premises. In barrack number 15, where Mukhtar Ansari will be kept, arrangements of light, drinking water and cleanliness have been spruced up,” news agency PTI quoted Tiwari as saying.On March 26, the top court directed the Punjab government to hand over the custody of Ansari to the Uttar Pradesh police, saying it was being denied on trivial grounds under the guise of medical issues. The court directed that Ansari’s custody be handed over to Uttar Pradesh within two weeks so as to lodge him in Banda district jail in the state.The BJP-run Uttar Pradesh government accused the Congress government in Punjab of “shielding” Ansari by not letting the state take custody.The apex court also noted that Ansari was allegedly involved in various cases of attempt to murder, murder, cheating and conspiracy apart from offences under the Gangsters Act, lodged in Uttar Pradesh. Out of these, 10 cases were at trial stage.In a related development, Ropar senior superintendent of police Akhil Chaudhary has ordered a probe into the circumstances under which an ambulance, ferrying Ansari from Ropar jail to Mohali court on March 31, was found abandoned near Nanak Dhaba in village Khwaspura fallinder Sadar Police Station of Ropar.A case was registered in Uttar Pradesh’s Barabanki after the documents of the ambulance were found to be fake and one person was arrested on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-takes-over-ansari-s-custody-from-punjab-101617734120663.html
07-04-2021||NA||Assembly Poll Highlights: Voting ends in phase 3, high voter turnout recorded||On the biggest day of election cycle since the Lok Sabha polls in 2019, voting took place in 475 of the total 824 assembly constituencies across the states of West Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the Union territory of Puducherry on Tuesday. West Bengal, which voted in its third phase, will have five more rounds of polling. A visibly enthusiastic voting was held in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry in a single phase for all their assembly seats. In the state of Assam, people voted for the last of its three-phase polls. The results for all the four states and one Union territory will be announced on May 2.Click here for complete coverage of the assembly electionsIn the third phase of polling in West Bengal, voting took place for 31 seats that witnessed a tough fight between the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). In Assam, voting was held in 40 out of the 126 seats in the final phase and the contest is between the ruling BJP-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) and the Congress-led Mahajot.In Tamil Nadu, all the 234 assembly seats are in the fray and the contest is between the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK)-led alliance and the incumbent All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK). In Kerala, 140 seats witness a fierce fight between the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF). In Puducherry, voters exercise their franchise for the 30 assembly seats shortly after the Union territory slipped into a political crisis before the elections were announced as the Congress-led government fell due to defections.Follow all the updates here:High voter turnout recorded in phase 3 pollsVoting ends, provisional data shows over 70% turnout in Kerala and Puducherry, 65% in Tamil Nadu; Assam sees 82% and Bengal over 77% turnout in Phase 3Amid turmoil, polling ends with 77.68 pc turnoutAfter a day of turmoil, voting for the third phase of the tightly contested West Bengal assembly elections ended on Tuesday evening with a voter turnout of 77.68 per cent.According to the Election Commission of India (ECI), some instances of violence and brawls were reported in a few areas and some arrests have been made.West Bengal records 77.68% voter turnout till 6:35 pmPuducherry records 78.03% voter turnout till 6:35 pmTamil Nadu records 65.11% voter turnout till 6:35 pmKerala records 69.94% voter turnout so till 6:35 pmAssam records 80.32% voter turnout till 6:35 pm63.60% voter turnout in Tamil Nadu till 5pmTamil Nadu has recorded a voter turnout of 63.60% till 5pm in the assembly polls in the state, according to the Election Commission (EC).Edappadi, from where Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is contesting, saw 73 per cent polling.Assam polls third phase: 78.29 % voter turnout till 5:20 pmThe third and final phase of the Assam election witnessed a voter turnout of 78.29 per cent till 5:20 pm on Tuesday, the Election Commission said.South Salmara district registered the highest voter turnout with 88.59 per cent polling, while Kamrup Metro witnessed the lowest voter turnout with 60.34 per cent polling.Puducherry: 66.58 per cent voter turnout till 4 pmPuducherry witnessed a voter turnout of 66.58 per cent till 4 pm across 30 constituencies, according to the Election Commission (EC).The Yanam constituency in the Union Territory records the highest voting percentage with a voter turnout of 72.34 per cent till 4 pm, while the Mahe constituency witnessed the lowest voting percentage with a voter turnout of 57.52 per cent.Kerala records over 65 per cent polling by 4.30 pmKerala continued to witness heavy polling in the crucial assembly elections on Tuesday with over 65 per cent of the total 2.4 crore voters having already cast their franchise to elect representativesin 140 constituencies.Despite scorching heat and sporadic rain in many parts of the state, people, including women and senior citizens, stood in queues for a long time to take part in the democratic exercise.Over 53% votes cast in Assam till 2pm, 54% in West BengalKerala: Union minister V Muraleedharan casts vote at Kottaram booth in Ulloor#KeralaElections2021: Union Minister V Muraleedharan casts vote at Kottaram booth in Ulloor, Thiruvananthapuram. "This poll is going to create a sort of milestone in political history of Kerala. People will express their dissatisfaction & reject both UDF & LDF alliances," he says pic.twitter.com/TSVgNIuAW0In Photos: Voters on their way to polling booth in Canning Purba assembly constituency in West Bengal.Kerala: Actor Mammootty casts his vote at a polling booth in Ponnurunni, ErnakulamActor Mammootty cast his vote for #KeralaElections2021 at a polling booth in Ponnurunni, Ernakulam. pic.twitter.com/i7uYLyLYPeWatch: EVMs & VVPATs found at TMC leader’s residence in UluberiaNearly 54% votes cast in Assam till 1.30pm, 54% in West BengalVoting underway in South 24 Praganas district in West BengalVoting Process is on going after maintaining all Covid - 19 Protocol at 145 Satgachia Assembly Constituency of South 24 Parganas District. #WestBengalElections2021 @ECISVEEP @SpokespersonECI@rajivkumarec @PIBKolkata pic.twitter.com/04LOUTS0PoIn Photos: A model polling station in Palasbari, Assam dedicated to Covid-19 warriorsIn Photos: First-time voters cast their votes in PuducherryFirst-time voters after casting their votes in #Puducherry. Around 32,000 young electors in the UT are exercising their right to vote for the first time in this #Election2021. #ECI @SpokespersonECI @ECISVEEP @rajivkumarec pic.twitter.com/WeU9zeoJqg'Blatant misuse of Central forces', West Bengal CM Banerjee allegesThe blatant misuse of Central forces continues unabated. Despite us repeatedly raising this issue, @ECISVEEP continues to be a mute spectator while men in uniform are being misused at several places to openly intimidate TMC voters & influence many to vote in favour of one party. pic.twitter.com/l6t28mxwBOWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged the misuse of Central forces during the third phase of the ongoing elections in the state. "The blatant misuse of Central forces continues unabated. Despite us repeatedly raising this issue, ECISVEEP continues to be a mute spectator while men in uniform are being misused at several places to openly intimidate TMC voters & influence many to vote in favour of one party", Banerjee wrote on Twitter.In Photos: A voter with her new-born baby casts vote in Palashbari, AssamCongress MP Shashi Tharoor casts his vote at a polling station in Thiruvananthapuram, KeralaCongress MP Shashi Tharoor casts his vote at a polling station in Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala"The turnout has been pretty high by 10 am, already 20% , which is unusual for Kerala. As a general rule, when the turnout is high, the UDF will prevail", he says pic.twitter.com/iLppWtSy9RMDMK chief Vaiko casts his vote at Kalingapatty#TamilNaduElections2021 | Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (MDMK) Chief Vaiko casts his vote at Kalingapatty pic.twitter.com/90rupj0mh4Nearly 33% votes cast in Assam till 12pm, 35% in West BengalBrisk polling at the 'pink polling booth' in Srivilliputhur constituencyPolling is brisk at the #pinkpollingbooth of #Srivilliputhur constituency setup at #Mamsapuram. As many as 592 women voters are to cast their votes in the booth completely monitored by women officers. #AssemblyElections2021 pic.twitter.com/bQdIADw1S0Voters defy soaring mid-day temperatures, cast ballot in Kalapet constituency in PuducherryElectors defying the soaring mid-day temperature and following COVID safety measures to cast votes at the Kalapet constituency in #Puducherry. #ECI #PuducherryElections2021 #Election2021 @ECISVEEP @SpokespersonECI @rajivkumarec pic.twitter.com/utMWNp2ZyBVisuals from South Salmara polling station in AssamSetting an instance, these PwD voters cast their votes in South Salmara polling station. #AssamElection2021 #AssemblyElection2021 @ECISVEEP @SpokespersonECI @rajivkumarec @PIB_Guwahati @diprassam #SouthSalmara pic.twitter.com/UTj7t9coxZIn Photos: Polling underway in Goghat assembly constituency of Hooghly districtGlimpses of Polling process at Polling Station No 221, of 201 Goghat (SC) Assembly Constituency of Hooghly District. #WestBengalElections2021 @ECISVEEP @SpokespersonECI@rajivkumarec @PIBKolkata pic.twitter.com/03Qb06cnZOWB: Clash erupts b/w TMC, BJP supporters in ArambagClashes erupted between Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters in Arambag in West Bengal as voting for the third phase of the assembly elections is underway in the state. "In Arandi-I area here, we've minority, SC voters who love Mamata Banerjee. Goons of BJP threatened & tortured women voters last night", alleged Sujata Mondal, TMC candidate from Arambagh, according to news agency ANI."Situation is fine at many places but not okay where we're strong. At booth 45, people voted for TMC but it's going to BJP. In Arandi-ii, our workers were beaten. Central Forces are also not neutral. They're telling people to vote for BJP," Mondal added.Congress leader AK Antony casts his voteCongress leader AK Antony cast his vote at Government High School, Jagathy in Thiruvananthapuram earlier today. #KeralaElections pic.twitter.com/YZNodLilAtBJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma casts his vote in Amingaon, GuwahatiAssam Minister and BJP leader Himanta Biswa Sarma casts his vote at a polling station in Amingaon, Guwahati pic.twitter.com/9NTYFnlF7ZAssam minister and BJP candidate from Jalukbari, Himanta Biswa Sarma cast his vote today asserting that the party will win more than expected seats in the elections this time. "There're 40 seats in this phase, we are expecting to win on 22 of them, number can be higher. This elections we will win more seats. Last time we had won 84 seats, we are expecting at least 90 seats this time," Sarma said after casting his vote.In Photos: ITBP jawan carries senior citizen to help her reach polling booth in Kulpi, SundarbanTamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami casts his vote#TamilNadu: Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami casts his vote at a polling station in Siluvampalayam, Eddapadi pic.twitter.com/WTy8Cd01dH"I appeal to all to cast their vote in legislative assembly elections," Tamil Nadu CM Edappadi K Palaniswami after casting his vote in Siluvampalayam, EddapadiIn a post-Ahmed Patel era, how the Congress is navigating its first electionEver since he was elevated as the political secretary to then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1985 — years later he played the same role under Congress president Sonia Gandhi — Ahmed Patel had been a part of the Congress’s poll strategies and important decision-making processes. Read more'Found people from DMK distributing money to voters,' alleges BJP's Khushbu SundarWe have found people from DMK distributing money to voters. We have complained to the Election Commission. DMK would want to win by hook or by crook: Khushbu Sundar, BJP candidate from Thousand Lights Assembly constituency, Chennai#TamilNaduElections pic.twitter.com/RQp6DczJoZ"We have found people from DMK distributing money to voters. We have complained to the Election Commission. DMK would want to win by hook or by crook," Khushbu Sundar, BJP candidate from Thousand Lights Assembly constituency, ChennaiWatch| Tamil Nadu Assembly polls: Rajinikanth, Kamal Haasan cast their votes in ChennaiCongress leader Karti Chidambaram casts his vote#TamilNaduElections | Congress leader Karti Chidambaram casts his vote at polling booth number 276 in Tiruppathur, Sivaganga district pic.twitter.com/Cc3oFsR195Telangana governor Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan casts her vote at a polling station in Virugambakkam, ChennaiGovernor of Telangana and Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry, Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan cast her vote at a polling station in Virugambakkam, Chennai#TamilNaduElections pic.twitter.com/cwlyM1AFtVActor Ajith Kumar casts his vote along with wife Shalini in ThiruvanmiyurActor Ajith Kumar and his wife Shalini arrive at a polling booth in Thiruvanmiyur to cast their vote for #TamilNaduElections pic.twitter.com/8Q8Z8bmCvkKerala health minister KK Shailaja cast her voteKerala Health Minister KK Shailaja cast her vote in Kannur, todayThe COVID19 mortality rate in Kerala is 0.4%. We brought many social welfare measures during COVID19. People are seeing all this and they will vote for us," she said pic.twitter.com/qZvd1ZbHzINearly 15% votes cast in Assam till 9am, 14% in BengalNearly 15% votes cast in Assam till 9am in third and final phase, close to 14% polling in Bengal in first two hours13.80% voter turnout recorded till 9am in the state: Satyabrata Sahoo, Tamil Nadu chief electoral officer13.80% voter turnout recorded till 9am in the State: Satyabrata Sahoo, Tamil Nadu Chief Electoral Officer pic.twitter.com/6TxIkkvy9pIn Photos: Voting underway at polling station in St. Joseph's Higher Secondary School, Thiruvananthapuram#KeralaElections2021 | Voting underway at polling station in St. Joseph's Higher Secondary School, Thiruvananthapuram pic.twitter.com/NwghRMUyaeKerala BJP president K Surendran and his family cast their votes in Modakkallur, KozhikodeKerala BJP President K Surendran and his family cast their votes in Modakkallur, Kozhikode#KeralaElections pic.twitter.com/ddtWDLP2oATamil Nadu deputy CM Panneerselvam casts his vote#TamilNaduElections | Deputy CM O. Panneerselvam casts his vote in Periyakulam"All NDA candidates will win. AIADMK is going to form the government for the third consecutive time," he says pic.twitter.com/vB8kza4W2R'Not allowing people to cast votes': BJP candidate from Diamond Harbour accuses TMC"TMC goons are not allowing people to cast their votes at booth no. 180, 143 Dagira Baduldanga. I have complained to the Election Commission officials", says Dipak Haldar, BJP candidate from Diamond Harbour, South 24 Parganas.In Photos: Polling underway in West Bengal assembly electionsFormer Puducherry CM Narayanasamy casts his voteFormer Puducherry CM and Congress leader V.Narayanasamy casts his vote in Puducherry assembly elections pic.twitter.com/59Zm20UEmfVisuals from polling station in Uttar Moukhali Junior High Madrasa in Canning Purba constituencyThermal scanning of voters being done, hand sanitiser and hand gloves being provided to them as they stand in a queue to cast their vote for the third phase of #WestBengalPolls. Visuals from a polling station in Uttar Moukhali Junior High Madrasa in Canning Purba constituency. pic.twitter.com/Sd54mQH0aqMNM chief Hassan talks of 'next course of action' after voting"The next course of action is to educate people about this cash distribution, how disastrous it is for their lives and democracy. The money dolling out politicians put the blame on the people. This is a vicious circle and we are trying to make it virtuous", says Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan after he cast his vote at Chennai High School, Teynampet in Chennai.Kerala opposition leader Chennithala casts his vote#KeralaElections | Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala casts his vote at booth number 51A in Haripad pic.twitter.com/1b1HdRjHDKIn Photos: Polling underway in West Bengal assembly electionsElection Commission suspends official as EVMs and VVPATs found at Trinamool leader’s hosue in BengalSector Officer has been suspended. It was a reserved EVM that has been removed from the election process. Severe action will be taken against all involved: Election Commission of India (ECI) EVMs and VVPATs were found at the residence of a TMC leader in Uluberia, West Bengal pic.twitter.com/IBFwmDSXeYAmid the ongoing Phase 3 polls of the West Bengal Assembly Election 2021 on Tuesday, electronic voting machines (EVMs) and VVPATs were found at a residence of a Trinamool Congress leader in Uluberia. Read moreAs voting for final phase of Assam assembly elections begins, high voter turnout expectedVoting for 40 constituencies in the third and final phase of the ongoing assembly polls in Assam began at 7.00am on Tuesday. People were seen queuing outside many polling stations; with the weather department predicting clear skies a high voter turnout is expected. Read more'Appeal to all to come out and cast their votes': DMK's Udhayanidhi Stalin#TamilNaduElections2021 | I appeal to all to come out and cast their votes, says DMK's Udhayanidhi Stalin who is contesting from the Chepauk assembly constituency pic.twitter.com/wRNAF3FrlaVisuals of polling in Arambag, Hooghly#UPDATE: Polling has now begun at booth number 129 of AC 200 in Arambag, Hooghly. #WestBengalPolls pic.twitter.com/MMaJI8aHLbNR Congress chief N Rangaswamy casts his vote in PuducherryNR Congress chief N Rangaswamy casts his vote at Govt Boys Middle School in Thilaspet.#PuducherryElections pic.twitter.com/ZsJxmqdZIODMK President MK Stalin casts his vote at Siet College, TeynampetChennai: DMK President MK Stalin cast his vote at Siet College, TeynampetHe was accompanied by his wife Durga and son Udhayanidhi Stalin#TamilNaduElections2021 pic.twitter.com/ilKnKyS9u1DMK President MK Stalin cast his vote at Siet College, Teynampet in Chennai.He was accompanied by his wife Durga and son Udhayanidhi Stalin. After casting his vote, MK Stalin said, "I have been getting reports of high voter turnout from across the State. This vote is against the ruling party", DMK President MK StalinKerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan casts his vote at a polling booth in PinarayiKannur: Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan arrives at a polling booth in Pinarayi to cast his vote#KeralaElections pic.twitter.com/Uy3XvLpatwActor Rajinikanth casts vote at a polling booth in ChennaiChennai: Actor Rajinikanth casts vote at a polling booth in Stella Maris of Thousand Lights constituency#TamilNaduElections pic.twitter.com/PRPGVKE8kvCongress' Chidambaram casts vote in Tamil Nadu#TamilNaduElections | Senior Congress leader P Chidambaram casts vote in polling booth Chittal Achi Memorial High School in Kandanur, Sivaganga district"Our secular progressive alliance is all set for a landslide victory as people of Tamil Nadu want a change," he says pic.twitter.com/TY4Ii4qZeISenior Congress leader P Chidambaram cast his vote in a polling booth Chittal Achi Memorial High School in Kandanur, Sivaganga district. "Our secular progressive alliance is all set for a landslide victory as people of Tamil Nadu want a change," Chidambaram said after casting his vote.Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan casts his vote in ChennaiTamil Nadu: Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan, his daughters Shruti Haasan & Akshara Haasan stand in a queue as they await their turn to cast vote. Visuals from Chennai High School, Teynampet in Chennai.#TamilNaduElections pic.twitter.com/7zjjcGUjVV'BJP will have an impressive show': 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan after casting his vote in the Kerala assembly electionsBJP will have an impressive show this time, there's no doubt about it. I will win from the Palakkad constituency with a big margin. My entry into BJP has given a different image to the party: 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan, BJP candidate#KeralaElections pic.twitter.com/ZMTsChpBuE"BJP will have an impressive show this time, there's no doubt about it. I will win from the Palakkad constituency with a big margin. My entry into BJP has given a different image to the party," said 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan after casting his vote in the Kerala assembly elections.Visuals from a polling booth in Kokrajhar, AssamTwo senior citizens cast their votes for the third and final phase of #AssamAssemblyPolls . Visuals from a polling booth in Kokrajhar. pic.twitter.com/2u01CZl0yYPrime Minister Modi urges people to vote in 4 states, 1 UT as polling beginsElections are taking place in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. I request the people in these places to vote in record numbers, particularly the young voters.Prime Minister Narendra Modi urged people to vote as polling began in 4 states, 1 UT on Tuesday. "Elections are taking place in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. I request the people in these places to vote in record numbers, particularly the young voters," he said in a tweet.'Metro Man' E Sreedharan arrives at a polling station in Kerala's PonnaniKerala: 'Metro Man' E Sreedharan arrives at a polling station in Ponnani to cast his vote in the single-phase #AssemblyElections2021 of the stateHe is BJP's candidate from Palakkad pic.twitter.com/VkxhI7JISXVisuals from inside a polling station in Pinarayi village in the Kannur districtVoting for the single-phase #KeralaElections to begin shortlyVisuals from inside a polling station in Pinarayi village in the Kannur district pic.twitter.com/gMp6VITG92Mock poll underway in polling booth at Abdalpur FP Primary School in Diamond Harbour, South 24 Parganas districtWest Bengal to vote today in the third-phase of #AssemblyElections2021 Mock poll underway in the polling booth at Abdalpur FP Primary School in Diamond Harbour, South 24 Parganas district pic.twitter.com/jEXv1S3wed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-election-2021-voting-live-updates-west-bengal-assam-phase-3-and-kerala-tamil-nadu-puducherry-single-phase-polling-today-101617667561266.html
07-04-2021||NA||Highlights: More than 76,000 beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid in Delhi||With 96,982 new cases of the coronavirus cases (Covid-19) and 446 related deaths in the last 24 hours, India’s tally has gone past 12.68 million, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Tuesday morning. On Monday, there were 103,558 cases of the coronavirus disease. The active cases of Covid-19 surged to 788,223 and recoveries have risen to 11,732,279, the health ministry's dashboard showed at 8am.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIndia's infection tally is the third-highest globally, behind that of the US and Brazil, respectively. According to the Johns Hopkins University tracker, the US' tally stands at over 30.7 million, Brazil's exceeds 13 million. The US also has the highest death toll due to the viral disease, the tracker shows. Brazil, Mexico and India, in that order, have the next highest death tolls due to Covid-19.Follow all the updates here:More than 76,000 beneficiaries vaccinated against Covid in DelhiMore than 76,000 beneficiaries in the national Capital were vaccinated against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Tuesday, officials told news agency PTI.Gujarat to be under night curfew from April 7 to April 30 amid Covid surgeGujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani said on Tuesday that the state will be placed under night curfew between 8 pm to 6 am from April 7 to April 30 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases. Rupani added that government offices will remain closed on every Saturday and all grand events will be postponed until April 30. Kerala reports 3,502 new Covid-19 cases, and 14 deathsKerala reports 3,502 new Covid-19 cases on Monday, taking the state-wide tally to active cases to 29,962. 14 deaths were also reported, the death toll now stands at 4,694, reported ANI.Nitish Kumar asks state officials to be prepared for people returning as Covid-19 cases riseBihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar held review meeting over COVID19 situation in state via video conferencing"Amid the rising COVID cases in other states, there's a possibility that people hailing from Bihar might return here. We must prepare quarantine centre for them," says CM pic.twitter.com/jSK4eamLSwBihar chief minister Nitish Kumar asks state officials to be prepared with quarantine centres for people returning as Covid-19 cases rise, ANI reported.Covid-19 pandemic in India has worsened, warnings were given: GovtOfficials from the Union health ministry confirmed on Tuesday that the second wave of Covid-19 is far more deadly than the first one because it is spreading at a higher rate. Read MoreCentral govt official expresses apprehension over Kumbh becoming a Covid-19 'super spreader'A senior official in the Central government expressed worries over the ongoing Kumbh Mela becoming a Covid-19 'super spreader' during a high level review meet, reported ANI. Read MoreRussia reports 8,328 new Covid-19 casesRussia reported 8,328 new Covid-19 cases on Tuesday, including 1,747 in Moscow, taking the official national tally to 4,597,868, reports Reuters.India administers highest-ever Covid-19 vaccine doses in 24 hoursIndia crosses a landmark milestone with the highest single-day Covid-19 vaccine coverage of more than 43 lakh doses administered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry's data showed.Puducherry reports 237 new Covid-19 casesPuducherry logged 237 fresh Covid-19 cases during last 24 hours ending 10 am on Tuesday, taking the aggregate to 42,776, reported PTI.Britain to rollout Moderna Covid-19 vaccine from mid-AprilBritain will begin the rollout of Moderna's Covid-19 vaccine in mid-April, vaccine deployment minister Nadhim Zahawi said on Tuesday, adding the vaccination programme was on track to meet government targets, reports Reuters.Pleased to be part of world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination drive: Australia’s High Commissioner to India Received the first dose today of Covishield vaccine, manufactured by Serum Institute of India. Pleased to be a part of the world’s largest Covid-19 vaccination program rolled out in India, said Barry O'Farrell AO, Australia’s High Commissioner to India, reported ANI.IMA writes to PM Modi for gearing up Covid-19 vaccination driveIndian Medical Association writes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggests "gearing up of Covid-19 vaccination drive with immediate effect and permit those above 18 years to receive vaccine".India reports 96,982 new Covid-19 cases, 446 deathsIndia reports 96,982 new Covid-19 cases and 446 fatalities in the last 24 hours. The Covid-19 case tally is now at 12,686,049, as per the Union health ministry data.Over 250 million samples tested for Covid-19 in India, says ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/XDDMHWz34h250,231,269 samples tested for Covid-19 till 5 April 2021. Total 12,11,612 samples tested on 5 April 2021: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)Governor of US' Montana state tests Covid-19 positiveGreg Gianforte, the governor of Montana state in the United States, has tested positive for Covid-19 a few days after receiving his first dose of the vaccine, his office has said in a statement.Mexico's confirmed death toll tops 204,000: Health ministryMexico reported 1,247 new Covid-19 and 252 related fatalities, according to data from the health ministry released on Monday, bringing the country's total to 2,251,705 infections and 204,399 deaths.Odisha imposes night curfew as Covid-19 cases spikeOdisha government imposes night curfew in 10 districts due to spike in coronavirus cases, says health department official.Over 80 cases of British Covid-19 strain found, says RussiaMore than 80 cases of the British Covid-19 variant have been registered in Russia, all of them are imported cases, Anna Popova, the head of the Russian public health watchdog, Rospotrebnadzor, has said.Brazil records over 28,000 new Covid-19 casesBrazil recorded 28,649 new Covid-19 cases and 1,319 related deaths in the last 24 hours, the country's health ministry has said. Infection tally tops 13 million, while death toll rises to 332,752.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-6-2021-101617667057599.html
07-04-2021||India||India, Bahrain agree to bolster defence and security cooperation||India and Bahrain on Wednesday agreed to strengthen bilateral defence and security cooperation, including through regular consultations in maritime security, combating piracy and counter-terrorism. This was decided at a meeting of the India-Bahrain high joint commission that was co-chaired in New Delhi by external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Bahraini counterpart Abdullatif bin Rashid Al Zayani. “Both sides recognised that the bilateral security dialogue has helped institutionalise cooperation in the area of intelligence-sharing as well as in identifying new areas for security cooperation, including cyber security,” said a joint statement issued after the meeting. “They agreed to further strengthen bilateral defence and security cooperation including through regular consultations in the areas of maritime security, combating piracy and counter-terrorism,” it added. The two sides reiterated their condemnation of all forms of terrorism and “called on all states to reject and abandon the use of terrorism against other countries”. The Bahraini side expressed interest in setting up pharmaceutical and vaccine production units with Indian collaboration, and the Indian side agreed to facilitate dialogue on this issue between relevant stakeholders, according to the joint statement. The Indian side also made a request for greater acceptance and market access for Indian pharmaceutical products in the Bahraini market. Following the signing of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) for cooperation in healthcare in July 2018, both sides have held talks to identify suitable areas for collaboration such as health services, medical and clinical research, social health insurance, pharmaceuticals and medical devices. As a follow-up to a MoU on space cooperation signed in March 2019 and a statement of intent for space cooperation signed in August 2019, both sides have held discussions for collaboration between the NewSpace India Limited (NSIL) and Bahrain’s National Space Science Agency, including building and launching a nano-satellite, establishing a ground station and providing assistance in capacity building to Bahrain. The Indian side thanked the government of Bahrain for the safety, security and welfare of the Indian community, especially during the Covid-19 pandemic. It expressed its appreciation to the Bahraini side for facilitating repatriation flights and for providing free Covid-19 vaccination to all, including the Indian community. The Bahraini side appreciated India’s role in keeping open supply chains for essential items, including food and medicines, amid the pandemic, and in gifting 100,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines. Bahrain is home to some 3,50,000 Indians, the largest expatriate community, and New Delhi had facilitated the travel of Indian medical professionals to Manama last year to cope with the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-bahrain-agree-to-bolster-defence-and-security-cooperation-101617818189266.html
07-04-2021||India||Don't treat farmers' stir like Shaheen Bagh protest, Tikait tells government||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait on Wednesday said the government should not treat the ongoing farmers' agitation like last year's protest in Delhi's Shaheen Bagh and asserted that the protesters will only go home after the new agricultural laws are repealed.He said the protesting farmers will follow all Covid-19 protocols and if need be, continue their agitation till 2023.Shaheen Bagh had emerged as the epicentre of anti-Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) protests last year as hundreds took part in a months-long sit-in that began in December 2019. The Delhi Police cleared the protest site on March 24, 2020, a day before a nationwide lockdown was enforced in view of the coronavirus outbreak.Speaking to reporters here, Tikait said the Centre's farm laws will only spell losses for farmers."Farmers will not go back home till these laws are repealed. They talk of coronavirus but we have told the government that they should not treat this stir like Shaheen Bagh. This agitation will not end. We will follow the coronavirus guidelines and this agitation will continue till our demands are met," he said.In response to a question, he said, "Even if we have to continue the protest till 2023, we are prepared. Till the time these laws are not repealed and a law is not framed on MSP, farmers will not go back home."Tikait reiterated that the farmers are ready to talk to the government."Whenever the government has time, we are ready to talk. We will wait for their call," he said.Thousands of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur -- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dont-treat-farmers-stir-like-shaheen-bagh-protest-tikait-tells-government-101617816473422.html
07-04-2021||India||Lockdown in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur for 10 days from April 9 amid Covid-19 surge||The Raipur district administration announced a 10-day strict lockdown from April 9 to April 19 owing to a surge in Covid-19 cases, a government order stated on Wednesday. According to the order issued by the Raipur collector, the entire area of the district, including the capital city, has been declared a containment zone and several activities have been restricted from 6 pm on April 9 till 6am on April 19. Raipur had reported 76,427 Covid-19 cases, including 1,001 deaths till Tuesday. The number of active cases in the state stands at 13,107. In the last six days, the district witnessed 10,755 cases and 93 deaths. On Tuesday, Chhattisgarh had recorded 9,921 cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the viral infection in March last year. “During the lockdown period, the border of the district will be completely sealed and shops, including liquor shops, and commercial establishments will remain closed except for medical stores. All central government, state government, semi-government, private offices and banks will be closed while offices related to telecom, railways and airports will be allowed to function,” the order stated adding that hospitals and ATMs have been kept out of the purview of the restriction. Industrial units and construction units will continue to function by ensuring accommodation to workers in the respective premises and other necessary facilities. Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel on Wednesday directed senior health officials to determine the procedure for allocating beds in hospitals for coronavirus patients as per their condition, an official said. Baghel also directed them to ensure that hospital beds are not allocated unnecessarily to anyone under any influence or reference, the public relations department official said. The chief minister said that beds with oxygen facility and ventilators should be provided only to those patients who actually need them. Patients, who do not need oxygen support can be admitted in Covid Care Centres or general beds of hospitals for treatment, he said. The CM earlier held talks with the representatives of social organisations and appealed to them to cooperate in the fight against the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-in-chhattisgarh-s-raipur-for-10-days-from-april-9-amid-covid-19-surge-101617815489141.html
07-04-2021||India||Supreme Court order on release of Rohingyas detained in Jammu on Thursday||The Supreme Court will pronounce order on Thursday on a plea seeking immediate release of detained Rohingya refugees in Jammu and direction to restrain the Centre from deporting them to Myanmar.A bench of Chief Justice SA Bobde and Justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian will pronounce its order on the interim plea moved by a Rohingya refugee Mohd Salimullah in the pending matter.On March 26, the top court had reserved its verdict on the plea.The Centre had opposed the plea saying that the country cannot be the “capital” for illegal immigrants.During the arguments, advocate Prashant Bhushan, appearing for the petitioner, said Rohingya children were subjected to killing, maiming and sexual exploitation and Military in Myanmar has failed to respect international humanitarian law.The Centre had contended that they are not refugees at all and this is the second round of litigation as the top court had earlier dismissed an application filed by the petitioner.“There was a similar application for Assam earlier. They (petitioners) wanted that no Rohingya be deported, we had said that we will follow the law. They are illegal immigrants. We are always in touch with Myanmar and when they confirm that the individual is their citizen, then only deportation can take place,” the Centre had said.Bhushan had alleged that Jammu and Kashmir administration has detained Rohingyas in Jammu, who have refugee cards and they will soon be deported.On March 11, an interim plea was filed in a pending PIL seeking immediate release of detained Rohingya refugees in Jammu.The plea also sought direction to Ministry of Home Affairs to expeditiously grant refugee identification cards through the Foreigners Regional Registration Office (FRRO) for Rohingyas in informal camps.The application, filed by Mohammad Salimullah, a Rohingya refugee, has said that it is filed in public interest in order to secure and protect the right against deportation of refugees in India.The plea said that it is filed to protect rights guaranteed under Article 14 and Article 21, read with Article 51(c) of the Constitution, against the deportation of Rohingya refugees who have taken refuge in India after escaping widespread violence and discrimination against their community in Myanmar.“Release the detained Rohingya refugees immediately and direct the Union Territory government and the Ministry of Home Affairs to expeditiously grant Refugee identification cards through the FRRO for Rohingyas in informal camps,” it said.It sought direction to the Union Government to refrain from implementing any orders on deporting Rohingya refugees, who have been detained in the sub jail in Jammu.Violent attacks allegedly by Myanmar army have led to an exodus of Rohingya tribals from the western Rakhine state in that country to India and Bangladesh.Many of them, who had fled to India after the earlier spate of violence, have settled in Jammu, Hyderabad, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi-NCR and Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-order-on-release-of-rohingyas-detained-in-jammu-on-thursday-101617814906965.html
07-04-2021||India||Mulayam Singh's niece joins BJP, to fight next district panchayat elections||Sandhya Yadav, niece of former Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister and Samajwadi Party (SP) leader Mulayam Singh Yadav, has joined the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and she has been given a ticket for the upcoming District Panchayat elections.The BJP released the list of candidates for the District Panchayat member, in which Sandhya has been nominated from Ghiror, Mainpuri from ward number 18.Sandhya is the daughter of Mulayam Singh's elder brother Abhairam Yadav and former MP from Badaun Dharmendra Yadav's elder sister.Sandhya is a former District Panchayat President of Mainpuri. She was made the District Panchayat president by the Samajwadi Party in 2016, but a family quarrel followed.She seems to have then taken the support of the BJP, which in turn gave her a ticket without delay. Sandhya filed her nomination on Wednesday. The elections will be held in four phases from April 15 to 29. The results will be announced on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mulayam-singh-s-niece-joins-bjp-to-fight-next-district-panchayat-elections-101617814619788.html
07-04-2021||India||Lockdown in Madhya Pradesh's Chhindwara after Covid-19 cases spike||The Madhya Pradesh government announced lockdown in the entire Chhindwara district for the next seven days beginning from 8 pm on Thursday. The decision has been taken in view of the increasing number of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan's office (CMO) said.The government also decided to impose complete lockdown for the next 2 days (starting 8pm on Wednesday) in Shajapur city."Night curfew will be clamped in all the urban areas of the state till further orders from 10 pm to 6 am every night from April 8. In the urban areas of all districts of the state, there will be a lockdown on every Sunday till further orders," the CMO tweeted."In view of increasing cases of COVID-19, all the government offices of the state will be open 5 days a week (Monday to Friday), from 10 am to 6 pm for the next 3 months. The government offices will remain closed on Saturday-Sunday," it said in another tweet.These are among the decisions taken by Chouhan at a high-level meeting to review Covid-19 situation in the state.The meeting was called on a day when Madhya Pradesh reported 4,043 fresh coronavirus positive cases, taking the tally of infections to 3,18,014, according to state health department's bulletin. Thirteen fatalities pushed the toll to 4,086 in the state.A total of 2,126 patients were discharged from hospitals in the last 24 hours, taking the count of recoveries in Madhya Pradesh to 2,87,869, the department said.Since March 31, Madhya Pradesh recorded 22,503 fresh Covid-19 cases including 100 fatalities.With 33,419 new tests, the total number of samples tested for coronavirus in Madhya Pradesh so far has crossed 65.95 lakh.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-in-madhya-pradesh-s-chhindwara-after-covid-19-cases-spike-101617813522332.html
07-04-2021||India||Gujarat government refutes Congress' Covid-19 pandemic mismanagement claims||Refuting the Congress' allegation of mismanagement and failure in tackling the coronavirus situation in the state, the BJP government in Gujarat claimed that its track record was far better than other states.Gujarat Deputy Chief Minister Nitin Patel, who handles Health portfolio, said over 80 lakh persons in the state were already given the Covid-19 vaccine, which is a record in the country."Our government was always serious about coronavirus and we have implemented various measures in a well-planned manner during the last one year. Compared to other states, Gujarat is way ahead when it comes to fighting this pandemic," Patel told reporters at a press conference in Gandhinagar."Till now, 80.17 lakh persons have already been vaccinated in the state. This is more than any other state. Instead of helping the government or people in these difficult times, Congress leaders are levelling baseless allegations for political gains," the deputy chief minister said.Earlier during the day, Rajya Sabha MP and national spokesperson of the Congress Shaktisinh Gohil claimed that ICU beds and ventilators were not available for patients, neither in private nor in government-run hospitals.In a statement, Gohil also criticised the government over the issue of vaccination, claiming that the second wave could have been averted if the countrymen had been given preference in vaccination instead of giving the doses to other countries.Former Gujarat Congress President Arjun Modhwadia, in a press conference, alleged that the BJP government in the state is concealing the real figures about tests and infections."The BJP government shied away from discussing the issue of coronavirus in the recently held budget session of the state Assembly. This government is concealing figures to hide their failure. Instead of taking serious steps, the BJP only concentrated on elections and post-poll celebrations," Modhwadia claimed.Responding to the allegations, Patel said even the High Court and WHO had expressed satisfaction about the work done by the Gujarat government to stem the viral spread."We are conducting around 1 lakh tests daily, including 40,000 RT-PCR tests. Gujarat's recovery rate was once 98 per cent, which now stands at 94 per cent. It is true that the number of infections has increased in recent times. But we have never concealed facts or figures from the public," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-government-refutes-congress-covid-19-pandemic-mismanagement-claims-101617812528651.html
07-04-2021||India||US envoy Kerry meets Modi as India eyes net zero target||US climate envoy John Kerry met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in New Delhi Wednesday as India debates setting a goal to zero out its greenhouse gas emissions by 2050.Kerry said the US would support India’s climate plans and facilitate access to green technologies and finance, while Modi acknowledged that such cooperation would result in faster deployment of clean technologies. India is the world’s third-biggest emitter of greenhouse gases.Kerry’s visit comes ahead of a meeting of leaders from 40 nations from April 22-23, organized by US. President Joe Biden, that aims to galvanize efforts to commit to more ambitious climate change mitigation targets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-envoy-kerry-meets-modi-as-india-eyes-net-zero-target-101617811767033.html
07-04-2021||India||Assembly polls over, Kerala tightens Covid-19 restrictions||With polling for the crucial assembly elections over, Kerala has decided to tighten Covid-19 curbs in view of the mounting cases in other states. Chief secretary VP Joy convened a core committee meet on Wednesday and directed police and health officials to strengthen vigil and enforce social distancing and other protocol.“The core committee has decided to strengthen vigil across the state. Special magistrates will be deployed to enforce restrictions. People coming from other states and abroad will be under quarantine for a week,” said a statement issued after the meeting. It has also asked polling agents and officials who participated in the electoral process to undergo Covid-19 tests on priority basis.Watch | Will BJP be vote-cutter, king-maker, or stage major upset? Decoding Kerala pollsKerala was forced to tighten restrictions as norms were diluted at the height of the assembly election by almost all political parties. In some of the poll rallies, more than 25,000 people participated. Though the Election Commission had issued strict directives, on the final day nearly all political parties displayed a show of strength.The state has also decided to increase the testing rate with added emphasis on RT-PCR tests. State health secretary Rajan Kobragade said 36,21,458 people had been given the first dose of the vaccine and 4,32,396 administered the second dose. He said there was no shortage of vaccines in the state and it had enough reserve.On Wednesday, the state reported 3,502 new cases with a test positivity rate of 5.78 per cent. Sixteen deaths in the last 24 hours took the toll in Kerala to 4710.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assembly-polls-over-kerala-tightens-covid-19-restrictions-101617810629601.html
07-04-2021||India||Mumbai records over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases for third time this month; Maharashtra adds nearly 60,000 to its tally||Mumbai recorded yet another spike of over 10,000 new Covid-19 cases (10,442 to be exact) in the last 24 hours, according to state government's health bulletin on Wednesday. Maharashtra, the worst-hit state, too added 59,907 new cases in its tally, which has now reached 31,73,261, the health bulletin showed.This is the third time this month that Mumbai has recorded more than 10,000 cases. On Tuesday, the country's financial capital recorded 10,030 new Covid-19 cases, while on Sunday, it reported 11,163 new cases, the highest since the pandemic began.Meanwhile, the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said that the recovery rate in Mumbai has gone down to 80 per cent, adding that the overall growth rate has worsened to 1.91 per cent and the doubling rate has dropped to 35 days.There are 72 active containment zones in the city, where 789 buildings have been sealed to curb the spread of the virus.On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 55,469 new Covid-19 cases and 297 deaths.The state government on Sunday announced a series of stringent measures (which will be in place till April 30) to check the spread of the infection. Among them is weekend lockdown, stricter night curfew and prohibition of assembly of more than five people during the day. Essential services are, however, exempted.The Mumbai Police on Wednesday announced updated guidelines which restricts the movement of people in public areas and transport while exempting those involved in essential services.Announcing the guideline son Twitter, Mumbai Police said, "Public Places: Weekdays (7 am-8 pm) - the movement of no more than 5 people allowed Weekdays (8 pm-7 am) and 8 pm Friday to 7 am Monday - no movement except essential services Beaches- Closed till 30 April."While private offices will remain closed, government offices have been allowed to run with 50 per cent occupancy whereas government offices required for response to Covid-19, electricity, water, banking and financial services are allowed to function with 100 per cent capacity.Moreover, only 50 guests are allowed in wedding ceremonies while not more than 20 people can attend funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-again-records-over-10-000-new-covid-19-cases-maha-tally-up-by-nearly-60k-101617808797701.html
07-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Union health minister denies Covid-19 vaccine shoratage and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'No vaccine shortage, attempts by state govts to spread panic': Harsh VardhanUnion health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday condemned what he called 'deplorable' attempts by some state governments to distract attention from their failures and called them out for their 'irresponsible statements' in the context of the coronavirus pandemic. Read more‘I’m just glad two teams went hard for me’: Maxwell explains why the ₹14.25 crore RCB contract didn't surprise himAustralian all-rounder Glenn Maxwell is eager to share the dressing room with the likes of Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers in the upcoming season of the Indian Premier League (IPL). Read moreAnita Hassanandani lovingly rocks son Aaravv in her lap, asks: 'Who’s gonna be two months in 2 days?'Actor Anita Hassanandani is enjoying every moment as a new mother. On Wednesday, she shared a cute video of herself, rocking her son Aaravv on her lap. Read moreThis new malware spreads itself by automatically replying to your WhatsApp messagesA new application has appeared on the Google Play Store, which reportedly spreads itself via WhatsApp messages. Read moreShraddha Kapoor sets Maldives on fire in blue Zara bralette, Stradivarius shortsRaising the bar of fashion goals for beachwear this summer, Street Dancer 3D star Shraddha Kapoor set Maldives on fire with her sultry sunkissed pictures. Read moreWatch: Amit Shah eats at rickshaw puller's house; TMC defector's 'bhatija' jibeUnion Home Minister Amit Shah campaigned in West Bengal's Domjur on Aprli 7. The Bharatiya Janata Party has fielded Trinamool Congress rebel Rajib Banerjee from the seat. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-union-health-minister-denies-covid-19-vaccine-shoratage-and-all-the-latest-news-101617807845394.html
07-04-2021||India||China capable of launching cyber-attacks against India, says CDS Gen Rawat||Chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat on Wednesday said China was ahead of India in technology, and it was capable of launching cyber-attacks against India. He said the biggest gap between the two countries was in the cyber domain and it was being addressed in a serious manner.“We know China is capable of launching cyber-attacks on us. And that it (China) can disrupt a large amount of our systems,” Rawat said in response to a question after delivering a talk on Shaping the Armed Forces to Meet Likely Current and Future Challenges. Vivekananda International Foundation organised the event.Rawat said India was trying to create systems for cyber defence to deal with such attacks. He said cyber agencies in the military were working to ensure that “the downtime and the effect of a cyber-attack” did not last long.“We should be able to overcome cyber-attacks and continue with our systems either through an alternative or preventive means through firewalls. So, while we are trying to create firewalls for cyber-attacks, yet we are quite sure they (China) will be able to break through the firewalls…But then what we are trying to do is how long will your system be down, and how will you be able to operate through that phase of cyber-attack you have been put through. That is one thing we are looking at and addressing in a serious manner,” he said.The CDS’s comments come at a time when India and China are locked in a border standoff in eastern Ladakh and efforts are underway to withdraw front-line troops and weaponry from friction points along the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC).Rawat said India was developing new technologies to bridge the gap with China. The CDS said closing the technology gap with the neighbour would require integration of the resources of the three services.“The three services are at different levels as far as our technology orientation is concerned. The navy is far ahead of the army and the Indian Air Force (IAF) in the way they have imbibed technology. If you integrate, you will at least be able to catch up with them (China). We may not be able to fully catch up with China, so we are trying to develop some kind of a relationship with western nations to see how we can get better support from them during peacetime at least to see how we can overcome this deficiency,” Rawat said.Cyber has, perhaps, come to acquire a pivotal position in any nation’s security architecture, said Air Vice Marshal Manmohan Bahadur (retd), additional director general, Centre for Air Power Studies.“While preparing to acquire offensive capability, it is critical that one’s own systems are protected. While we may be lagging behind China, our nation does not lack cerebral capital to catch up unlike in other capital acquisitions. All efforts must be made to tap the nation’s inherent cyber know-how to protect our vital infrastructure from cyber intrusions,” Bahadur said.Responding to a question on the challenges to theaterisation and the ongoing efforts to bring about jointness among the three services, Rawat said India as a nation believed in status quo and there was always a hesitation to change.“Also, there is a feeling amongst the three services that army being a very large service --- compared to navy and IAF --- will possibly usurp the two entities and everything will become army-centric. I think this is a misnomer because the army, navy and IAF have their own specialties. They will retain their autonomy and integration will only ensure that we have systems that at least operate together,” Rawat said.On women in the armed forces, the CDS said the services were opening more roles to them and there were some areas where they were performing better than men and vice-versa. He said the armed forces were looking at exploiting the capabilities of both men and women and ensuring they were utilised in roles they were best suited for.“There are some tasks that are better performed by women. For example, when we look at cyber, artificial intelligence, quantum computing --- areas where you need concentration and the ability to sit long hours on the desk --- we have found that the women workforce is better capable than the men folk. So somewhere the women have shown better capability and there are some areas where men have better capability,” Rawat said.One of the turning points for women in the military came in 2015 when IAF decided to induct them into the fighter stream. Tanks and combat positions in infantry are still no-go zones for women, who were allowed to join the armed forces outside the medical stream for the first time in 1992.This year, the navy deployed four women officers on warships after a hiatus of almost 25 years. The army has decided to allow them to fly helicopters this year onwards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-capable-of-launching-cyber-attacks-against-india-says-cds-gen-rawat-101617808708167.html
07-04-2021||India||'Centre replenishes more Covid-19 vaccine than needed': Javadekar after Maharashtra highlights stock shortage||Amid the complaint raised by Maharashtra government about a shortage in stock of Covid-19 vaccine, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar on Wednesday said that the supplies to Maharashtra are being replenished.In a tweet, Javadekar said the Maharashtra state government “should not play politics over vaccination” and shared the numbers about the supply and consumption of vaccines in the state."Maharashtra Govt should not play politics over vaccination. Here are the facts: Total number of COVID vaccine supplied to State till date - 1,06,19,190; Consumption - 90,53,523 (of which 6% wastage - over 5L); Vaccine in pipeline - 7,43,280. Dosage available - nearly 23 lakhs," Javadekar said on Twitter.Central Govt replenishes more vaccine than what is needed for actual use."Central Govt replenishes more vaccine than what is needed for actual use," he said in subsequent tweet.The Union minister's comments came after Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope requested the Centre to supply vaccine stocks to the state for inoculating 600,000 beneficiaries a day. He also noted that several vaccination centres across the state have been shut because of the shortage.Watch | ‘Mumbai facing Covid vaccine shortage, stock may exhaust in 2-3 days’: Mayor“The union minister Prakash Javadekar had asked us to double the vaccination numbers and had assured to provide adequate stock. We accepted it as a challenge and increased the daily vaccination to 450,000 lakh from 300,000. We will achieve the target of inoculating 600,000 beneficiaries in no time. However, we have started facing shortage of vaccine stock and have to shut down many centres across the state as there is no stock left," the health minister told reporters.Earlier in the day, Mumbai city mayor Kishori Pednekar also raised similar concerns about shortage of vaccines in the city. “There is a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in Mumbai. Yesterday, we had 1,76,000 vaccine doses but in the coming days, we will require more vaccines,” she was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Meanwhile, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan has said that the allegations about shortage in vaccine supply are “utterly baseless”. In a strongly worded statement, Vardhan said, “I have seen statements made by public representatives in Maharashtra about shortage of vaccines. This is nothing but an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government’s repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic. The inability of Maharashtra government to act responsibly is beyond comprehension. To spread panic among the people is to compound the folly further.”Watch | ‘No shortage of Covid Vaccine in any part of the country’: Harsh VardhanVardhan said that vaccine supplies are being monitored on a real-time basis, and state governments are being apprised regularly about it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-replenishes-more-covid-19-vaccine-than-needed-javadekar-after-maharashtra-highlights-stock-shortage-101617806290638.html
07-04-2021||India||'No vaccine shortage, attempts by state govts to spread panic': Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday condemned what he called 'deplorable' attempts by some state governments to distract attention from their failures and called them out for their 'irresponsible statements' in the context of the coronavirus pandemic. His statement comes in the wake of Maharashtra health minister's comment that his state is facing shortage of Covid-19 vaccine stock. Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"At a time when the country is witnessing a fresh wave of rising Covid-19 infections, I am alarmed to note the fact that many State governments have failed to take appropriate response measures and apply the lessons that the nation has learned over the past one year of handling this pandemic," Harsh Vardhan said.Targeting Maharashtra over the state health minister's remarks, he said, "The inability of Maharashtra government to act responsibly is beyond comprehension. To spread panic among the people is to compound the folly further. Vaccine supplies are being monitored on a real-time basis, and state governments are being apprised regularly about it. Allegations of vaccine shortage are utterly baseless."Terming the demands made by some leaders to open up vaccination to everyone above the age of 18 'most concerning', the union health minister said the vaccination strategy was dependent on the the demand-supply dynamics. "The vaccination strategy has been drawn up after extensive deliberations and consultations in partnership with all state governments," he said.Reiterating the need to prioritise certain categories of citizens over others when it comes to vaccination, he said the supply of vaccines was limited and this was the only possible way forward."When states ask to open up vaccine supplies to everyone over 18, we must presume that they have done saturation coverage of healthcare workers, frontline workers and senior citizens. But the facts are altogether different," he said, further sharpening his attack.Maharashtra has vaccinated just only 86% of health workers with first dose, 41% with second dose, and among frontline workers, the state has vaccinated only 73% with first dose, he said."When it comes to senior citizens, Maharashtra has vaccinated just 25%, Delhi has vaccinated 30% & Punjab has vaccinated only 13%. There are 4 states/UTs that have already vaccinated more than 50%," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/-no-vaccine-shortage-attempts-by-state-govts-to-spread-panic-harsh-vardhan-101617801041203.html
07-04-2021||India||Centre opens up Covid-19 vaccination at work places from April 11||The Centre has written to states to launch Covid-19 vaccinations at workplaces from Sunday, April 11, provided there is an availability of at least 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries.“…in order to increase the access of the vaccine to these populations, Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organized at work places (both public and private) which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these work places with an existing Covid vaccination centre (CVC). .. Please initiate due consultations with public and private sector employers and management to prepare for launch of work place vaccination. Such work place vaccination centres may be launched across states and UTs from April 11, 2021,” wrote Union health secretary, Rajesh Bhushan, to all state chief secretaries and principal secretary (health).The idea behind the move is to rapidly cover the eligible beneficiaries who are prone to getting severe Covid-19, and also to make it convenient for working professionals to access the vaccination. It will also ensure that people do not need to travel to get vaccinated, therefore, avoiding the risk of contracting the viral infection.“A substantial proportion of population aged 45 years and above are in the organized sector of the economy, and is involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private)…” the letter further read.The threshold of 100 minimum eligible beneficiaries has been set to have optimal vaccine utilization, and to avoid wastage as far as possible.It will be the responsibility of the district task force— chaired by district magistrate— and urban task force— chaired by municipal commissioner— to identify government and private workplaces after due deliberation with relevant employers and head of offices.The office management will designate an employee as a nodal officer to oversee and facilitate all aspects of the vaccination process in office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-opens-up-covid-19-vaccination-at-work-places-from-april-11-101617802947573.html
07-04-2021||India||Indian Navy to seek green light for expansion of nuke, diesel submarine fleet||The Indian Navy intends to approach the government for authorised force levels of nuclear-powered and diesel-electric attack submarines in addition to the ballistic missile submarines with Strategic Force Command (SFC), people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The navy’s new plan, inspired by a similar cabinet authorisation for 42 squadrons of the Indian Air Force, will seek approvals for 6 nuclear-powered attack submarines and 18 diesel attack submarines, a South Block official said. The authorisation for the diesel subs would include those with an air-independent propulsion system, or AIP, which ensures these submarines can remain under surface for a longer period and are quieter than the nuclear-powered submarine.The proposed move comes at a time the navy is finalising plans to seek approval from the Defence Acquisition Committee to build six nuclear-powered attack submarines, or SSNs, as part of the defence establishment’s continuing focus on expanding the navy’s capabilities to counter the rise of China’s navy in the Indian Ocean Region and beyond.India currently has only one Akula class SSN on lease from Russia, Akula-II nuclear-powered attack boat INS Chakra, and 15 diesel-electric submarines including the Scorpene-class submarine INS Kalvari. While three of the Kalvari class submarines have been commissioned, the remaining three will be fitted with the AIP system that makes the submarine more lethal than SSNs because its low radar signature minimizes the possibility of detection.The SSNs play a huge role in sea denial to the adversary and have the capability to remain under the sea without surfacing except for replenishing food stocks and other logistics.The Indian Strategic Forces Command, which is part of the Nuclear Command Authority and is responsible for the management of the country’s strategic nuclear weapons stockpile, has one 6,000 tonnes nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) INS Arihant. The next SSBN, INS Arighat, is set to be commissioned in 2022, the 75th year of Independence and will have K-15 and K-4 nuclear-capable submarine-launched intermediate-range ballistic missiles on board. The K-15 is expected to have a range of up to 1,500 km while the K-4 is likely to have a maximum range of 3,500 km.Both missiles are being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, or DRDO.The DRDO also has long-term plans to develop and test-fire the K5 missile, which will have a range of 5,000 km, the same range as the Agni-5 surface-to-surface missile.The SSBN is the most potent of the nuclear triad due to its survival capabilities and forms the backbone of India’s second-strike capability due to its no-first-use (NFU) policy as spelt out in the draft nuclear doctrine.India’s strategic ally France is willing to jointly design and develop SSNs with India, a partnership that will assume importance when Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes to Paris to hold a bilateral summit with President Emmanuel Macron after the completion of the India-EU summit at Lisbon on May 8. The French SSNs are based in Toulon in southern France, and its ballistic missiles submarines in the port city of Brest in northwestern France.India’s national security establishment is already in touch with its French counterparts to ensure that the Indian Navy builds up enough deterrence in the Indo-Pacific in the face of the rapidly expanding PLA Navy. The Indian Navy expects the PLA Navy to start sending carrier strike force patrols to the Indian Ocean by 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indian-navy-to-seek-green-light-for-expansion-of-nuke-diesel-submarine-fleet-101617802467650.html
07-04-2021||India||Maharashtra traders give ultimatum to CM Uddhav Thackeray to withdraw shutdown||The traders in Maharashtra have given 24-hour ultimatum to chief minister Uddhav Thacekray to take back the decision to impose strict curbs to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The state government on Sunday imposed stricter norms, including weekend lockdown, stricter night curfew and prohibition of assembly of more than five people during the day.The federation of association of Maharashtra (FAM) - a body of traders, merchants, entrepreneurs and businessmen - has said that the latest measure will impact them badly. FAM president Vinesh Mehta said that they are still not able to recover from the losses caused by last year's lockdown and now the Maharashtra government has imposed these stringent measures."These curbs will finish small traders," said Mehta.The traders' body has decided to wear black band and black mask if the state government doesn't listen to their demands. Their protest will start from Thursday.FAM vice president Jitendra Shah said that traders have to pay salaries to their workers, taxes and rent. "Where will we get money for all this? If the government doesn't listen to us, we will intensify our protest," he added.Many shopkeepers and traders on Tuesday staged protests across Maharashtra against the state government's latest restriction, citing that the move will severely impact small businesses amid the pandemic.Some of the traders took to the streets in Mumbai. According to the police, traders gathered in Borivali and Bhendi Bazaar area of south Mumbai shouting slogans and holding placards to protest the lockdown.As per the state government's latest curbs to control the surge in Covid-19 cases, shops and establishments selling non-essential commodities and services will have to remain shut till April 30.Medical stores, shops selling vegetables, groceries, dairies, among other essential service providers are allowed to function.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-traders-give-ultimatum-to-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-withdraw-shutdown-101617801787503.html
07-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu reports close to 4,000 new Covid-19 infections, highest single-day spike in 2021||Tamil Nadu reported close to 4,000 new Covid-19 infections (3,986 to be exact) in 24 hours, which took the state’s tally to 911,110 cases, according to state government's health bulletin on Wednesday. This is the highest spike in daily new cases for the state this year. Also, 17 people lost their lives due to the infection, which pushed the death toll in the state to 12,821, according to the bulletin.The active caseload in Tamil Nadu jumped by 2,145 cases and currently stands at 27,743, the bulletin said. There were 25,598 active cases on the previous day.Also read | Karnataka imposes restrictions under Sec 144 in Bengaluru city limits as Covid-19 infections surgeThe state has reported over 1,000 cases everyday since March 19, over 2,000 cases everyday since March 27 and over 3,000 cases everyday since April 2, a fact that the situation has been deteriorating in the southern state in the past few weeks. A month ago, on March 7, there were 567 new cases in the 24-hour timespan and active case stood at 3,952 in Tamil Nadu.As far as testing of samples is concerned, Tamil Nadu government has maintained the trend of testing over 80,000 new samples everyday. On Wednesday too, 80,535 RT-PCR tests for the disease were conducted in the state, according to the bulletin. The government noted that there were 260 functioning Covid-19 testing facilities in the state, comprising 69 government facilities and 191 private.Meanwhile, Chennai continues to be the worst affected district in the state with 390 new cases and two related fatalities on Wednesday. So far, 257,851 cases have been identified overall in Chennai and as many as 10,685 active cases are present. Chennai alone accounts for 4,286 of the 12,821 total deaths in the state.Also read | Record daily spike in Covid cases in Odisha, situation could turn ‘devastating’Earlier in the day, the Union health ministry red-flagged Tamil Nadu as one among 12 states and union territories where an upward trajectory has been observed in the number of daily new infections.Also, with restrictions and night curfews being implemented in some states to curb the spread of the virus, Madras High Court chief justice Sanjib Banerjee commented that “Covid-19 situation appears to be very serious in Tamil Nadu but there is no lockdown yet, no masking and people appear to be taking chances,” news agency ANI reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-reports-close-to-4-000-new-covid-19-infections-highest-single-day-spike-in-2021-101617801024627.html
07-04-2021||India||Mob attacks couple inside Odisha police station||In another instance of a mob attacking police in Odisha, around 150 people attacked Remuna police station in Balasore district on Tuesday night, critically injuring two complainants. However, the outnumbered policemen escaped from the station sensing danger.The mob arrived at the police station around 11 pm on Tuesday looking to challenge the complainants-- one Raghunath Sahu and his wife Pramita Das, residents of Miyanbagh village, who were at the station complaining about the alleged ransacking of their houses by their rivals from neighbouring Mandarpur village.Remuna police station inspector Sriballav Sahu said Sahu and his wife reached the police station last night alleging their houses were ransacked by a group due to old enmity. “We were about to visit their village for an inquiry when around 150 people suddenly arrived at the police station. We immediately closed the gate but by that time 20-30 people barged into the police station and attacked the complainants leaving them critically injured,” said Sahu.The injured couple were first admitted to Remuna Community Health centre but later shifted to Balasore Medical College and Hospital after their condition deteriorated.The mob also vandalised the police station, said police. The assailants are yet to be arrested, however, a search operation has been launched based on the CCTV footage.Last month, a mob in the Jajpur district set a police jeep and a van at Balichandrapur police station on fire over enmity between two groups. In February this year, a police team escorting an accused, arrested in a case of oil theft, was allegedly attacked by villagers in the Dhenkanal district. The same month three police personnel including an assistant sub-inspector were injured in a mob attack while arresting a person accused of extortion in Jagatsinghpur district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mob-attacks-couple-inside-odisha-police-station-101617801147094.html
07-04-2021||India||Young man who crossed LoC near Kupwara handed over to Pakistani Army||A young man who had inadvertently crossed the Line of Control was handed over to the Pakistani Army on Thursday morning.The young man had crossed Line of Control in Kupwara sector two days ago and was arrested by the army.According to a defence spokesperson, the young man had inadvertently crossed the Line of Control and wandered into Karnah, Kupwara on April 5.He was identified as Mausam, the son of Manzoor Ahmad from Lipa of Pakistan occupied Kashmir.“He stayed with the Indian troops deployed along the Line of Control for the night and Pakistani authorities were informed about his whereabouts. Based on the interaction between the authorities of both sides, the Indian Army repatriated the young man to the Pakistani authorities at the Tithwal crossing point as a humanitarian gesture,” the spokesperson said.Before being handed over, the young man was given clothes and sweets. “The exchange took place at 11:50 am. Such inadvertent incidents have taken place earlier also due to close proximity of villages along the Line of Control on either sides. However, the Indian side has always been prompt in returning individuals keeping the humanitarian issue in mind,” the spokesperson said.The Tithwal Bridge located on Kishanganga river has been doubling up as a point of peace between the two sides, the spokesperson said. “It would be pertinent to highlight that the site has started attracting visitors from either sides and is emerging as a tourist site especially after the recent ceasefire between India and Pakistan. The peace and tranquillity as a result of the agreement, is being appreciated by the population on either sides of the Line of Control,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/young-man-who-crossed-loc-near-kupwara-handed-over-to-pakistani-army-101617799347352.html
07-04-2021||India||Govt may soon organise Covid-19 vaccination sessions at workplaces||The government may allow Covid-19 vaccination sessions to be organised at workplaces (both public and private) in a bid to ramp up the ongoing vaccination drive in the country, news agency ANI reported.The sessions will be organised in offices having 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these workplaces with an existing Covid vaccination centre, ANI further reported.Such workplace vaccination centres may be launched across states/union territories from April 11, according to ANI.There have been demands to increase the ambit of the Covid-19 vaccine coverage, especially in the wake of resurgence in cases of infection. Several chief ministers have urged the Centre to reduce the age limit for vaccination.The Indian Medical Association (IMA), meanwhile, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting that vaccination be allowed for all people above the age of 18 years."At present, we are vaccinating the population above 45 years. In view of the rapid spread of the second wave of the disease, we suggest that our vaccination strategy be geared up with immediate effect and on war footing," the IMA said in its letter to PM Modi.The nationwide inoculation drive began on January 16 this year, with healthcare and frontline workers getting the vaccine shot in the first phase. The drive was later expanded to include those above the age of 60 and 45+ with comorbidities.From April 1, the government opened the drive for everyone above the age of 45.The Union health ministry has said that India has surpassed the US to become the fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country in the world with an average daily rate of 30,93,861 doses.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 8.70 crore.In India, two vaccines are being administered - Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-soon-organise-covid-19-vaccination-sessions-at-workplaces-101617798224468.html
07-04-2021||India||Record daily spike in Covid cases in Odisha, situation could turn ‘devastating’||Odisha on Wednesday reported the highest daily spike this year with 799 fresh Covid-19 cases registered across the state, a day after chief minister Naveen Patnaik announced a 10-day special drive to enforce Covid-safety-protocols and said that the situation could turn ‘devastating’ if the fresh wave of infections were not contained in time.The 791 fresh Covid-19 cases pushed the disease tally to 3,44,647, said a health department official quoted by PTI. The death toll rose to 1,923 after one more patient from Puri succumbed to the disease, he said. Of the new cases, 459 were reported from quarantine centres and 332 detected during contact tracing.Active cases in Odisha jumped to 4,255, from just 694 on March 7, while 3,38,416 patients have so far recovered from the disease, the official said. Eight districts bordering Chhattisgarh accounted for the bulk of the daily caseload as the infection kept on spreading to rural areas.“This new wave of Covid virus seems more infectious and might create a devastating situation if we do not take it seriously. We will go for strict enforcement of Covid norms... to slow down the spread of the virus. DGP will deploy the police personnel in large numbers across the state in a 10-day drive to strictly enforce the Covid safety protocols as notified,” Patnaik said on Tuesday after a Covid review meeting through video conference.The state government has already rushed PG students in various medical colleges to the western Odisha districts to man the Covid hospitals.“We are now battle-hardened and I am sure we will be able to successfully tackle this resurgence of the virus. We have to reactivate all our protocols and make the entire machinery work with enthusiasm and vigour,” said Patnaik.He directed chief secretary, additional chief secretary of health and family welfare department and senior officials to visit the western Odisha districts that are seeing a major spurt in Covid cases.The district administration in Puri, where the iconic Jagannath Temple attracts lakhs of visitors, has made it mandatory for travellers from five Covid hotspot states-- Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Punjab and Kerala to produce Covid-19 negative RT-PCR certificates at the railway station and bus terminus, a district official said.The state government has started imposing night curfew from 10pm to 5am in Sundargarh, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput and Nabarangpur districts to contain the spread of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/record-daily-spike-in-covid-cases-in-odisha-situation-could-turn-devastating-101617797305516.html
07-04-2021||India||22-year-old UP man self-immolates after woman refuses to meet him||A 22-year-old married man died in a village here on Wednesday, two days after he allegedly set fire on himself outside the house of a woman he was in love with, police said.The deceased, Akash, allegedly self-immolated after dousing himself with kerosene in Jokhanpur village of Baheri tehsil on Monday, they said.He took the extreme step after the woman refused to meet him, the police said, adding that she was staying at a relative's place.Akash was rushed to a hospital with severe burn injuries, and he died during treatment on Wednesday, the police added.Senior Superintendent of Police (SSP) Rohit Singh Sajwan said the incident appeared to be an outcome of a failed love affair. Further investigation is on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/22yearold-up-man-self-immolates-after-woman-refuses-to-meet-him-101617796211416.html
07-04-2021||India||Militants open fire on security personnel in J&K's Shopian; no casualty reported||Militants opened fire on security personnel in Jammu and Kashmir's Shopian district on Wednesday but there was no damage in the incident, officials said.The ultras opened fire on a mobile check party of the police and CRPF at Imamsahib in Shopian town around 3.20 pm, they added.There was no report of any casualty and the assailants managed to flee, taking advantage of the chaos triggered by the firing, the officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/militants-open-fire-on-security-personnel-in-j-k-s-shopian-no-casualty-reported-101617796510206.html
07-04-2021||India||Pak-linked ISI terror module busted in Gujarat; three held||The Ahmedabad crime branch on Wednesday arrested three persons for allegedly setting ablaze seven shops here as part of a larger conspiracy of Pakistan's spy agency ISI to spread terror by luring unsuspecting petty criminals in need of money, officials said.They have been booked under IPC sections for waging war against the government and provisions of the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA), they said.An unidentified ISI agent, without revealing his true identity or motive, had allegedly lured the three men to set the shops on fire here in Gujarat as part of the ISI's plans to spread terror, jeopardise internal security and cause economic losses to India, the police said.Those arrested have been identified as Bhupendra Vanzara, Anil Khatik and Ankit Pal, they said.Pal was admitted to hospital under police protection as he had tested positive for coronavirus.As directed by the ISI handler, who used to identify himself as Baba Bhai and has several Facebook profiles with similar names, the three accused set ablaze seven cloth shops in Kalupur area here on the night of March 20, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Premvir Singh told reporters."After the incident, we received intelligence inputs that the shops were deliberately set on fire by some men at the behest of the ISI. Following a detailed probe into the matter, we nabbed the three men," he said."The three accused received ₹1.5 lakh from the ISI agent via Dubai-Mumbai 'angadia' (courier) route for setting the shops on fire," he said.Vanzara is a petty criminal and came in contact with the ISI agent through Facebook, the official said.Baba Bhai, without revealing his identity or motive, offered money to Vanzara to kill random people and set shops afire, the official claimed."Vanzara had earlier taken ₹25,000 from the ISI agent through Paytm to buy a gun," Singh said.Deputy Commissioner of Police Chaitanya Mandlik said Baba Bhai used to send friend requests to people having criminal mentality and those in need of money."We traced some of the IP addresses, used by the ISI agent to chat with Vanzara, to Karachi, which establishes the ISI connection. This was a money trap laid by them to lure Indian citizens to spread terror and cause economic losses," Mandlik said.The trio and the unidentified ISI agent, who was giving instructions to them from abroad, have been booked under Indian Penal Code Sections 121 (waging war against the government) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy), and relevant provisions of the UAPA, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/paklinked-isi-terror-module-busted-in-gujarat-three-held-101617794997352.html
07-04-2021||India||4 die, scores hospitalised due to drinking water contamination in Andhra||Four persons, including two women, died and scores of others were hospitalised in the last 24 hours due to severe gastroenteritis triggered by contaminated drinking water in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district, officials said. Three residents of Nandyal city died on Tuesday evening while under treatment at different hospitals in the district and the fourth victim, a 50-year-old woman, died in a hospital at Adoni town on Wednesday morning. Officials said the three victims from Nandyal also suffered from other health complications. “A 35-year-old man was a chronic alcoholic and died while under treatment at a private hospital following symptoms of diarrhoea. Another 56-year-old man, suffering from kidney-ailments, was referred to government general hospital at Kurnool, where he breathed his last. Another 80-year-old woman, who also suffered from symptoms of diarrhoea, died due to age-related issues,” Kurnool district medical and health officer Dr Rama Giddaiah said. According to the District Medical and Health Office (DMHO), as many as 15 persons from Aruna Jyothi Nagar in Adoni town were admitted to the local hospital on Tuesday evening due to gastroenteritis. “Of them, eight members were under 10 years and the other seven were adults. Of the adults, a 50-year-old woman died at about 8.20 am on Wednesday, while being referred to a private nursing home. The condition of all the others was stable,” Giddaiah said. The district authorities have found that the people suffered from gastroenteritis after consuming water at Maremma Durgamma Devara, a folk festival at Gorakallu in Panyam block. “We have set up a health camp at Gorakallu, where 35 cases of diarrhoea were reported. A team of doctors treated 30 cases and referred the remaining five cases to Nandyal government hospital,” the DMHO said. District collector G Veerapandian directed authorities to stop drinking water supply from Gorakallu and to ensure clean and safe drinking water supply with adequate sewage management and sanitation. Water samples from the affected areas have been sent for testing. “The ASHA health workers are doing a door-to-door survey and are supplying oral rehydration solution sachets to the people in the area,” Giddaiah said. Adoni MLA Y Sai Prasad Reddy said municipal authorities must clean water tanks regularly and said the officials had failed in their duties. “I have been closely monitoring the situation and have ensured the best possible treatment to the patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-die-scores-hospitalised-due-to-drinking-water-contamination-in-andhra-101617795085226.html
07-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Section 144 in Bengaluru city limits as virus cases rise||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka imposes restrictions under Sec 144 in Bengaluru city limits as Covid-19 infections surgeDue to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, the Karnataka government on Wednesday ordered that restrictions under Section 144 of CrPC will be implemented in the city limits to contain the gathering of crowds. The Karnataka state disaster management authority issued the order to impose “certain reasonable restrictions for public safety and health”.Read more.Sachin Vaze didn’t report to his boss but Param Bir Singh: Mumbai CP’s reportSuspended assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze was posted in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) in June last year on the insistence of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh despite opposition from a top crime branch officer and reported directly to the former police chief, according to a report sent by Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale to the Maharashtra government.Read more. Rahul Gandhi bats for Covid vaccine for all; slams Centre’s ‘need vs want’ logicCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said Covid-19 vaccination should be open to people of all age groups, a day after the government ruled this out.Read more. As Maoist violence returns, decoding the rise of ultra left insurgencyThe killing of 22 security personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), District Police Guard and a Special Task Force in one of the deadliest attacks by Peoples Liberation Guerilla Army of Communist Party of India (Maoist) at Jonaguda village in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district has raised questions about claims that left-wing extremism in the country is on the wane.Read more. 'He'll be part of dressing room, don't see him in CSK first-XI in IPL 2021': Pragyan Ojha on Cheteshwar PujaraThere was a round of applause in the auction table for Cheteshwar Pujara after Chennai Super Kings picked him up at his base price of ₹50 lakh earlier this year. India’s Test No.3 had found an IPL team after seven long years. The last time Pujara played the IPL was in 2014 and since then the right-hander has been going unsold in every auction barring this one.Read more. ‘Are you an alien’: Elon Musk’s reply to Twitter user’s question sparks laughterElon Musk's reply to a question asked by a Twitter user on his post has left people in splits. It all started with a tweet shared by the tech billionaire on March 5. While reacting to the tweet, a user of the micro-blogging platform asked him “Are you an alien.” To which the Tesla CEO came up with an answer which has now prompted people to share all sorts of reactions.Read more. Roadies fame Saqib Khan quits showbiz, embraces spiritual path: 'Bus Allah ki marzi nahi thi'Roadies fame Saqib Khan has announced that he is quitting showbiz to embrace the spiritual path, adding that he will not take up "any modelling and acting in future". Taking to Instagram Saqib shared a long post, writing that he had good projects in line he wrote, "bus Allah ki marzi nahi thi (This is not what Allah had planned for me)".Read more. Worried about the Facebook data leak? Indian users can now use their phone number to check if they were affectedFacebook on Tuesday declared that the massive user leak containing the personal information of 533 million users was actually due to the scraping of contact information which the company stopped in 2019. However, that doesn’t change the fact that user data was leaked — and Indian users can now find out whether their own data was affected or leaked.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-section-144-in-bengaluru-city-limits-as-virus-cases-rise-101617793863867.html
07-04-2021||India||Sarbananda Sonowal confident of BJP-led alliance winning Assam assembly polls||A day after the assembly elections in Assam came to an end, Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal on Wednesday exuded confidence that the BJP-led alliance will return to power in the state with an enhanced mandate.He said the three-phase polling was by and large peaceful and it reflected that his government was successful in restoring peace in Assam after decades of insurgency and violence."We will return to power with more seats. This has happened due to the relentless development work carried out by our government in the last five years," he said.Voting in Assam was held on March 27, April 1 and April 6.Sonowal said a large number of people participated in the election process and this reflects that people has reaffirmed their faith in India's inclusive democracy."I am grateful to the people of Assam for their wholehearted support to the BJP-led alliance," he said.He also expressed gratitude to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president J P Nadda, Union ministers, and all BJP leaders and workers who have helped in the entire election process.A total of over 73 per cent people have participated in the first phase of polling in Assam, over 73 per in the second phase and about 79 per cent in the third phase.The BJP fought the elections along with the AGP and the UPPL. In 2016, the BJP had won 60 seats, the AGP 14 seats and the then alliance partner BPF 12 seats.The BPF, this time, is part of the opposition Congress-led 'Mahajoot'.Meanwhile, Sonowal on Wednesday visited the residences of two CRPF personnel -- Inspector Dilip Kumar Das and Constable Babul Rabha - who were killed by Naxals in Chhattisgarh last week, to express solidarity with the bereaved families.Das and Rabha hailed from Assam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-cm-sarbananda-sonowal-confident-of-bjp-led-alliance-winning-assembly-polls-101617794142472.html
07-04-2021||India||Raipur declared a containment zone, tough measures in place from April 9-19||The authorities in Chhattisgarh's capital Raipur announced on Wednesday that the entire district has been declared a containment zone in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases. The stringent measures applicable in containment zones will come into effect from 6pm on Friday (April 9) and remain in place till 6am on April 19."Keeping in mind the Covid-19 situation, Raipur district is being declared a containment zone from 6pm on 9th April till 6am on 19th April. All the borders of the district will remain sealed during this period," Raipur district collector S Bharathi Dasan was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.With the detection of 9,921 fresh cases on Tuesday, Chhattisgarh saw its highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the infection in March last year, taking the state's caseload to 3,68,269, as per official figures.The worst-hit Raipur and Durg districts accounted for 2,821 and 1,838 of the new cases, respectively. While the cumulative count of the infection in Raipur reached 76,427, including 1,001 deaths, Durg's caseload increased to 45,891, including 812 fatalities.The Covid-19 death toll in Chhattisgarh also rose to 4,416 as 53 more people succumbed to the disease on Tuesday.Sjovraj Singh Chouhan, the chief minister of neighbouring Madhya Pradesh, said on Wednesday that the state government is suspending bus operations with Chhattisgarh till April 15. An order to this effect was issued by the Madhya Pradesh transport department.On Sunday, Chouhan said that the Madhya Pradesh government will restrict the movement of people from Chhattisgarh to curb the spread of Covid-19.The high caseload in Chhattisgarh and 10 others states prompted Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to hold a meeting with health ministers of these states. After a detailed and comprehensive review of the measures taken by these states, Vardhan concluded that together they contribute to 54 per cent of the total cases and 65 per cent of the total deaths in the country.Maharashtra (25 per cent) and Chhattisgarh (14 per cent) have reported the highest positivity rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raipur-declared-a-containment-zone-tough-measures-in-place-from-apr-919-101617794429288.html
07-04-2021||India||Govt approves PLI scheme for air-conditioners, LED lights||The government on Wednesday approved a production-linked incentive scheme for air-conditioner and LED light sectors with an outlay of ₹6,238 crore.The proposal was approved in the weekly Union Cabinet meeting, which was chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The PLI scheme for white goods will extend an incentive of 4-6% on incremental sales of goods manufactured in India for a period of five years to companies engaged in manufacturing of ACs and LED lights, the government announced in a statement.The scheme will be implemented across India and won't be specific to any location, area or segment of population, the statement further said.Addressing a press conference along with Union minister Prakash Javadekar on Cabinet decisions, commerce and industry minister Piyush Goyal said that the approval of the scheme will give a boost to domestic manufacturing."With this decision of the Union Cabinet today, a total of 9 out of 13 PLI schemes have been approved to date, while the rest of the 4 schemes are in an advanced stage. Together these schemes will give a big push to India's manufacturing sector," said Goyal.The PLI scheme is aimed at boosting domestic manufacturing in the country. It is designed to create complete component ecosystem in India and make India an integral part of the global supply chains.The scheme is expected to attract global investments, generate large scale employment opportunities and enhance exports substantially.The government said that in five years, the PLI scheme will lead to incremental investment of ₹7,920 crore, incremental production worth ₹1,68,000 crore, exports worth ₹64,400 crore, earn direct and indirect revenues of ₹49,300 crore and create additional four lakh direct and indirect employment opportunities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-approves-pli-scheme-for-air-conditioners-led-lights-101617792605869.html
07-04-2021||India||Sachin Vaze took orders directly from Param Bir Singh, says Mumbai CP’s report||Suspended assistant police inspector (API) Sachin Vaze was posted in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) in June last year on the insistence of former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh despite opposition from a top crime branch officer and reported directly to the former police chief, according to a report sent by Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale to the Maharashtra government.According to the Mumbai police chief’s report seen by HT, Vaze bypassed protocol and hierarchy to directly report to Param Bir Singh who practically took all critical decisions relating to arrests, raids, remand applications and the police stand on anticipatory bail in cases handled by Sachin Vaze’s team.“Vaze used to accompany Param Bir Singh during the briefing to the minister, home, on critical cases including TRP scam, Antilia explosive scare, Dilip Chhabria’s arrest. Vaze never obeyed the hierarchy of ranks to report over the cases under investigation,” the document said.Also Read: Time to clean up Mumbai | HT EditorialParam Bir Singh did not respond to phone calls and text messages sent by HT for his response to the report. This news report will be updated when he gives his reaction.Officials said the police commissioner was told to send the report to the home department after Sachin Vaze’s arrest.Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on March 13 for his alleged role in planting a vehicle with 20 loose gelatin sticks near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, Antilia. He is the prime suspect in the murder of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who is linked to the vehicle found near Antilia. This case is also being investigated by the NIA.The police commissioner’s report, which is seen to link Param Bir Singh to the controversial police officer Sachin Vaze, immediately prompted calls to put the former city police chief’s role under scrutiny. On Wednesday, the NIA summoned Param Bir Singh for questioning in the two cases. Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said this was something they had been demanding for days, because of Param Bir Singh’s “close proximity” with arrested API Vaze.“It has now been established that Singh is as responsible as Vaze in these two cases,” the Congress leader said.Singh was removed as police commissioner on March 17 and shifted as commandant general of home guards. Param Bir Singh ignited a political storm soon after, with a letter to Uddhav Thackeray accusing the then home minister Anil Deshmukh of corruption. Singh later approached the Supreme Court and high court too. On Monday, Deshmukh finally had to resign after the Bombay high court asked the CBI to hold a preliminary inquiry into the allegation.Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale’s report, sought by the home department while Deshmukh was still home minister, also links Param Bir Singh to the decision to revoke Sachin Vaze’s suspension.“The decision about the reinstatement of Vaze was taken in a suspension review committee meeting on June 5, 2020, chaired by Singh, joint police commissioner (administration) and other two senior officers. Vaze was reinstated on June 9 and was given posting in CIU, after initial appointment in the armed unit,” the report said, pointing that the then joint commissioner (Crime) had strongly opposed Vaze’s posting in the CIU.It said Param Bir Singh ensured that Vaze headed the CIU though he, unlike other police officers who led the crucial unit in the past, was not an inspector-rank officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-vaze-took-orders-directly-from-param-bir-singh-says-mumbai-cp-s-report-101617792085083.html
07-04-2021||India||Sachin Vaze to remain in NIA custody till April 9, orders court||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday extended the remand of suspended police officer Sachin Vaze by two more days, till April 9. Vaze's custody was ending today.He was arrested by the NIA on April 13, shortly after the agency took over the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case. He was taken into custody for his alleged role and involvement in placing the explosives-laden vehicle outside Ambani's residence Antilia in Mumbai.Hiran, the owner of the vehicle that was found containing explosives materials, was found dead on March 5 in Thane.Investigation into his death was being probed by Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS), till the Union home ministry handed over the probe to the NIA.The NIA sought Vaze's custody for four more days, according to news agency ANI. His lawyer said that he's not opposing NIA's demand of remand, and added that Vaze is ready to cooperate with the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in their probe.The CBI wants to question Vaze in connection with its preliminary enquiry into the allegations of corruption against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh. On Wednesday, the agency approached a special NIA court seeking permission to question the suspended police officer.Following an order of the Bombay high court, the CBI late on Tuesday night registered a preliminary enquiry (PE) to probe corruption allegations levelled by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh against Deshmukh.Both Deshmukh and the Maharashtra government have approached the Supreme Court challenging the high court's order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sachin-vaze-to-remain-in-nia-custody-till-april-9-orders-court-101617790345358.html
07-04-2021||India||Tripura CM Biplab Kumar Deb tests positive for Covid-19||Tripura chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday in an antigen test. The result of the Reverse Transcription Polymerase Chain Reaction or RT-PCR test to confirm the infection was yet to arrive, said officials. “I have been tested positive for Covid-19. I have isolated myself at home as per the advice of doctors. I request everyone to please follow all the Covid appropriate behaviour and stay safe,” Deb tweeted.West district health surveillance officer Dr Sangeeta Chakraborty said, “His (Deb’s) samples tested positive in antigen test. The samples were sent for RT-PCR test for reconfirmation.” The result of the test was expected to arrive later today.RT-PCR is considered the gold standard of Covid-19 testing due to its high sensitivity and accuracy, while antigen tests are generally deployed for mass testing and can quickly detect true positive cases. Two members of Deb’s family tested Covid-19 positive in August last year. The state has so far reported 33,554 Covid-19 cases, including 389 deaths, while a total of 33,069 patients have recovered from the disease, taking the recovery rate to 98.63%. The fatality rate is 1.16%, according to the latest report of the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tripura-cm-biplab-kumar-deb-tests-positive-for-covid19-101617789984924.html
07-04-2021||India||Covid-19 safety rules violated at New Delhi Railway Station||Even as the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases reached unprecedented levels, safety protocols and guidelines have gone for a toss in several cities and states. People continue to violate two prime guards against the viral infection - masks and social distancing.Visuals released by news agency ANI on Wednesday showed New Delhi Railway Station swarming with people without facial masks. Additionally, no security personnel has been spotted asking people to maintain social distancing.People in large numbers seen at New Delhi Railway Station. Delhi reported 5100 new COVID-19 cases and 17 deaths, yesterday. pic.twitter.com/tz2oUvLomJThe images come a day after the national capital's Covid-19 trajectory landed in the red zone. On Tuesday, Delhi's daily caseload rose sharply past the 5,000-mark in what has been termed as the fourth wave of infections.Also read: India won't open Covid-19 vaccination for all. Official explains whyA total of 5,100 fresh infections took the cumulative tally to 685,062 and 17 new fatalities pushed the toll to 11,113 in the city-state, according to the health bulletin. In a cause of concern for authorities, the active cases soared further in the 24-hour timespan.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had confirmed that the city-state is witnessing the fourth wave of infections, even as the rest of the country is reeling from the second wave.“For the rest of the country, one may call it the second wave. But for Delhi, this is the fourth wave. We are heading towards the fourth peak. This wave is witnessing an exponential increase in cases and spreading very fast. It is concerning but there is nothing to panic because this wave is also less severe in terms of a number of deaths and cases that require hospitalisation, admission to ICU, etc,” Kejriwal said at a digital news briefing.Delhi witnessed its first wave in June, followed by the second in September and the third wave in November, which has been the worst so far, with the highest case tally of 8,593.On Wednesday, India recorded over 1.15 lakh new cases of Covid-19 - highest since the pandemic began - pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally to 1,28,01,785, according to the Union health ministry.Also read | Covid-19 pandemic in India has worsened, warnings were given: GovtThe single-day rise in Covid-19 cases breached the 1-lakh mark for the second time in three days. A total of 1,15,736 infections were reported in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,66,177 with 630 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8am showed.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged people to focus on fighting Covid-19 by taking all precautions, including wearing a mask, regularly washing hands and following other protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-safety-rules-violated-at-new-delhi-railway-station-101617787612325.html
07-04-2021||India||CM says no Covid-19 lockdown in Goa as it will disturb economic activities||Goa Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday reiterated that the coastal state will not go for a lockdown, as the move will disrupt the economic activities.Sawant recalled that during the same time last year, the state had been under a coronavirus-induced lockdown, due to which the entire economy had come to a standstill.Economic activities are getting revived in the coastal state and another lockdown will disrupt them, he said."There was drop in the collection of the GST, while industries such as tourism had suffered a jolt. We want to avoid the situation," the chief minister said.The virus cannot be controlled merely with a lockdown, but with steps like prevention and vaccination, he said.Sawant further said that the state government has written to the Union health ministry seeking to relax the age limit for vaccination for people from the tourism and media industries.Goa had on Tuesday reported 387 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 59,702, while the toll stood at 838.The coastal state currently has 2,471 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cm-says-no-covid-19-lockdown-in-goa-as-it-will-disturb-economic-activities-101617788148552.html
07-04-2021||India||Punjab CM orders Covid-19 testing to be increased to 2 lakh per day||The government in Punjab, one of the states badly-hit by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, has asked health authorities to increase the number of people being vaccinated every day. The order has been issued by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, who set a target of 2 lakh tests per day.Currently, 90,000 people are being inoculated in the state per day.The chief minister also directed the officials to increase the sampling to 50,000 per day, besides vigorously pursuing contact tracing to 30 people per positive patient.The government has taken this action as the state's positivity rate and case fatality rate (CFR) have gone significantly up in the last week. While the positivity rate has reached 7.7 per cent, the CFR stands at 2 per cent.This direction is in addition to the extension of night curfew in the entire state. The state government on Wednesday imposed a statewide night curfew from 9pm to 5am till April 30. This was in place only in 12 districts till now. Political gatherings have also been banned till the time restrictions are in place and violators, including political leaders, will be booked under Disaster Management Act(DMA) and Epidemics Act, the Punjab government order said.The state government is also launching an awareness campaign to tell the patients who test positive for Covid-19 to reach hospitals at early stages. The order was passed by the chief minister at a review meeting to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state.India, meanwhile, surpassed the United States to become the fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country in the world, the Union health ministry said on Wednesday. On an average, 30,93,861 vaccine doses are being given every day, the ministry said.Also Read: What is driving India’s second Covid-19 wave?The seven-day average for the US is also above the three million-mark, according to Centers for Disease Control (CDC). On Saturday, however, the US inoculated 4.1 million people, the highest since the vaccination began there late last year. The country has so far vaccinated 31 per cent of its population, according to the CDC.In India, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered has crossed 8.70 crore. More than 33 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-cm-orders-covid-19-testing-to-be-increased-to-2-lakh-per-day-101617788036351.html
07-04-2021||India||INX Media case: Delhi court exempts Chidambaram, son from personal appearance||A Delhi court on Wednesday exempted former Union minister P Chidambaram and his son Karti Chidambaram from personal appearance for the day in a money laundering case related to the INX Media case, news agency PTI reported. The accused were summoned on March 24 after the court took cognisance of a supplementary charge sheet filed by the Enforcement Directorate (ED).The exemption was granted by Judge M K Nagpal after the Chidambarams' lawyer Arshdeep Singh moved an application for the same, saying the duo were 'star campaigners' of their party and were busy in the assembly election campaign in Tamil Nadu. The matter will now be heard on April 16.After being arrested by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the INX Media corruption case on August 21, 2019, the ED arrested P Chidambaram on October 16, 2019, in a related money-laundering case. He was granted bail in the case launched by the CBI on October 22, 2019 and in the ED case, he got bail on December 4, 2019.Meanwhile, Karti was arrested by the CBI in February 2018 and was granted bail in March 2018 in the INX Media corruption case and he was granted interim bail from the Delhi high court in the related money laundering case.The high profile case is related to the alleged irregularities in the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) clearance granted to the INX Media group for receiving overseas funds of ₹305 crore in 2007.The Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government was in power and P Chidambaram was the finance minister when the alleged transaction happened.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inx-media-case-delhi-court-exempts-chidambaram-son-from-personal-appearance-101617787769361.html
07-04-2021||India||PM to chair meet for commemoration of Guru Tegh Bahadur’s 400th birth anniv||A high-level committee meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be held on Thursday to commemorate Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur’s birth anniversary . The meeting will be attended by Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh, Akali Dal leader Parkash Singh Badal, Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal, and cricketer Harbhajan Singh.Also Read | ‘Pariksha Pe Charcha’ will be exciting interaction, says Prime Minister ModiHome minister Amit Shah is also expected to attend the meeting that will be held virtually to discuss the year-long calendar of events to celebrate this occasion. The meeting assumes greater significance as it comes amid the farmer’s agitation against farm laws that has seen a surge in anti-BJP sentiment, especially in Punjab and Haryana. In December, at the height of the farm protests, PM Modi visited Gurudwara Rakabganj in the Capital to pay respects. On Tuesday, the SGPC lodged a strong protest against Centre’s proposal of installing an idol of the Sikh guru in Old Delhi. “Idolising our Gurus is against the ethics and principles of Sikhism,” it said.The Punjab CM, a member of Centre’s high-level committee, has already announced grand celebrations, starting April 23. The plans include development of all 103 rural and urban areas of the state associated with Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-to-chair-meet-for-commemoration-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-s-400th-birth-anniv-101617787704800.html
07-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi bats for Covid vaccine for all; slams Centre’s ‘need vs want’ logic||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Monday said Covid-19 vaccination should be open to people of all age groups, a day after the government ruled this out.The former Congress president and Wayanad MP tweeted, “ It’s ridiculous to debate needs and wants. Every Indian deserves the chance to a safe life.” He had earlier urged people to wear masks and follow all safety precautions.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan had said on Tuesday, “The aim is not to administer the vaccine to those who want it, but to those who need it”.Gandhi is the latest to join the vaccination-for-all cause and demand that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government should open Covid-19 vaccination to all age groups. On Tuesday, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow all citizens above the age of 18 to get vaccinated. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also made similar requests.“It is high time that the government of India accepts what every public health expert within the country and globally has been saying— the second wave of Covid-19 is here. If having cases in excess of what we saw during the peak of the first wave in September 2020 is not a testimony to this, we wonder what else it would take for the government to accept this fact and re-strategise accordingly. The height (spike) of the Covid-19 cases is alarming, and the width (duration of the spike) of the Covid-19 cases needs to be curtailed now before this wave turns into a tsunami,’’ said Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera.The demand for opening vaccinations to everyone is becoming stronger as Covid-19 cases rise exponentially across India . India started the vaccination drive on January 16. The drive is currently in its third phase—everyone who is older than 45 is eligible to get vaccinated. Three months after it started the vaccination drive, India hit a grim milestone on Wednesday when it recorded 115,736 active Covid-19 cases, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic.India’s overall count has crossed the 12.8 million mark. Cases are rapidly increasing in Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh and Karnataka among others states. India’s daily Covid-19 tally is now the highest in the world, surpassing Brazil and the US, as it recorded over 100,000 cases in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/open-covid-19-vaccination-to-all-rahul-gandhi-101617786504762.html
07-04-2021||India||Protests in Jammu seeking release of CRPF commando in Maoists captivity||Hundreds of residents including family members of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, who is in Maoists’ captivity in Chhattisgarh, blocked a road in Jammu demanding his release. 35-year old Manhas, who hails from Jammu, was among the security personnel that were ambushed by the Maoists during a combing operation on Saturday, leaving 22 personnel dead and 31 others injured. “It’s been four days since my husband was abducted by the Maoists, but the government was doing nothing to ensure his release from captivity,” said Meenu, wife of Manhas, a member of the Commando Battalion for Resolute Action, popularly known as the CoBRA force of the CRPF, specialising in counter-insurgency operations.A press note issued on Tuesday by the Maoists’ Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee confirmed one jawan was in their custody and said he will be handed over to an interlocutor, whose appointment they sought immediately. Members of Manhas’ CoBRA unit, District Reserve Guard (DRG), and the Special Task Force (STF) lost their lives in the five-hour-long clash with Maoists at the Sukma-Bijapur border, with reports suggesting that around 20 insurgents were also killed. The Maoists, however, claimed that only four of their cadres were killed.“I don’t want anything. I just want my son back. Where is the government? Does the life of a Jawan has no value for this government?”, asked Manhas’ mother, who was among the protestors seeking his release.His father in law said, “For this day did we vote for this government? None has come to our rescue. He is our son in law and we want him back. How insensitive can the government be? It’s been four days since he was abducted by the Naxals on Saturday, but no one in the administration has bothered to reach out to us with an assurance”. Manhas joined the CRPF in March 2011 and got married in 2014. He has a five-year-old daughter and is the sole bread earner for his family. He was transferred to Chhattisgarh three months back from Assam. Manhas’ family first learnt about his abduction from a Chhattisgarh journalist, who called them to say that the Maoists told him that they had captured Manhas. The ultras, led by one of their top commanders, Mandvi Hidma, are said to have lured the security forces into a U shaped trap in the jungles near the Sukma-Bijapur border. The insurgents decamped with weapons, bullet-proof jackets, and even the shoes of dead soldiers after the ambush. Initial reports had then confirmed that one jawan was reported missing. Another relative said Manhas should be freed on priority as was done with the case of IAF wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman, who was released five days following his capture in Pakistan after his MiG-21 Bison was shot down after successfully intercepting a posse of Pakistani fighters over the Line of Control in the Rajouri-Mendhar sector on 27 February 2019, the day after the Balakot strike. Before the IAF pilot ejected from his ageing MiG-21 hit in the aerial dogfight over the skies of Jammu, he shot down a fourth-generation F-16 fighter. He was captured by villagers in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir where he landed and handed over to the Pakistan military. India had warned Pakistan of severe consequences if the fighter pilot was not released unharmed and immediately. Abhinandan was returned on March 1 via the heavily-guarded Wagah-Attari border post.“His mother sent him to serve the nation. We are poor people, we don’t have to do anything with politics but if the government could bring back wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman from Pakistan, then why have they been dragging their feet in getting our boy released from the captivity of Maoists,” he asked. The protestors in Jammu held tricolours and staged a sit-in at the main town chowk while shouting slogans against the BJP-led Central government and also against Jammu and Kashmir lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha. No one from the administration was present there to meet the protesters till the filing of this report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-in-jammu-seeking-release-of-crpf-commando-in-maoists-captivity-101617786024848.html
07-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid curbs: Discussions were held, says Sanjay Raut as BJP, MNS, traders protest||As traders of Maharashtra are protesting against the restrictions imposed across the state, Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Wednesday said discussions were held with all political parties before announcing the restrictions in the state. The decisions have been taken for people's good, the Sena leader said as BJP and Maharashtra Navniram Sena (MNS) have also come out supporting traders in their demand to open shops for at least a few hours every day."Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had held discussions with leaders of all parties including the Leader of Opposition before making the decision. The Maharashtra government has taken the decision for the people's good. Otherwise, the situation will be more critical. I feel the Prime Minister is also very concerned regarding the surge of Covid cases," Raut said, as reported by news agency ANI.Not enough Covid-19 vaccine doses in state: Maharashtra health minister TopeAfter several rounds of warning to the public and subsequent consultations with the stakeholders, the Maharashtra government of April 4 announced new guidelines of weekend lockdowns and night curfew which will remain in effect till April 30. Under the new restrictions, non-essential shops will have to remain shut till month end, which has offended the traders associations of the state. Since authorities pressed into action shutting such shops from Tuesday, protests surfaced on Tuesday evening.In Mumbai, traders gathered in Borivali and Bhendi Bazaar area of south Mumbai on Tuesday shouting slogans and holding placards to protest the lockdown, news agency PTI reported.The Federation of Trade Association Pune said it will write to the Prime Minister, chief minister and other authorities saying that essential shops draw large crowds while non-essential shops do not witness such crowding. In Pune, members of the United Hospitality Association, a body that represents hotels, restaurants and bars, staged a protest outside the Pune Collectorate Office on TuesdayThe Thane BJP has urged the district administration to allow all non-essential shops to operate for at least four hours in a day so that small traders are not hurt. MNS's Raj Thackeray too said he is in favour of keeping shops open for at least two to three hours every day.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-curbs-discussions-were-held-says-raut-as-protests-surface-101617783918042.html
07-04-2021||India||Punjab imposes 9pm-5am night curfew to entire state till April 30, govt announces ‘total ban’ on political gatherings||Amid a massive rise of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Punjab government on Wednesday imposed a statewide night curfew from 9pm to 5am till April 30, which was until now imposed in only 12 districts of the state. The government has also banned political gatherings till the restricted period and said violators, including political leaders, will be booked under Disaster Management Act(DMA) and Epidemics Act. Punjab is one of the states of concern as said by the Union health ministry due to its major contribution to the active cases and fatalities of the country.Chief minister Amarinder Singh did not miss the opportunity to chide leaders like Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, SAD’s Sukhbir Singh Badal, and expressed surprise at their behaviour for attending political rallies without adhering to Covid safety protocol, at a time when the virus is spreading so fast in the country.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi bats for Covid vaccine for all; slams Centre’s ‘need vs want’ logic“How do you expect people to be serious about the spread of the disease if senior political leaders behave like this,” Singh said, adding that the government would need to be tough to tackle such violations and book the political leaders as well, in case of any violations.Ordering the police and district administrations to register cases against the leaders, organisers, and participants of the gatherings under the Disaster Management Act and Epidemics Act, he said even the venue owners, who would provide space for such events, will not be spared. They too would be booked, and their venues will be sealed for three months.The state government also put a cap on the number of attendees at funerals, cremations, and weddings to 50 people indoors and 100 outdoors. Wearing masks is now mandatory for all government employees while in the office. The new restrictions, with the curbs already in place like the closure of schools and educational institutions, except medical and nursing colleges, will remain effective till April 30.The chief minister during his weekly review of the Covid-19 situation said it is a matter of concern that over 85 per cent of the cases in the state are of the UK strain, which he said is more contagious and virulent.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19Other curbs imposed in the state include a ban on social, cultural, or sports gatherings and related functions, in-person public dealing to be restricted in all government offices, and virtual modes of grievance redressal encouraged. Citizens should be encouraged to visit public offices only for essential services and the concerned departments should issue instructions for limiting daily appointments for works like registries etc, Singh said, adding that cinema halls will operate at their 50 per cent capacity.However, there is some respite for shop owners in malls as the chief minister allowed entry of ten people per shop at any time, as against the previous order of not allowing more than 100 people in a mall at one time.Singh directed Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta to ensure strict compliance to the night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-government-imposes-night-curfew-from-9pm-5am-across-the-entire-state-till-april-30-also-bans-political-gatherings-in-the-state-101617784191052.html
07-04-2021||India||India surpasses US to become fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country, says Centre||The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Wednesday that India surpassed the United States to become the fastest vaccinating country in the world. The ministry said that with an average daily rate of 3,093,861 coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine doses, the cumulative number of vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 8.70 crores on Wednesday. More than 33 lakh vaccination doses were administered in the period between Tuesday and Wednesday morning, the ministry informed.Read more: India won't open Covid-19 vaccination for all. Official explains why"Cumulatively, 8,70,77,474 vaccine doses have been administered through 13,32,130 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am today. These include 89,63,724 HCWs who have taken the 1st dose and 53,94,913 HCWs who have taken the 2nd dose, 97,36,629 FLWs (1stdose), 43,12,826 FLWs (2nddose), 3,53,75,953 1st dose beneficiaries and 10,00,787 2nd dose beneficiaries more than 60 years old and 2,18,60,709 (1st dose) and 4,31,933 (2nd dose) beneficiaries aged 45 to 60," according to the statement by the Union health ministry.This comes at a time when the number of daily new Covid-19 cases in the country continues to rise. India registered 115,736 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday which is the highest single-day spike since the pandemic began. The active caseload in the country reached 843,473 and comprised 6.59 per cent of the country's total positive cases. 59,856 new recoveries in the last 24 hours took the country’s cumulative recoveries to 11,792,135. As many as 630 deaths were reported within the same period which took the death toll to 166,177.Read more: India’s ‘double mutant’ Covid strain found in USThe ministry apprised that Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala witnessed a rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases. Cumulatively, 80.70 per cent of the new cases were reported from these eight states, according to the ministry.Out of these states, Maharashtra, which is currently the worst affected state by the pandemic, reported the highest daily new infections at 55,469. It was followed by Chhattisgarh which reported 9,921 cases and Karnataka which added 6,150 cases.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-surpasses-us-to-become-fastest-covid-19-vaccinating-country-says-centre-101617782031490.html
07-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh surpasses Kerala, Karnataka in active Covid-19 cases | 10 points||In the biggest surge of single-day infections of Covid-19, India on Wednesday reported 1,15,736 fresh infections, which pushed the tally of the active cases to 8,43,473 - 6.59 per cent of the total cases in the country. The gap between daily infections and daily recoveries widened with 59,856 patients getting cured of the disease in the last 24 hours. The rise, which is part of the second wave of the pandemic, has raised concerns and the Union health ministry has sent teams to all 50 districts that are reporting a higher rate of the infection.Here is the present Covid-19 situation explained in 10 points> With 9,921 fresh infections in the last 24 hours, Chhattisgarh has surpassed Karnataka and Kerala in the number of active Covid-19 cases. The state now contributes 6.22 per cent of the total active cases of India, while Karnataka and Kerala's share are 5.35 per cent and 3.59 per cent, respectively.> The ministry has noted that the surge seen from February has mostly been contributed by 11 states. "These States have witnessed a steep increase in cases, majority of which have been reported in the younger population of 15-44 years. Also, it was pointed out that majority of the deaths have been reported among the elderly of age more than 60 years," the ministry said.> In the last 24 hours, eight states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Kerala have contributed 80.70% of the new cases.> A total of 630 deaths have been recorded in the last 24 hours, with Maharashtra reporting the highest of 297, followed by Punjab which reported 61 fatalities in the last 24 hours.Not enough Covid-19 vaccine doses in state: Maharashtra health minister Tope> Chhattisgarh at present is the second state reporting the highest number of daily infections. With 9,921 infections reported on Tuesday, the state has now surpassed Karnataka.> Delhi has now become one of the top five states reporting the maximum number of daily infections. It is also one of the 10 districts of the country with the highest number of active Covid-19 cases.> Though Kerala's daily surge is lower than Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, its Covid-19 situation is not out of danger. It is one of the 12 states which are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases. The list of the states includes Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala.> The daily positivity rate in India stands at 8.40 per cent. A month before, on March 8, the daily positivity rate was 2.29 per cent.> Though the Centre has been asserting that there is no scarcity of vaccines anywhere in the country and there will be no such situation in future as the Centre is monitoring vaccine usage real time, Maharashtra on Wednesday said it will soon run out of vaccines.> India has surpassed the United States to become the fastest vaccinating country in the world with an average daily rate of 30,93,861 vaccine doses, said the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-covid-infections-among-youngsters-highest-single-day-surge-10-points-101617780637253.html
07-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi govt urges people to wear masks amid 4th Covid-19 wave, and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Wear masks, appeals Delhi govt as city sees ‘fourth wave’ of Covid-19 pandemicDelhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday urged people to continue wearing masks, a day after the government announced a night curfew in the city-state amid rising daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in what has been termed as the “fourth wave” of the Covid-19 pandemic by the Delhi government. Read moreGoa seeks permission to vaccinate all tourism sector workers irrespective of ageThe Goa government has sought special permission from the Centre to vaccinate all workers in the state’s tourism sector, even if they are below 45 years of age, citing the sector’s criticality, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday. Read moreIIT Mandi researchers develop algorithm to optimise vehicle’s fuel efficiencyResearchers from the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Mandi, have developed an algorithm that can help optimise fuel efficiency in petrol and diesel vehicles and also minimise emissions by assessing the functioning of internal combustion (IC) engines. Read moreRBI doubles payments bank balance limit to ₹2 lakhWith the aim to promote digital payments banks in the country, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday announced an increase in the maximum end of day balance for payment banks to ₹2 lakh. The earlier limit, which was in place since 2014, was set at ₹1 lakh per individual customer for the end of the balance for payment banks. Read moreJeep Compass SUV to get a 7-seater model called Commander, teased ahead of debutJeep is all set to drive in a new 7-seater SUV based on its popular model Compass soon. The US carmaker has already teased a video showing the SUV’s design elements. It is likely to be called Commander SUV, and primarily meant for the Brazilian market. Read moreDawid Malan interview: 'Being world No. 1 does not mean you can score 40-ball tons every time'At 33, Dawid Malan will be a late debutant at the Indian Premier League (IPL). Yet, his giant reputation in the shortest format of the game--he is, after all, the ICC's number one ranked T20 batsman in the world--means the expectations are high from Punjab Kings’ latest recruit. Read moreAnanya Panday shifts to online Yoga classes, flaunts washboard abs on World Health DayWith the number of coronavirus cases rising all over India, people have started following stricter precautions again. In places like Mumbai, a lot of people have closed their gyms and other public places and are getting back to online fitness sessions. Read moreKangana Ranaut reacts as fan recreates her ‘flag-bearer of nepotism’ moment from Koffee With Karan: ‘How cute’Kangana Ranaut showered praise on a young fan of hers, who recreated her ‘flag-bearer of nepotism’ moment from Koffee With Karan. In 2017, during an appearance on the chat show, Kangana had famously called host Karan Johar the ‘movie mafia’ and said that he would play the antagonist in a biopic based on her life. Read moreWatch| Indore: Policemen allegedly thrash mask-less man; cop says viral video edited||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-govt-urges-people-to-wear-masks-amid-4th-covid-19-wave-and-all-the-latest-news-101617777659363.html
07-04-2021||India||Not enough Covid-19 vaccine doses in state: Maharashtra health minister Tope||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said various Covid-19 vaccination centres in the state do not have enough vaccine doses, and people have to be sent back due to the paucity. Tope said the state government has also demanded from the Centre to inoculate people from the age group of 20-40 years on priority.Maharashtra is the major contributor to the rising active caseload of the country. The state logged more than 55,000 fresh Covid-19 infections in last 24 hours on Tuesday.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“We do not have enough vaccine doses at various vaccination centres, and people have to be sent back due to a shortage of doses. We have demanded from the Centre that people of age group 20-40 years must be vaccinated on priority,” ANI quoted Tope as saying.Further commenting on the healthcare in the state reaching capacity, he said, ANI reported, “We are working on war footing to increase the number of beds in Pune, Mumbai, Nashik and other parts of the state.”Detailing about the Covid-19 vaccine stock in the state, the health minister said the state currently has 14 lakh vaccine doses which will get consumed in over three days. Adding that the government has asked the Centre for 40 lakh additional doses per week he clarified that while the Centre is giving us vaccines, the speed of delivery is slow.“I'm not saying that the Center is not giving us vaccines but the speed of delivery of vaccines is slow,” ANI reported Tope as saying.The state health minister expressed concerns regarding a new strain of Sars-Cov-2 or Covid-19, which he said has increased the transmissibility of the infection. Double mutant strains, besides the variants of concern from Brazil, the UK, and South Africa have been reported in the country.“We suspect that there is a new strain that is affecting people in a shorter duration of time. Samples have been sent to National Centre for Disease Control to ascertain this,” ANI quoted Tope as saying.Approximately 82 lakh people have been vaccinated against the deadly virus in Maharashtra since the inception of the largest vaccination drive in January and four lakh people have been administered the vaccine doses daily for last few days, PTI reported."Maharashtra is at the top the position in inoculating vaccine to the beneficiaries. Daily we are covering 4.5 lakh beneficiaries and will touch 5 lakh mark soon," Tope said.On the oxygen supply capacity, Tope said 12 metric tonnes of oxygen is produced and over 7 tonnes is consumed daily. He added, ”We have demanded that we should be supplied medical oxygen from nearby states. If needed, we'll close down industries that use oxygen but won't let the supply of medical oxygen be affected,” reported ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-enough-covid-19-vaccine-doses-in-state-maharashtra-health-minister-tope-101617779106802.html
07-04-2021||India||Goa seeks permission to vaccinate all tourism sector workers irrespective of age||The Goa government has sought special permission from the Centre to vaccinate all workers in the state’s tourism sector, even if they are below 45 years of age, citing the sector’s criticality, Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant said on Tuesday.“Our attempt is that all those working in the tourism line -- all those above 45 should get vaccinated -- but we have written a letter seeking permission that those working in the tourism industry even if they are below 45 should be vaccinated,” Sawant said.Tourism sector is a big source of revenue for the state and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population that is dependent on the sector, according to official estimates. A total of 25-lakh tourists have visited Goa since travel restrictions were eased after lifting of the lockdown, imposed to curb the coronavirus pandemic last year. Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to eight million domestic tourists and more than nine hundred thousand foreign tourists.“For now, we don’t have permission, but if we get the permission, then we are ready to vaccinate all those working in the tourism industry,” Sawant added.Various sectors in the state, including manufacturing and services, have been seeking the expansion of the vaccination drive to cover those who come in contact with customers while working, said the CM.“Being a touristic state and given that the economy has only now begun to revive, we are only advising people to avoid and restrict gatherings,” Sawant said, when asked whether tourists arriving in the state should be made to produce Covid negative certificates upon arrival, a demand that is being made by civil society in the state.Sawant said the police have been told to crackdown on those not wearing masks in crowded places like markets, bus stands and other public places, even beaches.“Enforcement will be done in a big way. It’s not that Covid is coming from the tourists only. Covid is spreading internally in the state as well. Our people should also not mix up with tourists,” Sawant said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-seeks-permission-to-vaccinate-all-tourism-sector-workers-irrespective-of-age-101617777804308.html
07-04-2021||India||Over 84 million Covid vaccine doses administered across India||India has administered over 84 million Covid-19 vaccine doses across the country by Tuesday even as the country continued to witness a spike in the number of daily active cases.As per government data, 84,065,357 vaccine doses were given by 8pm on Tuesday. These include 8,960,966 healthcare workers who have taken the first dose and 5,377,011 who have taken the second dose.As many as 9,730,304 frontline workers have been given the first dose while 4,268,788 of them have got their second dose as well.Also Read | India’s ‘double mutant’ Covid strain found in USAmong the age group of 45-59 years, 20,051,197 have got their first dose while 396,769 have been administered their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 34,418,802 people have got their first dose of the vaccine while 861,520 have had the second dose as well.﻿On Tuesday alone, India had administered 562,807 vaccine doses. Of this, 457,749 beneficiaries were vaccinated for the first dose and 105,058 received their second dose, as per the provisional report.Meanwhile, India set yet another record for daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with 115,320 new infections reported across the country on Tuesday – the second time in three days that the country has broken previous single-day case records, highlighting the dangerous rate at which the second wave is growing.The previous record for daily cases (103,796) was set on Saturday when new infections in the country had crossed the 100,000 mark for the first time since the start of the outbreak.A total of 630 new deaths were reported across India on Tuesday, taking the total number of fatalities due to the viral outbreak in the country to 166,229, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-84-million-covid-vaccine-doses-administered-across-india-till-now-101617774564201.html
07-04-2021||India||Masks mandatory even while driving alone, rules Delhi high court||Dismissing four petitions challenging the collection of fine in cars when the drivers were found without a mask, the Delhi high court on Wednesday said it is mandatory to wear a mask in a private car even when the driver is alone in the car, as a vehicle is considered a public place. The bench of Justice Pratibha M Singh said a mask acts as Suraksha Kavach, which would prevent the spread of the deadly virus."Wearing of a mask of a face cover in a vehicle, which may be occupied by either a single person or multiple persons, is... compulsory in the context of the Covid-19 pandemic," the order said.Also watch | 'Delhi Police will strictly enforce night curfew, issue fresh passes': PRO﻿While dismissing the petitions, the court also chided the lawyers of the petitions challenging the mandatory mask rule. If the lawyers comply the rules, common people will be encouraged to follow the same, the court observed.Private car not a personal zone, mask is a must: Delhi govt submits in HCIt also said that right at the outbreak of the pandemic, several experts, doctors and researchers emphasised the need to wear masks. Even after vaccination, one must not do away with the masks, the court said, adding that immediately after the outbreak of the pandemic, it was reiterated that wearing a mask is of paramount importance.In November 2020, when advocate Saurabh Sharma filed a petition against the challan of ₹500 and sought a compensation of ₹10 lakh, the Delhi government maintained that a personal vehicle is not a private zone.The ruling comes at a time when the Capital is witnessing a fresh surge in the number of daily infections and a night curfew from 10pm to 5am has been imposed in the city. On Tuesday, Delhi reported 5,100 new infections, the highest in this year so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/masks-mandatory-even-while-driving-alone-rules-delhi-high-court-101617773180229.html
07-04-2021||India||Bihar tourism dept cancels all its April events amid rise in Covid cases||Bihar tourism department has cancelled all events planned for April and is considering revising events planned for May amid the spike in Covid-19 cases.As per this year’s calendar released by the department, Patna Sahib festival, to be held on the occasion of Vaishakhi on April 13, has been cancelled. Later in the month, Vaishali Mahotsav, which was planned for April 25, has also been cancelled. The department has been hosting the mahotsav for decades to mark birth anniversary of Lord Mahavir.Besides this, events such as Kundalpur Mahotsav in Nalanda, Lacchuar Mahotsav at Lacchuar in Jamui, Thawe Mahotsav in Gopalganj and Mundeshwari Mahotsav in Bhabua, also scheduled for this month, have been cancelled.“The events have been cancelled due to the growing Covid threat. No tourism festival will be held in April. The government has already issued guidelines for public functions,” state tourism minister Narayan Prasad said.Also Read | India’s Covid-19 tally tops 12.8 million with record 115,736 cases in 24 hoursThe ministry is yet to take a call on events planned for May.Prasad said though there are prescribed precautions to be taken to stop the spread of coronavirus infection, it will be difficult to keep things under control during such public functions.“Even the programme of Union tourism minister Prahlad Singh Patel has been revised due to Covid. He was to visit west Champaran to attend the Azaadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav on April 10. Now, the programme has been postponed to May 1,” he said.In 2020 as well, the state had to cancel a majority of events because of the pandemic. Mukesh Kumar, manager at a hotel run by the Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation, said,“Events such as Buddha Purnima, Rajgir Mahotsav and Sonepur fair had to be cancelled.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-tourism-dept-cancels-all-its-april-events-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-101617771324139.html
07-04-2021||India||Vivad se Vishwas solved 1.48 lakh legacy disputes, ₹54K crore recovered: CBDT||The direct tax dispute resolution scheme ‘Vivad se Vishwas’ (from dispute to trust) has settled more than 1.48 lakh cases and recovered 54% of about ₹1 lakh crore amount under litigation, Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) chairman Pramod Chandra Mody said on Tuesday.“The scheme has been successful as its objective was to reduce pending income tax litigation, generate timely revenue and provide taxpayers peace of mind,” he said.The scheme started on March 17, 2020 and closed on March 31 this year. However, taxpayers, who have already made declarations within the stipulated deadline of March 31, can make payments without any penalty or interest up to April 30, 2021.The Vivad se Vishwas scheme provides for the settlement of disputed tax, interest, penalty or fees in relation to an assessment or reassessment order. It grants immunity to taxpayers from levy of interest, penalty and institution of any proceeding for prosecution for any offence under the Income-Tax Act in respect of matters covered in the declaration.According to an official data, the government received a total 1,33,837 applications under the scheme, involving a total of 1,48,690 disputes. 1,45,237 disputes were related to appeals by assesses and 3,453 were related to appeals by the income-tax department. While the total disputed amount was ₹1,00,437 crore, the government received ₹54,005 crore in payments against the disputed tax. As on January 31, 2020, there were over 5.10 lakh litigations pending in various forums involving over ₹19.5 lakh crore. CBDT chairman Mody said that disputes over assessments were the root cause of litigation and technology and faceless assessments were making the process more objective, which was likely to reduce disputes.Abhishek A Rastogi, partner at law firm Khaitan & Company, said, “Vivad se Vishwas scheme has been a successful scheme that resolved several litigations quickly and settled the matter amicably. Any other approach would have prolonged these litigations.”Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced the scheme in the Union budget presented on February 1, 2020 with the aim to resolve legacy disputes involving direct taxes. Under the scheme, penalty and interest were to be waived if the disputed amount was paid before the stipulated date.“This year, I propose to bring a scheme similar to the indirect tax scheme ‘Sabka Vishwas’ for reducing litigations even in the direct taxes,” Sitharaman said in her budget speech last year. On July 5, 2019, Sitharaman had proposed the ‘Sabka Vishwas’ legacy dispute resolution scheme for excise and service tax, which resulted in settling at least 189,000 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vivad-se-vishwas-solved-1-48-lakh-legacy-disputes-rs-54k-crore-recovered-cbdt-101617771264152.html
07-04-2021||India||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari brought back to Banda jail from Punjab||After spending more than two years in Punjab’s Rupnagar prison, gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, 57, was brought back to Banda jail in Uttar Pradesh (UP) early Wednesday by road. Ansari’s return to Banda jail was in compliance with a March 26 Supreme Court order directing his transfer to UP where he faces trials in several criminal cases.The nearly 840 kilometre road journey took a little over 14 hours with Ansari, a five term MLA, in an ambulance that was part of the motorcade comprising GPS-enabled Vajra anti-riot vehicle, and gun-toting security personnel. About 100 policemen, including two deputy superintendents of police, and six sub inspectors, escorted the Bahujan Samaj Party MLA from Mau. The motorcade made only two stoppages in Agra – where drivers were changed – and then briefly in Satti in Kanpur. Also Read | ‘Mukhtar Ansari was given poison in same Banda jail,’ says his brotherAccording to Banda circle officer (CO) Banda Rakesh Singh, only the ambulance carrying Ansari and another vehicle were allowed to go inside the heavily guarded jail gates. Banda jail superintendent PK Tripathi said Ansari has been kept away from others in barrack number 15. He said security staff around Ansari would be sporting body worn cameras. Before being shifted out to Punjab jail two years ago, Ansari was lodged in this jail. While he was served food from outside then, this time, for security and medical reasons, he would be served prison food, jail officials said. Earlier new CCTV cameras were installed in Banda jail. “All the 19 cameras inside the jail have been changed or repaired,” a jail staff said, adding that strict watch was being kept on all visitors. A day ago, Ansari’s wife, Afshan Ansari, approached the Supreme Court, seeking a direction to the UP Police to “not kill” her husband in a fake encounter and allow him to face a “free and fair trial”. She pleaded that Ansari be provided security also during his transportation to court for trial proceedings. Her plea is likely to come up for hearing within a week or so. (With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gangsterturnedpolitician-mukhtar-ansari-brought-back-to-banda-jail-from-punjab-101617771024182.html
07-04-2021||India||Govt to launch campaign for Covid-19-appropriate behaviour as cases spike||The central government is set to launch a “low-cost people’s campaign (jan andolan)” to promote Covid-19-appropriate behaviour, involving ministries, states and even celebrities, as the country records its steepest spike in cases since September, 2020. “As you are aware, the number of cases of Covid-19 in the country is witnessing an alarming upward trend,” information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare wrote in a letter to all central government secretaries on Tuesday. “The Hon’ble Prime Minister convened a high-level meeting on April 4,2021 to review the emerging situation, following which the government has decided to focus on the five-fold strategy to deal with the emerging crisis viz., testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and vaccination.”As part of the campaign, Department of Personnel and Training (DoPT) on Tuesday also advised all central government employees over 45 to get the Covid-19 vaccine. “All central government employees of the age of 45 years and above are advised to get themselves vaccinated, so as to effectively contain the spread of Covid-19,” DoPT said in an office memorandum.Also Read | Amid rising Covid cases, IMF raises India outlookThe country is grappling with a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases, with the largest rise of over 100,000 cases in one day recorded this week, the single-largest daily case count since September. Partial lockdowns have been imposed in several parts of the country, with Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala being among the worst affected states. Delhi on Tuesday also imposed a night curfew to reduce the risk of transmission. Several stakeholders have appealed to the government to open the vaccination drive to persons of all ages, to better fight the second wave of the pandemic. The campaign will be carried out in several regional languages. The government will also run a hashtag, #Unite2FightCorona, on social media, and Indian Premier League commentary will include Covid-19 safety messages. The agriculture ministry will work on interpersonal communication through farmer organisations and associations, while railways is set to include the messages on train tickets. The ministry of electronics and information technology will embed messages on all government websites. The ministry of home affairs will look at publicity for fines levied for Covid-19 violations. The government has also suggested to the states that they set up digital screens at public places/markets showing photographs and videos of people taking the vaccine. Celebrities such as actors, cricketers, other sportspersons and leading industrialists and businessperson may also be part of the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-launch-campaign-for-covid-19-appropriate-behaviour-as-cases-spike-101617770483989.html
07-04-2021||India||Himachal Pradesh: Civic body poll in Dharamshala, Mandi, Solan, Palampur today. All you need to know||Four municipal corporations in Himachal Pradesh are scheduled to undergo polling on Wednesday. A total of 279 candidates from 64 wards of the four municipal bodies will be in the contest for power. The major fight in the local body polls is between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Congress.Here is all you need to know about the electionsThe poll for the four municipal bodies-Dharamshala, Mandi, Solan, and Palampur, is scheduled from 8am to 4pm.The counting will begin immediately after the close of the poll at the municipal headquarters.It is the maiden election for three of the four municipal corporations. Mandi, Solan, and Palampur are three newly created civic bodies. Dharamshala was created in 2015.Besides the civic body elections, six newly created nagar panchayats -- Chirgaon and Nerwa in Shimla district, Ani and Nirmand in Kullu district, Kandaghat in Solan, and Amb in Una district -- will also go to the polls.Also Read | Maharashtra minister 'slaps' food contractor during hospital visitEighty candidates are contesting for 17 wards of Dharamshala, 75 candidates are standing up for 15 wards of Mandi, 64 candidates in battle for 15 wards of Palampur, and 60 candidates contesting for Solan.During the campaign for the polls, the BJP leaders cited the achievements of the BJP-led state government and made promises of further developments of the hill state, reported PTI.The Congress, on the other hand, campaigned rising the promise of ensuring minimum wages under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission and also alleged misuse of government machinery during electioneering. The party also said that several rural areas have been included in the three new civic bodies, reported PTI.Elections for 394 ward members in 29 municipal bodies and 21 nagar panchayats were held in the state in January. The newly created panchayats were not included in the election by the state election commission then. Over 69 per cent of voter turnout was witnessed during the electoral process.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/himachal-pradesh-civic-body-poll-in-dharamshala-mandi-solan-palampur-today-all-you-need-to-know-101617769572640.html
07-04-2021||India||Manipur probe almost over, allow SIT officers to do other work: CBI to SC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has urged the Supreme Court to allow its officers investigating the alleged extra-judicial killings in Manipur as part of a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to do other work as agency’s probe in the encounters is almost wrapped up. The agency has informed the apex court that out of 39 cases registered to investigate alleged fake encounters in Manipur, charge sheets have been filed in 17 cases; 15 cases have been closed while prosecution sanction against army officers or Assam Rifles personnel is awaited in the rest of the cases. An officer, who didn’t want to be named, said the defence ministry has denied prosecution sanction in certain cases citing AFSPA (Armed Forces Special Powers Act) in Manipur, which gives sweeping powers to the security forces in a ‘disturbed area’. Also Read | CBI registers preliminary enquiry against Anil Deshmukh on HC orderThe Supreme Court, which was hearing a plea seeking a probe into 1,528 cases of alleged extra-judicial killings in Manipur, had on July 14, 2017, ordered constitution of an SIT, which it said will exclusively probe the encounters. The CBI initially formed a five-member SIT, in which two officers of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) – including senior superintendent of police Mahesh Bhardwaj – were later included as members. The SC released Bhardwaj from SIT last month. In its application filed in the apex court on January 7 this year, reviewed by HT, CBI said the “SIT has investigated these cases with all sincerity, seriousness and full devotion to unearth the truth”. The anti-corruption probe agency added “these cases have been investigated with full objectivity and comprehensively to investigate all allegations of use of excessive force or retaliatory force by uniformed personnel resulting in the death of any person”. Requesting the SC to allow its officers to do other work in the agency, it said, “In view of the prevailing Covid-19 situation and ever-increasing workload of CBI, the already over-stretched resources of CBI are to be used optimally”. Expressing its helplessness in taking all the cases to conclusion, CBI said these cases are “years/decades old and are of special nature to the extent that these cannot be investigated only on the basis of documents.” “Circumstantial evidence, oral testimony of the eyewitness (if any) and other relevant witnesses, opinion of medico-legal experts, forensic experts and other scientific evidence are very important for proper investigation of such kind of cases,” CBI said. It said Covid-19 induced lockdowns and restrictions also affected its work but it is trying to complete the investigation at the earliest. The agency further said that SIT’s superintendent of police LS Padmakumar and deputy SP VPS Mann were superannuated in May 2019 and June 2020 respectively while inspector Amar Saxena has passed away.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-probe-almost-over-allow-sit-officers-to-do-other-work-cbi-to-sc-101617768564054.html
07-04-2021||India||India's Covid-19 tally tops 12.8 million with record 115,736 cases in 24 hours||India’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday rose by more than 100,000 fresh infections for a second time as the Union ministry of health and family welfare's (MoHFW) dashboard showed that a record 115,736 cases were detected in the country in the preceding 24 hours. On April 5, 103,558 new cases were reported from across the country.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageWith this, India's Covid-19 tally has risen to 12,801,785, the health ministry's dashboard showed on Wednesday morning. Total recovered cases reached 11,792,135 after 59,856 more patients recovered from the viral disease in this period, the dashboard showed. Active cases mounted to 843,743, rising by 55,250 cases, while 630 fresh fatalities were also recorded in this period, taking the overall death toll to 166,177.Recovered cases, active cases and deaths comprise 92.48%, 6,21% and 1.30% of India's total Covid-19 tally. The country's new positive cases were from 1,208,329 samples tested on Tuesday, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said, adding that total 251,439,598 samples have been tested thus far.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/X4J8LUu2CAWith the country reporting more daily cases in the ongoing second wave as compared to during last year's first wave, several states have announced partial lockdowns, night curfews and a series of other restrictions. Maharashtra continues to be the worst-affected state, as it logged more than 55,000 fresh infections on Tuesday, crossing the 50,000 mark for a second time. The western state, whose infection tally and active caseload is the highest in the country, also saw 297 related deaths on the day.Also Read | Covid-19: Maharashtra records over 50k new cases, 297 fresh deathsDelhi and Gujarat have both announced night curfews amid a surge of the pandemic. Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan attributed the surge in infections to "large-scale weddings, local body elections and farmers' protest" after chairing a review meet with "11 states of concern" on Tuesday.Also Read | 'Weddings, farm stir, polls causing surge in Covid cases': Health ministerOn Thursday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a discussion with chief ministers to discuss the current Covid-19 situation and vaccination strategy. More than 87 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered thus far, as per the health ministry's dashboard.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-19-tally-tops-12-8-million-with-record-115-736-cases-in-24-hours-101617766516108.html
07-04-2021||India||Goa Speaker to decide on disqualification of 10 MLAs who joined BJP on April 20||Speaker of the Goa assembly, Rajesh Patnekar, told the Supreme Court of India that his final order in the disqualification petitions, filed by the Congress party against 10 Goa BJP MLAs, will be passed by April 20. The SC bench headed by the Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde had earlier twice rejected the dates proposed by the speaker. When the hearing began, solicitor general (SG) Tushar Mehta told the court that the speaker’s final orders will be delivered on April 29, however, the bench said such a late date was “not acceptable”. “The court again asked the SG to check with the speaker whether he is able to pass the order within a weeks’ time. The SG said the speaker can do it by April 22,” said advocate Abhijit Gosavi, who represented the Congress party. However, the court asked the SG to once again seek instructions from the Speaker whether orders could be passed latest by April 20, following which, Mehta informed the court that the order will be passed on April 20th. SC has set April 21 as the next date of hearing in the case and the judgement is expected before April 22, when the CJI retires. The SC is hearing a plea by Goa Congress president Girish Chodankar seeking directions to the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly to expeditiously hear the disqualification petitions filed against 10 MLAs, who switched from the Congress to the BJP in July 2019, reducing the party’s strength in the house to five. The party claims the switch amounted to a defection under the 10th schedule of the Constitution as there was no merger of the original party.As per the anti-defection law, two-thirds of the strength of a legislative party is allowed to merge with another without inviting disqualification. The law, amended in January 2004, does not recognise a split in a legislature party.The then Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Goa assembly, Congress’s Chandrakant Kavlekar joined the BJP on July 10 along with nine other MLAs--Atanasio Monserrate, Jennifer Monserrate, Filipe Neri Rodrigues, Nilkanth Halarnkar, Francisco Silveira, Clafasio Dias, Isidore Fernandes, Wilfred D’Sa and Tony Fernandes. Chief minister Pramod Sawant, said the 10 MLAs had merged with the BJP, increasing the strength of the party to 27 in the state assembly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/goa-speaker-to-decide-on-disqualification-of-10-mlas-who-joined-bjp-on-april-20-101617766883857.html
07-04-2021||India||Widespread rain and thunderstorm likely over western Himalayan region today||Widespread rain and thunderstorms are likely over the western Himalayan region on Wednesday and Thursday, according to the India Meteorological Department.A western disturbance as a trough in mid and upper tropospheric westerlies and an induced cyclonic circulation over Punjab and neighbourhood persists. Under the influence of these systems, widespread rainfall/snowfall with thunderstorm, lightning/gusty winds (with a speed of 30-40kmph) are very likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next two days and isolated rainfall/snowfall thereafter. Scattered to widespread rainfall with thunderstorm, lightning/gusty winds (with a speed of 30-40kmph) over Punjab and north Haryana, Chandigarh; isolated rainfall over northwest Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours are likely.Also Read | India saw third warmest March in 121 years: IMDDuststorm/thunderstorm and gusty winds (with a speed of 40-50kmph) are very likely at isolated places over west Rajasthan and thunderstorms with gusty winds (with a speed of 30-40 kmph) at isolated places over east Rajasthan during the next 24 hours. Heatwave conditions are likely to develop in isolated pockets over southwest Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan during the next 24 hours and over Madhya Pradesh and east Vidarbha during the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/widespread-rain-and-thunderstorm-likely-over-western-himalayan-region-today-101617765983777.html
07-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Karnataka bus strike from today, public transport likely to be affected and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Karnataka bus strike from today, public transport likely to be affectedUnder the banner of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, workers of BMTC, KSRTC, NWKRTC and NEKRTC, have given a call for an indefinite strike from Wednesday. Read moreNext round of military talks on LAC row likely on April 9The 11th round of India-China military dialogue may take place on April 9 to resolve the friction at Gogra-Hot Springs and restoring the pre-April 2020 status quo ante along the 1,597-kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. Read moreMukhtar Ansari's wife approaches Supreme CourtGangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afshan Ansari has moved the Supreme Court seeking safety for the Mau MLA while he is being shifted to Banda district jail in Uttar Pradesh from Rupnagar jail in Punjab, and during trial in pending cases in the state. Read moreTribunal reform ordinance upsets CongressCalling it a “terrible breach of trust”, the Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Centre over its ordinance to dissolve a part of India’s appellate structure without any review and wondered if “anything better” could be expected from the NDA government. Read moreTwo of India's best, 3 tearaway overseas quicks: Top 5 seamers to watch out for in IPL 2021It's that time of the year again! The Indian Premier League (IPL 2021) is back and this time, just less than six months after the previous season. Read moreSushmita Sen revisits daughter Alisah's heartwarming essay on adoption, praises her 'wisdom and grace'. Watch videoSushmita Sen came across an old video of her younger daughter Alisah reciting a heartwarming essay on adoption. In the essay, the 11-year-old urged people to adopt as it gives a child ‘the right to live’ and brings one a lot of love and happiness in return. Read moreMadhuri Dixit dresses in co-ord bralette and pants for date night in MaldivesMadhuri Dixit recently returned from her vacation in the Maldives and has already started sharing throwback images on her social media proving that she is just like the rest of us and believes in the fact that it is never too early to share throwback images. Read moreAndhra cop takes care of one-month-old baby as mother casts vote, garners praiseIn a heartening post shared on Twitter, a constable was seen taking care of a one-month-old baby at a polling booth in Tamil Nadu in the absence of the child’s mother. Read moreWatch| ‘All adults in US eligible for Covid vaccination from April 19’: Joe Biden||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-karnataka-bus-strike-from-today-public-transport-likely-to-be-affected-and-all-the-latest-news-101617763182796.html
07-04-2021||India||World Health Day: Address inequities to build a healthier world, says WHO||At a high-level virtual event on World Health Day on Wednesday, the health ministers of countries in south-east Asia, including India, will commit to “building a fairer and healthier world”, the theme for this year’s event.The World Health Organization (WHO) has asked the countries in the south-east Asia region to prioritise actions to address inequities compounded by the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.“Covid-19 is just the latest disease to expose, exploit and exacerbate inequities that negatively impact health and socioeconomic outcomes between and among vulnerable groups. Understanding and overcoming the many social and economic determinants of health is becoming critical in our efforts to achieve universal health coverage,” said Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, regional director, WHO south-east Asia.World Health Day is celebrated every year on April 7, with a different theme.Also Read | Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru: These cities are under curbs as Covid-19 cases riseThe United Nations health body stressed the need for collecting quality data to be able to take timely action.“We must enhance the collection and use of timely and reliable health data that is disaggregated by gender, age, income, education, migratory status and disability among other factors,” said Khetrapal Singh.India on Monday launched Integrated Health Information Platform (IHIP), the revised next generation Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme (IDSP) that is totally digital, in line with Union health ministry’s National Digital Health Mission.Instead of manually collecting data on infectious diseases, the new platform will upload and collate data digitally that will help pick up any clustering in realtime, and in turn avert a potential outbreak in the country. Also, the number of diseases to be covered as part of the country’s disease surveillance programme has been extended to 33, from the existing 18.Another key measure suggested by WHO is for the countries to strengthen their primary health care delivery system.“The launch of health and wellness centres under the government’s Ayushman Bharat Yojana will serve the exact same purpose, to be able to deliver primary health care at the grassroots level; making healthcare accessible even in hard-to-reach areas,” said a senior government official. The UN body also suggested that there was a need for countries to act beyond national borders, and strengthen regional and global health security.“As a new wave of infection is spreading across the region, there is a need for countries to come together, and strengthen the basic public health measures that are known to work, while also accelerating vaccine rollouts. Nearly 86 million people in the region have now received their first dose and more than 14 million have received both doses,” said Khetrapal Singh.“...The region continues to make rapid and sustained progress against diseases of poverty and marginalisation... All people have the right to achieve the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health. A fairer and healthier region and world is possible,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/world-health-day-address-inequities-to-build-a-healthier-world-says-who-101617765205072.html
07-04-2021||India||Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru: These cities/districts are under curbs as Covid-19 cases rise||With Covid-19 infections spreading at a faster rate this time than the last year, city-specific or district-specific lockdown-like situation is back in many states. Several states have closed schools, shopping malls, markets while some have imposed night lockdown, and some are observing weekend lockdowns -- in an attempt to rein in spread of the infection. At present, Delhi, Mumbai, Bengaluru -- all are under restrictions. Most of these restriction will continue this month so that no crowding takes place on the festive occasions in this monthHere's the list of cities under restrictions:DelhiNight curfew between 10pm and 5am has been put in place till April 30. However, pregnant women, patients, those travelling to and from airports, railway stations, state bus terminus on showing tickets, officials related to the functioning of offices of diplomats, and those holding any constitutional post on the production of valid identity card are exempt from the restrictions.MumbaiMumbai, as other cities and districts in Maharashtra, is under a weekend lockdown and a night curfew during the weekdays.PuneApart from Maharashtra's restriction measures, the Pune Municipal Corporation has separately imposed some curbs in the city closing all markets and shops till April 30.Ahmedabad, Surat, RajkotA curfew from 8pm to 6am in 20 cities in Gujarat will become effective from April 7 and will continue till April 30. The cities where the curfew is being imposed are Ahmedabad, Surat, Vadodara, Rajkot, Jamangar, Bhavnagar, Junagadh, Gandhinagar, Anand, Nadiad, Mehasana, Morbi, Dahod, Patan, Godhra, Bhuj, Gandhidham, Bharuch, Surendranagar and Amreli.BengaluruBengaluru police commissioner has prohibited rallies, demonstrations, public gathering, functions and group prayers to prevent the spread of the disease, as Bengaluru Urban is the only district of Karnataka in the list of the top 10 districts of the country with highest active Covid-19 cases. Swimming pools in the city have been ordered to be closed. Gyms, bars, clubs, restaurants will only function at 50 per cent occupancy.DurgChhattisgarh's Durg is under a nine-day strict lockdown, which began on April 6.Indore, Bhopal, JabalpurA total of 12 Madhya Pradesh districts, including Vidisha, Ujjain, Gwalior, Narsinghpur, Sausar, Indore, Bhopal, Jabalpur, Khargone, Betul, Chhindwara and Ratlam, are under Sunday lockdown.Sambalpur, Kalahandi Ten districts of Odisha, including Sundergarh, Bargarh, Jharsuguda, Sambalpur, Balangir, Nuapada, Kalahandi, Malkangiri, Koraput and Nabarangpur are under night curfew from 10pm to 5am.JaipurFrom April 5 to 19, all cities and districts of Rajasthan are under a night curfew and several restrictions. Multiplexes and gymnasiums have been ordered to be closed. Physical classes of 1 to 9 have also been suspended. The night curfew will continue from 8pm to 6am.ChandigarhFrom April 7, Chandigarh will come under a night curfew from 10pm to 5am.While a complete lockdown is the last resort to break the transmission chain of the infections, night curfews and Sunday lockdown are aimed at stopping the infection spread with minimum disruption to normal life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/list-of-states-under-lockdown-in-india-in-april-2021-delhi-mumbai-bengaluru-lockdown-rules-101617761027000.html
07-04-2021||India||Kumbh Mela: Rishikesh's Bharat Bhoomi Tourist complex to be set up as Covid care centre||In view of increasing Covid-19 cases in Uttrakhand, the Dehradun district administration has acquired Bharat Bhumi Tourist complex under Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam in Rishikesh to utilise it as a Covid care centre.Speaking to ANI, District Magistrate, Dehradun Ashish Srivastava said, "Keeping in view of exercising Covid guidelines amid Kumbh Mela celebrations, Rishikesh's Bharat Bhoomi Tourist complex under Garhwal Mandal Vikas Nigam Limited will be set up as Covid care centre."The district authorities are preparing for the same, he said.Uttarakhand reported 791 new Covid-19 positive cases including 303 cases in Dehradun and 185 cases in Haridwar on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 1,03,602.Despite the spike in Covid-19 cases, Union Health Ministry has said there are no plan to cut short the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar prematurely and is hoping that standard operating procedures (SOPs) are being followed there.On being asked if Kumbh Mela can be a super-spreader of Covid-19, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan yesterday said, "As the super spreader events are concerned, the union government almost a month ago issued an SOP, specifically for practices to be adopted in Kumbh and had a long meeting with the state government's officers.""One fact that we usually lose sight of is that the duration of Kumbh has already been curtailed, Kumbh wherever it happens is usually for three and a half to four months, the present Kumbh has been curtailed to a month," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-mela-rishikesh-s-bharat-bhoomi-tourist-complex-to-be-set-up-as-covid-care-centre-101617760896751.html
07-04-2021||India||Protests against CAA, farm laws part of a conspiracy: PM on BJP’s foundation day||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday warned Bharatiya Janata Party workers against “a system of narratives” being created around decisions of the central government “as part of a conspiracy”.In his address to BJP workers on the party’s 41st foundation day, the PM said that the people who call the party “an election-winning machine” do not understand the maturity of the Indian democracy.Referring to protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, new farm laws and labour laws, the PM said, “[Whether it is] with regard to CAA or the farm laws or the labour laws, every worker should understand that there is politics behind this and a big conspiracy.”Protests erupted across the country after Parliament passed the CAA to fast-track the citizenship process for non-Muslims from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan in 2019.Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November last year against the three farm laws passed in September.Alleging that there is an attempt to create political instability in the country, the PM said, “…therefore, all rumours are being spread; fears are being stoked and lies are being told. Imaginary fears are being created. Sometimes it is said that the Constitution will be changed, sometimes that reservation will be withdrawn. Sometimes they say citizenship will be withdrawn and sometimes they say farmers’ lands will be taken…”He blamed those “who cannot accept their defeat” for creating fear and wrong narratives for political benefit.Modi said when other parties win elections, they and their leaders are feted. He added in the case of the BJP, electoral wins are “perceived with double standards”.“Those who say we are an election-winning machine cannot understand the maturity of the Indian democracy and the intelligence of the voters. They cannot understand the hopes and aspirations of the Indian voters,” he said.“We are moving ahead taking along every region and community. We are everywhere. We are a party of national interest as well as regional aspirations. We do not believe in political untouchability,” he said, adding that secularism has been transformed to mean policies according to the vote banks and favours only for a few.“Those who make policies and programmes for everyone and speak about the rights of all are called communal. But Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas and Sabka Vishwas has begun to change these definitions,” he said.He said the parties that talked about regional aspirations have become family-owned parties. “These parties wore a fake mask of secularism which is now being taken off,” he said.Modi’s comments came on the day of polling to elect 475 assembly members across four states — West Bengal, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Assam — and Union territory of Puducherry.Reacting to the PM’s speech, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said, “...The criticism of the so-called new BJP of Modi and Shah is that in its blind search for electoral victory, it has jettisoned all norms of fair play, inclusiveness, political magnanimity and political ethics.”Political commentator Ajay Kumar Jha said since 2014, the BJP under Modi has been challenging the established narrative. “The national narrative is being challenged by the BJP under Modi’s leadership and that is getting a very aggressive reaction from the established socio-political and intellectual groups. They have not been able to accept the changes in terms of the BJP’s rise and therefore find a negative connotation to the party’s electoral performance.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protests-against-caa-farm-laws-part-of-a-conspiracy-pm-on-bjp-s-foundation-day-101617760971366.html
07-04-2021||India||Next round of military talks on LAC row likely on April 9||The 11th round of India-China military dialogue may take place on April 9 to resolve the friction at Gogra-Hot Springs and restoring the pre-April 2020 status quo ante along the 1,597-kilometre Line of Actual Control (LAC) in East Ladakh, people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday. The Indian Army also wants to resolve long-standing patrolling issues at Depsang Bulge due to friction in the area during the 2013 stand-off with the People’s Liberation Army.“The dialogue will most probably take place on Friday (April 9) but a confirmation is still awaited from the PLA side,” said a senior official. He, however, insisted that there is no delay from the Chinese side.While the situation on both banks of Pangong Tso is stable with the PLA and Indian Army going back to pre-April 2020 positions, a score of Chinese soldiers is still to restore status quo ante in the Gogra-Hot Springs area, or patrolling points 15 and 17 as per the Indian military lexicon.Also Read| ‘Russia closely watching LAC developments’: Foreign minister Sergey LavrovThe last round of military talks to resolve border tensions that began last May was held on February 20. This meeting stretched for 16 hours and ended with two sides agreeing that the Pangong Tso disengagement provided them with a “good basis” to resolve the outstanding issues at friction points in “a steady and orderly” manner.Indian Army commanders believe that the differences between the two sides at the Gogra-Hot Springs area were relatively a minor issue as compared to the diversion of views on the strategic heights on both banks Pangong Tso. But there is recognition that the talks could go either way though the army has approached the dialogue with an open mind.The 11th round of military talks comes at a time China is concerned about the QUAD security dialogue and the effort to raise the pressure on Beijing to loosen its hold over Taiwan and the South China Sea. Leaders of the four-member Quad grouping — the United States, India, Japan and Australia — held their first summit on March 12 to address concerns about Beijing’s growing economic and military heft. A meeting of US-China officials at Anchorage on March 18 also ended acrimoniously, making it clear that there was no possibility of a revival in US-China bilateral ties in a hurry despite the change in the White House.Also Read| China sees a 'weak India', says Rahul, explains why Cong is not winning pollTo add to China’s concern is the concerted effort by powers such as France and the United Kingdom to expand their footprint in the Indo-Pacific and India playing a pivotal role in the region, particularly in the Indian Ocean. Navies of France-plus Quad countries are already in the middle of exercises in the Bay of Bengal, with French carrier strike force led by aircraft carrier Charles de Gaulle. The French nuclear-powered aircraft carrier will participate in the trilateral naval exercise along with the Indian and the United Arab Emirates navies in the strategically important Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman later this month.Officials suggest it is not clear these developments would impact the military talks. With both the US and China accusing each other of grand-standing at the Anchorage meeting last month, the PLA may either harden its stance or soften its attitude towards the resolution of Gogra-Hot Springs. The Indian Army, which has prepared for a long haul at the friction points, is also keeping a close watch on the entire 3488 km LAC as most stand-offs with PLA take place in April and May during exercises in Tibet and Xinjiang by the Western Theatre Command based in Chengdu.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/next-round-of-military-talks-on-lac-row-likely-on-april-9-101617760450954.html
07-04-2021||India||Mukhtar Ansari's wife approaches Supreme Court||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari’s wife Afshan Ansari has moved the Supreme Court seeking safety for the Mau MLA while he is being shifted to Banda district jail in Uttar Pradesh from Rupnagar jail in Punjab, and during trial in pending cases in the state.Afshan, alleging imminent threat to Ansari’s life, has sought intervention of the top court to ensure that her husband is not killed in a so-called fake encounter. “The petitioner is in complete fear that now any time an untoward incident can happen to her husband but for protective directions passed by this Hon’ble Court,” Afshan said in her plea. The court is expected to hear her petition on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukhtar-ansari-s-wife-approaches-supreme-court-101617760244670.html
07-04-2021||India||Karnataka bus strike from today, public transport likely to be affected||Under the banner of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League, workers of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), have given a call for an indefinite strike from Wednesday citing state government’s failure to implement salary system under the 6th pay commission for the workers of road transportation corporation. The strike is likely to affect public transport in the state.Here’s everything you need to know about the Karnataka transport strike from Wednesday:1. Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa appealed to road transportation corporation workers not to hold the strike. “We have fulfilled eight out of your (workers) nine demands. We have to work together for the welfare of the people. Without giving room for the government to take strict measures, drop the strike and cooperate with the administration,” CM Yediyurappa said on Tuesd.2. The Karnataka government has warned of strict action against the workers if the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) restrictions are not followed. "There are Covid-19 restrictions in place and a notification has already been issued under the Disaster Management Act stating that people cannot gather in groups. If it is violated, action will be taken under the act, also IPC, police act among others," state chief secretary Kumar said. "Their demand for implementation of the sixth pay commission report, and thereby give them the salary on par with the government employees, cannot be accepted," Kumar added.3. With the aim to reduce inconvenience of the general public, the state government has made alternative arrangements for transport by roping in private operators. The government has also deployed more trains to places like Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Hubballi, Mysuru among others.4. The state government has also allowed the state road transport corporation to hire private buses and school buses for transportation, according to news agency ANI.5. The government has also said that strict action will be taken against autos and cabs if they charge higher fares taking advantage of the transport strike. Keeping in account the same, the government has issued a notification fixing cab and bus fares.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bus-strike-from-today-public-transport-likely-to-be-affected-101617756569775.html
07-04-2021||India||‘Glad we took it’: Odisha couple urges others to dispel rumours about vaccine||Last year, Shiva Prasad Rath lost three relatives — a sister and two brothers-in-law — to the coronavirus disease. “All in a period of eight months,” said Rath, a 73-year-old former government employee from Odisha. “It was just horrific.”Rath lives with his wife, Swapna (64), in Bhubaneswar. The Raths could not attend the last rites of their relatives, two of which took place in September. In November, another sister and brother-in-law were hospitalised; this time, his sister survived, but her husband died.At the time, the caseload in Odisha was 294,457; as of April 6, 2021, the number of cases in the state is 343,856 and 1,975 people have died till date.“It was so scary,” said Swapna, a teacher, who stopped giving tuition classes when the lockdown began on March 25, 2020. “I didn’t even see the front gate of my house [for several months],” Rath said, alluding to how they stayed indoors through the lockdown and even after it was lifted. They got their vegetables delivered, they put off a visit to the cardiologist — necessary for Rath who had a stent inserted a decade ago — and they avoided all public places, including temples.The fear, said the Raths, was also driven by the number of messages over social media messaging platforms that began to circulate shortly after the vaccination drive started in the country. “There were so many videos and messages. One said that people with high blood pressure would fall down senseless after getting a shot; one said there were no guarantees of whether there would be any side-effects after vaccination,” Swapna said.Rath had an additional worry. The Covaxin fact sheet states that people on blood thinners should inform their health care providers. Initially, this led to widespread confusion about whether there were certain drugs that had contraindications for vaccination. The ICMR subsequently issued a clarification towards the end of January that both Covid vaccines — Covaxin and Covishield — approved for use in India were safe for people on such medication.All the same, Rath went to a doctor just to be sure, and the doctor advised him to take the jab.On March 25, the Raths visited a vaccination centre at the Hi-Tech Medical College & Hospital, close to their home, and got their first dose of the vaccine. “The process was very easy,” Rath said.Rath experienced some degree of tiredness after taking the shot. “I think it was psychological...,” Swapna said, adding that she only felt a little pain in the arm after the shot.The companies manufacturing these vaccines — Bharat Biotech (Covaxin) and Serum Institute of India (Covishield) — have published a list of possible side effects the respective vaccines could lead to. These range from pain at the injection site to chills, body ache and nausea.It was a very good thought, Swapna said, to think of senior citizens as the first group after health care workers, to get the shot. The main lesson from the pandemic, Swapna said, was that it is possible to take care of oneself — healthy diet, regular exercise, and “wearing masks at all times” but that “a little bit of fear [of the pandemic] is also a good thing, because it ensures that we follow rules”.The Raths rue the fact that the “younger generation” doesn’t wear masks or maintains social distancing anymore.“But there is nothing scary about taking the vaccine. We’re glad we did it, said Swapna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/glad-we-took-it-odisha-couple-urges-others-to-dispel-rumours-about-vaccine-101617757522712.html
07-04-2021||India||Tribunal reform ordinance upsets Congress||Calling it a “terrible breach of trust”, the Congress on Tuesday hit out at the Centre over its ordinance to dissolve a part of India’s appellate structure without any review and wondered if “anything better” could be expected from the NDA government.The Tribunals Reforms (Rationalisation and Conditions of Service) Ordinance, 2021, was promulgated on Sunday. The legislation, piloted by finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman, aims to dissolve at least eight existing appellate tribunals and transfer their responsibilities to other bodies, including high courts.According to Congress chief whip in Rajya Sabha, Jairam Ramesh, the government had assured the opposition during the Budget session that the bill to the above effect would be sent to a standing committee for review.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tribunal-reform-ordinance-upsets-congress-101617755461890.html
07-04-2021||India||'Weddings, farm stir, polls causing surge in Covid cases': Health minister||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan reviewed the Covid-19 situation in “11 states of concern” on Tuesday, and attributed the surge in infections to large-scale weddings, local body elections and farmers’ protests, among others.The Centre has categorised Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan as “states of grave concern” due to rising daily cases and higher daily deaths.Addressing a video conference with state health ministers, the minister said: “This is an event-driven surge because of large-scale weddings, local body elections and farmers’ protest.”“These states have been reporting very high rise in daily cases and daily mortality because of Covid-19 in the last two weeks. These 11 states together contributed 54% of the total cases and 65% of the total deaths in the country, with a disproportionately high number of deaths in Maharashtra and Punjab,” he added.Also Read| Jab for those who ‘need’ it, not those who ‘want’ it: CentreOn Tuesday, India added a record 115,320 new cases, to take its overall tally of cases to 11,789,781; 630 people died from Covid-19 on Tuesday. Of these, Maharashtra topped with 55,469, followed by Chhattisgarh (9,921). A high test positivity rate, of about 25%, has been reported from Maharashtra, and 14% from Chhattisgarh. He pointed out that since February 2021, these states have witnessed a steep increase in cases, a majority of which has been reported among people between the ages of 15 and 44. Also, a majority of the deaths have been reported among those above 60, he added.The minister also appreciated the fact that states were trying to increase the number of Covid-19 testing, but cautioned against the high rapid antigen testing proportion in Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra. He assured to help the states in containing the spread of the virus. “The Centre has been and shall continue to support the States and UTs through all possible recourses to fight the global pandemic. While the cases are on the rise since the past few weeks, the national cumulative fatality rate has become 1.30% now,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weddings-farm-stir-polls-causing-surge-in-covid-cases-health-minister-101617753768129.html
07-04-2021||India||Brothers in arms in Maoist ambush: One looks for sibling, other mourns his loss||Raipur: Around 1.30pm on Saturday, as Maoist bullets rained on security forces in Chhattisgarh’s Bastar region, Hemant Andrik met his elder brother, Kishore.The siblings, both district reserve guard ( DRG) personnel, were exhausted. For 90 minutes, they had been firing relentlessly to break free from an U-shaped ambush that eventually killed 22 personnel.Hemant and four members of his team had just shot their way from lower ground onto a hillock and were resting, when they saw Kishore and four members of his team approach from another direction. At the time, around 350 personnel were still trapped by the surprise attack at the borders of Sukma and Bijapur districts.They stopped, greeted each other, and chatted for a few minutes. “We had broken the ambush…Kishore bhaiyya and his team were on the hilltop and firing to give us cover. Ten minutes later, Kishore bhaiyya came down with his team and we met near a rock. I told him to keep moving and meet me around 300 metres ahead,” Hemant said.It was the last time they saw each other.The brothers decided to rendezvous at a small hut nearby that soldiers frequented to drink water. But as Hemant advanced through the gunfire, he found it increasingly difficult to dodge bullets, and was separated from his team. “There was continuous firing from both sides. Maoists were using Under Barrel Grenade Launcher (UBGL) hence it was not easy to move ahead…I told my brother to move... It was sheer luck that I was not hit and managed to cross the ambush,” Hemant said. But in the frenzy, he could not stop at the hut, and moved ahead.When Kishore reached the hut, he stopped for a sip of water, and asked the soldiers present if they had seen Hemant. When they replied in the negative, Kishore determined that his younger brother must have been hit by the Maoists, and decided to go back into the gunfire to rescue him. “The other soldiers requested him not to go in the ambush again, but he told them he has to save his brother,” Hemant said.“I should have stopped at the hut, come what may,” he added, filled with regret.Around 3pm, Hemant returned to the Terrem camp, where helicopters were rescuing the injured. He waited for his brother, but in vain. Eventually, he asked other soldiers if they had seen Kishore, but no one had. “They told me my brother might be with some other team because all teams were scattered after the ambush,” he said.He waited until 9pm, when other soldiers told him that Kishore was asking for him at the hut, and had likely walked back into the attack. Hemant was still hopeful of his elder brother being alive, but on Sunday morning, Kishore’s body was discovered.The brothers resided in Cherlapal village of Bijapur district; Hemant joined the DRG in 2012 while his brother was inducted about 18 months earlier. Kishore is survived by his wife, who is pregnant with their first child.Senior officials confirmed the events. “Kishore was a brave jawan and was also with me for some time. He went inside the ambush again after not finding his brother and died. This is very painful,” said Abhishek Singh, a deputy superintendent of police in Bijapur district .Since Saturday, Hemant hasn’t been able to sleep. “Kishore bhaiyya was brave and ultimate fighter. He loved me so much. I can’t believe he’s gone,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-ambush-one-goes-to-look-for-missing-sibling-other-mourns-his-loss-101617750429900.html
07-04-2021||India||India, Russia discuss ways to strengthen strategic ties||India and Russia on Tuesday discussed ways to deepen military and strategic cooperation, including manufacturing of Russian military hardware in the country and the start of talks on creating a free trade area between India and the Eurasian Economic Union.These matters figured in the meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, the focus of whose visit to New Delhi was preparations for the annual India-Russia Summit to be held in the country later this year.“We talked about the longstanding partnership in nuclear, space and defence sectors... We spoke of connectivity, including the International North-South Transport Corridor and the Chennai-Vladivostok Eastern Maritime Corridor,” Jaishankar told a joint news conference after the talks. Lavrov said the two sides discussed military cooperation, including the expansion of the manufacturing of state-of-the-art Russian weapons in India under the “Make in India” and “Atmanirbhar Bharat” initiatives. “In this strategically important area, Russia is a major foreign contractor for India. We are the only partner that indeed transfers to India cutting edge military technology,” he said. “Deepening of military cooperation serves national interests of both countries. At the same time, we respect the right of our Indian friends to diversify ties in this area,” he said.Jaishankar said India’s “defence sector requirements in the past year were expeditiously addressed” by Russia – an apparent reference to the country’s emergency military needs amid the border standoff with China in Ladakh sector.According to a recent estimate by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Sipri), Russia was the most-affected supplier as India’s arms imports fell 33% between 2011-15 and 2016-20.Responding to a question on reported US pressure on India to prevent military-technical cooperation with Russia, Lavrov said: “We did not discuss these statements from the US, instead we confirmed that we are going to deepen our military cooperation.”Did not meet PMLavrov did not have an interaction with the Indian Prime Minister, usually a standard feature for a visit to New Delhi by a senior Russian leader. The people familiar of the developments sought to play down the matter, saying no such meeting was scheduled as the PM Narendra Modi was away in West Bengal to address public meetings at Cooch Behar and Howrah as part of the BJP’s campaign for the state elections. There were no indications of differences at the joint press conference with both Lavrov and Jasishankar giving a positive readout on their discussions.Lavrov said the two sides had also agreed on joint efforts to tackle a decline in mutual trade due to the Covid-19 pandemic. They also discussed cooperation in nuclear energy, space, including manned programmes, building rocket engines and satellite navigation, and transportation infrastructure projects in Russia’s Far East and the Arctic, he said.Vaccine contractsCollaboration on Covid-19 vaccines figured in the talks, and Lavrov noted that the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) has signed contracts with several Indian firms to manufacture about 750 million doses of the Sputnik V vaccine. He didn’t rule out further cooperation to cover manufacturing of Indian vaccines in Russia, while Jaishankar said a decision would be made by regulatory authorities of both sides. “For us, were those vaccines to be made in India, it would be one more affirmation of the importance of ‘Make in India’ and our own vaccine capacities,” Jaishankar said. The Russian minister also conveyed a message from President Valdimir Putin to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and invited Jaishankar to visit Russia. Former ambassador Vishnu Prakash said there are various difficulties associated with infrastructure development projects in Russia’s Far East and the proposed free trade area with the Eurasian Economic Union. “Besides India’s resource constraints, there’s also the influence of China. It won’t be easy for us to compete with China’s financial resources and economic muscle-flexing. Russia itself has been concerned about increasing Chinese influence in these areas,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-russia-discuss-ways-to-strengthen-strategic-ties-101617740732350.html
07-04-2021||India||French investigator shelved graft probe into Rafale jet deal: Report||The former head of the financial crimes branch of France’s public prosecution services shelved an investigation into alleged evidence of corruption in the ₹58,000-crore Rafale jet deal with India despite the objection of colleagues, according to a French media report on Tuesday.This was the second in a three-part report by Mediapart, which earlier reported Dassault Aviation, makers of the Rafale, paid a million euros to a person described as a “middleman” in connection with the deal for 36 jets for the Indian Air Force (IAF).Mediapart contended the payment was made for manufacturing 50 large models of Rafale jets, though Dassault provided inspectors of French anti-corruption agency Agence Française Anticorruption (AFA) no proof that these replicas were made.Éliane Houlette, former head of the financial crimes branch of the public prosecution services, justified her decision to shelve the investigations as preserving “the interests of France, the workings of institutions”, Mediapart reported.French President Emmanuel Macron and his predecessor, François Hollande, were cited in allegations levelled in the case, the report said.Houlette was provided a legal statement in October 2018 by a Paris-based anti-corruption NGO called Sherpa, which alerted her office to a “suspected and potentially far-reaching scam involving the French state” and Dassault, the report said.Sherpa reported, citing media revelations, about “suspected corruption, including money laundering, influence peddling and favouritism” surrounding the sale of Rafale jets to India.The statement by Sherpa – called a “signalement”, which in France is a form of official alert about suspected criminal behaviour that can be filed by entities which aren’t direct victims of the alleged crime – was “politically highly sensitive, not only because it centred on a massive arms deal agreed between governments, but also because it threatened possible ramifications” for Macron, Hollande, and Jean-Yves Le Drian, who served as Hollande’s defence minister and is currently foreign minister, the report added.Mediapart cited documents and first-hand accounts to contend that following the “potentially explosive alert” from Sherpa, Houlette made “no serious attempts to investigate the suspicions of corruption and favouritism surrounding the Rafale deal”, though she held an informal meeting with a lawyer representing Dassault.In June 2019, shortly before leaving her post, Houlette closed the preliminary investigation into Sherpa’s complaint, citing the “absence” of any offence. The move went against the advice of the deputy prosecutor in-charge of the case, who “refused to write up the official notification of it being dropped”, Mediapart reported.Houlette’s decision was validated by two magistrates of the Paris public prosecution services and enacted by her successor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-investigator-shelved-graft-probe-into-rafale-jet-deal-report-101617736100937.html
07-04-2021||Today's||In new India, leveraging the country’s great mineral potential||Among the most important sectors with an impact on economic growth is mineral mining. In terms of generating employment, the sector, second only to agriculture, directly and indirectly employs about 11 million people, and sustains the livelihood of about 55 million people.Despite its huge potential, India’s mineral mining sector remained choked under previous regimes. India had been underexplored — over 17% of the nation’s land area has mineral reserves whereas mining is being carried out only on 0.25% of the area. The sector had also underperformed in attracting investments. While mineral production stands at ₹1.25 lakh crore annually, its import is a whopping ₹2.5 lakh crore.But given the importance of the sector, the Narendra Modi government has envisioned increasing the sector’s contribution from 1.75% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) currently to 2.5% of GDP. My ministry’s most important task, therefore, has been reforming this sector, with the aim of increasing the mineral production output by 200% over the next seven years. The Mines and Minerals (Development and Regulation) Amendment Act, 2021 is a step towards achieving this.A large number of mining blocks were not brought into production for many years. Most have been blocked in legacy cases. Such cases can neither be granted lease because the time period to grant them is already over, nor can they be brought to auction because of the legal impasse. We have amended the existing provision for reallocation of such mineral blocks through a transparent auction mechanism. Auctioned mines not made operational within three years will be returned to states concerned for reallocation through auction, as will greenfield mines allocated to public sector units that are not brought into production after a review.One of the key reforms is transferring all valid rights, approvals, clearances and licenses to the new lessee, valid until the mineral reserves last. This would facilitate lessees to transfer the mine to another entity, thus bringing in fresh investment and entrepreneurship to operate the mine.Since 2015, geological reports for 143 mineral blocks have been handed over to various states. These blocks are auction-ready, but so far, states have only auctioned seven blocks. To ensure that national reserves are put to best use, a provision has been made wherein the Union government can conduct auctions in consultation where states face challenges or fail to conduct auctions.Removing the distinction between captive and non-captive mines was long in coming. We knew it was akin to participating in a race with one leg tied. With no such distinction now, there will be a level-playing field for mineral block auctions. Existing captive mines have also been allowed to sell minerals over and above their requirements. A 50% rebate in the revenue share, for the quantity of minerals produced and dispatched earlier than scheduled date of production, has also been provided.This amendment Act is set to redefine the standard of exploration required for auctioning of partially explored mineral blocks for prospecting licence-cum-mining lease. This will boost seamless transition from exploration to production and encourage the participation of private players. The amended provisions in the Act also ensure better clarity on “Mining without Lawful Authority” to save lease-holders from unjustified penalties under other litigations.We have also fulfilled a long-standing demand by making local Members of Parliament members of the District Mineral Foundation (DMF) governing council to make DMF more outcome-oriented. Arrangements have also been made to keep a check on misuse of DMF funds so that inclusive development of those affected by mining can be ensured. There are several other changes in the MMDR Act that will boost the ease of doing business in the mineral mining sector, make it more competitive, pave the way for creation of employment opportunities, and have a multiplier effect on several other sectors. Over several meetings, PM Modi laid out a plan where the sector takes allied industries on a growth course to help India become a $5-trillion economy. These amendments are in line with his vision, and the sector will play a major role in defining a New India.Pralhad Joshi is Union minister of coal, mines and parliamentary affairsThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-new-india-leveraging-the-country-s-great-mineral-potential-101617803609498.html
07-04-2021||Today's||Visualising tech education of the future||Project 2061 was a long-term project initiated in 1985 to reform education in science, technology and math. The name was inspired by Comet Halley, which happened to be in the earth’s vicinity in 1985. It is said that the project director often joked that it would take that long (76 years) to turn the massive ship of education around because of the tremendous inertia in the system.Fast forward to 2021. We know the writing on the wall — technology is accelerating at an unprecedented pace, organisations that are thriving are the ones quickest to adapt and so on. But here is the question — has our tech education kept pace with this change? Are we preparing Gen Z to shape this future, responsibly?We need to hit refresh on our tech education, now. Here are three areas which need a refresh.First, disciplines of the future.Standalone engineering departments are steeped in history. Civil engineering is among the oldest formal engineering disciplines and reflects the start of construction of roads, bridges and cities. Mechanical and chemical engineering emerged in their current form around the Industrial Revolution. Computer engineering came later. The next century is being defined by the advent of new technologies. The car of yesteryears was primarily a mechanical device, but the car of the future will be electric, autonomous and connected.The future of education will be interdisciplinary. The siloed degrees of the past need to give way to interdisciplinary programmes. For example, robotics and cyber-physical systems will shape the factories of the future. Future health care will be at the intersection of biosciences, computing and engineering. It is time for us to embrace cutting-edge interdisciplinary programmes in mainstream education.Why is this important? This brings us to the second area — solving grand challenges.We are faced with perceptible grand challenges every day — unclean air, cyber insecurity, global pandemics and more. These challenges affect the world at large and are even more pertinent to India. The raison d’être of engineers has been to create solutions for people. However, engineers identify themselves not by solutions, but by narrow disciplinary toolkits which risk irrelevance over time.What if every researcher and student identified themselves less with a discipline (“I am an X engineer”) and more with a problem? For example — “I am working on affordable and clean energy access for every person” or “I am working on making our cyberspace safe”. What if each of the 1.2 million engineers graduating every year in India took on a real problem for industry or society?That mindset to solve problems, supported by a multidisciplinary education combining advanced technology with its estranged cousins — humanities, design and business — can catalyse the emergence of solutions. The ancient Takshashila University, which was home to some of the greatest Indian scholars such as Panini, Charaka and Chanakya, was multidisciplinary.What kind of students would lead this change? And that is the third area of focus — identifying future tech leaders.We need tech leaders who are not only intellectually strong, but also passionate, creative, entrepreneurial and socially conscious. However, if our higher education institutions anchor disproportionately on test-oriented intelligence, our high school students will learn to view their self-worth through the same lens. Tech universities of the future need to have holistic selections to signal that they value not only intellectual quotient, but are also interested in what drives a student, what the student has built, what the student wants to solve. This will have a great impact on adolescent life by replacing pressure with more purpose and joy.This brings us to the final point — whose responsibility is it to execute this? Building high quality universities was once seen as the prerogative of either the government or a few select philanthropists. Open architecture has shown a way for diverse people anywhere to be able to contribute to a mission. This idea is making its way into how greenfield universities are being set up in India and existing institutions are evolving.A wide variety of people can make meaningful contributions to the mission — scientists and educators can help students imbibe a research mindset early on, industry can provide relevant problems to work on, entrepreneurs can show students how to make solutions viable, existing premier institutions can share intellectual strength with new-age institutions, philanthropists globally can contribute funds towards the mission.It is said that the best way to predict the future is to invent it. We need all hands on deck to invent the future we want to wake up to, without waiting for the next sighting of Comet Halley to get our act together.Neeraj Aggarwal is chairman-Asia Pacific, Boston Consulting Group, and founder and trustee of the upcoming Plaksha University. Pallavi Jain is a consultant, Boston Consulting Group and director, strategy and programmes, PlakshaThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/visualising-tech-education-of-the-future-101617803607903.html
07-04-2021||Editorials||The gulf between Delhi and Moscow||Russia’s foreign minister, Sergey Lavrov, and external affairs minister, S Jaishankar, have reiterated their commitment to the bilateral relationship. But beneath the story of cordiality is a story of increasing differences on two key issues, visible during the joint press conference of the two ministers on Tuesday.The first is on the wider relationship with the United States (US) and China. Moscow sees Washington as a belligerent actor out to contain Russian influence and punish it through sanctions. This has pushed it towards Beijing, though Mr Lavrov emphasised, in response to a question from this newspaper, that a military alliance with China was not on the cards. New Delhi sees its partnership with Washington as an important security pillar, and views Beijing as the core problem. India, thus, has chosen to remain more aligned with the US — while keeping up its independent relationship with Russia, especially on defence. Till the US and Russia achieve a degree of rapprochement or Russia and China fall out, none of which are imminent, India will have keep striking this difficult balance.On Afghanistan, Mr Lavrov was unequivocal that the Taliban had to be a part of any sustainable peace process and power-sharing compact. India has reconciled itself to the changed dynamic — but New Delhi is approaching the peace process with its eyes open, sceptical of the possibility of any inclusive political settlement, and aware that neither the Taliban nor its patron across the Durand border, Pakistan (which Mr Lavrov is now visiting, clubbed with his trip to India, a first for Russia ) is about to change its stripes. India and Russia are talking frankly, but the “time-tested relationship” is clearly headed for greater challenges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-gulf-between-delhi-and-moscow-101617803667678.html
