08-04-2021||Noida||Night curfew imposed in GB Nagar and Ghaziabad till April 17||With Covid-19 cases surging, Gautam Budh Nagar and Ghaziabad imposed a curfew from Thursday between 10 pm and 5 am till April 17. Government servants, police, hospital, fire, media houses, fuel stations, bank and insurance, power companies and grocers are among those exempted provided they carry a valid identification card, according to separate but similar orders from both districts. Those travelling to and from airports, railway stations and bus terminals too would be exempted if they produce their travel ticket.According to the Uttar Pradesh health department’s bulletin released on Thursday, 134 people tested positive for Covid-19 in Gautam Budh Nagar and 108 in Ghaziabad, the highest single-day spike this year for both districts. The total count in Gautam Budh Nagar was 26,821 with a death toll of 93. In Ghaziabad, the tally was 27,809 with 103 deaths.Educational institutes shutIn-person classes are barred in all government and private educational institutes, except medical, paramedical and nursing institutes, the orders read.“However, all examinations, including practical tests, shall be held as per schedule and are exempted from this order. There shall be an intensive enforcement of masks and other Covid-19 protocols in public places including the work places, by the police, incident commanders [zonal officer who will ensure containment measures] and departments concerned,” read the order from Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate (DM) Suhas L Y. Unlike Delhi, the districts will not be issuing e-passes to those who wished to be exempted from the curfew.“Staff from private companies involved in essential work (such as food delivery) will also be allowed to move during the night if they carry their authentic identification,” said Suhas. “Any violation of this night prohibition order will lead to action under section 188 (disobeying order) of the Indian Penal Code and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act, 2005.”In Ghaziabad, the district gave an extra hour of exemption to restaurants and its employees to take up sanitisation and cleaning. Their curfew will begin from 11 pm.“With restrictions in place, we hope that we can check the spread of infection,” said Ghaziabad DM Ajay Shankar Prasad. Experts said the move will have a limited impact and that the focus should be on round-the-clock surveillance and containment measuresDr Lalit Kant, former epidemiology and communicable diseases head of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), said, “The move will deter night life, parties, restaurants and even late-night functions. When people know that there are restrictions, they will automatically prefer not to move out. However, the officials should also consider early closure of markets. Further, they have started ascertaining containment zones, there should be restriction on movement of people. Otherwise, there will be no check on spread of infection.”“Instead of night restrictions, we have been repeating that authorities should focus on enforcement of covid protocol in markets, weekly markets and other public places besides the containment zones. Night restrictions will serve a limited purpose, but enforcement is must during daytime and will have a larger impact. Side by side, there is also a need to increase the vaccination coverage. But many private vaccination centres are already facing short supply of vaccine,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). On April 6, a bench at the Allahabad high court headed by its chief justice issued directions to the state government regarding Covid situation while hearing a public interest litigation.It said that the state government should examine viability to have night curfew to check late evening and high social gatherings; district administration and police authorities to ensure that there is 100% masking in every district of UP; no overcrowding takes place; adherence to all Covid protocols during the ongoing Panchayat elections and to check the viability of vaccination for one and all and not just citizens above the age of 45 years besides chalking out of a door to door vaccination program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-gb-nagar-and-ghaziabad-till-april-17-101617906588109.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Woman and four accomplices held for killing her husband for insurance money||A 35-year-old woman and three others were arrested and a 17-year-old boy was apprehended in connection with the murder of her husband, whose body was found in Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar near Samaipur Badli in outer Delhi four days ago.The man was murdered allegedly for objecting to his wife’s relationship with another man (also arrested) and they wanted to allegedly claim the insurance money after his death, the police said on Thursday.Police said the entire murder plot was hatched by the woman and her 32-year-old male friend. The two hired three persons, including the minor boy, to execute the murder. The five had made two failed attempts to kill the man between March 30 and April 2, before they eventually killed him on the night of April 3 -- by covering his face with a cloth and smashing his head and face with stones at an isolated place in Sanjay Gandhi Transport Nagar, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Rajiv Ranjan Singh.DCP Singh said the body was found on April 4 and a murder case was registered at the Samaipur Badli police station. While carrying out a combing operation around the crime scene, the police on April 6 spotted a woman wandering about with a 15-year-old boy.“As her activities looked suspicious, the police team questioned her. She broke down and confessed to the crime. She disclosed that her friend, Mukesh Walia, was also with her but he fled after seeing the police,” said the DCP, adding that Walia was later arrested and his interrogation led to the apprehension of the other three suspects, two of whom were identified as Sachin and Vikas. The identity of the minor boy has been withheldDuring the interrogation, DCP Singh said it was revealed that all five persons worked in massage parlours and knew each other. Walia entered into a relationship with the woman and started living with her and her three children, when her husband was admitted to a rehabilitation centre for his alcoholism. When he returned home, he objected to his wife’s closeness with Walia and used to assault her as well.“It was because of that reason that the two planned to kill him and roped in the other three persons,” the DCP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-and-four-accomplices-held-for-killing-her-husband-for-insurance-money-101617905508066.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||HC dismisses plea seeking court directions to control new Covid wave||The Delhi high court on Thursday refused to entertain a plea seeking directions to the Delhi government to initiate immediate measures for controlling and minimising the impact of the recent wave of the Covid-19 pandemic.On Thursday, Delhi reported 7,437 fresh Covid-19 cases and 24 deaths. The city currently has 23,181 cases and a positivity rate -- the proportion of samples that return positive among the total tested -- of 4.57%.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the government has been doing everything to control the impact of the viral infection and it was not inclined to entertain the plea.“Everything is being done by the government, from maintaining mask and social distancing guidelines, and people are getting vaccinated... The prayers stated herein are all general prayers, what else do you want the government to do?” the court said.The court said the prayers by petitioner lawyer Rakesh Malhotra are vague and gave him the liberty to file another application with specific prayers and suggestions.The application was filed in a disposed of petition which had sought to increase the Covid-19 testing capacity in the national capital and get speedy results. The court, while hearing that plea, had passed various orders on the management and containment of Covid-19 in Delhi and had also continuously monitored the pandemic situation. In his plea, Malhotra stated that courts have resumed in-person functioning from March 15 and jail inmates, who are brought to courts for cases, meet their relatives on the court premises and there is a likelihood of a Covid-19 spread, both within and outside the jail. He urged the court to direct that such inmates be asked to appear for hearings through video conferencing.He also said local markets, shopping malls, restaurants and cafes are seeing a huge rush and many visitors are not following social distancing norms now wearing masks properly. Malhotra sought appropriate directions from the court so that such carelessness may be avoided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-court-directions-to-control-new-covid-wave-101617905447505.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||37 doctors of Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital test positive for Covid-19: Report||The recent surge in Covid-19 cases has also hit Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital as 37 doctors at the private facility have tested positive for the virus, and five of them are admitted for treatment, sources said on Thursday.There has been a spike in coronavirus cases in the national capital over the past few weeks, and the daily case count breached the 7,000-mark for the first time this year.As many as 37 doctors have tested positive for the virus in the recent spike, sources at the hospital said.Delhi recorded 7,437 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day surge this year, while 24 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,157, according to the city Health Department."Serving Covid patients at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, 37 doctors of the hospital have tested positive for Covid-19. Majority of these corona warriors have mild symptoms. Thirty-two doctors are in home isolation and rest five are admitted in the hospital," a hospital source said.Sir Ganga Ram Hospital has been among the facilities which have been at the forefront of the fight against the pandemic for nearly a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/37-doctors-of-delhi-s-sir-ganga-ram-hospital-test-positive-for-covid-19-report-101617904421626.html
08-04-2021||Lucknow||Governor appoints VCs of 2 UP varsities||Governor and chancellor Anandiben Patel on Thursday appointed regular vice chancellors for Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University, formerly Kanpur University, and Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University, Lucknow. Professor Vinay Kumar Pathak, vice chancellor of Dr APJ Abdul Kalam Technical University, Lucknow has been appointed as the VC of Chhatrapati Shahu Ji Maharaj University.Similarly, professor Anil Kumar Shukla of education department, Lucknow University has been appointed as the vice chancellor of Khwaja Moinuddin Chishti Language University, Lucknow.Both the VCs will remain in office for three years from the day of taking charge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/governor-appoints-vcs-of-2-up-varsities-101617905088502.html
08-04-2021||Other||Fruit vendor shot at, robbed of ₹3.90 lakh||New Delhi: Two unidentified men shot at a 50-year-old fruit vendor and robbed him of a bag containing nearly ₹4 lakh in cash outside a private bank in northwest Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar on Tuesday afternoon, said police. A case was registered at Adarsh Nagar police station under sections 394 (voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) and 397 (robbery, or dacoity, with attempt to cause death or grievous hurt) of the IPC. The suspects were not arrested till Thursday evening.The incident happened a few hundred metres away from the residential colony near the Adarsh Nagar metro station, where a chartered accountant (CA) was shot dead during a robbery attempt in his under-construction building on March 16. Nearly 16 hours before the CA’s murder, another murder had taken place in Azadpur village falling under the jurisdiction of Adarsh Nagar police station.The suspects in both the cases have been arrestedKishan Kumar, a resident of Kewal Park in northwest Delhi, owns a shop in the Azadpur fruit and vegetable market. He was walking towards a private bank near the market to deposit ₹3.90 lakh that he was carrying in a blue bag around 1pm on Tuesday, said a police officer associated with the case, requesting anonymity.“As Kumar reached the iron gate outside the bank, two unidentified men wearing masks waylaid him, pointed a pistol at him and asked him to handover the bag. When Kumar resisted, one of the robbers fired a bullet that hit Kumar’s left arm. The robbers snatched his bag and fled with their accomplice who was waiting for them on a bike a few metres away from the crime scene,” said the officer. The police were informed about the crime. Kumar was admitted to Babu Jag Jivan Ram hospital from where he was discharged after treatment.“A case has been registered and we are investigating it. Our teams have got some clues about the suspects. They will be identified and arrested soon,” said deputy commissioner of police (northwest) Usha Rangnani.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fruit-vendor-shot-at-robbed-of-rs-3-90-lakh-101617905089098.html
08-04-2021||Other||Fire in stationery factory in Dilshad Garden: None dead, 3 fire fighters hurt||New Delhi: A fire broke out on the top floor of a four-storey stationery-manufacturing unit in east Delhi’s Dilshad Garden Industrial Area on Thursday morning. Officials said the factory was vacant when the blaze started, and no lives were lost in the incident. However, three fire fighters sustained minor injuries. The fire also engulfed some portions of the third floor by the time it was controlled by nearly 100 fire fighters and 27 fire tenders.Officials of the Delhi Fire Services (DFS) said the blaze began in a room that stored chemicals used to make adhesive tape, as police officers said they suspect that a short circuit may have led to the fire.DFS chief Atul Garg said their control room was informed about the blaze around 8.30am, after which 15 fire tenders were sent to the factory. Later, the fire department sent 12 more tenders to douse the blaze, he added.Occupants of neighbouring buildings were vacated as a precautionary measure. Even as the blaze was controlled around 2pm, cooling operations continued till the evening. Deputy chief fire officer Sanjay Tomar, who led the operation, said the entire building is used to manufacture stationery, as well as packaging and storage material. Most of the ground floor houses machines, while the first floor is used as an office. The third and fourth floors were used as the warehouses to store raw materials and cardboard boxes.He said three fire fighters suffered cuts from broken glasses during the operation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-in-stationery-factory-in-dilshad-garden-none-dead-3-fire-fighters-hurt-101617905087409.html
08-04-2021||Lucknow||People struggling to cremate the dead but UP CM busy campaigning in Bengal: AAP MP||Aam Admi Party leader and Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh on Thursday hit out at Yogi Adityanath and said when people of the state were queuing up in front of crematoriums for cremation of Covid positive bodies the UP chief minister was busy with his poll campaign in West Bengal. Addressing a press conference in the state capital he said, “People are given token and have to wait for up to 24 hours to get their dear ones cremated. Hospitals are facing shortage of vaccines and are struggling to treat patients due to poor infrastructure but the chief minister is busy touring Bengal.”He said the chief minister should decide about his priorities. “Does he want to focus on Covid care in state or in West Bengal,” he said.The RS MP said during the last ten days number of Covid cases and deaths have gone up in Uttar Pradesh, hospitals were struggling to admit patients, even the doctors of KGMU, PGI were getting infected but the state government seemed to have no plans to control it.Singh said he will write to World health Organisation (WHO) to highlight the situation of pandemic in the state and added that UP must learn from Delhi how to control Covid.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/people-struggling-to-cremate-the-dead-but-up-cm-busy-campaigning-in-bengal-aap-mp-101617904907308.html
08-04-2021||Lucknow||Body-worn cameras, drone add muscle to Banda jail security||Intensifying the security measures at Banda jail that is currently housing BSP MLA and don Mukhtar Ansari, the state prison administration and reform services department has added two more weapons — body-worn cameras and drone— in its arsenal, said director general (DG) of prisons, Anand Kumar here on Thursday.The DG said the drone as well as the five body-worn cameras have been made operational from Thursday itself. “We do not want to leave any lacunae in security of the Banda jail,” he said. He said the body-worn cameras will be randomly allotted to different jail personnel daily to keep vigil on activities in different parts of the prison. Besides, the drone will be used to keep aerial vigil and alert the personnel present on duty, he added. He said all these cameras have been integrated with central command centre being set-up at the prison headquarters in Lucknow. On Thursday, Kumar himself monitored the functioning of over 25 CCTVs cameras installed at different parts of the Banda jail.Ansari is lodged in barrack number 16 of the Banda jail after being brought to UP from Punjab’s Rupnagar prison by road early on Wednesday morning. Ansari’s return to Banda jail is in compliance with a March 26 Supreme Court order directing his transfer to UP where he faces trials in several criminal cases.Notably, as many as 30 PAC personnel are deployed at the jail entrance to ensure tight security outside the gate. Apart from a jailer and two deputy jailers already posted at Banda jail, two more deputy jailers have been deployed there to enhance security measures. Besides, the number of head warders and warders has been increased for internal security of the jail. A city magistrate rank officer has been made superintendent in-charge of the jail for daily review of security measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/bodyworn-cameras-drone-add-muscle-to-banda-jail-security-101617904667429.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra not lagging behind in Covid-19 fight: CM Thackeray tells PM Modi||Mumbai, Apr 8 (PTI) Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the state was not lagging behind in the fight against Covid- 19, and urged him to affirm that there should be no politics in this effort.He was speaking during the video-conference meeting with Modi to review the coronavirus situation in the country.His statement comes a day after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan made a stinging attack on the Maharashtra government, saying that it had "singularly bogged down" the entire country's effort to fight the virus.A statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that Thackeray requested the prime minister to address the leaders of all political parties, asking them to refrain from indulging in politics on the issue.He said Maharashtra has increased the number of daily tests and requested for additional vaccine doses. He also sought PM's help in procuring oxygen and ventilators from other states.Thackeray urged Modi to approve the proposal of Haffkine Institute to manufacture anti-coronavirus vaccine.During the meeting, union health secretary expressed satisfaction that out of the total tests conducted, 71 per cent were RT-PCR tests and 28 per cent rapid antigen tests, and requested the numbers to be increased, the statement said.Thackeray said the state had succeeded in keeping the virus in check, but the grampanchayat elections, marriage events resulted in the spread of the virus. There was a sudden spike in Vidarbha and the spread was rapid. There was a virus mutation when the situation was being normalised.He added that the state government aims to complete vaccination of 1.77 crore population in the priority list, for which 40 lakh vaccine doses are required per week.The state has so far received 1,06,23,500 doses, out of which 92 lakh to 95 lakh have been administered. But the stocks have dried up and many vaccine centres have been shut.He said that the Centre has assured supply of 17.43 lakh doses after April 15, but then there would be interruption in the vaccine drive.He reiterated the demand for lowering the vaccination age limit to 25 years.Thackeray also sought the supply of anti-viral drug remdesivir, oxygen and ventilators.He said that in the last three days, over two lakh tests were conducted daily, out of which 1.25 lakh were RT- PCR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-not-lagging-behind-in-covid-19-fight-cm-thackeray-tells-pm-modi-101617904354212.html
08-04-2021||Other||Lucknow sees biggest single-day spike as 2,369 people test +ve||LUCKNOW The state capital witnessed its biggest single-day spike in Covid cases with 2,369 infections on Thursday, taking the active case count to 10,749, the maximum among all districts in UP. Eleven more people succumbed to the virus, pushing the fatality count to 1,265. While Lucknow had an overall case positivity rate of around 4.28, reports for over 20,000 Covid samples taken during the past 24 hours were yet to come. Fresh cases included 20 staff of health directorate and about two-dozen health staff at King George’s Medical University, including three faculty and five resident doctors. Majority of the new cases were reported from Aliganj 320, Alambagh 314, Indira Nagar 211, NK Road 120, Sarojini Nagar 99, Tudiyaganj 141 and Chinhat 219. In all, 461 patients were discharged during the day, according to the health department data. “Lucknow has till now reported 95,976 Covid cases,, of which 83,962 have recovered and the recovery rate is 87.48%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The recovery rate in Lucknow came down from 98% (to the present level) in the past 10 days. The Covid spurt had reduced bed availability for Covid patients, particularly ICU and high dependency unit (HDU) beds. Of the total 485 ICU beds available at 31 Covid facilities in the city, only 14 beds were vacant while 199 of the 676 HDU beds were vacant. Of the total 2,403 beds at 31 Covid facilities in the city 1,499 were occupied by patients. Keeping in view the rise in fresh cases, the health department ramped up sampling and contact tracing. The health department collected 25,480 Covid samples during the day. CASES IN LUCKNOW April 1 -- 935 April 2 -- 940 April 3 -- 1041 April 4 -- 1129 April 5 -- 1133 April 6 -- 1188 April 7 -- 1333 April 8 -- 2369||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknow-sees-biggest-single-day-spike-as-2-369-people-test-ve-101617904367326.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||NHAI starts lifting construction debris from Dwarka expressway||The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has started removing debris at the site on Dwarka expressway, where two concrete segments collapsed between pillar 107 and 109 on March 28. The NHAI had suspended work at the site following the incident and formed a four-member technical committee to launch a probe in the matter.The NHAI officials said that debris was removed after the expert team visited the site and inspected it in detail. The launcher used for installing concrete segments — that was damaged in the incident — will also be removed, said the officials, adding that the material for testing, which will be sent to a laboratory, will also be obtained once the debris is removed.Nirman Jambulkar, project director, NHAI, said that the concrete segments at the site won’t be launched until the technical experts submit a report. “The removal of debris started on Wednesday, and it will be over soon,” Jambulkar said.According to the L&T officials, the incident took place when they were removing a slab between pillar 108 and 109 as it had developed a crack during stressing of the cables. The slabs collapsed during the process, and the real reasons will be revealed through a technical probe, they added.On March 29, the NHAI said that the officials of the contractor and design companies were suspended following the accident.The 29-kilometre Dwarka expressway is being developed in four phases, and it will connect Kherki Daula and Mahipalpur on National Highway 48, via Dwarka. It will also provide an extension to the Indira Gandhi International Airport (IGIA) through a tunnel. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had visited the highway in the first week of April and had announced that it will be completed by August 15, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/nhai-starts-lifting-construction-debris-from-dwarka-expressway-101617904247315.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Major demolition drive carried out on arterial roads dividing Gurugram sectors||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority’s (GMDA) enforcement team carried out a major demolition drive on Thursday, and cleared arterial roads dividing sectors 58,59, and 60. These roads were encroached upon by developers and a few locals who constructed shops there in violation of the rules.The GMDA officials said that a large enforcement team was deployed to clear the encroachments along with earth-moving machines that were used to demolish the permanent structures.Sandeep Lot, junior engineer, said that developers had constructed structures using tin sheets and permanent walls to encroach upon arterial roads dividing sectors 58 and 59. Likewise, encroachments were made upon arterial roads dividing sectors 59 or 60. “These encroachments were removed with the help of earth-moving machines, and the roads that were blocked were cleared. Some of the shopowners and developers submitted in written that they would remove their material and structures within 10 days. These people have been given time as our objective is not to cause loss, however, if the encroachments are not removed, then we will carry out the demolition drive,” Lot said.The enforcement team has also removed encroachments on a service road in Sector 63A, where labour huts, generators, and a site office were constructed by a developer. It was built illegally, and was obstructing a major road, said the officials. The GMDA officials said that all roads in developing sectors, that have been encroached, will be cleared, and action will be taken against the violators.“We are in the process of issuing notices to the violators in other sectors, and if they don’t clear the areas on their own, we will take action against them,” Lot added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/major-demolition-drive-carried-out-on-arterial-roads-dividing-gurugram-sectors-101617904188435.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Narrow lanes delay fire response as Sadar Bazar fails to learn its lessons||Although the Bhim Nagar fire station is located just three kilometres away, the fire department officials took up to 20 minutes to reach the blaze site in Sadar Bazar. For other fire tenders from different parts of the city, it took them nearly 35-45 minutes as the conditions in the city’s oldest market once again proved to be a major hurdle for rescue and relief operations.The delay in reaching Sadar Bazar during a fire incident is not unfamiliar to the fire department in Gurugram. When a three-storey building was gutted in fire after firecrackers stored inside a godown caught fire in August 2016, the fire department officials took nearly an hour to reach the spot. The officials took over 30 minutes after a four-storey bakery caught fire in October 2015.Commenting on the fire incident on Wednesday evening, IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO), said the delay was due to the traffic jam in the evening. He attributed it to the vehicular congestion in Sadar Bazar and the panic situation in the market area. At least 25 fire tenders were dispatched to the location. The same reasons had been cited for the delay in the past two incidents.The fire department officials took over nine hours to douse the flames on Wednesday. They admitted that a swifter response could have limited the blaze.“When the first batch of fire tenders arrived at the spot, the blaze was limited to the top floor of each of the building, and it seemed that it could be controlled through quick response. But the time taken by the remaining fire tenders to reach the spot led to a massive delay in executing a comprehensive dousing operation,” said Kashyap, adding that despite the Gurugram traffic police cordoned off a 200-metre section of the Jail Road — between Harish Bakery and Sohna Chowk — and diverted vehicular traffic to alternatives routes till Thursday afternoon, the sheer vehicular congestion inside the market at Basai Road, and the panic situation resulted in further delay.“While the fire tenders got caught up in the peak evening traffic jam on Wednesday, we had to endure a further delay as there were a large number of vehicles parked inside the narrow lanes of the market. We had to find vehicle owners and get them to move them elsewhere as we could not access the site properly,” Kashyap added.The incident occurred when the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) was executing its second pedestrian trial at the market. In the first trial, the market was supposed to be completely vehicle-free , but on March 20 — the first day of the vehicle-free trial — the MCG faced heavy resistance from the shopkeepers as they wanted to allow entry of vehicles into the market, citing a business loss. The MCG ceded to the shopkeeper’s demands following deliberation.Vinay Pratap Singh, commissioner, MCG, said that the civic body is pushing for making the market vehicle-free following the fire incident. “The fire incident at the market highlights the importance of making Sadar Bazar a vehicle-free zone. Our utmost priority is to safeguard the residents, and we are trying to familiarise customers and shopkeepers with the need to stop bringing their vehicles into the market through the ongoing pedestrian trials and aiming to make it a permanent feature amid gradual changes,” said Singh.Jitender Kumar, joint commissioner, MCG, had stated last week that the civic body is contemplating to make the market a vehicle-free zone in its third trial. Kumar couldn’t be reached for a comment on Thursday.Bablu Gupta, president, Sadar Bazar Traders Association, admitted that a lot of vehicles are parked inside the market, especially near the street where the blaze occurred. He said that the MCG needs to provide adequate parking measures before kick starting the vehicle-free trial. “The entire situation is a like double-edged sword. While we acknowledge that the streets at the market are too narrow for vehicular movement and it is a major obstacle in rescue and relief operations, unless the MCG provides adequate parking facility, a vehicle-free trial will remain redundant. Where will shopkeepers and customers park their vehicles without any proper parking facility,” said Gupta, adding that the MCG’s construction project of multi-level parking for Kaman Sarai and Sadar Bazar — both located in opposite ends of the market — is yet to start, despite a foundation stone being laid in November 2018.The MCG has faced litigation issues, land acquisition problems, and design challenges for the project over the last three years, and the project remains in a limbo.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/narrow-lanes-delay-fire-response-as-sadar-bazar-fails-to-learn-its-lessons-101617904187801.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Woman robbed of bag with ₹10 lakh jewellery in Sector 10; probe on||A 55-year-old woman was allegedly robbed of a bag containing jewellery worth ₹10 lakh by two unidentified men in Gurugram Sector 10 on Wednesday.The woman, Kailash Devi, had gone to a jeweller along with her nephew on a scooter, to repair her jewellery. The two suspects, who were on a motorbike, started following them from there. As soon as Devi got down from her nephew’s scooter near her house in Sector 10, the men snatched her bag and fled towards the nearby market, the police said on Thursday.In her police compliant, Devi said that the incident took place around 3.30pm on Wednesday. Devi said she saw only one of the snatchers as the other person was wearing a helmet.Naveen Kumar, the nephew of the victim, said that he tried to chase down the suspects, but they took advantage of the traffic jam and fled towards the market in Sector 10. “We are trying to get CCTV footage from a few locations, to identify the suspects. They followed us from the jewellery shop, but we did not notice them,” Kumar said.The police have registered a case against the bike-borne duo under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 379-A (snatching) and 34 (common intention), and an investigation is underway.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that his teams are scanning CCTV cameras in the area, and the registration number of the bike used by the suspects is fake. “Snatching gangs have resurfaced, and we have identified at least four suspects. Three of them have been arrested... We are also scanning records of bail jumpers and proclaimed offenders to check if they are involved in the snatching cases,” Rao said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/woman-robbed-of-bag-with-10-lakh-jewellery-in-sector-10-probe-on-101617904187212.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Sadar Bazar fire doused after nine hours||A fire that broke out at a four-storey hardware store and an adjoining plywood store in Sadar Bazar on Wednesday evening was doused by the fire department by Thursday morning in a nine-hour operation, officials said.The two shops were gutted in the incident and only the basement of the two-storey plywood store was saved from the blaze. No injuries were reported in the incident, fire department officials said. The fire was reported at 6.43 pm on Wednesday and 25 fire tenders and a 42-metre hydraulic ladder were used in the operation.“Initially, two fire tenders were sent to the spot from Bhim Nagar fire station and three more from the Sector 29 fire station. However, the extent of the blaze was extremely high and difficult to control. Subsequently, almost all fire tenders from the Gurugram fire department and tenders from DLF, Honda and Indian Air Force were used for dousing operations,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer.Kashyap said that the 42-metre hydraulic ladder of the Gurugram fire department was used for dousing the blaze on the fifth floor of the hardware store — where the extent of the blaze was the highest — to prevent the fire from spreading to nearby shops.“The blaze was controlled around 1 am and doused by 4 am on Thursday. However, due to the heavy presence of chemicals inside the hardware store, sparks continued sporadically, and tenders were used to douse the flames,” said Kashyap.He said that all items were removed from the plywood store to ensure there was no fire trapped below the surface. However, as they were unsure of the structural stability of the hardware store, items are yet to be removed from it.“We aren’t certain of the structural stability of the hardware store and did not want to take any chances. Hence, items have not been removed from the building so far. Smoke is still emitting from the building and we are working on various alternative measures to finalise the best way to proceed ahead,” said Kashyap.Kashyap said that 24 of the 25 fire tenders returned to their respective fire stations by 12.30 pm on Thursday, with one fire tender from Bhim Nagar station retained at the spot as a precautionary measure.“We were able to control the blaze at the right time, as the basement of the plywood store was filled with wooden items and if it was engulfed in flames, then the blaze could have continued till late Thursday afternoon and may have endangered the structural stability of the plywood store as well,” said Kashyap.Fire department officials said that the owners of the two stores blamed each other for the fire, and are yet to ascertain the cause of it. Both the stores did not have a no-objection certificate from the fire department, officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sadar-bazar-fire-doused-after-nine-hours-101617904127255.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||SMC plans to demolish 50 illegal farmhouses on Aravalli land in Raisina||The Sohna Municipal Council (SMC) has started formulating a strategy to demolish around 50 illegal farmhouses constructed on Aravalli land in Raisina, officials familiar with the matter said on Thursday.Sandeep Malik, executive officer, SMC, said, “We sent notices to the illegal farmhouse owners last month, and gave them seven days to respond. We are now going through the responses and formulating a strategy on how to start the demolition work. We are finalising the number of illegal properties to be demolished, which is likely to be close to 50 farmhouses.”“Any construction raised on a forest area, or an area otherwise covered by the notification dated 07.05.1992, without any permission of the competent authority (after the date of the said notification) has to be treated as illegal, and such a forest land has to be restored (sic),” the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had ruled in October 2018, in the case of Soniya Ghosh v/s State of Haryana.After the judgment on June 6, 2020, the SMC had served show cause notices to more than 400 farmhouse owners in Aravalli Retreat on the grounds that they were constructed in violation of the notification issued by the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC).Following instructions by the NGT, the deputy commissioner ordered on June 11, 2020, that the land use category of ‘gair mumkin farmhouse’ be struck from revenue records and replaced with ‘gair mumkin pahad’ — the original nomenclature. This move would have set the precedent for demolition of the properties, which was opposed by local residents, who moved the High Court. The High Court then ruled that their (farmhouse owners) side should also be heard. After the order by the High Court, the SMC sent show cause notices to farmhouse owners in March 2021. Around 150 illegal farmhouse owners were sent notices in March, and more notices are being sent to the remaining ones. Over 400 farmhouses have been constructed illegally in Aravalli land in Raisina.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/smc-plans-to-demolish-50-illegal-farmhouses-on-aravalli-land-in-raisina-101617904067285.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Delegation from Telangana visits Bandhwari to learn about waste treatment||An eight-member delegation from Telangana visited the Bandhwari landfill site on Wednesday to learn about the waste bioremediation method followed by authorities in Gurugram to manage the legacy waste. Dhiraj Kumar, the joint commissioner for Swachh Bharat Mission, Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG), said, “An eight-member delegation from Telangana had visited the Bandhwari landfill site on Wednesday to learn about the biomining method followed by MCG to treat the legacy waste. The team is working to replicate a similar model for treating legacy waste in their state.” Kumar said that there was no official agreements or partnerships signed as the team was visiting to just understand the concept. “We follow a whole scientific process of biomining, where waste is separated into biodegradable waste, inert waste and then refuse-derived fuel. The delegation wants to replicate this process to treat waste in areas near Hyderabad,” Kumar said. The delegation also visited waste treatment plants in Delhi and Chandigarh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/delegation-from-telangana-visits-bandhwari-to-learn-about-waste-treatment-101617904007809.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Checks at Delhi lead to traffic pile-up||Commuters returning to the capital after 10 pm on Wednesday were stuck in a traffic jam that extended for around two kilometres from the Sirhaul toll plaza on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway, as Delhi Police started checks due to the night curfew imposed in the capital from 10 pm to 5 am to curb the rise in Covid-19 infections. A similar situation was witnessed on Thursday night as vehicles lined up for a kilometre by 10.30pmGurugram police officials said they received more than 60 distress calls at their control room from commuters who were stuck in a jam after 10 pm.Dinesh Kumar, who commutes to Gurugram from Delhi’s Uttam Nagar every day, said, “Only one lane was operational due to which only one vehicle could pass through the barricade at a time, resulting in a jam. The journey from Gurugram to Delhi has become exhausting.”Kumar called on the police to make arrangements for daily commuters and ensure their smooth passage.Although there were no restrictions on traffic movement on the expressway on Tuesday night, when the night curfew in Delhi was announced, barricades were placed on the Delhi side on Wednesday. Inspector Balbir Sjngh of Delhi Police said that on Wednesday 44 challans were issued for mask rule violations. More than 15 police personnel were seen checking vehicles and enquiring commuters’ reasons for entering Delhi. Only one vehicle was allowed to cross the barricade at a time, which, coupled with the entry of heavy vehicles, worsened the situation and led to the traffic pile-up.However, the situation on the other carriageway, leading from Delhi to Gurugram, was relatively better as the city, unlike Delhi and Uttar Pradesh’s NCR cities, does not have a curfew in place.Teams of the Gurugram police, however, continued to periodically check vehicles between 10 pm and 5 am.Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police, DLF, said that they have not received any communication from Delhi Police regarding the night curfew or restrictions on traffic movement. “We have deployed five police control room vans and 10 bikes at strategic points of the national highway to ensure smooth traffic flow on the main carriageway. We are only checking suspicious vehicles,” he said.A Delhi resident who works in the city said that the Delhi Police should either ask the companies to ensure they relieve their staff by 9 pm, so that they do not have to face inconvenience, or mark a designated lane for daily commuters. “It took 40 minutes to cross a one-kilometre stretch as heavy vehicles were also using the same lane, leading to snarls. Drivers of commercial vehicles were seen taking an extreme right to avoid paying toll tax, which was also a reason for the congestion, as the toll plaza staff was chasing and penalising them,” said Bikram Kapoor, who works in Udyog Vihar.The border routes connecting the neighbouring state of Rajasthan and districts of Rewari, Jhajjar and Nuh were not affected at night, said police.Goel said three police teams were deployed at Sirhaul toll on Thursday to regulate vehicular movement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/checks-at-delhi-lead-to-traffic-pileup-101617904007232.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||NGT directs authorities to pay compensation in Bandhwari landfill case||The principal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), hearing a petition about legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill site on April 7, asked authorities concerned to pay compensation for restoration of the environment and continue biomining work at the site. The court directed the Haryana chief secretary to periodically monitor the work being carried out at the site.The order, released on Thursday, does not mention the compensation amount, but officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that it amounts to ₹148 crore, which will be used for remediation of legacy waste at Bandhwari. However, MCG officials said this is not a penalty and that it is to ensure sufficient funds for restoring the environment.The order stated that the compensation may be deposited in a separate account and used for the restoration of the environment. “Since the tribunal has already monitored the failures of the authorities for sufficiently long time, the state must now take ownership of its basic responsibility in the interest of rule of law, protection of environment and public health. The authorities may take further remedial action consistent with earlier orders of this tribunal,” the order read.According to Vinay Pratap Singh, the commissioner of MCG, who was present at the hearing on Wednesday, the NGT said that its previous orders in the case must be strictly complied with by the state government authorities, with better monitoring.“Considering the commitment and the progress done in the last one month, the NGT has ruled that work of biomining should continue and compensation of ₹148 crore, as assessed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), must be deposited in a separate account by the MCG, which can be used for environmental restoration. This is not a penalty, but a reservation for environmental restoration of Bandhwari landfill so that there is no dearth of funds,” said Singh.The green court was hearing a petition filed by environmentalist Vivek Kamboj, the founder of Delhi-based Hariyali Welfare Society, a non-governmental organisation.“Having regard to serious past failures and sensitivity of the issue, the chief secretary, Haryana, may personally monitor compliances periodically. As directed earlier, compensation in terms of orders of this tribunal dated 14.02.2020, 28.02.2020 and 14.12.2020 in OA 606/2018, compliance of Municipal Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, and other environmental issues may be deposited in a separate account and used for restoration of the environment,” the order stated.The NGT also took cognisance of a report published in HT in the edition dated April 5, regarding waste allegedly being dumped in forest land by MCG, terming it “a way to reduce the waste in the landfill.”The MCG also submitted an action plan to the NGT on April 5 regarding the treatment of legacy waste at the Bandhwari landfill. As per the action plan, the MCG has increased 90% waste processing capacity from the previous date of hearing (March 9), with the installation of eight additional trommel machines for the treatment of legacy waste. The MCG told the court it processed 57,521 metric tonnes of waste since the last hearing, stating, “239,493 metric tonnes of legacy waste has been scientifically treated through bioremediation and around 40% of volume reduction is achieved.”The MCG stated that as per a drone survey of the landfill conducted on April 3, “Current height of dumpsite is reduced from 40 metres to 36 metres… area of around 2.1 acres has been reclaimed.”The petitioner, however, expressed disappointment at the order.“If the government had been working efficiently, then we would not have had to knock the doors of the court. Money cannot compensate for the environmental loss suffered by that area. In the last hearing, the court had given firm instructions and it seemed like they would take strict action. What has happened that the court has now asked the state government to monitor the process?” said Kamboj.On March 9, the principal bench of the NGT, hearing the petition, gave authorities the last chance for ensuring “meaningful action on the ground level” to clear the waste.The Bandhwari landfill receives around 2,000 tonnes of waste every day from both Gurugram and Faridabad. Municipal solid waste from both these cities is being dumped at the site since 2015. As per a report by a report submitted to the NGT by the CPCB in September 2020, the height of the dumpsite increased to 36 metres from 27 metres (recorded by CPCB in February 2020) and the total waste dumped stood at 3.1 million tonnes, approximately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/ngt-directs-authorities-to-pay-compensation-in-bandhwari-landfill-case-101617903948659.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Containment zones increased to 61, condominiums affected||The district administration on Thursday increased the number of containment zones in the city from 35 to 61, covering several gated communities and condominiums on the Golf Course Extension Road, Sohna Road, Southern Peripheral Road and adjoining areas, to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, even as the city continued to record a spike in cases, with 741 infections reported on Thursday.Health department officials said that most of these condominiums fall under the jurisdiction of public health centres at Badshahpur, Palta, Bhangrola, Daultabad and Fazilpur. They said the situation is unlike last year when most cases were concentrated in urban villages and plotted colonies.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said that opening of offices and factories, relaxation in holding social functions and laxity in observing Covid norms, such as wearing masks, are the primary reasons for the surge in the Covid-19 infections. “There has been a slight change in the pattern of the spread and more cases this year are being reported from condominiums. Due to rising cases, the localised spreads were identified. The district administration has accepted our recommendations and increased the containment zones to 61 from 35,” said Yadav.Yadav also said that the department has increased testing to 8,000 on Thursday, which is an increase of 3,000 from about 10 days ago. “The infected people and areas are being isolated and contained to stop the spread. We have also increased vaccination in different areas and extended to industries as well, to tackle the situation,” he said.As per the details shared by the health department, 10 containment zones were notified under the Badshahpur public health centre (PHC), all of which are located inside condominiums.Health officials said that instead of sealing entire towers, they have notified specific floors as containment zones. For instance, in Ireo Victory Valley, the department has notified 12 floors of a tower as a containment zone.Further, five containment zones notified under Bhangrola PHC and three notified under Fazilpur PHC also fall inside condominiums, officials said.Two containment zones were also notified in Tulip (one tower) and GPL Eden Heights societies, under the Palra PHC near Badshahpur.According to the health department data, containment zones were also notified in Rajiv Nagar East and West, and Sheetla Colony, under Rajiv Nagar and Bhondsi PHCs, due to a surge in cases in plotted areas. Three containment zones were notified under the Chanderlok PHC as well, as cases have been rapidly rising in the area, officials said.Meanwhile, Yash Garg, the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, also held a review meeting with the nodal officers, during which he reiterated that all safety precautions to curb the spread of the virus must be enforced in markets and public spaces. Garg also said that around 300,000 people in the district were vaccinated till Thursday and efforts are being made to extend the vaccine outreach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/containment-zones-increased-to-61-condominiums-affected-101617903947849.html
08-04-2021||Gurugram||Daily spike of Covid-19 cases at highest of 2021 for second consecutive day||The number of Covid-19 infections continued to spike on Thursday, with the district reporting 741 new infections, marking the second consecutive day when the daily spike this year reached its highest. The positivity rate in the district is currently at 7.8%, as per the health department data.Officials of the district health department said they are working hard to reduce the positivity rate and are planning to start collecting samples and conduct vaccinations at metro stations and three large shopping malls in the coming days, in response to the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases. The district administration on Thursday held a review meeting at the PWD guest house to discuss the Covid-19 situation, wherein officials decided to start sampling at public places, including metro stations and malls.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, said, “Session sites for vaccination will also be set up at the malls. The objective is to widen testing and vaccination. We have also asked authorities to enforce safeguards strictly.”The total number of cases in the district currently stands at 67,490, while the number of active cases is 4,455, of whom 4,160 are isolated at home.The health department on Thursday collected more than 8,000 samples for testing that included both RT-PCR and antigen tests. Officials said that they are expecting the cases to rise and, as such, are ready to meet the situation. “The city residents will have to follow the safeguards religiously, as the health department can only test, isolate and vaccinate. The onus to prevent the spread is on citizens, by following safety protocols,” said Yadav.As per the vaccination data shared by the department, over 16,000 persons got vaccinated at 154 session sites on Thursday, with around 300,000 people being vaccinated in the district so far.Health officials said that a positive development on the vaccination front is that number of jabs in private hospitals is also rising. “More than 40% of people eligible for vaccination have been covered and in coming days, numbers will increase,” said Yadav.The department also issued directions to private testing labs and hospitals to properly collect the credentials and mobile phone numbers from people being tested to ensure effective contact tracing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-spike-of-covid-19-cases-at-highest-of-2021-for-second-consecutive-day-101617903947246.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Woman arrested for driving car that ran over elderly couple in Dwarka||A 28-year-old woman was arrested on Thursday for being behind the wheels of a car that allegedly mowed down an elderly couple in Dwarka four days ago, police said.The accused has been identified as Nupur Choudhary, they said. Earlier, her elder sister was arrested in connection with the incident who claimed that she was driving the car when the accident happened.Shanti Swaroop Arora (79) and his wife Anjula Arora (62) were run over by the car on Sunday evening, following which police arrested Deepakshi Choudhary (30), the elder sister of Nupur. She was apprehended on charges of rash driving and causing death by negligence.Shanti was a retired government official, while Anjula was a homemaker.However, police on Wednesday said the victims’ family had raised suspicion over who was actually driving the car.Police had said, “Deepakshi Choudhary accompanied the injured to Manipal hospital. She stated that she was driving the vehicle and committed the accident. She also produced her documents to the investigating officer. However, victim’s family raised doubts that her sister was driving the vehicle.”During investigation, it was found that Nupur, who works as a probationary officer in a public sector bank in Uttam Nagar, was driving the car at the time of the incident, a senior police officer said, adding that she has a learner's licence.“Both Nupur and Deepakshi have been arrested. Nupur has been arrested for committing the accident and Deepakshi for misleading the police,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Dwarka) Santosh Kumar Meena said.According to police, Deepakshi was trying to be protective in an attempt to prevent Nupur from getting booked in the case. Another possible reason could be that Deepakshi wanted to save Nupur as she is a government employee and a criminal case registered against her might have an impact on her job.However, there would be further clarity in due course of time.The incident occurred at Sector 11 on Sunday evening and CCTV footage of it went viral on social media.In the video, a Baleno car hits the couple and runs over them. A woman comes out of the car, goes to the rear side of the vehicle and later calls somebody after taking her mobile phone from the car. Police said they are checking the CCTV footage of the area and investigating the matter to ascertain the exact sequence of the incident. Further investigation in the case is in progress, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/woman-arrested-for-driving-car-that-ran-over-elderly-couple-in-dwarka-101617902802175.html
08-04-2021||Pune||18k beneficiaries get the jab at 130 centres in PMC||Pune: On Thursday, 54,059 beneficiaries were vaccinated across the district at 427 centres. Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) reported 142 per cent vaccination on Thursday at 130 centres with over 18k beneficiaries inoculated. In Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC), over 10k beneficiaries were inoculated at 80 sites. And in Pune rural, over 25k beneficiaries were inoculated at 217 centres on Thursday.In the PMC limits, on Thursday, 129 centres of Covishield and one centre for Covaxin were functional. There were 18,469 beneficiaries who received Covishield and 11 beneficiaries who received Covaxin on Thursday.In PCMC, 79 centres administered Covishield and one centre administered Covaxin. A total of 9,934 beneficiaries received Covishield and 84 received Covaxin.In Pune rural, from a total of 217 centres, 209 administered Covishield and the rest administered Covaxin. A total of 24,004 beneficiaries received Covishield jabs and 1,557 received Covaxin jabs as on Thursday.So far in Pune district, a total 67,640 healthcare workers have been inoculated. A total of 32,290 frontline workers have been inoculated. A total of 4,138,517 beneficiaries with comorbidities and above the age of 60 years have been inoculated in Pune district so far.Over 12 lakh beneficiaries have received vaccination in the district. Of this, 112,717 have also received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/18k-beneficiaries-get-the-jab-at-130-centres-in-pmc-101617900466937.html
08-04-2021||Ranchi||Reserve 10-25% beds for Covid-19 patients: Health dept to pvt hospitals||Concerned over sudden rise in Covid-19 cases, state health department has asked all private hospitals across Bihar to reserve 10-25% beds for treatment of infected patients, an official said on Thursday.State health secretary KK Soan wrote to all deputy commissioners (DC) of the state on Wednesday, asking them to ensure reservation of 10-25% normal and ICU beds of total capacity at private hospitals for Covid-19 patients.The secretary in the letter asked the DCs to hold meetings with private hospitals in their respective districts within 48 hours and inform the department about the progress.Jharkhand saw a sudden spike in cases of Covid-19. The number of cases doubled in a week. On April 1, state recorded 690 cases in a day, while on April 7 the case went up to 1312.An analysis of the daily bulletin of state health department shows that the state registered 6,707 cases in a week from April 1 to April 7 and as many as 38 people died of Covid-19 during the period.Of the total cases, about 50% cases have been reported from Ranchi. The district has registered 3,325 cases in first week of April and 17 people lost their lives.Health officials, however, claimed that the state’s recovery rate is higher than the national average, while fatality rate is much lower than the country’s rate. State’s recovery rate is 93.11%, while country recovery rate is 91.70%. Jharkhand’s fatality rate stands at 0.88%, while country rate is at 1.30%.Till now, 22 private hospitals have dedicated 806 beds for the Covid patients.As per the bed availability report of the Ranchi administration, the district has arranged a total of 2305 beds, of which 804 beds are occupied. However, major challenge for the administration is to arrange oxygen supported and ICU beds. There are 361 ICU beds available with the administration, while 200 are already occupied. Similarly, out of 566 available oxygen beds, 391 are already occupied.Jharkhand chapter president of Association of Healthcare Provider India (AHPI) Jogesh Gambhi said, “The private hospitals having oxygen supported and ICU facility have already reserved more than 10 per cent beds, while some of them reserved more than 25% beds as per government order.”He said, “The hospitals having less than 25 beds are not in a position to treat Covid patients as proper segregation is required.” Jharkhand has over 500 small and big private hospitals, of which, 70 are at Ranchi, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/reserve-10-25-beds-for-covid-19-patients-health-dept-to-pvt-hospitals-101617899627507.html
08-04-2021||Other||Dhanbad medical college accelerates testing as over 2k samples pending||Authorities at Shahid Nirmal Mahto Medical College Hospital (SNMMCH) have decided to accelerate Covid-19 testing from Thursday to clear the backlog of samplesPer day 2500 to 3000 samples come at SNMMCH lab that has capacity of conducting around 2000 tests only. As a result, backlog of samples has been increasing with each passing day.SNMMCH principal Dr Shailendra Kumar on Thursday admitted that over 2000 samples are pending for the test. But the step has been initiated to clear all pending samples as soon as possible.Deputy commissioner (DC) and DDM chairman Umashankar Singh has ordered testing of all OPD patients of medical college and Central Hospital of Bharat Coking Coal Limited (BCCL) in wake of new wave of the pandemic. Samples are being collected in large numbers per day.Per day, around 1000 samples also come from OPD . Since RT-PCR testing is done only at SNMMCH in the region, besides Dhanbad, samples of Giridih and Jamtara districts are also being tested at this lab.During first wave of Coronavirus , the district health department used to send samples for testing to Mahatma Gandhi Memorail Medical College Hospital (MGMMCH) in Jamshedpur and Kolkata lab for clearing backlog at SNMMCH.“We have 100 beds for treatment of Covid patients, including 30 at ICU, and almost all of them are currently occupied”, said Dr Shailendra kumar, principal, SNMMCH.However, Integrated Diseases Surveillance Programme (IDSP) district officer Dr Rajkumar Singh said that there is no dearth of beds and district is prepared to cope up with the situation despite rising cases.“DDM has reopened dedicated Covid Care units, including Central Hospital (100 beds), East Railway Regional Training Centre Bhuli (200 beds), SNMMCH (100 beds), Nirsa Polytechnic ( 100 beds), Tata Steel Jamadova ( 25 beds) and SSLNT women’s hospital (only for pregnant Covid positive patient)”, said Dr Rajkumar Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dhanbad-medical-college-accelerates-testing-as-over-2k-samples-pending-101617899626724.html
08-04-2021||Patna||32 chickens, goats, ducks, rabbits done to death by raiders||Unidentified miscreants attacked a farmhouse located at Baikatpur-Tapasthan falling under Khusrupur police station of rural Patna and killed 12 goats, 32 chicken, eight ducks and six rabbits after taking the night guard hostage, police said on Thursday.According to police, Kashwatola-Baikatpur native Rajesh Sinha alias Raju owned the farmhouse where he had started keeping livestock after he returned from Mumbai with his family during the 2020 lockdown. Sinha, a landlord who owns 40 bighas of land in rural Patna, had also constructed a pond at the farmhouse for fish cultivation.On Wednesday night, four masked men barged into the farmhouse, held night guard Sunil Gope hostage at gun point and carried out the slaughter.On getting information, Sinha reached the farmhouse and found goats, chicken, ducks and rabbits dead. Veterinary officer Dr Sudhansu Kumar said, “Autopsy found the animals were strangled to death.”Sinha has lodged a police complaint. Fatuha subdivisional police officer Rajesh Kumar Manjhi said the reason could be either business rivalry or property dispute and an inquiry was underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/32-chickens-goats-ducks-rabbits-done-to-death-by-raiders-101617899507394.html
08-04-2021||Patna||Panchayat polls set for delay, plans to run local bodies by administrators||Amid indications that panchayat polls could be delayed owing to technical hurdles being faced by the State Election Commission (SEC) in procuring multi-post EVMs, the state government has started working on a plan to appoint administrators to run rural local bodies after expiry of their five-year term in mid-June. The panchayati raj department has started making necessary legal provisions so that the three-tier panchayati raj institutions (PRIs), from gram panchayat level to district boards, could be taken over and run through administrators. The total number of top PRIs posts in Bihar is 8,659 while total number of posts in PRIs, including gram kutheries, stand at 2.58 lakh. In simple terms, it means the state government officers of different ranks, mainly those posted at the block and district level, would be given charge of rural local bodies and will discharge all responsibilities pertaining to development works and use of funds. “While there are no provisions in the Bihar Panchayat Act, 2006, to run the PRIs through administrators, certain provisions are there in the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, for administrators to run urban local bodies. We are studying related laws and making necessary provisions so that the rural local bodies could be similarly run after expiry of their term in mid-June,” said additional chief secretary, panchayati raj department, Amrit Lal Meena. “There are chances that panchayat polls would be delayed,” he said.Asked who would be the administrators for the PRIs, Meena said the government would notify the designated officers soon. This will be the first time in the last 20 years since 2001 panchayat polls when administrators would run the PRIs. Admittedly, the impending delay in holding panchayat polls has come as a setback for the state government and the SEC, though preparations are afoot to hold the election at the earliest once the decks are cleared for procurement of multi-post EVMs. The Bihar government has already sanctioned over ₹300 crore for purchase of EVMs to hold panchayat polls, a first in the state. The delay in procurement of EVMs has been ostensibly caused because the Election Commission of India (ECI) has not given clearance to the ECIL (Electronic Corporation of India), Bengaluru, to provide 15,000 multi-post EVMs of M-3 model with SDMM module sought by the SEC, Bihar, despite communication between the two poll panels since last year, sources said. Aggrieved by ECI’s reluctant stance, the SEC in February moved the Patna High Court filing a writ seeking judicial remedy so that ECIL gets the ECI nod for providing EVMs. The case is being heard by the High Court. While SEC officials say there is no question of holding panchayat polls without EVMs, senior officials of the panchayati raj department said there was always an option of using ballot papers to conduct polls. “The SEC will have to take a decision on whether they want to hold polls through ballot papers or not,” Meena said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/panchayat-polls-set-for-delay-plans-to-run-local-bodies-by-administrators-101617899387360.html
08-04-2021||Other||On the brink, Bihar hopes to get 8.9 lakh doses today||Bihar, which has achieved 17% first dose Covid-19 vaccination coverage against the target population of 10.41 crore (Census 2011), was forced to close down some session sites, refuse vaccines to many private session sites and go slow on the inoculation drive as it faced a shortage of vaccines. The Centre was airlifting 8.9 lakh doses of vaccines on Friday to tide over the crisis, said officials. Darbhanga civil surgeon Dr Sanjiva Kumar Sinha said, “We will have to stop the vaccination programme in the district on Friday due to shortage of vaccines. If we get the stock by Friday evening, we will resume the vaccination drive from Saturday.” The state’s second dose vaccination coverage against eligible beneficiaries was 14%, said officials. Sheohar led among the total 38 districts, achieving 25.4% first dose vaccination coverage, followed by Nalanda (23.6%) and Patna (23.3%). In terms of second dose vaccination coverage of eligible beneficiaries, Sheohar, however, achieved only 10.7%, Nalanda 11.8% and Patna 20.2% , said a health officer who did not wish to be identified. As cases of coronavirus rise, reporting a single-day high of 1,527 new infections on Wednesday that was six times the cases reported before Holi, Bihar has seen a sudden increase in the number of people opting to take the vaccine shot. The irony, however, was that most of the beneficiaries opted for walk-ins over pre-registration, keeping officials guessing about the number of vaccine vials to be allocated to a particular session site on a given day. This has led to heavy rush at some urban vaccination centres, leading to shortage of vaccines at some session sites. Private vaccination centres claimed they faced hardship in getting the vaccine on Thursday. “Officials at the Gardanibagh hospital initially refused us vaccines this morning, when 100 people had already queued up at our centre for vaccination. After much persuasion, we were allotted seven vials in two lots later in the afternoon against our daily requirement of 11-12 vials of Covishield, which suffices for 110 to 120 people. We have been advised not to hold back beneficiaries for vaccination tomorrow, as getting the vaccines is doubtful,” said Dr Amulya Kumar Singh, director of the Akshat Sewa Sadan in Patna. The Nestiva Hospital, another private vaccination session site at Yarpur locality in Patna, claimed it had not received any vaccine till 1pm on Thursday. The GS Neurosciences, another private vaccination session site in New Patliputra Colony of Patna, claimed to have received only two vials of Covishield in the morning, against its average daily requirement of 10 vials (1 vial of Covishield suffices for 10 people). The Murlidhar memorial health facility at Barh subdivision, a private session site, was advised to close down for Thursday and Friday, said district health officials. The state vaccine depot at the Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna had exhausted its stock of vaccines on Tuesday itself. Reserve stock of Covaxin, the other vaccine approved for inoculation against Covid-19, had depleted altogether at the state vaccine depot. The Patna civil surgeon office on Thursday alerted session sites, other than medical colleges, through a common WhatsApp group message that the vaccine was not allotted to any centre on Thursday and anyone who finds it in use should inform the office. “We were left with 8,380 doses of Covishield at the state vaccine depot that we allocated to the district vaccination store, Patna, on Tuesday. We are left with no vaccines at the state depot. This crisis has emerged for the first time since the vaccination drive began on January 16,” said an official requesting anonymity. Manoj Kumar, executive director, State Health Society, Bihar, however, denied any vaccine shortage in the state. “The Centre will not give us 2 crore vaccines in bulk for the target population of 45 years and above. It keeps replenishing the stock from time to time and is committed to providing as many vaccine vials we need,” said Kumar. “We have sent our requirement on vaccines to the Centre, which supplies them from time to time based upon the utilisation that shows up on the CoWIN portal. We also follow up our vaccine requirement during our virtual meetings with the Centre,” said Manoj Kumar, “Bihar has so far received 46,55,650 doses of the vaccine since the Covid-19 vaccination drive began pan-India on January 16. We were left with 4,16,390 doses on Wednesday. We will get the next lot of 8.9 lakh doses of vaccines tomorrow (Friday),” he said. (With input from Bishnu K Jha from Darbhanga)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/on-the-brink-bihar-hopes-to-get-8-9-lakh-doses-today-101617899386698.html
08-04-2021||Other||17-year-old murdered by gang of three over wearing of mask||PUNE A 17-year-old boy was brutally murdered near Chakan by three youths, including two minors. The accused were angry as the victim had asked them to wear a mask due to the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic.The deceased has been identified as Abhishek Santosh Fulambrikar, a resident of Medankarwadi near Chakan. Based on a complaint from his mother Malini Santosh Fulambrikar (46), an FIR has been registered at Chakan police station against the three youths, under section 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).The police have arrested Ganesh Bheru Reddy (25), a resident of Balajinagar in Medankarwadi and detained his two accomplices.According to police, the deceased had asked the three of them on April 6 (Tuesday) to wear a mask. They got angry and called him to an open ground near Gosavinagar. They assaulted him with sticks and stones. Abhishek was rushed to a private hospital in Chakan. After primary treatment, he was shifted to the YCM Hospital in Pimpri where he succumbed to injuries at 10 am on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/17yearold-murdered-by-gang-of-three-over-wearing-of-mask-101617897826572.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Covid spike calls for debate: To be or not to be back on campus? Students, teachers opine||After more than a year of online classes, since most educational institutions were shut in March last year, the students of Delhi University have been constantly appealing to reopen the campus. But, the recent news of St Stephen’s College campus lockdown — after almost 13 students and two staff members reportedly tested Covid positive post an educational trip to Dalhousie — has put a question mark on whether the demand to reopen campus is justified at present. But, nothing seems to deter Delhi University students from insisting to reopen campuses for physical classes, although coronavirus cases in the Capital have begun to see a spike of late. ‘Can reopen colleges in a phased manner’Avantika Kanojia, a student of Sri Aurobindo College, says, “What happened with St Stephen’s students is unfortunate. But going for a trip is different from taking classes. They turned out to be positive after they went out, and not by being on campus... We will have to deal with coronavirus, but education is an integral part of our lives. We can definitely reopen colleges in a phased manner, classes can be done for say three days a week. Because it’s getting difficult for everyone to cope with online classes as there’s no proper study structure.”No exposure when in online modeThe digital petition to reopen campus, which has now seen 5,800 signups, states multiple reasons for the demand, including inability to find a good network connection in remote areas, or access to growth avenues provided in offline college. Deepender Sharma, a student of Kirori Mal College rues, “I’m in my first year here and haven’t interacted with my peers yet. I stay in Rewari where the network coverage isn’t great.. Kabhi kabhi toh messages tak nahi jate. Meetings start bhi nahi hoti, and when teachers ask for response then our voice disappears, which makes them think we are not attending the class. Students like me applied to DU for the exposure that one gets, and to be part of extra curricular activities – none of these are we getting in the online campus mode!” More Twitter campaigns plannedThe #ReOpenDU protestors had a recent Twitter campaign on April 6, wherein they urged students to voice their concerns and demanded the administration to chalk out a plan for reopening of DU. Students who were part of this protest say that their repeated demands for reopening campus have been persistent because the administration hasn’t responded to the concerns raised by the students. “Our motive is to ask the DU administration as to why are they not replying to the queries of students. Our emails don’t get responses, we don’t have access to libraries; in case the campus needs to remain closed then the issues we have with online classes, course material etc, needs to be resolved at the earliest,” says Tanuj Rattan Singh, a student of Dyal Singh College. Teachers feels safe to keep campuses closed, but not for long In view of the recent rise in cases in the Capital, DU administration on April 3 released a circular asking students to avoid physical presence on campus unless necessary. Sumit Nandan, an assistant professor at Hindu College feels that the university should remain closed for a while as a preventative measure. “University of Delhi is a microcosm of India. Thus, in the wake of the recent surge in the different parts of the country, it will be sagacious not to open the colleges for offline teaching for another few weeks. Although, I personally feel that online teaching and OBE don’t augur well for the education of the students. But the pandemic has put us in an unprecedented catch-22 situation; it’s like choosing between the devil and the deep blue sea!” Geetesh Nirban, professor, Kamala Nehru College, also believes that keeping educational institutions shut for long is affecting the psychological well-being of people. She opines, “It’s one of the toughest phases for students and professors as both communities are digitally fatigued and psychologically stressed due to virtual mode of functioning for a year now. With surge in cases, uncertainty regarding reopening looms again on DU but teaching and learning being a social process cannot go for eternity without human connects. With appropriate cautions, strict guidelines, we have to think of reopening selectively. The community in education sector need to start the campaign for intensive vaccination drive among all associated with education so that normalcy returns in this important sector too.” Author tweets @bhagat_mallikaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid-spike-calls-for-debate-to-be-or-not-to-be-back-on-campus-students-teachers-opine-101617897417063.html
08-04-2021||Other||98 detonators found at garbage collection centre in Shirur||PUNE A cache of 98 detonators was found at a garbage centre in Shirur. Pune rural police have begun an investigation.Police Inspector Praveen Khanapure, in-charge of Shirur police station, said that the find took place on Wednesday. All the detonators have been seized for further investigation. According to police, the staff of the municipality were segregating waste at the garbage centre on the Shirur bypass road. The staff found the detonators, but did not know what that they were. Shirur municipal council officials then alerted the police. A team of the police as well as a bomb detection and disposal squad (BDDS) reached the spot. The cops then took possession of the detonators. The police said that the detonators could be used by farmers for digging, and also for mining purposes in the area.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/98-detonators-found-at-garbage-collection-centre-in-shirur-101617896626340.html
08-04-2021||Other||5 killed in fire in Bijnor cracker unit, one held||LUCKNOW Five people, aged between 25 and 40 years, were charred to death when a major fire broke out in a cracker manufacturing unit operational in a house on the outskirts of Bijnor city on Thursday, said Bijnor superintendent of police (SP) Dharam Veer Singh. He said unit owner Mohd Yusuf had been arrested after registering an FIR under charges of putting human life into danger and causing death due to negligence at Bijnor city Kotwali. Mohd Yusuf told the police that he had license for cracker manufacturing, but further investigation was on over violation of the license norms and other aspects, he said. The SP said the deceased were identified Ved Pal, Chintu, Pradeep, Sonu and Brij Pal, all residents of Bakshiwala locality on the outskirts of Bijnor city. He said the investigation so far had revealed that the fire broke out due to leakage in containers filled with chemical used for cracker manufacturing. He said as many as nine workers were working at the time of the incident and they initially tried to douse the flames but failed due to lack of proper fire extinguishing equipment. He said the workers tried to escape when the flames spread all over the unit but were trapped inside and charred to death. Four workers saved themselves by jumping out of the open window of the house. He said the bodies were pulled out of the debris when fire tenders doused the flames after four hours and sent for post-mortem examination. He said a team of forensic and fire experts had been called to the spot to ascertain the exact cause behind the fire. CM orders probe Chief minister Yogi Adityanath had ordered a probe to find out the cause behind the explosion in the cracker factory in Bijnore and had asked the district magistrate and the superintendent of police to provide a joint report, said a statement from his office. Yogi also asked them to provide all necessary help to the affected people and expressed grief over the deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5-killed-in-fire-in-bijnor-cracker-unit-one-held-101617896506353.html
08-04-2021||Pune||Pune district sees 12,059 Covid cases, 46 deaths on Thursday||Pune: Pune district reported a spike with 12,059 fresh Covid positive cases and 46 deaths in 24 hours, on Thursday, according to the state health department. Seven deaths were recorded in Pune rural, 33 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and six in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) in the last 24 hours. As per the state health department, PMC has so far reported 321,797 Covid cases and 4,840 deaths till Thursday. PCMC has reported 156,397 cases so far and a total of 1,405 deaths due to Covid. Pune rural has reported 140,897 total cases so far and 2,287 deaths due to the virus. In Pune district, there are a total of 619,091 lakh Covid cases. Of this, 513,266 patients have recovered. There has been a total of 8,583 deaths in the district. And at present, there are 97,242 active cases in Pune district. As per the state health department, 36,130 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 2,649,757 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 82.05%. Across Maharashtra, 56,286 new cases of Covid were diagnosed on Thursday and 376 deaths were reported on Thursday. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.77%. The state health department stated that of 21,385,551 laboratory samples, 3,229,547 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 15.10% patients till Thursday. Currently 2,702,613 people are in home quarantine and 22,661 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-district-sees-12-059-covid-cases-46-deaths-on-thursday-101617896327572.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Savdhani hati, durghatna ghati: Five places we are letting our guard, mask down!||India crossed one lakh Covid-19 cases on a daily basis for the first time, and recently Delhi Police reportedly arrested four people and fined several restaurants, night clubs and hotels for flouting Covid safety guidelines, following a two-day special drive to crackdown on violators amid the rising coronavirus cases in the city. This brings us to think of places where we are letting our guard down knowingly or unknowingly, and becoming vulnerable to the virus, and in the process also getting challaned. Agree to disagree? Wait till the food arrives?At restaurants, many of us immediately take off our masks upon entering the eatery or as soon as we get seated. Blame the hunger mode, but in the eagerness to order and devour food, many of us often forget to wait for the food to arrive! “While dining out one will have to take off the mask, but it usually takes around 8 to 10 minutes for the first drink or food to arrive at the table,” says Pawan Soni, founder of a Gurugram-based foodie group. The fact that some people are getting challaned as they bring their mask down when waiting for the food to arrive, makes Soni opine, “If the government authorities feel that guests should continue wearing the mask for that a longer duration when at an eatery then this call should be taken basis a scientific research, before challans are issued to people. Also, the guidelines on occupancy percentage, which in my opinion should be kept around 60 to 70 per cent of the restaurant capacity, should be clearly spelt out by the same authorities. This will help restaurant to at least stay afloat and pay their employees. Night curfews in my opinion only cause fear and lead to rush at stores during day time.” Click Click! At the wedding, when everyone is so ecstatic to get that perfect picture, in the brief moment when many take off their masks to make themselves identifiable in those memorable clicks, it’s again a compromise with one’s health. Isn’t it? “At my sister’s wedding, there was only family and we were all wearing matching masks, but to get the perfect picture, we all eventually decided to take off our masks. Ye to sach hai ki jitne marzi designer mask pehen lo, kisi ki bhi photo achhi nahi aati mask mein. To ab shaadi ki photo to zindagi bhar yaad rahegi, usme bhi mask na utarein to kaise chalega,” questions a Delhi-based corporate professional on condition of anonymity. Trial room troublesTrying on apparels at a shopping store? How would one know whether it’s looking good unless the complete face is visible in the mirror. But, trial rooms are one infamous spots where most people inadvertently or inadvertently take off their masks. “The other day we went to a sports store to buy gym tights and tee, and while my BFF was busy trying a pair of shorts, I couldn’t help but try a top, too. And the moment I was trying it on, my mask came off. It was not my intention but it so happened. Sigh. I did sanitise my hands after that, but it’s so inconvenient to wear masks while trying clothes, and takes away all the fun of shopping at a physical space,” says Sonam Sethi, a Gurugram-based corporate professional.Train matters! At the metro station, waiting for your train to arrive? Challans are also being recorded in metro trains! “But sometimes I remove my mask while waiting for the metro train when on the platform since I have to change the metro lines quite a few times and it does feel exhausting when rushing between trains,” says Samar Khan, a Delhi-based artist, adding, “Whenever it looks safe and the platform isn’t too crowded, I tend to pull down my mask for a bit and breathe until I catch another train or see a hoard of people coming towards me.” The lure of green Because it’s an open air spot, and you are out to catch that much needed fresh air during morning walk or excercise a bit, do you too remove your mask? Yatin Wadhwa, a Delhi-based businessman, says, “I wear a mask before entering the park. And I pull it down when no one’s around. But I immediately pull up when crossing someone to be on the safer side. But one spots so many people walking without masks just because it’s open air, why, I wonder?” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/savdhani-hati-durghatna-ghati-five-places-we-are-letting-our-guard-mask-down-101617896151314.html
08-04-2021||Other||SP to celebrate Ambedkar birth anniv as ‘Dalit Deepawali’||Lucknow: The Samajwadi Party (SP) will celebrate April 14, the 130th birth anniversary of Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar, as ‘Dalit Deepawali’ across UP and the country. The party leaders and workers will light lamps at their party offices, homes and Ambedkar statues, announced the party on Thursday. “On the instruction of the party’s national president Akhilesh Yadav, the party will celebrate the day as Dalit Diwali across the state. In every district of the state and across the country, the party’s leaders and workers will light oil lamps at party offices, homes, public places and Ambedkar statues and pay homage to Ambedkar,” said the party’s state spokesperson Rajendra Chaudhary in a statement. “The lamp lighting would symbolise an attempt to dispel the darkness that engulfed the country under the BJP rule. Under the BJP rule, the Constitution is under threat. The Constitution given by Dr Ambedkar had dispelled the dark days,” said Chaudhary. Chaudhary in the statement said that there was no doubt that at every step, the BJP government had shown contempt of the Constitution. There was intolerance towards freedom of expression, freedom of religion and the spirit of social, economic, and political justice had been badly dented. The BJP government was working with the aim of political vendetta, he said. By celebrating April 14 as Dalit Deepawali, the party cadre would pledge to re-establish the democratic values as enunciated by Dr Ambedkar, he said in the statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sp-to-celebrate-ambedkar-birth-anniv-as-dalit-deepawali-101617896026342.html
08-04-2021||Other||To augment inoculation drive, UP asks centre for more vaccines||Lucknow: To give a boost to the Covid vaccination drive, the Uttar Pradesh government has requested the central government to supply extra doses. Additional chief secretary, health and family welfare, Amit Mohan Prasad said here on Thursday that the state had stock of 9.8 lakh doses. Each day, on an average about three lakh doses were being given to the beneficiaries and the state had adequate dose for three days. The state government had launched a focused vaccination drive after surge in Covid cases. The central government was likely to supply the Covid vaccine on Friday and Saturday, he said. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath has directed the state health and family welfare department to increase the vaccination cover by inoculating 5 lakh beneficiaries daily. Uttar Pradesh tops the country in Covid vaccination, surpassing Maharashtra, Gujarat, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar, giving 5,01,599 Covid shots on April 5. The vaccination drive had been expedited in the urban and rural areas, Prasad said. When asked about the shortage of the vaccine in Varanasi, Lucknow, Ghaziabad, NOIDA and other districts, Prasad said adequate supply of the vaccine had been made to the districts. Rather than shortage, it was the question of management at vaccination centers. Some centres in various districts witnessed large rush of the beneficiaries since April 1 when the third phase vaccination for people above 45 years was launched, leading to shortage of the vaccine. The health department had set the target of 100 vaccinations in each session. Along with registration, the people had walk-in facility at all the vaccination centres. The cold chains had been directed to ensure regular supply to ensure that maximum number of the beneficiaries got vaccinated, he said. On Monday, 5 lakh beneficiaries got the shot , 4 lakh were inoculated on Tuesday, 2.50 lakh on Wednesday and 3 lakh would be given the shot on Thursday, he said. The state health and family welfare department had decided to organize special vaccination programme for the employees working in government and private offices from Friday. The employees above 45 years would be inoculated. In the first phase, the offices having 100 or more employees had been selected. The government employees would get the shot at government hospitals whereas the employees working in private offices would be inoculated at private hospitals, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-augment-inoculation-drive-up-asks-centre-for-more-vaccines-101617895847425.html
08-04-2021||Pune||PMC to launch call centre for Covid queries||PUNE: Following public complaints regarding the helpline, the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) will launch a call centre with the help of a private firm. Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said, “As the incoming call flow is high, PMC is taking the help from a private firm to start a call centre to guide citizens. It would help to better connectivity.” PMC is also trying to appoint more doctors, nurses and ward boys, Kumar said. Testing, vaccination on the doorstep Municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar said that the civic body is taking steps to extend testing facility at doorsteps. PMC met private labs and requested them to start mobile vans and visit industries and test staff. Along with RT-PCR, the mobile labs will also do antigen tests. With the help of Bhartiya Jain Sanghatana, PMC planned to extend the vaccination drive. There are no guidelines yet to do vaccination at housing societies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-launch-call-centre-for-covid-queries-101617895848029.html
08-04-2021||Other||FIR over credit card fraud filed by Hinjewadi police||PUNE An FIR has been registered on Thursday by the Hinjewadi police station, under the Pimpri Chinchwad police commissionerate, against unidentified persons for allegedly stealing credit card information and booking flight tickets worth Rs29.74 lakh.Mallikarjun Nardagi (40), deputy manager with ICICI Bank, has lodged the complaint.According to police, the accused hacked the credit card data of bank customer Anil Shivaji Ghadge , a resident of Wakad. On December 24, 2020, the accused booked many tickets using the credit card, thus cheating the customer as well as the bank.Therefore, the bank did an internal enquiry and lodged a complaint. Police have registered a case under section 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and sections 66a and 66d of the Information Technology Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fir-over-credit-card-fraud-filed-by-hinjewadi-police-101617895546293.html
08-04-2021||Other||Transport department likely to allow delivery of vehicles on Gudhi Padwa||PUNE Due to the strict restrictions in the state, all non -essential shops are closed, but on the other hand, the auspicious day of Gudhi Padwa is on April 13. People wait for this day to take delivery of new vehicles, but this year, as vehicle showrooms are closed, how will delivery be made? The state transport department is planning to allow a one-day permission for public to take deliveries of new vehicles on Gudhi Padwa. An official order will soon be released.Pune regional transport officer Ajit Shinde said, “There are discussions going on at the higher level about allowing public to take deliveries of vehicles booked on Gudhi Padwa. The official announcement will soon be made.”Shailesh Kshirsagar, who booked a new car and is waiting to take the delivery on Gudhi Padwa, said, “I had booked the car two months back. Suddenly these new lockdown restrictions came. Our entire family is waiting to take delivery of our car and hope to get permission for it.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/transport-department-likely-to-allow-delivery-of-vehicles-on-gudhi-padwa-101617893746022.html
08-04-2021||Other||8,490 fresh cases in UP, 4 cities account for 50% of these||LUCKNOW Uttar Pradesh recorded 8,490 fresh Covid cases on Thursday, the highest in a day so far, and 50% of these (4,571) surfaced in four cities, taking the caseload to 39,338. As many as 39 more deaths due to the virus pushed the fatality count to 9,003. The previous single-day high was seen on September 11, 2020 when 7,103 new cases were reported (active cases were 67,321). “Over 50% of the new cases are from four cities – Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj and Varanasi. Among 39,338 active cases, 22,904 are in home isolation, 770 in private hospitals and the rest undergoing treatment in government hospitals free of cost,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health. During the day, Lucknow reported 11 deaths, Kanpur four, Prayagraj six, two each in Meerut, Varanasi, Ayodhya, Barabanki and Lakhimpur Kheri. So far, 6,0,6063 patients had recovered in Uttar Pradesh, including 1,084 in the past 24 hours.Lucknow logged 2,369 cases, Prayagraj 1,040, Varanasi 794, Kanpur 368, Gorakhpur 259, Meerut 222, Gautam Buddh Nagar 134, Jhansi 180, Bareilly 133, Saharanpur 109, Ghaziabad 108 and Bhadohi 60. Hathras was the only district to report zero fresh cases. In the past 24 hours, the state conducted 2,04,878 Covid tests, the highest in one day till now, said Navneet Sehgal, additional chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8490-fresh-cases-in-up-4-cities-account-for-50-of-these-101617893686193.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi registers 7,437 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike in over four months||Delhi has recorded 7,437 new Covid-19 cases and 24 coronavirus disease-related deaths in the last 24 hours, the Delhi government health bulletin notified on Thursday. The new rise in Covid-19 cases is the highest in over four months and certainly the highest single-day of 2021, as the national capital had last year recorded a single-day spike of 7,546 Covid-19 cases on November 19. With the new jump in cases, the infection tally in Delhi has now reached 6,98,005, with the number of active cases being 23,181. With the new fatalities recorded over the past day, the Covid-19 death toll in Delhi now stands at 11,157.November 11, 2020, currently holds the record for clocking the highest number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, when the national capital had recorded 8,593 new cases in a span of 24 hours. Officials have warned that if the current trend continues, Delhi would soon cross its earlier record of a single-day spike.The current positivity rate in Delhi is 8.10%, while a total of 91,770 Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the national capital. The case fatality rate (CFR) is currently at 1.6%, as per the government health bulletin. A night curfew has been imposed in the national capital till April 30, while similar curfews have been implemented in Noida and Ghaziabad as well, to curb the worsening coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis in and around the Delhi-national capital region (NCR).Also Read: Night curfew imposed in Delhi. Here's what's allowed, what's notOn Wednesday, Delhi had recorded 5,506 positive cases and the positivity rate was only above 6%, according to a PTI report, citing Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain. A day later, the number of fresh Covid-19 cases has increased by almost 2,000 and the positivity rate has jumped over two percentage points. Noting that Delhi's positivity rate is still lower than "many other states", Jain had said earlier this day that the coronavirus is spreading exponentially, but the severity of the virus is less, and so are the fatalities. To back his assertion up, the Delhi health minister had pointed out the positivity rates of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, where he said the numbers are around 25% and 18%, respectively.Also Read: Ten states showing upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 casesSatyendar Jain also said that the vaccination drive in Delhi is going well, and that adequate vaccine stock for the next 4-5 days is well available in Delhi. Meanwhile, India registered yet another record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new coronavirus infections pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,29,28,574, according to the ministry data updated on Thursday morning. The national weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased by 6.21 per cent from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry said. Ten states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases accounting for 84.21 per cent of the 1,26,789 new infections, the health ministry said on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-registers-7-437-new-covid-19-cases-highest-in-over-four-months-101617889941643.html
08-04-2021||Other||Students begin to push for postponement of SPPU first semester exams||PUNE The online examination of the Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU) is to start from April 11. The timetable for some of the subjects has not yet been declared by the examination department. While students are now demanding the immediate release of timetables, there is now an increasing demand to postpone the exams due to the current restrictions in the state. “We are preparing for the examinations online from April 11, but still there are a number of subjects for which the timetable is not yet declared. Students cannot prepare due to this, so the examination department should immediately declare the timetable,” said Kamlakar Shete, student and Pune city vice-president of the Yuvak Kranti Dal.Exams for all courses will be conducted for 50 marks with multiple-choice questions (MCQ), online. The university’s SPPU Edutech Foundation company is going to conduct the exam.Meanwhile, several students appearing for the exam have either tested positive or are facing some issue due to the new restrictions. A Twitter trend was driving the demand for postponing the exams. “There are thousands of students who come from rural backgrounds and are currently facing issues in their family and healthwise. In such a crisis situation when there are strict restrictions imposed in the state, the university should postpone the exams,” said Mandar Lahane, a post-graduate student.Mahesh Kakade, SPPU’s director of the board of examination and evaluation, said, “We have declared the timetable of all the courses and subjects under the university. Only some of the courses with the old syllabus are remaining, and that will also be soon declared.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-begin-to-push-for-postponement-of-sppu-first-semester-exams-101617890205642.html
08-04-2021||Other||Free meals for daily-wage labourers, maids on offer at Ivy Estate, Wagholi||PUNE Civil engineer-turned-hotelier Siddhant Kamble has begun a mission to serve free meals to daily-wage labourers and maids in the city.Calling his mission “Economy meals”, Kamble says the idea is that no one must go sleep hungry.He launched his service on Wednesday in the Wagholi area.“BTech Khau Galli”, is the name of his outlet in Ivy Estate Wagholi, were he is offering free meals to maids and daily-wage earners. “I am offering free meals, which consists of chapatis, salad, dal, rice and vegetable. We have many maids coming in for work, but with this lockdown, our societies have stopped them from work. To help them I have begun this service,” said Kamble. He has also begun serving these meals at ₹50 per tiffin for working professionals and students in Pune. Kamble is also delivering these meals to slums in Kesanand and Wagholi, where volunteers drop these meals off twice in a day.Nimbalkar kaku, as she is commonly known in Ivy Estate, is very happy to get food for free. “I work for two flats in this society, but ever since Monday, we were told not to come into the society until we do the test. The test is expensive and we cannot afford it. Hence, to get free meals, it is a godsend and I am very happy that someone is thinking of us.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/free-meals-for-daily-wage-labourers-maids-on-offer-at-ivy-estate-wagholi-101617887385291.html
08-04-2021||Other||Barabanki cops to quiz Mukhtar in ambulance case||LUCKNOW The Barabanki police will interrogate gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari, who is lodged in Banda jail, in connection with the luxury ambulance used by him, said senior police officials on Thursday. They said a police team will soon be sent to the Banda jail for this purpose. The Barabanki police have collected many photographs in which Ansari is seen using the same ambulance for his transportation from jail to different places, said an official. “Around four years ago, Ansari’s aides had badly beaten up a journalist of a renowned Hindi daily when he clicked photographs of the ambulance when his motorcade was passing through Hazratganj crossing in Lucknow. His aides had even snatched the journalist’s mobile phone and returned it later after the intervention of some senior police officers,” said the official. The matter of Ansari using the private ambulance for his transportation was highlighted by the media when he reached Mohali court in the same vehicle on April 1. The UP police registered an FIR, after it was found that this ambulance bearing a registration number of UP’s Barabanki was reportedly registered on the basis of a fake identity card of Mau resident Dr Alka Rai since December 2013. The FIR was initially lodged with the kotwali police of Barabanki on the complaint of Barabanki assistant road transport officer (ARTO) Pankaj Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/barabanki-cops-to-quiz-mukhtar-in-ambulance-case-101617886306791.html
08-04-2021||Kolkata||Anti-Romeo squads in Bengal if BJP is voted to power: Yogi Adityanath||Senior BJP leader Yogi Adityanath Thursday said that anti-Romeo squads will be formed in Bengal if the party is voted to power in the state.Bengal is not a safe place for women under the present TMC government, Adityanath, also Uttar Pradesh chief minister, said addressing three poll rallies in Hooghly and Howrah districts of West Bengal He said if BJP is voted to power it will stress on women and education."Why is Bengal not a safe place for women? ... Education and transport will be made free for girls in Bengal. Anti-Romeo squads will be formed in Bengal to deal with those who loiter around girls schools," he said.Anti-Romeo sqauds were launched in Uttar Pradesh to ensure safety of women soon after Adityanath assumed power in 2017. West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her party, the TMC have often referred to the Hathras gangrape case to mock at Adityanath government's policing for women and the law and order situation in BJP-ruled Uttar Pradesh.The top BJP leader criticised the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal and derided it for failing to bring in any positive change in the ten years that it has been in power."Where is the paribartan (change) that Mamata Banerjee had promised ten years ago? he asked.When Trinamool Congress came to power in the state a decade ago it had promised to serve 'maa-maati-manush' (mother, motherland and people), which became its slogan."What happened to that slogan? I have come to ask Mamata Banerjee about it. Why is Bengal not a safe place for women? This soil had produced so many social reformers. What happened to the youth of the state who have become frustrated?" he asked.Adityanath claimed that Banerjee has no compassion for the youth, farmers and development. "But she has compassion for the TMC goons" .Referring to the Citizenship Amendment Act, he said it had been passed by Parliament and TMC had fanned violence against it in West Bengal.The violence that occurred in West Bengal due to the legislation of CAA in Parliament had been fanned by the TMC. In UP the government had recovered money from those who indulged in violence and damaged public property, he said."Here in Bengal, TMC is all for appeasement for the sake of vote bank. Mamata Banerjee supports cow slaughter. In UP cow slaughter is not allowed. If anybody is found to be involved in it, the person goes to jail", Adityanath said."TMC is not allowing central schemes to be implemented in West Bengal. Violence, anarchy and corruption have ruined the state", he added.Expressing confidence that the BJP will come to power in Bengal, the saffron party leader said after the election results are declared on May 2 The TMC goons will be sent to jail. There will be an end to hooliganism and rule of law will prevail".Adityanath also iterated the need for a 'double engine' government the government of the same party (BJP) at the Centre and the state for faster development of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/antiromeo-squads-in-bengal-if-bjp-is-voted-to-power-yogi-adityanath-101617886075088.html
08-04-2021||Other||‘25 dons, close aides put behind bars in 4 years’||LUCKNOW As many as 25 mafia dons and their close aides were put behind bars and their assets worth ₹1,000 crore bulldozed and seized since March 2017, said senior home and police department officials here on Thursday. At least 190 firearms licenses belonging to gangsters, their families and aides had been revoked during this period, they said. A senior home department official said not only dreaded gangsters like Mukhtar Ansari and Atiq Ahmed, but others with criminal antecedents were also hunted down by the police since the formation of the Yogi Adiyanath-led BJP government in UP. The last four years saw many criminal gangs in the state being dissolved as the police made strong chargesheets against them in courts. “For example, the court sentenced dreaded gangster Akash Jat to three and seven years’ imprisonment in two cases while his aide Amit Bhura got jail term for three years and one year in the same cases,” he emphasised. A senior police official said gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari was lodged in Banda Jail, while Atiq Ahmed was in Central Jail in Sabarmati, Gujarat and Brijesh Kumar Singh alias Arun Kumar Singh, was lodged in Varanasi Jail while gangster Om Prakash alias Babloo Srivastav was in Bareilly jail. Other dreaded criminals like Munir were lodged in Mandoli Jail, Delhi; Khan Mubarak in Hardoi Jail; Amit Kasana in a Delhi jail; Akash Jat in Ghaziabad Jail; Uddham Singh in Azamgarh Jail; Yogesh Bhadaur in Siddharthnagar Jail; Ajit alias Happu in Bareilly Jail, Sushil alias Moonch in Kanpur Jail and Sanjiv Maheshwari alias Jeeva in Lucknow Jail, he added. He said other gangsters on the list were Sundar Bhati alias Netaji lodged in Hamirpur jail of Kasna; Anil Dujana alias Anil Nagar in Gautam Buddh Nagar jail; Singhraj Bhati in Gorakhpur jail; Ankit Gurjar in Maharajganj jail; Subhash Singh Thakur in Fatehpur jail; Dhruv Kumar Singh alias Kuntu Singh in Ballia jail; Umesh Rai alias Gaura Rai in Rampur Jail; Tribhuvan Singh alias Pawan Kumar in Mirzapur Jail and three criminal brothers Mohammad Salim and Mohammed Sohrab and Mohammad Rustom were lodged in Fatehgarh and Kanpur jails. The official said the UP police seized immovable and illegal assets worth over ₹1,000 crore from the 25 arrested gangsters. The state government was also realizing expenses for demolition and evacuation of properties from the gangsters. The state government also tightened the noose around those running illegal slaughterhouses and demolished many such abattoirs. There was a crackdown on gangs involved in parking collection rackets, illegal fish trade, illegal coal business and land mafia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/25-dons-close-aides-put-behind-bars-in-4-years-101617884866204.html
08-04-2021||Other||Lucknow’s pvt hosps asked to keep ‘Covid ambulances’ ready||LUCKNOW Amid a steep Covid surge, private hospitals in Lucknow have been asked to keep ‘Covid dedicated’ ambulances ready for shifting any patient, who tests positive, to a Covid facility. The order issued by district magistrate Abhishek Prakash on Thursday stated that all non-Covid hospitals will arrange for a triage area, where such patients will be kept and given treatment by the most experienced doctors of the hospital till the patients are shifted to a Covid facility. “A violation of this order will invite penal action,” he stated. The onus of shifting of a Covid patient from a non-Covid hospital will be on the private hospital only when the Covid hospital is allotted to the patient. As per the process, suspected patients are tested for Covid and till the report comes they are kept in triage/isolation area made for suspected Covid patients. If a patient tests positive, the health department is informed and the command centre allots Covid hospital to the patient, after which he/she is shifted. Till now, patients were shifted via dedicated Covid ambulances run by the health department. Now, private hospitals need to keep Covid ambulances ready for shifting patients and they have to provide treatment till the patient is shifted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-pvt-hosps-asked-to-keep-covid-ambulances-ready-101617884625088.html
08-04-2021||Patna||Patna HC to watch all NH projects in state to clear bumps||Taking a serious view of inordinate delays in land acquisition for major road projects in Bihar, the Patna High Court has started the monitoring all the national highways in the state to pass necessary orders for removal of hurdles in their completion. Taking suo motu cognizance of the matter, the bench of Chief Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice S Kumar, in the last week of March, ordered the court registry to register 40 writ cases so that the problems of each national highway could be taken up separately to speed up the process of land acquisition. “The authorities shall expedite the process for acquiring the land with respect to each one of the projects for which the amount stands sanctioned. What is disturbing and distressing is, as is evident from the NHAI (National Highway Authority of India) affidavit, that only 15% (approx.) of the amount stands released and the remaining amount is pending, inter alia, for want of passing of the awards as per law,” the court observed. The counsel for the NHAI, SD Sanjay, said the court would now monitor progress on a regular basis to ensure that hurdles in land acquisition were removed without delay. “The HC is already monitoring NH-83 (Patna-Gaya-Dobhi), NH-77 (Hajipur-Muzaffarpur), NH-2 (Varanasi-Aurangabad) and NH-80 (Munger-Mizachauki via Bhagalpur),” he said. The NHAI had submitted in tabular form the current status of all the 43 projects undertaken in the state before the court and it pointed to delays in most of the cases for one reason or the other, viz. land acquisition of over 3,700 hectares in various parts, finalization of tender or allotment of work, handing over possession of land etc. Land acquisition was, however, the biggest issue. As per the affidavit, during the Covid-19 pandemic in the financial year 2020-21, NHAI sanctioned ₹11,327.45 crore as payment for acquisition of land with respect to various projects undertaken in Bihar. The amount pertains only to the projects undertaken by the NHAI and not any other agency. However, ₹2,066.09 crore stands released and the remaining amount of Rs. 9261.36 crores is yet to be released due to delays in land acquisition. The bench said that it had, in several orders repeatedly, emphasized the need of setting up of places of public conveniences on the National Highways and also need for setting up of petrol pumps having such facilities. “The ministry of petroleum and the National Highway Authority of India have a workable plan for providing such facilities, which surely, when implemented in the State of Bihar, would not only boost its economy, but also generate employment so as to check migration of the residents of Bihar seeking employment outside the State. We cannot forget that all arterial roads to East/Northeast India passes through Bihar, which also has an international border,” it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hcto-watch-all-nh-projects-in-state-to-clear-bumps-101617884265087.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Two more Maharashtra ministers will quit in 15 days: BJP's Chandrakant Patil||Maharashtra BJP chief Chandrakant Patil on Thursday claimed two more state ministers will have to resign in 15 days and that the state was a "fit case for President's rule".His remarks came a day after suspended cop Sachin Waze in a letter claimed former state Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had demanded ₹2 crore from him to continue his service in the Mumbai police and another minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money from contractors.Deshmukh, a senior NCP leader, resigned as home minister on Monday after the Bombay High Court ordered a CBI probe into corruption allegations levelled against him by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Parab, a Shiv Sena leader, has denied the allegations.Talking to reporters here on Thursday, Patil said "what is in store in future is the common man's guess"."Two state ministers will have to resign in another 15 days. Some people will go to court against these ministers and then they will have to quit," he claimed without naming anyone or elaborating further.Patil said there is a possibility that the allegations against Transport Minister Anil Parab may also be clubbed with the probe into charges against Anil Deshmukh."Maharashtra is a fit case for President's rule," the BJP leader said, adding his party was not making the demand.He said from what is going on in the state, experts should explain what else is needed to impose the President's rule."If you want to blame the Centre for everything, why not give the state administration to the central government?" be asked.Patil alleged that Anil Deshmukh was a "hypocrite" as he had moved the Supreme Court against the Bombay HC order for a CBI probe into the allegations against him."In the resignation letter, he (Deshmukh) says he is quitting to facilitate a free and fair probe, and the next day he moves the apex court against the probe," Patil said.The BJP leader said the MVA government (comprising the Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress) in Maharashtra defended Waze so aggressively during the state's budget session that the Assembly had to be adjourned nine times."Now you don't trust him," he added.Patil alleged that the MVA government was indulging in an "organised crime"."If the evidence comes out on paper, provisions of the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) will have to be invoked," he claimed.Talking to reporters in Nagpur, senior BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis said the claims made by Waze in his letter are serious and there is a need for deliberation on it."The things that are coming out and happening are not good for the reputation of Maharashtra and the state police. The CBI or any other competent authority should investigate the letter's content and bring out the truth," the former state chief minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/two-more-maharashtra-ministers-will-quit-in-15-days-bjp-s-chandrakant-patil-101617883737063.html
08-04-2021||Other||Haryana to release pending payments of arhtiyas with interest||The Haryana government will start releasing the pending payments of commission agents (arhtiyas) pertaining to the last procurement cycle along with interest, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar has said. He reiterated hassle-free and time-bound procurement of wheat even as the arhtiyas threatened to boycott procurement. Also read: Arhtiyas won’t procure wheat if DBT payment mode not withdrawnProcess of payment of interest starts “The process of payment of interest has started from Thursday and arhtiyas have been asked to get their accounts verified. Necessary directions for the same have been issued to the food and civil supplies department,” Khattar said after reviewing the meeting on rabi procurement with all deputy commissioners (DCs) and officers concerned through video-conferencing. Deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and agriculture and farmers’ welfare minister JP Dalal were also present. The commission and labour wage amount of a section of arhtiyas is pending since the last procurement season. Arhtiyas oppose direct transfer of MSP to farmers A sizeable section of arhtiyas have been opposing the state government’s decision to directly transfer the minimum support price (MSP) of the procured food grains to the bank accounts of the farmers. The chief minister said that recently a meeting with arhtiyas was held during which the state government assured them that they would not face any problem during procurement. Khattar directed DCs to hold regular talks with arhtiyas to ensure they don’t face any problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-to-release-pending-payments-of-arhtiyas-with-interest-101617883834602.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||5 DCs given additional charge of other districts in Haryana||The Haryana government on Thursday gave additional charge of other districts to five deputy commissioners (DCs) after the incumbent DCs proceeded on training. Bhiwani deputy commissioner Rajesh Jogpal will hold the additional charge of the Charkhi Dadri DC during the training period of Jaibir Singh Arya, while Dhirendra Khadgata, who is the chief executive officer (CEO) of the Mewat Development Agency and the Nuh DC, has been given additional charge of the Palwal DC during the training period of Naresh Kumar. Hisar DC Dr Priyanka Soni will hold the additional charge of the Fatehabad DC in the absence of Narhari Singh Banger, while Mahendragarh DC Ajay Kumar has been given the additional charge of the Rewari DC during the training period of Yashendra Singh. Krishna Kumar, who is the Haryana Shehri Vikas Parishad (HSVP) administrator in Faridabad and additional director of urban estate in Faridabad, has been given the additional charge of the Faridabad DC during the training period of Yashpal Singh, an official spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/5-dcs-given-additional-charge-of-other-districts-in-haryana-101617882874273.html
08-04-2021||Lucknow||5 killed in fire in UP’s Bijnor cracker unit, one held||Five persons were charred to death when a major fire broke out in a cracker manufacturing unit situated in a house on the outskirts of Bijnor city on Thursday, said Bijnor superintendent of police (SP) Dharam Veer Singh. He said the unit’s owner Mohd Yusuf has been arrested on charges of putting human life in danger and causing death due to negligence. Mohd Yusuf told the police that he had a license for cracker manufacturing, but the police are investigating possible violations of the license norms and other aspects, the SP said. The SP said the deceased were identified Ved Pal, Chintu, Pradeep, Sonu and Brij Pal, all residents of Bakshiwala locality on the outskirts of Bijnor city. Also Read | Uttar Pradesh: Night curfew in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, PrayagrajHe said the investigation so far had revealed that the fire broke out due to a leak in the containers filled with chemical used for cracker manufacturing, adding that nine people were working at the premises at the time of the incident. They initially tried to douse the flames but failed due to lack of proper fire extinguishing equipment. He said the workers tried to escape when the flames spread but were trapped inside and charred to death. Four workers saved themselves by jumping out of the open window of the house. He said the bodies were pulled out of the debris when fire tenders doused the flames after four hours and sent them for post-mortem examination. He said a team of forensic and fire experts had been called to the spot to ascertain the exact cause behind the fire.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/5-killed-in-fire-in-up-s-bijnor-cracker-unit-one-held-101617882514510.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt should curb black marketing of Remdesivir: Devendra Fadnavis||Former Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday slammed the state government for not curbing the black marketing of Covid-19 drug Remdesivir and said the government should procure the drug from states where the coronavirus situation is under control."Remdesivir injections are being sold in the state through black market. The government should get injections from the states where the situation is under control. It should also take strict action against all those who are involved in black marketing," Fadnavis said.He added that the Maharashtra government should stop doing politics over vaccines."Uttar Pradesh has near double the population than Maharashtra and still they have got fewer vaccines than Maharashtra," he added.Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state is facing a Covid-19 vaccine shortage and demanded 40 lakh doses every week from the Centre.Speaking on the issue of Waze's letter to the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said that the contents of the suspended police officer's letter must be probed by either the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or another competent authority.The police officer had written a letter to the NIA court on Wednesday claimed that another Maharashtra Minister had also asked him to illegitimately collect money for him.The court did not accept the letter, stating that it was not submitted in a proper format.Waze, who is being probed by the NIA in the Antilia bomb scare, was produced by the agency for further custody when he attempted to submit this letter. The court, however, told him to follow due process and did not accept it. (A||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-should-curb-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-devendra-fadnavis-101617881502325.html
08-04-2021||Ranchi||1-2 days Covid-19 vaccines stock left: Jharkhand health minister||Jharkhand Health Minister Banna Gupta on Thursday said that the state is short of Covid-19 vaccines and is only left with stock for one to two days.Speaking to ANI, Gupta said, "We have stock for the next 1-2 days. We have made a request to the Union Home Minister and I am hopeful that he will provide the vaccines."He further said, "Around 83 lakh people need to get first and second doses of the vaccine. It means we will need around 1.60 crore doses. We are getting it gradually. We do have vaccines available with us but there has been a shortage at some locations. So, we have spoken to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan."So far, about 18,27,800 first doses of the vaccines have been administered while 2,78,000 second doses have been given, informed the Jharkhand Health Minister."Had requested the Union Health Minister to make available at least 10 lakh doses immediately. They are likely to arrive by tomorrow," he added.This comes after Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope had on Wednesday said that the state is facing a Covid-19 vaccine shortage and demanded 40 lakh doses every week from the Centre.Reacting sharply to Tope's claims, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had on Wednesday said that he had seen statements made by public representatives in Maharashtra about the shortage of vaccines and asserted that it was nothing but "an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government's repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic".The minister had said the "lackadaisical attitude of the state government has singularly bogged down the entire country's efforts to fight the virus" and the lack of efforts of the part of the state government "is now clearly visible and come to haunt us all".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/12-days-covid-19-vaccines-stock-left-jharkhand-health-minister-101617880552035.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Dhanpat Singh is Haryana state election commissioner||The Haryana government on Thursday appointed former IAS officer Dhanpat Singh as the state election commissioner (SEC). A retired civil servant of the 1985-batch, Dhanpat Singh replaces Dr Dalip Singh, whose term ended on Thursday. He will be administered the oath of office by governor Satyadev Narayan Arya on Thursday evening for a tenure of four years. The SEC is vested with the power of superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of electoral rolls and conduct of all elections to gram panchayats and municipal bodies in the state. Also read: Covid lapses at farm stir may hit 4 statesHolding panchayat elections first challenge An immediate challenge for the new SEC will be to hold the panchayat elections that has been deferred on the grounds of the Covid pandemic and protests by farmers against the three farm laws. The term of the panchayats in the state ended on February 23. According to Article 243-E of the Constitution, an election to constitute a panchayat shall be completed before the expiry of its duration, which is five years from the date appointed for its first meeting. The BJP-JJP government has come in for criticism for delaying the elections. Past precedent of delay in holding polls A division bench of the Punjab and Haryana high court had in a 1999 order observed that the advocate general and SEC counsel had conceded that the September 30, 1999, order pertaining to preparation of electoral rolls for the panchayat and the municipal polls had been made in ignorance of the constitutional provisions contained in part IX and IX-A (Article 243) and the Panchayati Raj Act and Municipal Act and the order had in fact by implication, nullified a constitutional and statutory mandate. The bench was hearing a review application against the September 1999 orders filed by six petitioners, including two MLAs, for impleading them as respondent and also saying that elections of panchayats, panchayat samitis and zila parishad in Haryana, which were due to be held in December 1999, would be deferred if the voters’ lists were to be prepared afresh in compliance of the HC orders and that would result in non-compliance of the provisions of the Constitution to complete the panchayat elections before the expiry of their duration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/dhanpat-singh-is-haryana-state-election-commissioner-101617880174419.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||AAP, Dhindsas hold talks to join hands for 2022 Punjab assembly elections||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Shiromani Akali Dal (Democratic) are holding talks to join hands for the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab. SAD (Democratic) president and Rajya Sabha MP Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa and his son and former finance minister Parminder Singh Dhindsa met AAP Punjab affairs co-incharge Raghav Chadha in Chandigarh three days ago. Also read: Opposition parties flay Punjab govt’s move to ban political gatheringsAAP MLA and leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema and Dhindsa Junior confirmed the meeting. Both parties evinced interest in working together to take on the ruling Congress, Akalis and the BJP, but are still to work out alliance modalities. Parminder Dhindsa said they held talks with senior AAP leaders to form an alliance. “There was a discussion on the political scenario and consensus that the aim of both parties is similar. This was a preliminary meeting. We will discuss the details in subsequent meetings. The idea is to build a wider front of like-minded parties,” the Lehra MLA said, sounding optimistic about an alliance with the principal opposition party. However, Cheema said the talks with Dhindsa were positive, but these were not about an alliance between the two parties. “The AAP will not form an alliance with the SAD (Democratic). We will go it alone in the elections. There was a discussion about Dhindsas joining the AAP. Sukhdev Dhindsa ji was affirmative. You will see them joining the party soon,” he said. He said both the AAP and the SAD (Democratic) are working to save Punjab and will come together on a common platform to raise the voice of the people and hold the Congress government accountable. The father-son duo was among the important leaders of the Akali Dal, but rebelled against the Badals. They were expelled from the SAD in February 2020. Though the AAP is insisting on going it alone, the party had contested the 2017 state elections in alliance with the Lok Insaaf Party (LIP), which was given five seats, of which it won two. In 2018, the LIP broke the alliance in the wake of AAP national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s apology to a SAD leader in a defamation case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/aap-dhindsas-hold-talks-to-join-hands-for-2022-punjab-assembly-elections-101617878794161.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Metro's flying squad penalises 672 commuters for violating Covid-19 rules||Delhi Metro's Flying Squads on Wednesday penalised 672 commuters for not wearing a mask properly and violating social distancing norms.Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) also urged the commuters to follow the protocols and politely counsel others to do the same."To ensure our travel guidelines are being followed, Delhi Metro's Flying Squads penalised 672 commuters on 7 April 2021 for not wearing a face mask properly and (not) following social distancing. Let us all follow the protocols and politely counsel others to do the same. #CovidIsntOverYet," DMRC said in a tweet.Delhi reported 5,506 new Covid-19 cases and 20 deaths on Wednesday. The national capital has 19,455 active cases currently.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-metro-s-flying-squad-penalises-672-commuters-for-violating-covid-19-rules-101617873919856.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||DU students amp up skills to seek sponsorships creatively in Covid times||Gone are the days when students of Delhi University approached potential sponsors, for various college and department fests, in a suited and booted avatar with documents in their hands to prove their credentials in the past. This is Gen Z, and they communicate with the world via the language of social media, which includes memes, reels and Insta stories! And when on a mission to get sponsorship for their department or college, nothing, not even Covid can stop them from coming up with innovative ideas to make the deal. Take for instance the fashionistas of the campus, who are doubly happy to star in reels asking for sponsorships as they have another chance of showing their #OOTD. “Asking for sponsorship while sitting at home isn’t easy. You have to quickly catch a brands attention and for that you have to be trend setting and different. This is why we chose to make reels and stand out from the usual way of requesting for sponsorships!” says Roshni Kapoor, president of Debonair, fashion society of Daulat Ram College, adding, “My teammates made a hilarious reel requesting for sponsorship for Promenade, the annual event of our fashion society. There were many bloopers and hilarious cuts while making it, and they all had fun.” And if you thought that the fun and games in offline campus is limited to lit sponsorship requests, check out the equally hilarious meme appeals from students approaching sponsors. “I’ve a meme page and been approached by so many societies of DU requesting for media partnerships. The trend of sponsorship is clearly changing. Everyone wants to be sponsored and partnered by fun pages that have relatable content and genuine traction. Some societies and departments are pretty creative, and they approach their media partner and sponsors with proposals in reel or meme format. This in fact attracts the target sponsor and media partner in a better way,” says Sahil Raj, admin of a meme page that has sponsored DU societies.Confirming the shift in creative meme and reel proposals for media partnerships, admin of a campus meme page, _dumemes, Vinit Mehta from Hansraj College, opines, “It’s a brilliant concept to ask for sponsorship via fun reels and memes. As a media partner and a meme page in charge, I would certainly be excited to see creative sponsorship proposals rather than the drab ones. I recently came across a reel of two students enacting an entire skit in North Campus and asking for potential sponsors to contact them. So with the shift in digital campus, where society presidents can’t possibly go out and visit offices of potential sponsors, it’s best to get creative with social media tools that are handy! And what can be more eye grabbing today than a viral reel?”Author tweets @FizzyBuddhaFollow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-students-amp-up-skills-to-seek-sponsorships-creatively-in-covid-times-101617872613754.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab CM urges PM to clear ₹937-crore projects on ninth Guru’s 400th anniversary||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clear the state government’s proposal for projects worth ₹937 crore, including the development of Sri Anandpur Sahib as a smart city, to pay tribute to Guru Tegh Bahadur on his 400th Prakash Purab (birth anniversary) this year. Participating virtually in the national committee meeting, convened by the Prime Minister to finalise plans for the celebrations, the chief minister said, “We are all fortunate to celebrate this event in our lifetimes and I urge Modi ji to ensure that this historic event is commemorated not only at the national but also at the global level.” He said Guru Tegh Bahadur, also known as Hind Di Chadar, stands as a shining symbol of our country’s pluralistic tradition and secularism, and his supreme sacrifice, “Sis diya par sirr na diya”, forms an important part of India’s history. Also read: Important for new generation to know stages of Guru Tegh Bahadur’s life: PMInfra at Baba Bakala, 78 villages to be upgraded Briefing the Prime Minister on the memorandum sent to the Centre, Captain Amarinder said his government plans to recognise towns and villages associated with the life of the Guru in the state by upgrading their infrastructure. Besides Amritsar, the town of Sri Anandpur Sahib and Baba Bakala are significant in this regard. In addition, he said that there are 78 villages in the state graced by the Guru. The proposal sent by the state government includes projects for developing infrastructure in and around Sri Anandpur Sahib, Amritsar and Baba Bakala; rejuvenation of village ponds and traditional water bodies for water conservation in 78 Punjab villages that were visited by the Guru; and setting up Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur School of Textile Technology and Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Institute of Handicrafts at Guru Nanak Dev University, Amritsar, and Sathiala, Baba Bakala, respectively. May 1 event with Covid protocol in place The chief minister urged the Centre to release a stamp on the occasion besides commemorative events across the country and at all Indian missions abroad to carry the message of Guru Tegh Bahadur’s life. He said the main programme on May 1 is being finalised keeping in mind the Covid situation particularly in Punjab. The chief minister thanked Modi and Union home minister Amit Shah for making elaborate plans for celebrations of this historic event across the country. “I’m grateful to you for giving such prominence to this event, as normally it is left to the state or communities to manage such celebrations,” he said, while appreciating Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s assurance of organising befitting celebrations in his state, too. Besides Modi and Shah, former prime minister Manmohan Singh, Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Union defence minister Rajnath Singh and Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge also participated in the virtual meeting. The high-level national committee, comprising 70 members with Modi as chairman, was constituted by the Centre on October 24 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cm-urges-pm-to-clear-937-crore-projects-on-ninth-guru-s-400th-anniversary-101617872014667.html
08-04-2021||Bangalore||Bus services hit as Karnataka RTC workers strike enters second day||Bus services remained hit across Karnataka for the second consecutive day on Thursday as drivers and conductors of road transport corporations continued their indefinite strike on wage related issues.With the majority of the employees belonging to all the four transport corporations not attending duty, buses continued to remain mostly off roads across the state including Bengaluru, affecting daily commuters.Passengers travelling to and from distant areas and office-goers were the most affected.However, the government has tried to make alternate arrangements by roping in private transport operators.Also Read | Karnataka bus strike: Southern Western Railways to run additional trains till April 14Railways too have chipped in by deciding to run special trains on certain routes to help the commuters aimed at clearing the upcoming Ugadi festival rush, in the wake of RTC workers strike.Private buses, mini buses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles were seen operating in different parts of the city and the state, coming to the rescue of stranded passengers.However, the number of passengers continued to remain scarce in these vehicles as people were using their own vehicles or were seen using cabs, Metro and autorickshaws, especially in the city areas, private operators said.Stating that a total of about 24,000 RTC buses used to operate every day and it was not possible to gather equal number of private transport vehicles, officials said, so as many number of private buses, mini buses, maxi cabs have been roped in and all kinds of support is being given for them to operate.Buses that were surrendered will now be allowed to operate by exempting them from paying tax, also vehicles will be allowed to operate for passengers on fixed routes without any permit, officials said.With the government not ready to concede to their demand for implementation of the sixth pay commission report for RTC workers, employees have decided to continue with the strike, despite Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa warning of strict action and indicating that invoking Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) was under consideration.Amid threats of ESMA and "no work no pay", very few RTC buses are said to be operating on some routes in the city on Thursday along with police escort, sources said, adding that there are similar reports from few other places in the state.Complaints about private services including buses, autos and cabs charging exorbitantly, taking advantage of transport strike, continued Thursday as well.This is despite officials stating that they are doing spot visits and taking action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/bus-services-hit-as-karnataka-rtc-workers-strike-enters-second-day-101617865152740.html
08-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh orders 60-hour weekend lockdown in urban areas||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday announced a 60-hour weekend lockdown in the urban areas of the state in the wake of rising daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The lockdown, Chouhan announced, will be in effect from 6pm on Friday to 6am on Monday.“I chaired a high-level review meeting over Covid-19. In all urban areas of Madhya Pradesh, a lockdown will be in effect from 6pm on Friday till 6am on Monday. Other areas where cases are rising, the crisis management group will decide an appropriate course of action. We will also come up with containment areas in major cities. Crisis management group will hold a meeting later in the day to decide on what to do in areas where the viral caseload is high,” the chief minister said in an interaction with the media.“Though it has never been my intention to impose a lockdown, we are facing an unprecedented crisis,” Chouhan further said. He, however, did not announce whether the weekend lockdown is only for now or if it will be in effect till further orders.आज #COVID19 की उच्चस्तरीय समीक्षा की। प्रदेश के सभी शहरों में शुक्रवार शाम 6 बजे से लेकर शनिवार, रविवार और सोमवार सुबह 6 बजे तक शहरी क्षेत्र बंद रहेंगे, लॉकडाउन रहेगा। आपसे आग्रह है कि जागरुक रहिये, गाइडलाइंस का पालन कीजिये व कोरोना की रोकथाम में योगदान दीजिये।#MPFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/p384axIsT9Thursday’s announcement by Chouhan comes on a day all urban areas in Madhya Pradesh will witness a daily night curfew till further orders, as directed by the state government on Wednesday. According to the government’s order, a night curfew will be in effect from 10pm on a day till 6am the next day. It also announced that all government offices will operate five days a week, from Monday to Friday, for the next three months. Additionally, the entire district of Chhindwara will enter a lockdown from 8pm on Thursday for the next seven days.Also Read | Lockdown in Madhya Pradesh's Chhindwara after Covid-19 cases spikeIn the last few days, the Madhya Pradesh government has announced several measures to curb the spread of the pandemic, including suspending bus services with the neighbouring state of Chhattisgarh till April 15.Also Read | Madhya Pradesh suspends bus operations with Chhattisgarh till April 15On Wednesday, the state’s Covid-19 tally rose to 318,014 with the addition of 4,043 new cases, according to the health department. The related death toll, meanwhile, is at 4,086 as 13 more people succumbed to the viral disease. Active cases are at 26,059, while 287,860 people have recovered thus far.Indore, the largest city in Madhya Pradesh, is also the worst-hit, and saw its caseload rise to 74,895 with 866 new cases. Bhopal, the state capital, is next, with an infection tally of 55,215, an increase of 618 infections. Indore has seen 981 deaths thus far while Bhopal has recorded 641 fatalities.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-announces-lockdown-as-covid-19-cases-surge-101617865183481.html
08-04-2021||Pune||Covid-19: Pune mayor writes to Maha health minister, Javadekar for more ventilator beds||Pune Mayor Murlidhar Mohol wrote to Maharashtra Health Minister and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar urging them for transfer of ventilator beds from the states where the Covid-19 situation is under control.Pune district registered 10,907 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths and 7,832 recoveries yesterday."If surge in new cases continues, we could have a dearth of ventilator beds. I have written to Maharashtra Health Minister Rajesh Tope and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar requesting the transfer of ventilators beds from the states where Covid-19 is under control," Mohol told ANI.As Maharashtra is witnessing a continuous surge in Covid-19 cases, he said: "We are continuously trying to increase the number of beds. The number of beds is sufficient in the current situation but if it goes on like this, then there will be a shortage. We are making more efforts for procuring ventilator beds."On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 59,907 new Covid-19 cases and 322 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid19-pune-mayor-writes-to-maha-health-minister-javadekar-for-more-ventilator-beds-101617863908410.html
08-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: 4 areas including Doon school declared restricted zone after several test positive for Covid-19||Doon School in Uttrakhand's Dehradun has been declared as a restricted zone after it reported 12 Covid-19 cases.Giving the details here, District Magistrate of Dehradun Ashish Srivastav on Thursday said the entry and exit to and from the school are restricted and essential goods will be supplied here.He further said that the coronavirus testings will be enhanced and besides Doon School, four more areas have been declared as restricted zones.Uttarakhand reported 1,109 new Covid-19 positive cases including on Wednesday, taking the cumulative count to 1,04,711.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-4-areas-including-doon-school-declared-restricted-zone-after-several-test-positive-for-covid19-101617864284478.html
08-04-2021||Pune||10 leopard cubs reunited with mothers in last 2 months in Pune||Three leopard cubs, less than 15 days old, were reunited with their mother early hours of Tuesday, after being found at a sugarcane field in Pune’s Junnar taluka last week. This is the second such case in the area since March 20, when two 45-day-old cubs, found in a sugarcane field in Junnar’s Ozar village, were reunited with their mother. A total of 10 cubs have been rescued and reunited with their mothers since February in the region.In all cases the cubs were found by farmers harvesting sugarcane crops between December and late March- early April. Officials said farmers in the area occasionally sighted leopards, especially around this time of the year, and alerted the forest office, who took help from Wildlife SOS, which runs a leopard rescue and rehabilitation centre in Junnar.“While harvesting their sugarcane crops, local farmers stumbled upon three tiny leopard cubs huddled together amidst the tall, dense fields in Vadgaon Sahani village... The cubs were brought to the Wildlife SOS Leopard Rescue Center for a brief medical examination. Identified as two males and one female, the cubs were estimated to be about fifteen-days-old,” Wildlife SOS said in a statement.Veterinarian Dr Nikhil Bangar, who examined the cubs for ticks and injuries, found them to be in good health. An initial attempt to reunite the lost cubs with their mother on the weekend remained unsuccessful. However, the cubs were placed in a box and left in the same field where they were found late Monday night.“After a long night of waiting, the mother leopard was seen slowly approaching the field at dawn. Relieved to be reunited with her cubs, the leopard quickly knocked over the box and took her precious babies away to a safer location,” said Dr Bangar. The operation was captured with a camera trap placed nearby.Kartick Satyanarayan, CEO, Wildlife SOS, said, “Harvest season in Maharashtra often coincides with leopard cub season, which puts both humans and these elusive wild cats in a rather sensitive and conflicting situation. We are grateful to the villagers who took the right step by informing the Forest Department.”Yogesh Ghodke, Range Forest Officer in charge of the area, explained that Junnar region has a significant leopard population, forced to seek refuge in tall, dense sugarcane fields due to the rapid loss of forest cover, leading to such encounters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/10-leopard-cubs-reunited-with-mothers-in-last-2-months-in-pune-101617862593575.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||‘New tactic to write from jail’: Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut on Sachin Vaze’s letter against Anil Parab||Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday came out in support of Maharashtra’s transport minister Anil Parab, who has been accused in an extortion case by suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, and termed the claims a political conspiracy.“A new tactic has come to light wherein people who are in jail write letters. This is a political conspiracy. I know Anil Parab, he can never indulge in such work. I can assure, no Shiv Sainik can take a false oath in Bala Saheb Thackeray's name,” Sanjay Raut was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.The Shiv Sena leader was referring to Sachin Vaze’s four-page letter in which he has alleged that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and sitting transport minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money from businessmen and establishments, but he refused. Similar allegations were made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against Anil Deshmukh who was accused of ordering Sachin Vaze to extort ₹100 crore a month from bars and restaurants in Mumbai. The case is being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).On March 25, Sachin Vaze, who is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with the Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case, had requested the court to allow him to say something in connection with the extortion case. The court asked him to put his submission in writing. However, when he brought the letter on Wednesday, the court refused to accept it.Anil Parab has dismissed the allegations and called it a conspiracy of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “In order to defame the Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray), it was necessary to vilify someone close to the Chief Minister and this is a part of agenda being pursued by the BJP,” he told reporters and added that he was ready for inquiry by any agency be it the NIA, RAW or anyone and that he would fight this case legally.“For the last two days, BJP workers were saying Anil Parab's name will surface and he'll have to resign. How did they know Sachin Waze will give a letter? It's clear that there's a plan of defaming Maharashtra Ministers,” he was quoted as saying by ANI.Anil Parab said if he was found guilty, his chief Uddhav Thackeray would hang him to death.The Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar and former home minister Anil Deshmukh could not reach out for a comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/new-tactic-to-write-from-jail-shiv-sena-s-sanjay-raut-on-sachin-vaze-s-letter-against-anil-parab-101617861326617.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Over 100 personnel deployed to douse fire at factory in Delhi’s Dilshad Garden||The Delhi Fire Service (DFS) department has deployed more than 100 fire fighting personnel to douse the fire that borke out in a factory in Delhi’s Dilshad Garden on Thursday morning, an official said.“The fire will be brought under control soon. No casualties have been reported but two of our staff have sustained minor injuries. The situation is under control,” Dr Sanjay Tomar, deputy chief, DFS told news agency ANI.Watch | Delhi: Fire at Dilshad Garden factory, over 100 staff deployed to douse blazeThe fire broke out in a stationery godown on the third floor of a four-floor building near MTNL Office Damoder Park in Dilshad Garden Industrial Area, chief of DFS Atul Garg said.More A huge amount of smoke was seen billowing from the building and at least 25 fire tenders were rushed to the spot, according to ANI.Firefighting operations are underway and the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained, an official said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-factory-in-delhi-s-dilshad-garden-area-15-fire-tenders-at-spot-101617855668725.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai weekend lockdown: Home delivery, maids allowed but conditions apply||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation and the Mumbai Police on Wednesday issued a detailed guideline of restrictions in Mumbai, clarifying several points as there are three parallel set of restrictions in the city — weekday night curfew, weekend lockdown and overall restrictions applicable to entire Maharashtra, including the closure of all non-essential shops in malls and markets.Weekend lockdownStrict lockdown will be imposed on Saturday and Sunday but it will not be like that of the lockdown last year.> In-person takeaway from hotels is not allowed during the weekend lockdown. Only home deliveries are allowed.> But takeaway during weekend lockdown is allowed at roadside food stalls. No person will be allowed to stand and eat.> Maid, cooks, drivers, housel helps, nurses and medical attendees providing services to senior citizens and ailing people at home allowed between 7am and 10pm. The clause implies that for regular work, their movement is not allowed.> Eye clinics and optician shops allowed to remain open during the time issued by state government.> Home delivery of essential supplies through online service providers allowed 24 hours all days.> Students/candidates attending exams can travel with valid hall tickets accompanied by one guardianRestrictions on weekdays> Movement of not more than 5 people allowed between 7am and 8pm as night curfew starts at 8pm. From Friday 8pm, there will be no movement allowed except essential services till Monday 7am as night curfew and weekend lockdown get combined.> All beaches will be closed till April 30.> Gardens and public grounds are open from 7am to 8pm on weekdays but more than 5 people not allowed.> All shops, market, malls except those of essential services will remain closed both on weekdays and weekends.> Buses are allowed to run in full capacity but no passenger should travel standing. Auto rickshaws can carry two passengers, and a taxi can operate with the driver and 50 per cent capacity of passengers.> Private vehicles are allowed between 7am and 8pm on weekdays. During restricted hours, private vehicles will be allowed only to offer essential services.> People arriving in Mumbai by train, bus, flight are allowed to travel at all times. Same is applicable for outbound passengers.> Industrial workers can travel at all times using a valid ID card.> Shooting for films and Tv programmes allowed with conditions.> Religious places, barber shops, spa, salon, parlours will remain closed.> Newspaper circulation allowed between 7am and 8pm.> Bars and wine shops are permitted home delivery.> Schools and colleges will remain closed.> Residential societies with more than five positive cases will be sealed and outsiders will not be allowed entry.The restrictions will be in place till April 30||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-weekend-lockdown-home-delivery-maids-allowed-but-conditions-apply-101617852966769.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic diverted||Delhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continue to be blocked on Thursday by farmers who have been demanding the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws for last four months. The Ghazipur border, which connects Uttar Pradesh with Delhi, was opened partially and vehicular movement from Delhi to Ghaziabad was allowed on the stretch.A traffic police officer said, “Ghazipur NH-24 upper side towards Ghaziabad is open for traffic movement. Chilla border between Noida and Delhi is open on both sides.”The Delhi traffic police have diverted the traffic that may possibly lead to congestion in parts of the city during peak hours. Also Read | Police use mild force against protesting farmers in SirsaAccording to Delhi traffic police officials, vehicles entering Delhi from Ghaziabad are being diverted to alternative border routes such as those that pass through Anand Vihar, Surya Nagar, Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Kondli, Chilla, New Ashok Nagar, DND, and Kalindi Kunj, so these routes may see traffic congestion.Apart from the Ghazipur border, Singhu, and Tikri borders are closed. “The following borders are closed for traffic movement — Piyau Maniyari, Singhu border, Harewali, Mangeshpur and Tikri Border. The Ghaziabad to Delhi side of the Ghazipur border is also closed,” said a traffic police officer.Traffic police officers also said that Auchandi border is opened only during morning and evening peak hours while Lampur, Safiabad are open. The traffic officers advised commuters to take alternative routes as traffic is expected to remain heavy on GT Karnal Road, Rohtak Road, NH-44 and Outer Ring Road.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-closed-traffic-diverted-101617850352277.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Clear sky in Delhi, mercury to drop a couple of notches today: IMD||Delhi is likely to see a mainly clear sky on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to be 19 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 36°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 21.7°C, two notches above normal, and the maximum temperature was 36.9°C -- 2°C above normal.Delhi’s air quality improved to be in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 159. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 250, which is the higher end of the poor category.Also Read | India saw third warmest March in 121 years: IMDAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 is satisfactory, 101 and 200 is moderate, 201 and 300 is poor, 301 and 400 is very poor, and 401 and 500 is severe.On Wednesday, Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the poor category as forecasted. There has been a significant rise in PM10 level due dominance of dust lifting under dry and warmer environments. Surface wind speeds are moderate and north-northeasterly. A marginal improvement in air quality is expected for the next two days. AQI is forecasted to stay in the poor to moderate category for the next three days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clear-sky-in-delhi-mercury-to-drop-a-couple-of-notches-todayimd-101617849872664.html
08-04-2021||Education||Delhi: Scholars race against time to complete research work||Fareeha Iftikhar and Kainat Sarfarazhtreporters@hindustantimes.comNew DelhiEven as universities across the national capital switched to the online mode for classes and exams over the last year amid the Covid-19 pandemic, many institutions were hard-pressed to find a digital alternative for research work.In the last 12 months, MPhil and PhD scholars across universities were unable to conduct experiments in the university laboratories as they could not access library services, which is critical for completion of a thesis, or engage in field visits due to the lockdown.Although the University Grants Commission (UGC), in view of the pandemic, has provided a six-month extension to PhD scholars scheduled to submit their thesis in December last year and June this year, many students said that they might still not be able to complete their thesis work. Research scholars and postgraduate students of science and technology programmes started resuming their work in labs in phases after a nod from the UGC in November.Ishita Manna, a PhD scholar at the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) whose soil samples were ruined due to the closure of the laboratory for over eight months, said that she will have to travel back to Beas Kund in Himachal Pradesh to collect new samples. The soil samples collected from different parts of the country were kept in the TL/OSL lab (thermoluminescence/optically stimulated luminescence), used by research students of the Centre for the Study of Regional Development (CSRD) at JNU. The samples were rendered useless due to a termite infestation in the building.“I have to go back to collect fresh samples in May or June whenever the weather is better, and the snow melts. I don’t know if I will get the exact sample again or not. I can’t even change my research subject at this stage. If I don’t get samples, I will have to write in my PhD thesis about whatever has happened. I can’t wait any longer and lose one year. I have to complete my PhD and find a job,” she said.The situation was worse for PhD students in far-flung areas with electricity and internet connectivity issues. Khalid Imtiyaz, a fourth-year PhD student at Jamia Millia Islamia whose area of research includes cancer cells, was planning to submit his thesis by the end of his fourth year itself. But he said it will have to wait now.“My scholarship was valid only till the fourth year, so I had planned to finish my work by then. Currently, I am pursuing a PhD at my own expense. While researchers across the country and the world were unable to access their labs, students in Kashmir faced more challenges as our internet too wasn’t working. Downloading a single research paper often took around two days. As a result, we could not keep ourselves aware of the developments in our field of literature. Now that we have returned to universities, there is a huge backlog of work. I have not taken an off in the past three months,” he said.Social sciences scholars also felt the heat of the lockdown. A PhD scholar at the JNU’s School of Social Sciences, whose research topic is “population studies”, said, “We can’t even start writing the thesis without proper field work. I was supposed to complete my field work last year and my thesis work by 2022. But since my field work was not done last year due to the pandemic, I could not start anything else as well. The deadline for completing my PhD is 2022. I am extremely anxious.”Faculty members said as the labs remained inaccessible for several months it affected both equipment and research work. Moshahid Alam Rizvi, who teaches in the department of Biosciences at Jamia Millia Islamia, said, “While library resources were shared in digital format, many journals could only be accessed on university servers. Many researchers also lost their work because labs were shut for too long,” he said.A professor at DU’s chemistry department, who wished not to be named, said, “Many of our students who have to submit their thesis in June are still lagging behind. They are still unable to use the laboratories properly since some of our equipments has been damaged during the lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/education/delhi-scholars-race-against-time-to-complete-research-work-101617847195125.html
08-04-2021||Patna||Madhubani: Caste clash between Brahmin and Rajput groups over control of pond leaves 5 dead||Bihar Police on Wednesday arrested Pravin Jha alias Ravan for allegedly killing five members of a Rajput family in the state’s Madhubani district on March 29, reviving memories of caste conflicts that were common in the state till even two decades ago.Jha, 30, who was captured on Wednesday, was heading a private armed force called Ravan Sena, said Darbhanga range inspector general of police Ajitabh Kumar. The conflict, ostensibly over fishing rights, is believed to be the flash point in a simmering dispute between two upper castes, Brahmins and Rajputs.Five persons, including a Border Security Force (BSF) personnel, were killed by Jha and a group of 50 armed people at Mahmudpur village under Benipatti police station on March 29 in a fight over fishing rights in a local pond. The incident took place when people were celebrating Holi, when Jha and the group of men carrying firearms and traditional weapons like swords came near the house of one Ranvijay Singh and started firing indiscriminately. They also attacked people with swords, according to the first information report (FIR) filed by the family of the deceased.Police said the dominant Rajput community of the village controlled the pond, something that did not go down well with Jha and some Brahmins in the area.Kumar said: “On March 29, the group led by Pravin Jha opened fired on the family of Ranvijay Singh over an ongoing dispute over fishing from a pond between Mahmudpur and Gebipur villages. In the brutal attack, Ranvijay Singh and his cousin Virendra Singh were killed on the spot. Three other family members, Rana Pratap Singh (assistant sub-inspector in BSF), Amrendra Singh (inter-state cricketer) and Rudra Narayan Singh, succumbed to their injuries a day later. Another injured person, Manoj Singh, is currently admitted to the Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital.”Preliminary investigations by the police have revealed that the pond is owned by Sanjay Singh (brother of Ranvijay Singh), but that another group from Gebipur wanted to capture it. On November 20, two separate cases were lodged against Sanjay and Mukesh Safi (close associate of Pravin Jha) after the two groups clashed over the fishing rights. They filed cases against each other. Sanjay is currently in jail for cases under the SC, ST Atrocities Act as Safi belong to the Scheduled Caste community.Kumar said a case has been registered against 35 persons, including 18 Brahmins and 13 Rajputs, and dozens of unidentified accused. “So far, 14 accused have been arrested and sent to jail while one prime accused Navin Jha is still absconding,” he said.The incident has brought to fore the rivalry between the upper castes in Bihar. The state had witnessed more than six dozen caste-related massacres in 1990s but most of them were confined to central Bihar.There are scores of private armies raised by upper castes such as Rajputs and Bhumihars in Bihar — Ranvir Sena, Lorik Sena, Bhumi Sena, Kisan Sangh and others. The Ravan Sena of Benippati was raised in 2018 and is only the second militia of the Brahmin community; it used to operate largely in Madhubani. “Of late, it has become active on social media in some pockets of Gopalganj as well,” said a police officer on conditions of anonymity. Villagers said that Jha, who sported a big moustache, preferred the name Ravan.The other Brahmin sena, the Parshuram Sena, formed by dreaded gangster Santosh Jha, who broke away from CPI (Maoist) in early 2000, is believed to largely focus on extorting money from road projects. It has allegedly killed over a dozen engineers and supervisors in the last one decade. Santosh Jha, a sharpshooter, was serving a life term for the murder of two engineers and was being tried in about 20 criminal cases when he was shot dead on the premises of a lower court in Sitamarhi on August 28, 2018.According to his Facebook profile, Ravan was preparing to contest panchayat election and had already declared himself as Mukhiya or headman. Police officials in Darbhanga range said that the Ravan Sena chief was a former district president of Bajrang Dal. “After he floated Ravan Sena, it started playing an active role in local politics,” they added. The Bajrang Dal is the youth wing of the Viswhwa Hindu Parishad and affiliated to the RSS, the ideological parent of the Bharatiya Janata Party.Bajrang Dal district convener Aditya Kumar denied that anybody by the name of Pravin Jha was associated with the Dal. “He took part in 2017 Ramnavmi procession as a commoner. It is just possible that he might be using the name of Bajrang Dal to establish supremacy in the area,” said Kumar.A legislator of the ruling Janata Dal (United), Sanjay Singh,who visited the village after the killing as a member of the party’s fact-finding team, described Jha as a “ruffian, who indulged in extortion”.Madhubani SP Satya Prakash said only two cases were lodged against Jha in the district. “We are interrogating him for more details about him and his aides.”Rival parties alleged that Jha was also into bootlegging in the state where there is prohibition. “The locals informed us that he is also involved in illegal trade of liquor,” said RJD MLA Chetan Anand. However, the police said that no case related to this has been lodged against him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/caste-clash-between-brahmin-and-rajput-groups-over-control-of-pond-leaves-5-dead-101617839610420.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Funeral homes ready for rise in Covid-19 toll: MCDs||Ashish Mishraashish.mishra2@htlive.comNew Delhi Taking note of the steep rise in Covid-19 cases, and apprehending a similar rise in related fatalities, Delhi’s three civic bodies on Wednesday said they are prepared to deal with any potential increase in deaths.Authorities of the north, east and south civic bodies said they have resources to handle 450-500 Covid-19 fatalities (confirmed and suspected) every day across their 21 facilities — crematoriums and burial grounds.According to the daily health bulletin, the city recorded 5,506 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday and 20 deaths. The city recorded the highest single-day deaths on November 18 last year during the third wave of the infection in the city, when 131 people succumbed to the disease. As new infections and deaths peaked during the third wave, crematoriums struggled to cope with the increased fatalities. There were reports of people waiting outside crematoriums and cemeteries for five to six hours to conduct last rites. The Delhi high court, too, had asked the government to indicate steps it had taken to manage crematoriums and graveyards in the national capital.Covid-19 deaths have increased sharply in the national capital over the past few weeks, since the outbreak of the fourth wave.In the first week of March, the Capital recorded less than two daily deaths of the infection. This number jumped to 15 in the first week of April, giving rise to fears that the city’s crematoriums may struggle to meet demands, if the spike continues.“Seeing the current steep rise in Covid-19 cases, we cannot help but be apprehensive about the possibility of the death toll rising too. So, we have made standby arrangements. At Nigambodh Ghat, we have opened three more CNG furnaces. We have also added 16 cremation platforms,” Jai Prakash, mayor, North corporation, said.He said their crematoriums and graveyards can perform nearly 200 last rites a day.Data from the three civic bodies showed that there are 21 crematoriums and graveyards where Covid-19 bodies (confirmed and suspected) are being cremated or buried.Of these, eight facilities are under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, eight under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and five under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC).“We have eight facilities, including crematoriums and burial grounds, where Covid-19 bodies are disposed of. These facilities can handle 215 bodies per day. We have also made additional arrangements to perform last rites of Covid-19 victims,” Narendra Chawla, leader of the house, SDMC, said.He said that a new CNG crematorium, with two furnaces, was inaugurated in Green Park in February, and the facility can be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility if required.Sandeep Kapoor, former chairman standing committee, EDMC, said the civic body has dedicated five crematoriums and graveyards for Covid-19 victims and added that there is no rush at any of the facilities so far.“We will increase the number of wood pyres if need be. We have also ample space available in graveyards and, so far, there is no cause to worry,” Kapoor said.Experts, however, say the city is better prepared this time around to keep the Covid fatalities low.“We still cannot be sure whether the disease is less severe this time around. However, the case fatality ratio is definitely lower now as compared to the first wave of cases (last March-April). This is because the hospitals were not well equipped back then; there was a shortage of PPE kits, beds, non-invasive and invasive ventilators.“The treatment protocol had also not been finalised — now we know what to do at what stage of the disease. Also, people have become more aware. They are coming to the hospitals on time,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology, AIIMS.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/funeral-homes-ready-for-rise-in-covid-19-toll-mcds-101617826614625.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Opposition parties flay Punjab govt’s move to ban political gatherings||The Opposition parties on Wednesday slammed the Punjab government over its decision to ban all political gatherings till April 30. The Shiromani Akali Dal said the decision to ban all political gatherings was a direct fallout of the “resounding success” of its ‘Punjab Mangda Jawab’ rallies, adding that the Congress government had resorted to this step to prevent the “public anger from boiling over”. In a statement, SAD spokesperson Daljit Singh Cheema claimed the SAD rallies had been exposing chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s alleged false promises made to the people before last polls. “This has upset the plans of Prashant Kishore who has given the suggestion to ban public rallies to contain the damage being cause to the Congress,” said Cheema. The Aaa Aadmi Party said the ban on political rallies is an attempt by the Congress government to derail the farmers’ agitation at the behest of the Centre. “When cases were at a peak last year, the CM was taking out tractor rallies with party leader Rahul Gandhi in Punjab. Now the opposition is getting tremendous public response and the Congress is losing ground, so he has announced a ban on political rallies,” said leader of opposition Harpal Singh Cheema.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/opposition-parties-flay-punjab-govt-s-move-to-ban-political-gatherings-101617828153266.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||One more worker dies in Ludhiana factory roof collapse, owner sent to police remand||One more worker injured in the factory roof collapse in Ludhiana died on Wednesday, taking the death toll in the mishap to five. The victim, Santosh Kumar (31), who hailed from Bihar, was undergoing treatment at SPS Hospital. He was working as a foreman at a unit located adjacent to the factory for nearly a year. Others who died in the incident were Mustkeen and Sagar Kumar of Bihar, and Peechu and Imitiaz of Kakkowal Road. Of the four persons being treated at hospital, the condition of three is stable, officials said. Division no 6 police station in-charge Amandeep Singh Brar said the post mortem on the bodied of two workers was conducted on Wednesday. The factory owner, Jaswinder Singh Sonu of Dashmesh Nagar locality in the city, was produced in a court on Wednesday and was sent to three-day police remand. Contractor still on the run Additional deputy commissioner of police (City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said contractor Mohammad Harun was still on the run and a hunt was on to nab him. “The entire picture will be clear once he is arrested,” he said. The mishap took when the roof was being lifted with the help of jacks to increase its height. It has emerged that the contractor had agreed to get the job done at much less than the market price. Also, the work was being carried out in violation of the building bylaws, it was found. One of the labourers has alleged that the contractor was pressurising them to finish the work quickly and the tragedy was a result of that. The work to remove debris continued for the third consecutive day on Wednesday. “No labourer was found trapped in the debris. But we are still taking due precaution while removing the rubble,” an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/one-more-worker-dies-in-ludhiana-factory-roof-collapse-owner-sent-to-police-remand-101617826950492.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||ASI sacked, munshi shifted over Moga illegal detention, torture||An assistant sub-inspector (ASI) was dismissed while a munshi was transferred on Wednesday in connection with illegal detention and alleged torture of some men in custody. Both were posted at the Moga city -1 police station. Services of ASI Amarjeet Singh, who was suspended earlier, were terminated after a departmental inquiry was conducted against him. The department had on Tuesday shifted city-1 station house officer (SHO) Jaswant Singh to police lines. The police had locked up some men without registering an FIR. A video of the incident was making rounds on social media. In the video, the youths are seen sitting with their feet fixed to stocks (called ‘kath’ in local parlance). The video was recorded by a social activist on March 26 and released a few days ago.DSP (city-1) Barjinder Singh said, “ Munshi Yadwinder Singh was also transferred to police lines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/asi-sacked-munshi-shifted-over-moga-illegal-detention-torture-101617826891232.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Three Punjab ministers to meet Piyush Goyal over procurement, DBT standoff today||Three Punjab cabinet ministers will meet Union food and public distribution minister Piyush Goyal in New Delhi on Thursday to resolve the standoff between the Centre and the state government over making land records mandatory for crop procurement and implementation of the direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme. State ministers Manpreet Singh Badal (finance), Bharat Bhushan Ashu (food and civil supplies) and Vijay Inder Singla (public works) along with Punjab Mandi Board chairman Lal Singh will also take up the issues of recovery of incidentals and demand for 3% rural development fund (RDF) for procurement in the previous kharif season. The state government claims RDF as its right, saying it is an important source of income for carrying out development works in rural areas.Punjab’s four procurement agencies led by the state food and civil supplies department have made arrangements for procuring 130 lakh tonne wheat by setting up 3,700 mandis to adhere to Covid-19 protocol of social distancing. The meeting is crucial particularly when the farmers from Punjab and other states are staging protests at the Delhi border seeking repeal of the Centre’s three agriculture laws. The Centre wants arhtiyas (commission agents) to be out of the procurement scene by depositing crop directly into the accounts of farmers through the public finance management system. On the other hand, the state government says arhtiyas play a pivotal role in the procurement process by charging 2% dami on the crop sale.“Procurement in Punjab can’t take place in the absence of arthiyas as they support the mandi operations by cleaning, weighing, filling, loading and unloading of crop,” said a food and civil supplies department official. “We got the appointment with the Union minister after several requests. We hope to resolve all the issues,” said Bharat Bhushan Ashu. On Wednesday, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh held a virtual meeting with the arhtiya association, Ashu and officials of the food and civil supplies department.The arhtiyas announced that they will shut the mandis operations from April 10 as a mark of protest if their issues were not resolved. “We will not let weighing and loading of the wheat crop in case the Centre is adamant to go ahead with DBT,” said VK Kalra, president of an arhtiyas association.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/three-punjab-ministers-to-meet-piyush-goyal-over-procurement-dbt-standoff-today-101617826890233.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal sees biggest 1-day spike with 653 testing +ve||Himachal Pradesh recorded 653 fresh coronavirus cases — the highest single-day spike this year so far. The state’s Covid count has mounted to 66,890 while the death toll has risen to 1,077 after nine patients succumbed to the contagion. Of the new cases, 164 were reported in Kangra, 143 in Solan, 62 in Hamirpur, 58 in Mandi, 53 in Shimla, 51 in Una, 42 in Bilaspur, 30 in Sirmaur, 25 in Kullu, three in Lahaul-Spiti and two in Kinnaur.Five deaths were reported in Kangra and one each in Shimla, Sirmaur, Solan and Una.Active cases have shot up to 4,158 while recoveries reached 61,537 after 226 people recuperated.Shimla is the worst-hit district with 11,288 cases, followed by Mandi (10,750) and Kangra (10,263). Solan has 8,016 infections, Kullu 4,644, Una 4,535, Sirmaur 4,141, Hamirpur 3,799, Bilaspur 3,530, Chamba, 3,256, Kinnaur 1,406 and Lahul-Spiti 1,261.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-sees-biggest-1-day-spike-with-653-testing-ve-101617826650369.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||As Flipkart gets land for fulfilment centre, Amazon may follow suit||After a six-month holdup, the allotment of 140 acres to e-commerce company Flipkart for setting up its fulfilment centre in Gurugram’s warehousing and transport hub at Patli Hazipur, Manesar, by the Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) has opened avenues for e-commerce giant Amazon. Officials said they had already held a few rounds of discussion with Amazon and certain other e-commerce companies who evinced interest in buying such sites. After allotment to Flipkart, the corporation has about 60 acres of land in two disjointed chunks at Patli Hazipur left for sale. The site to Flipkart was allotted at ₹3.22 crore per acre at bare shell cost, thereby meaning HSIIDC would not provide either external or internal infrastructure for the site and creating it would be the responsibility of the allottee. Only infrastructure development charges which included cost of development of major infrastructure project like the KMP-e-way, which is next to this site, has been levied, officials said. Flipkart was originally allotted 140 acres in October last year but the handing over was delayed following objections by industries and commerce minister Dushyant Chautala who wanted the corporation to explore a better price for the prime site, initially allotted at ₹3.09 crore per acre at bare shell cost. The Haryana Enterprise Promotion Board (HEPB) headed by chief minister then asked the corporation to put a few more similarly situated warehousing sites for e-auction to explore the market. Four warehousing sites of comparatively smaller sizes were put up for auction, but there was zero response. Subsequently, the HEPB approved the allotment to Flipkart on Tuesday but at a slightly higher rate. “The problems in the Flipkart created a bit of confusion. But we had a series of interaction with Amazon team, and they have evinced interest in buying 40-acre land, adjacent to the Flipkart site,’’ said a top official. HSIIDC officials said that the Patli Hazipur chunk of land was at a prime location. It is located close to KMP expressway and Gurugram-Pataudi road. Thus, it’s ideal for companies who wanted to have better connectivity for movement of goods from warehouses to destination cities “Normally, companies wanted to set up warehousing space look for change of land use mode where they get the site at about ₹2 crore per acre. But bigger players like Flipkart and Amazon don’t mind spending more for such sites which are comparatively expensive but strategically situated. The KMP e-way is a mere five-minute drive away from this site,’’ an official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/as-flipkart-gets-land-for-fulfilment-centre-amazon-may-follow-suit-101617826290671.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sewadar murders woman in HP: Villagers clash with cops, pelt stones||Locals clashed with the police after the body of a 21-year-old woman was found buried in the fields near a temple in Jadla Koeri village in Una on Wednesday.The woman, a master of commerce student, had been missing since April 3, following which her family lodged a missing person’s complaint. After the woman’s phone was detected near the temple, the police interrogated the sewadar, Vikas Dubey, 24, of Utter Pradesh, after he confessed to murder.Una superintendent of police Arjit Sen Thakur said, “On April 3, the sewadar allegedly hit the victim on the head with an iron rod. After she died, he packed her body in a bag and buried it in a field behind the temple. The main priest was not present at the temple when the crime took place.” When the news spread, irate villagers gathered outside the temple. Soon, they entered the temple premises and broke the windows of the room where the accused was kept in detention.Gagret sub-divisional magistrate Vinay Modi and deputy superintendent of police Shrishti Pandey were also locked inside the room. The villagers clashed with cops and pelted stones at them. A police driver and media person were injured in the scuffle and a vehicle damaged. Later, personnel from all nearby police stations were summoned to the spot.The accused was taken to a police station under heavy security while the victim’s body was for postmortem.The accused has been booked for murder under the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sewadar-murders-woman-in-hp-villagers-clash-with-cops-pelt-stones-101617826110471.html
08-04-2021||Other||HC transfers 367 judicial officers in Punjab, Haryana||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday transferred 367 judicial officers; 211 from Punjab and 156 from Haryana. Those transferred are six additional district and sessions judges, civil judge (senior division), civil judge (junior division) and chief judicial magistrates. An official said these postings are part of annual general transfers effected by the high court. The officers have been asked to relinquish charge of their present posting immediately and assume charge at their new station as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-transfers-367-judicial-officers-in-punjab-haryana-101617825929644.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Body of Army jawan who died in Leh avalanche handed over to family in Badlapur||The body of Sunil Shinde, a 35-year-old Army jawan who died during a massive avalanche at Leh Ladakh earlier in January, was handed over to his family at Badlapur for last rites on Wednesday. Shinde went missing three months ago and his body was found three days ago when the snow started melting. His body was handed over to his family late on Tuesday and then cremated at Manjarli cemetery in Badlapur at 3pm on Wednesday, Shinde, a resident of Aptewadi in Badlapur (West), was part of the Indian Army troop that was carrying out rescue operations after an avalanche hit Leh Ladakh in January. Some jawans including Shinde went missing during the rescue operation. He was working as a vehicle mechanic in the engineering department of the Indian Army and was posted in Leh area. Before joining the Army, Shinde was working with Maharashtra Transport Corporation. He is survived by his wife, mother, father, a son and a daughter. His friends and relatives recalled him as a loving person, a poet, and one who loved nature. One of his relative who did not wish to be named said, “The last time he visited us was three months before the incident. He was always passionate about joining the Army as he wanted to serve the nation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/body-of-army-jawan-who-died-in-leh-avalanche-handed-over-to-family-in-badlapur-101617825869583.html
08-04-2021||Other||Srinagar MC to sterilise, vaccinate 50,000 dogs in 6 months||The Srinagar municipal corporation (MC) authorities are planning to launch a massive animal birth control programme to sterilise around 50,000 stray dogs within six months.The drive is aimed at effectively controlling the growing population of stray canines which has been a persistent issue in Kashmir with around 66,700 dog bite cases being reported in Srinagar’s anti-rabies clinic in the past 12 years.Srinagar MC commissioner Athar Amir Khan said the corporation plans to do animal birth control and anti-rabies vaccination of 75% stray dog population in Srinagar in accordance with the guidelines of the Animal Welfare Board of India and the Animal Birth Control (Dog) Rules, 2001.“Request for proposal for finalisation of agency has been floated,” he said, while sharing the development on Twitter.He added that the programme was finalised with suggestions from Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, department of preventive and social medicine of GMC Srinagar and members of civil society and NGOs.Corporation’s veterinary officer Dr Javaid Rather said that they plan to do a massive sterilisation programme for which a tender was floated on Sunday.“Within six months, we want to conduct roughly 50,000 sterilisations,” he said.“A fresh survey will be conducted to ascertain the actual population of the canines,” he said.For years, stray dogs have been a major civic and health issue for the people of Kashmir, particularly in Srinagar, where the conservative estimates put the stray canine population anywhere around 60,000 to 70,000.Dr Hilal Ahmad, in-charge of anti-rabies clinic at Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) Hospital in Srinagar, said that in the last two years (April 2019 to March 2021), 11,782 animal bite cases, mostly by stray and rabid dogs, were treated at the clinic.“As many as 6,984 people were affected in 2019-20 and another 4,798 in 2020-21. We have been providing anti-rabies vaccines and immunoglobulin free of cost to patients at the clinic,” he said.Dr Rather said the new effort is aimed at overcoming the drawback with sterilisation programme.“Earlier, the volume of sterilisations was low as we had limited infrastructure. We could not perform more than 15 sterilisations per day. But now we want to conduct 5,000-6,000 sterilisations per month,” Rather said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/srinagar-mc-to-sterilise-vaccinate-50-000-dogs-in-6-months-101617825810450.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Medical students studying in Chinese univs approach UN for help to be able to get back to their colleges||After receiving no positive response from the government of China regarding the temporary visa ban on foreigners, medical students pursuing their degree in Chinese universities have now approached the United Nations hoping for a positive development.In a letter signed by over 20,000 medical, graduate and undergraduate school students studying in universities in China, Japan and Australia, students have urged UN to intervene in the matter and help lift border restrictions, which has left thousands of students stranded in their home countries for the past one year.“We are all attending academic institutions in the said countries but, due to the current border restrictions implemented because of Covid-19 concerns, we are unable to pursue our education properly. While medical students are struggling with practical surgical classes being held online, PhD students are unable to access labs in their host countries and the language barrier is getting worse while studying online,” said a statement released by these students.After spending a year back home due to the Covid-19 imposed lockdown around the world, the recent statement released by the Chinese government still gives no clear deadline on when the entry restriction for international students holding study visa ends. In a statement made public on March 22 by the Indian Embassy in Beijing, China, the embassy has clarified that the recent decision of the Chinese government related to visa facilitation for foreigners visiting China does not apply to foreign students. “Chinese authorities at various levels continue to maintain their position that, on account of last year’s announcement by ministry of foreign affairs of the People’s Republic of China to suspend temporarily the entry of foreigners holding valid Chinese visa and residence permits following the outbreak Covid-19 in many countries, the visa suspension on foreigners stays until further notice,” states the official statement released by the embassy.Students are now worried about their future. A third-year student from Jianghan University in Wuhan, said, “Most of us want to withdraw our admission from China and continue our education elsewhere. However, the National Medical Commission (NMC) of India mandates that we finish our course from the institute we got admitted to.” Apart from theory, colleges are now holding practicals online. “Our seniors are being taught surgery online,” she added.According to data from the UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), in 2018 and 2019 China received around 500,000 international students each, the third highest in the world after the United States (US) and the United Kingdom (UK). Official data shows that in 2018, over 23,000 Indian students were enrolled in various programmes in China. Indians represent the fourth largest group of international students in China, after South Koreans, Thais and Pakistanis. “Many of us were scheduled to arrive to our host countries before the April term, and have been forced to leave our jobs, apartments and belongings in the host countries…Given the circumstance, it is wise to allow only essential travel and with proper care and quarantine, these host countries can easily bring back their students and allow us to pursue our education physically along with our batchmates from the host country,” said the statement released by students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/medical-students-studying-in-chinese-univs-approach-un-for-help-to-be-able-to-get-back-to-their-colleges-101617825749563.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 10,442 fresh Covid cases, 24 deaths||The city on Wednesday reported 10,442 fresh Covid-19 cases, taking the active cases in the city to 83,185. Mumbai also reported 24 deaths due to Covid-19, taking the toll to 11,856. The total number of Covid-19 cases in the city has now gone up to 483,042. The case fatality rate is 2.4%.In the past week alone starting April 1, Mumbai has recorded 68,269 Covid-19 cases. In comparison, in the month of March, Mumbai had recorded 88,856 Covid-19 cases. During the last peak in cases in September 2020, Mumbai had recorded highest of 34,259 active Covid-19 cases.On Tuesday, Mumbai conducted 51,263 Covid-19 tests, with a high positivity rate of 20% for the day. Mumbai has conducted a total of 4,405,238 Covid-19 tests so far. The overall positivity rate is around 10%.The recovery rate in the city has shot down to 80% as opposed to over 90% recorded last month, and the doubling rate has reduced drastically to 35 days. Positivity rate is the number of people who test positive as a percent of the total number of tests done in the city, and doubling rate is the number of days taken for the cases to double. Of the 17,431 hospital beds available for Covid-19 patients, 13,434 are occupied. Only 198 of the total 2,056 ICU beds are vacant, , and 58 ventilator beds are available out of the total 1170 ventilator beds. Out of the 10,725 oxygen beds, 2,172 are vacant. As per data available for 77,495 active cases, 63,587 patients are asymptomatic, 12,799 are symptomatic, and 1,109 are critical. There are 72 containment zones in the city, and 789 buildings have been sealed so far.The high number of Covid-19 cases has prompted the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to impose restrictions in the city, including closure of non-essential shops and beaches to remain closed till the end of April. Following the February 18 order, civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal also reiterated that any building with more than five Covid-19 cases will be declared a micro-containment zone, and a police personnel will be deployed outside the gate. Private laboratories have been directed to conclude test results within 24 hours. Meanwhile, mill workers union leader Datta Ishwalkar died due to Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-10-442-fresh-covid-cases-24-deaths-101617825690849.html
08-04-2021||Other||Punjab dalits protest for increase in lease period of village common land to 33 years||Hundreds of people, including women under the banner of the Zameen Prapti Sangharsh Committee (ZPSC), a dalit and labour outfit, held a protest opposite the district administration complex. Listing their demands, ZPSC chief Mukesh Malaudh said dalits wanted their share of common reserved land in villages on lease for 33 years (not just a year, as is the system now), and quashing of all FIRs against union leaders. One-third of the common land is reserved for Dalits. Bathinda, Ludhiana and Patran roads from the town remained blocked for three hours with protesters blocking traffic at the Mahavir Chowk. Malaudh added that the government should distribute entire land above the Ceiling Act in the state and loan of micro-finance companies on labourers should be waived. “We want a permanent solution of the common reserved land auction as upper castes and dalits clash over this land every year. Dalits are thrashed and police register cases against us when we hold protest,” added Malaudh. Sangrur SSP Vivek Sheel Soni said he had sought a list of FIRs registered against them, adding that the matter would be resolved soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-dalits-protest-for-increase-in-lease-period-of-village-common-land-to-33-years-101617825690360.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 812 cases, J&K sees six-month high||Jammu and Kashmir’s coronavirus cases hit a six-month high with 812 new infections, pushing the UT’s case tally to 1,34,827, health officials said on Wednesday. The death toll mounted to 2,018 as the UT recorded six fresh fatalities – four in Jammu division and two in Kashmir. Of the new cases, 465 were from Kashmir division and 347 were from Jammu. Of the total cases, 257 were travellers. J&K had recorded an all-time high on September 12 when 1,698 infections were reported in the UT.Doctors Association Kashmir (DAK) president Nisar-ul-Hassan said the region was facing a second wave. “Second waves of pandemics have been seen to be harsher,” Hassan said, giving the example of 1918 Spanish flu.“Covid is following the same suit. The second waves of coronavirus in the United States and Europe were uniformly worse than the first. Kashmir is currently under the grip of a second wave and the cases are rising and hospitalisations, too,” he said.Officials said with 239 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 138 in Jammu district, 79 in Udhampur, 78 in Baramulla ,62 in Reasi and 42 in Budgam. Seven out of 20 districts reported single-digit cases. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily since March reached 5,053, officials said. After the peak in the first wave in September, active cases had declined steadily as the year ended to reach a low of 593 on February 8 and 9. Since February 9, the UT has added 4,460 active cases in around two months.“If countermeasures are not put in place, we could end up having a situation that could be worse than what we saw last year. People are experiencing pandemic fatigue and have thrown caution to the wind,” Dr Hassan said.On Wednesday, 254 patients were discharged from different hospitals, including 192 from Kashmir and 62 from Jammu. As many as 1, 27,774 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate down to 94.76 % from around 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.32 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far. Dr Hassan said that the emergence of the new variants could make the new wave worse. “Some of the variants can make the virus more infectious, deadly, or even resistant to vaccines and treatment,” he said “The second wave is infecting more younger people than the first one. And, after a couple of weeks, many of them are likely to infect the elder members of their family and when that happens, serious illnesses and deaths will go up,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-812-cases-j-k-sees-six-month-high-101617825632466.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ready to follow SOPs, but agitation won’t end: Tikait||Ambala As the nation recorded highest coronavirus cases in a day on Tuesday, Bhartiya Kisan Union leader Rakesh Tikait has said the protesting farmers are ready to follow the standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the prevention of the spread of virus, but the agitation won’t end anytime soon. “Government should not think that coronavirus can end our agitation as it happened with Shaheen Bagh. It won’t end until our demands are met. We are ready to follow the guidelines,” Tikait told the media in Yamunanagar on Wednesday. He hoped that the government will accept farmers’ demands by November as the agitation on the Delhi borders will complete a year. “But we are ready to take it till 2023. We are ready to resume talks with the government,” he added. He said the main problem in the country is lack of a strong Opposition at the Centre. “Had there been strong Opposition in Parliament, need for such protests would have never arisen,” he said. Another senior peasant leader, Gurnam Singh Charuni, who also addressed union activists, said, “Government is trying to create an adverse situation like it happened during the Jat agitation in 2016.” He said at the SKM meeting, the leaders decided that the protests against the political leaders will continue but without any violence or provocation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ready-to-follow-sops-but-agitation-won-t-end-tikait-101617825631281.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Amid stir, Maharashtra may relax curbs for some sectors||After protests by retailers, traders and other sectors to the partial lockdown, the state is expected to tweak its standard operating procedures (SOPs), giving relaxations to a few sectors in the next few days. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray during his meeting with them hinted at the relaxations. Two days after the partial lockdown was imposed, traders and shopkeepers took to the streets, protesting against the lockdown, as confusion and ambiguities over the guidelines led to chaos in the past two days. Thackeray later held meetings with the organisations representing retailers, traders and bodies representing chartered accountants and company secretaries on Wednesday. Chief secretary Sitaram Kunte held a video conference with all district collectors and civic commissioners to clarify about the confusion. Thackeray has assured the retailers he would reconsider the decision of shutting shops and offices in the next two days. “The restrictions imposed are out of compulsion amid the second wave. Not only traders and business, even the state is facing losses to the exchequer. We will definitely reconsider the decision and offer some relaxation after a due deliberation with task force, police administration and other departments,” he said. Thackeray also warned retailers and traders to ensure the guidelines are followed. “If there are 1.5 million workers employed in the shops and establishments in Mumbai, their mobilisation leads to the risk of spread of the virus. Similarly, the movement of people engaged in other sectors will also lead to crowding,” he said. The associations representing traders told the CM that the sentiments of their members are extreme. “We pointed at the contradiction in the decision of lockdown as hawkers are allowed, while shopkeepers have to stay shut; industries are open but raw material vendors are shut. We are ready to keep the shops open in staggered timings and on limited days,” said Mohan Gurnani, chairman, Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industry and Trade. Thackeray also held a meeting with representatives of Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and Institute of Company Secretaries of India and told them to submit an SOP that will help in the maintaining staggered timings and encouraging culture of work from home. Kunte took stock of the situation in various districts. Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis, who held meetings with some of the trade bodies, too had demanded to revisit the decision of the partial lockdown as it has badly hit the economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-stir-maharashtra-may-relax-curbs-for-some-sectors-101617825629702.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha active cases may cross 1.1mn by April||The number of active Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra is likely to cross the 1,100,000 mark by April 30, without adequate measures to control the spread of the virus, such as imposing restrictions on movement or business, according to the state health department. These figures are significant because the highest number of active cases in the entire country was around 1,100,000 during the previous wave of Covid-19 in September 2020, Pradeep Vyas, principal secretary of the state health department said on Wednesday. The issue was discussed during a video conference with the central government on Wednesday morning, Vyas said.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray also urged citizens to strictly follow restrictions imposed by the state government during the past few days, wear face masks in public places, and maintain social distancing. During an interaction with the media on Wednesday, Thackeray said, “It is important to create awareness about the real situation of Covid-19 on ground, so citizens can be careful and reduce stepping out. Many businesses are urging the government to allow them to operate as usual. We do not want to hamper any business or inconvenience citizens. We want to reduce non-essential commute and crowding at public places to control the spread of the infection.” According to the state’s original projections, Maharashtra would have crossed 472,000 active Covid-19 cases by April 12. However, Maharashtra has already crossed this figure as of Tuesday. “Our second wave began around February 11. Now, we are recording more cases than we predicted. The state has already recorded 50% more active cases during this wave, in comparison to its previous wave in September 2020. If cases increase in this proportion, by April 17, we will have around 568,000 active cases,” Vyas said. The maximum number of active Covid-19 cases in September 2020 was around 300,000, as opposed to 472,283 as of Tuesday. To streamline availability of beds for needy Covid-19 patients, health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday directed all district collectors and municipal commissioners to adopt Mumbai’s model of centralised bed allotment. “We have noticed patients struggle to find beds and approach individual hospitals to check availability. Beds will be allotted to Covid-19 patients through a centralised system at every district and municipal corporation level, so patients don’t have to run from one hospital to another,” Tope said.In the state, 80.51% Covid-19 beds, 32.77% oxygen beds and 60.95% ICU beds are occupied. Vyas said, “Overall the state has sufficient beds. However, some cities such as Nagpur, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Latur and Yavatmal are facing a bed crunch. We will increase infrastructure.” Maharashtra will start purchasing oxygen from neighbouring states in the coming days, to meet its oxygen demands for critical and serious Covid-19 patients. Maharashtra government produces 11,500 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen per day of which about 850 MT is used per day at present, but is likely to utilise its entire stock per day within a week. Tope also announced that the government is mulling capping retail price of the drug, Remdesivir, which is sold at as high as ₹4,000 per injection at present, while manufacturers sell every unit at ₹800 to stockers. This price is likely to be capped at ₹1,200. The state has requested the Centre to supply 4,000,000 vaccine shots to be able to meet its target of vaccinating 600,000 beneficiaries per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-active-cases-may-cross-1-1mn-by-april-101617825569594.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha lockdown: Fearing return of woes, migrants rush back to hometowns||Vishal Kori, 25, is perturbed by the memories of last year’s Covid-19 lockdown, when he had to walk for 10 days to his native place Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh. He was among the millions of migrants, the bulk of Maharashtra’s workforce from March-end onwards, who trudged for days together, braving the scorching summer heat to reach their destinations. However as the Covid-19 pandemic subsided, these migrants made a comeback after some months. According to the state, at least 1.2 million workers from states like Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha left Maharashtra after the lockdown was announced on March 24. This time as the mini lockdown is imposed, Kori wants to take no chance as he stands in a railway ticket queue to go back to his native village. “I am not taking any chance as Mumbai faces a large number of Covid-19 cases and my shop is shut. It is better I go back fast before things turn ugly,” said Kori, who works in a footwear shop. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra government imposed a mini lockdown from Tuesday in view of the surge in Covid cases, which has now reached above 50,000 per day across the state. “Mumbai is not safe anymore and it is better I go back to Jharkhand. I don’t think I will come back again as I will search for a job in Delhi or Noida,” said Jamal Khan, 44, a chef in a hotel in the city. Traders, especially in the hospitality sector, are worried. Mirah Hospitality, which runs 14 hotels including Rajdhani, Hitchki and Bayroute in Maharashtra, which was currently operating with 650 staff members, has seen 300 workers going back to their native states. “There is no way we can stop them. Some of our staff are trying for jobs in Bengaluru and Delhi,” said Aji Nair, COO (food and beverages division), Mirah Hospitality. Currently the government has allowed hotels and restaurants to only offer parcel services which has paralysed this sector. The Chamber of Associations of Maharashtra Industries and Trade (CAMIT), which represents the traders, called it a sorry state of affairs. “Our members are trying their best to dissuade these workers from going back. However if the government continues with this mini lockdown and does not allow us to open our establishments, there is no way we can retain them. This loss of labour will hurt the state’s economy,” warned Mohan Gurnani, chairman, CAMIT. “We were barely recovering when this mini lockdown was imposed. We have taken loans and paid our license fees in advance,” said Gurbaxish Singh Kohli, spokesperson, Hotel and Restaurant Association of Western India (HRAWI).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-lockdown-fearing-return-of-woes-migrants-rush-back-to-hometowns-101617825509553.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||24x7 home deliveries now allowed||Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday allowed home deliveries of food and all essential supplies (e-commerce) through all online service providers like Zomato and Swiggy 24 hours on all days through the week. This decision was taken by Chahal with chief secretary Sitaram Kunte in order to give certain relaxations. Along with this, movement of maids and house helps is also allowed between 7am and 10pm on all days of the week.Currently, e-commerce delivery is allowed between 7am and 8 pm and for restaurants takeaway/home delivery is permitted between 7am and 8pm on weekdays. On weekends, home delivery is allowed between 7am and 8pm. However, Chahal in an order has relaxed this to allow the same round-the-clock.The BMC chief has also allowed keeping eye clinics and opticians’ shops open, along with allowing movement of maids, cooks, drivers, house helps, nurses and medical attendees providing services to senior citizens and ailing people at home between 7am and 10pm on all days of the week.Further, Chahal in the circular has stated, “Students or candidates who have to attend various exams including the competitive exams are allowed to make necessary movement to attend the exams during the weekend lockdown and their examination hall tickets should be considered valid for the same. They are allowed to be accompanied by one guardian or parent.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/24x7-home-deliveries-now-allowed-101617825449564.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Cases may start to dip in city post April 20: BMC chief||As the city is under a mini lockdown with the shutting of non-essential shops, malls and religious places, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained that this will help in controlling the spread of the virus. According to BMC, the number of cases being reported daily might stabilise within the next 10 to 12 days, and a downward trend might start post April 20. However, it will be dependent on Covid-19 appropriate behaviour by citizens, BMC officials added.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal told HT, “If we look at the current scenario in the city of a second wave, the daily cases being reported in the city have almost stabilised between 8,000 and 11,000 daily cases. If this trend continues, cases will start going down post April 20, but this remains only if citizens continue to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.”Chahal added, “Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccines for those eligible are the two most important things for citizens to follow. We need to undertake Covid-19 vaccination on the lines of polio vaccination, and for this we are trying to mobilise citizens. The BMC is yet to get permission for door-to-door vaccination, and hence I have requested elected representatives from the city to mobilise citizens for Covid-19 vaccination.”The city has reported increased cases since February 10, from the earlier below-500 cases. Mumbai’s daily cases went up to 1,000 by February-end, 5,000 by March and around 10,000 cases by the first week of April. The positivity rate has gone up from 5% to around 26% by the first week of April.Experts said the number of cases can go down in the next two to four weeks. Dr Shashank Joshi, member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force, said, “In case of Mumbai, we are looking at different timelines. My assumption is that the situation should improve in the next two to four weeks. But citizens need to behave in a Covid-19 appropriate manner, and asymptomatic patients need to understand and not block a bed.”Dr Madhav Sathe, former professor of Microbiology at Nair Hospital, said, “With so many restrictions, the caseload should go down in the coming days. However, we need to ensure no crowding in local trains, buses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cases-may-start-to-dip-in-city-post-april-20-bmc-chief-101617825330203.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Class 9, 11 students to be promoted without exams’||Class 9 and 11 students in state board schools will be promoted to the next class without giving exams, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad declared on Tuesday afternoon. The decision is still awaiting a nod from the office of the chief minister. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Gaikwad said that in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases and the resultant school closures, it has been decided to promote Class 9 and 11 students without conducting assessments or exams this year. “While schools and teachers continued teaching students online and extended a lot of learning support even offline, the year has been tough for students as schools have remained closed for most of it. It is thus decided to promote students to the next class this year so as to ensure that they do not suffer due to the pandemic and the resultant learning losses,” stated the minister in the statement. Earlier this month, the education department had decided to promote students of Classes 1 to 8 to further classes under the no-detention policy under the RTE Act. However, for Class 9 and 11, schools and junior colleges usually hold exams and students who fail to clear these exams and the following reexams are detained in the same class. This year, however, owing to the pandemic and the resultant learning losses, students will not be detained under any circumstance and shall all be promoted to the next class, as per the minister. Meanwhile, the minister stated that there is a demand to conduct online exams for Class 10 and 12 and to postpone them due to rising infections in the state. “However, students from rural parts of the state are demanding offline exams as many of them have issues with respect to connectivity. Similarly, postponing exams might have an impact on students writing their competitive exams as other boards like CBSE and ICSE still have their offline exams scheduled. We will take the interest of all students in mind before coming up with any change in the decision,” stated the minister. While the HSC (Class 12) exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, 2021, SSC (Class 10) exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 33 lakh students appear for Class 10 and 12 exams from the state board every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/class-9-11-students-to-be-promoted-without-exams-101617825329584.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC grants police protection to sexual abuse survivor, friends||Raising concerns over the threat to the lives of survivors of sexual assault and witnesses in light of the situation in Uttar Pradesh, the Bombay high court (HC) said it did not want the situation to be repeated in Maharashtra, and hence directed the deputy commissioner of police (DCP) of Mira-Bhayandar Police to provide protection to a sexual assault survivor who had approached the court seeking the same. A division bench of justice SS Shinde and justice Manish Pitale, while hearing a plea by the survivor on Tuesday, was informed by advocate Trupti Bharadi that her client hailed from Rajasthan and that she was forced to work in a dance bad in Mumbai by her parents in 2011, when she was 17 years old. Bharadi further submitted that thereafter her client, her three sisters and four minors were forced into prostitution and were also sent to Dubai on three occasions between 2012 and 2014 by an agent. Bharadi claimed that after the survivor came to know that she was pregnant in March 2020, her father threatened to kill her if she refused to continue with prostitution. She continued with the pregnancy and gave birth in August 2020. However, due to the threat from her father, she left his house and started living with a friend. Her father then allegedly sent two people to coerce her into going back into prostitution in December last year, following which the woman filed a non-cognisable complaint with Bhayandar police. Her father allegedly also threatened her friend, prompting the friend to lode police complaint against the father at Kashimira police station. However, Bharadi claimed, the police did not take any action on the complaints, and hence her client approached the court seeking directions for registration of a case and for providing police protection to them. Additional public prosecutor Sangeeta Shinde for the police submitted that a first information report (FIR) was registered under provisions of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Immoral Trafficking Act against the woman’s parents. Shinde further added that as a new investigating officer had taken over the case, and he would require some time to investigate the matter. Shinde said the officer would submit the report before the court after two weeks. Responding to this, advocate Bharadi said some persons who had allegedly committed the offences were not made accused in the case and added that their should also be added in the FIR. He further urged the court to monitor the investigation and provide protection to the complainant and her friends who supported her till the names are added in the FIR. After hearing the submissions, the court observed, “We know what is happening Uttar Pradesh; witnesses are killed. We do not want that situation in Maharashtra.” While the court allowed the police to investigate and submit a report, it held that it was necessary to provide police protection to the petitioner and witnesses free of charge till further order. The court also sought a compliance report in the next hearing on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-grants-police-protection-to-sexual-abuse-survivor-friends-101617824969608.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||4 farmers arrested for attack on Kurukshetra MP Nayab Saini||Karnal A day after the windshield of Bharatiya Janata Party MP from Kurukshetra Nayab Saini’s car was damaged during a protest by the farmers in Shahbad, four people were arrested on various charges, including attempt to murder. They were produced in a court and sent to judicial custody, police said. The police did not disclose the details of those arrested but a statement issued by the Kurukshetra SP’s office claimed that 15 people were booked under sections 148 (rioting), 149 (unlawful assembly), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 307 (attempt to murder) and 341 (wrongful restraint) of the IPC for the attack on Saini who was escorted out unharmed though. The police action ruffled the farmer community and hundreds of them reached Shahbad police station and staged a dharna. Farmers threatened to intensify their agitation if those arrested were not released at the earliest. Farmers laid siege to the main entrance of the police station amid heavy police deployment. BKU spokesperson Rakesh Bains said they asked the police to release innocent farmers who have no role in the attack. He said the government was misusing power and using police to suppress their agitation. Farmers have formed a five-member committee for holding talks with the police. Kurukshetra SP Himanshu Garg did not respond to the phone calls and text messages sent to him. On Tuesday, MP Saini had visited Shahbad when BKU (Charuni) activists blocked his way and showed black flags. The MP’s car was escorted out after its rear windshield was broken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/4-farmers-arrested-for-attack-on-kurukshetra-mp-nayab-saini-101617824791435.html
08-04-2021||Other||Amid Covid surge, wait for beds in hosps gets longer in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Steep rise in fresh Covid cases has increased the waiting time for beds in city hospitals, which are now planning to take measures to overcome the crisis over the next few days.In March, the average time taken for a Covid patient to be admitted to hospital was one to two hours, after being allotted a hospital by health officials. But with the spike in cases, the allotment and admission is taking 5 to 7 hours. Sometimes, it’s even more, leaving many in the lurch, said attendants of patients.A 55-year-old woman from Sitapur Road had to wait till 4 in the morning before she could get a bed in a hospital after her Covid sample tested positive at 1am. Despite all efforts by doctors, she could not survive. “Her sample was taken at 5pm and the report came at 1am. Despite being in isolation, she had to wait for hours in a serious condition. She was admitted and doctors made every effort, but she lost her battle for life,” said a relative.On Wednesday, Lucknow reported the 1,333 fresh Covid cases, the highest in a day so far while UP logged 6,023 new cases. The state and the city also reported 40 and six Covid deaths, respectively.As per statistics, the number of ICU beds is insufficient (475 operational beds for 8,852 active cases). “To reduce mortality, public movement must be curbed immediately. This infection multiplies geometrically, hence 2,000 new cases can come in just two days. With a human-to-human spread pattern of this virus nothing will work other than controlling the movement of the people,” said a senior faculty of a medical institute. A health official said, ‘The bed capacity in hospitals should have been doubled as the virus is more infectious now. The central government has already conceded that the second wave is infecting more people than the first wave.” Earlier, the SGPGI had operated 201 beds with an additional 30 in the holding area till the cases had started subsiding. This time, the institute already has 210 beds (nine more than last year) in the main hospital and 40 in the holding area (10 more) where 146 patients are currently admitted. In wake of the Covid surge, PGI officials plan to take the bed strength to 300 in the main hospital over the next 15 days. Similarly, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia Institute of Medical Sciences has 200 beds where 130 are high dependency unit (HDU) beds and 20 ICU beds, as per the data on Wednesday morning. The institute is now increasing the numbers. “We are adding beds for Covid facility from today and shortly 150 ICU/HDU beds will be available for patients,” said Dr Srikesh Singh, spokesperson for the institute. At the King George’s Medical University (KGMU), 293 ICU beds are operational. “We have 272 patients in the ICU and 36 in isolation at present,” said Dr Sudhir Singh. The total strength of KGMU Covid facility is of 504 beds that it had used for patients during the first wave. Against a total 3,914 beds (including 2,781 isolation beds, 698 high dependency unit (HDU) beds, and 435 ICU/ventilator) at 32 government and private hospitals in October, the present strength is 2,225 in Lucknow including 1,121 isolation, 629 HDU and 475 ICU beds. BOXMed institutes asked to increase bed strengthLUCKNOW Medical institutes have been asked to increase the number of beds in their Covid wards, including ICU beds with ventilator support. In a letter, Alok Kumar, principal secretary (medical education), asked all government, private medical colleges, KGMU, SGPGI and other super-speciality institutes to increase bed strength. “With the surge in Covid cases it is important to enhance facilities for patients. Hence, the institutes/facilities where bed occupancy in Covid facility has been over 60% should expand their facilities to a maximum limit,” stated the letter. The letter particularly mentions Lucknow, where the case positivity rate is high.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-covid-surge-wait-for-beds-in-hosps-gets-longer-in-lucknow-101617824791899.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||NIA court extends Sachin Vaze’s custody, permits CBI to grill him||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday extended custody of suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze till April 9 in connection with his alleged role in parking an explosives-laden car outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February. The special court also permitted the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to interrogate Vaze in connection with the preliminary probe directed by the Bombay high court (HC) while he is in NIA custody. The special court also remanded former police constable Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor, booked for their role in Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran’s murder case, in judicial custody. NIA while seeking Vaze’s custody argued that they needed his custody to unearth the cash trail, source of procurement of gelatin sticks which were planted in the car found outside Ambani’s residence as well as the motive behind murder of Hiran. The agency on Wednesday informed the court that there is ₹1.5 crore in Axis Bank in the name of a company floated by the accused. The agency also claimed that Vaze had given ₹36 lakh and ₹40 lakh to his accomplices. He had also allegedly purchased six high-end vehicles. “We need to know the source of money; was he extorting money for himself or for others? How does an assistant police inspection rank officer have such a huge amount in his account?” the NIA said. The agency also claimed that it was a deep-rooted terror conspiracy, and hence they have to probe if the money found in Vaze’s account was used to procure the gelatin sticks and where it was sourced from. “More time is required to unearth the cash trail, existing accounts of the accused and whether this money has direct connection with gelatins,” NIA said. In the Mansukh Hiran murder case, the agency claimed that Vaze and other accused had hatched the conspiracy to eliminate Hiran on March 2 and 3. “Hiran was a co-conspirator in the explosives case and has been eliminated. The accused has direct connection with the case. NIA needs to find motive behind his murder,” the probong agency stated. Meanwhile, the NIA court on Wednesday allowed CBI to question Vaze in connection with preliminary enquiry initiated on the allegation made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. The CBI team from Delhi approached the special court in connection with the preliminary enquiry directed by the Bombay High court on April 5.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-court-extends-sachin-vaze-s-custody-permits-cbi-to-grill-him-101617824609433.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||NIA grills Param Bir Singh, Pradeep Sharma in Antilia bomb scare and Hiran murder cases||The National Investigation Agency (NIA), which has been probing the Antilia bomb scare and the murder case of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, questioned former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh for four hours on Wednesday. Encounter specialist and former police personnel Pradeep Sharma was also questioned for seven hours at NIA office in south Mumbai. Singh reached NIA office around 9.30am. NIA recorded his statement in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case as he was the Mumbai Police commissioner and arrested accused Sachin Vaze, who was then in-charge of the crime intelligence unit (CIU), was allegedly directly reporting to Singh. Soon after the explosive laden-Scorpio vehicle was found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, the case was transferred to the CIU and Vaze was made an investigating officer. Singh has been appointed as the director general of Home Guards after he was shunted out from the post of Mumbai Police commissioner on March 17 after NIA claimed that Vaze was the mastermind behind planting the explosives-laden Scorpio near Antilia and seized an Innova of Mumbai Police which was allegedly trailing the Scorpio on February 25. Sharma reached NIA office around 12.45pm and left around 8.20pm. During an investigation, NIA found that Sharma had visited the Mumbai Police commissioner’s office on March 2 and had allegedly met Vaze in CIU office and also met Singh. NIA has been questioning him to find out whether he was involved in the meeting and whether he was part of the conversation with Vaze and Mansukh Hiran when Vaze was reportedly asking Hiran to take responsibility of planting explosives in his own Scorpio. Hiran, who was allegedly not ready to accept the responsibility, went missing on March 4 evening after he left his house to meet an officer named Tawade near Ghodbunder Road in Thane. Later on March 5, Hiran’s body was found near Retibunder in Mumbra. The probing agency is now conducting an investigation to find out if Vaze was involved in Hiran’s murder and whether he took help of others to execute his plan to frame or eliminate Hiran. Apart from Vaze, former police constable Vinayak Shinde and bookie Naresh Gor are in NIA’s custody for allegedly providing logistic support in Hiran’s murder. Sharma was a senior inspector of anti-extortion cell in Thane before he resigned from the police department in July 2019 and joined the Shiv Sena. He contested and lost in 2019 Maharashtra Assembly elections from Nallasopara constituency against Hitendra Thakur. Sharma was previously suspended from police department owing to corruption allegations but was reinstated in 2005. He was also named in Ramnarayan Gupta alias Lakhan Bhaiya encounter case and was arrested in 2010, but was acquitted in 2013 by a lower court. He re-joined the Mumbai police force in 2017 and was in-charge of anti-extortion cell (AEC) in Thane when Singh was Thane commissioner. NIA officers also recorded statement of a deputy commissioner of police of Mumbai Police’s crime branch who visited the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) office on March 3. The agency wanted to verify certain details with all concern people present in the CIU office at the time when Hiran met Vaze. The DCP visited the NIA office on Tuesday afternoon and he was examined for around three hours. He left the NIA office in the evening, said an NIA officer. However, a senior Mumbai Police officer said the DCP had visited the CIU office for some other work and was not part of the conversation between Vaze and Hiran.As of now, NIA has recorded statements of around 40 people and further investigations are on in both the cases, said an NIA officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/nia-grills-param-bir-singh-pradeep-sharma-in-antilia-bomb-scare-and-hiran-murder-cases-101617824550659.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt sets target of 2 lakh shots per day in Punjab||With the Covid infection rate reaching 7.7% and the case fatality rate (CFR) hitting 2% in the state, chief minister (CM) Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday set a vaccination target of two lakh shots per day. The CM also directed the health department to ramp up sampling to 50,000 per day, besides vigorously pursuing contact tracing to 30 people per positive patient. Expressing concern over the high CFR rate, the CM said these deaths, many of which are avoidable with timely treatment, pain him. He directed chief secretary Vini Mahajan to undertake public awareness campaign to motivate people to approach hospitals at early stages. The CM said the death audit should be done by all districts and private facilities, which are not participating in the expert group discussions, should be encouraged to do so.Amarinder, who was informed by the health department that the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, was refusing to admit patients from Punjab despite being referred through proper channels, said he would take up the matter with the Prime Minister at Thursday’s video conferencing meeting and would request him to direct the hospital to reserve at least 50 ICU beds for patients referred by the state government. He also asked the chief secretary to address the issue of vaccination hesitancy by undertaking well-designed media campaigns. The CM said he would again urge the Union government for relaxation in the age criteria for vaccinating people under the age of 45 years in areas showing weekly doubling of positivity rate. He reiterated his demand that the Union government should allow vaccinations to all potential superspreaders, students above 18 years, teachers, councillors and sarpanches.On vaccination supply, the chief secretary informed the CM that the Union government had assured that the state would not face any shortage.Director general of police Dinkar Gupta informed the CM that all districts were taking penal action for violation of Covid protocols and so far, 2.03 lakh people had been taken for RT-PCR tests after they were found not wearing masks in public. He also said that 43,000 challans have been with a collection of ₹3.6 crore fine. A total of 206 FIRs have been registered and 246 people arrested for violations, the GP said. Catering to maximum patients from Punjab: PGIIn response to the Punjab government’s demand for more ICU beds, PGIMER, Chandigarh, has said maximum number of patients treated at the institute are from Punjab.The statement came after the Punjab CM said that he will ask the PM to direct the institute to reserve at least 50 ICU beds for patients referred by the state governmentThe annual census of PGIMER for 2020 shows that it provided tertiary-level medical care to patients from five states with proportion of Punjab being the highest, according to the institute’s press release. PGIMER admits only severe and critically-ill Covid patients in the NHE Covid Block. Presently 50% of the total 166 patients admitted to the PGIMER, belong to Punjab. All ICU beds in the Covid Block are full and 50% of these are occupied by patients from Punjab, the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-sets-target-of-2-lakh-shots-per-day-in-punjab-101617824550247.html
08-04-2021||Other||All ambulances of govt, pvt hosps be used for Covid patients: CM||LUCKNOW Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Wednesday said that district magistrates should take a call on the closure of secondary schools in districts reporting more than 100 Covid cases per day or having a over 500 active cases. DMs in such districts should also take appropriate decision on controlling the movement of traffic during night hours. Under no circumstances, movement of medicines or food material should be hindered, he said. Yogi gave these directives while reviewing the Covid-19 situation in 13 worst affected districts at a video conferencing with officers. He said Covid was spreading faster in Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar, Gorakhpur, Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Jhansi, Bareilly, Ghaziabad, Agra, Saharanpur and Moradabad. The number of cases in these districts was higher though there was a decline in the positivity rate, added the CM. He said special secretary level officers should immediately be deployed for monitoring in these districts while contact tracing should be ramped up. Yogi said those found without a mask should be penalised. He said the Covid situation was deteriorating in some southern states along with Maharashtra and there was a possibility of UP’s people coming back to the state from there. All districts had done exemplary Covid management work in the state in 2020, he said. “With our team work, we will win the fight against Covid this time too,” he said. He said the minister for medical and health and minister for medical education should visit districts along with officers. The ministers should give appropriate directives to bring about an improvement in the situation. He said himself would make surprise inspections in Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur in the next few days. He emphasized that all the ambulances of government and private hospitals should be used for carrying Covid patients. “These vehicles should be linked to integrated command control centres and patients should get immediate response,” added the CM. Yogi Adityanath said V-C of respective development authorities be given a greater role in districts where officers of district magistrate or chief development officer ranks were infected. He said additional director (health) level officer should give their services if chief medical officer was infected. At least 50% tests should be done through RT-PCR method while rapid antigen testing should be made more effective at airports, railway stations and bus stops etc, emphasised the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-ambulances-of-govt-pvt-hosps-be-used-for-covid-patients-cm-101617824489422.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||63 deaths, 2,997 new Covid cases in Punjab||Punjab on Wednesday reported 63 Covid-related deaths, taking the toll to 7,278, while the infection tally rose to 2.6 lakh with 2,997 new cases, according to a health department bulletin.The active cases dropped to 25,855 from 25,913 on Tuesday, while 2,959 patients recuperated, taking the number of recoveries to 2,26,887, the bulletin said.Ludhiana reported a maximum of 415 cases, followed by 345 in Jalandhar, 337 in Patiala, 336 in Mohali and 325 in Amritsar, among others. Nine deaths were reported in Mohali, seven each in Amritsar and Hoshiarpur, and six each in Rupnagar and Patiala, the bulletin said.There are 24 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 369 are on oxygen support. A total of 61.89 lakh samples have been collected for testing so far, it said.79 pvt hospitals on tertiary care centres’ listHealth minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Wednesday said Punjab has added 79 new private hospitals to the list of tertiary care centres for providing Covid-19 treatment in the five most-affected districts of the state. He said that the inflow of patients in severe conditions is higher in Amritsar, Ludhiana, Mohali, Jalandhar and Bathinda. These districts require more hospitals that are compliant as per the expert committee criteria for providing an optimal level of tertiary care to Covid-19 patients, he said adding the hospitals recommended by the expert committee and the hospitals who have submitted self-declaration from these five districts have now been authorised as tertiary care hospitals for the treatment of severe patients of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/63-deaths-2-997-new-covid-cases-in-punjab-101617824369956.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI records statement of Dr Jaishri Patil in preliminary probe ordered by Bombay HC||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) recorded the statement of complainant Dr Jaishri Laxmanrao Patil at the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guest house in Santacruz (East) in connection with the corruption allegations made by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. Dr Patil’s statement was recorded after the Bombay high court (HC) directed CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry and submit a report in 15 days based on her petition.Patil reached DRDO guest house around 3pm on Wednesday where the CBI team is stationed. CBI questioned Patil for almost five hours and called her again on Thursday to record further statement. Patil said, “I have submitted the evidence that I have and will visit CBI office again to give further statement.”“I have received several threats on phone as well as on social media from many organisations pressuring me not to speak and give statement to CBI officials against politician” said Patil.On Tuesday evening, CBI registered a preliminary inquiry based on the HC order, and a team comprising six officers reached Mumbai from Delhi the same evening to investigate the matter. A CBI officer said a second CBI team from Delhi comprising around six more officers, including a superintendent of police, also reached Mumbai in the afternoon. Before registering the preliminary enquiry, CBI had consulted their legal team. CBI officers also approached the special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Wednesday seeking permission to record the statement of former police officer Sachin Vaze who is in NIA custody for allegedly planting a explosives-laden vehicle near the industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s house on February 25. Vaze had also been named by Singh in his eight-page letter to Maharashtra chief minister wherein he alleged that Deshmukh has asked Vaze and two other officers to collect ₹100 crore from bar and restaurants in the city. The NIA court granted permission to CBI to record Vaze’s statement in connection with the corruption allegations. CBI will also record statements of Singh and the other officers mentioned by Singh during the preliminary enquiry. While directing CBI to conduct a preliminary probe on April 5 in a 52-page judgement, the HC had observed that Malabar Hill police had failed to take action on Patil’s complaint which had pointed to a cognisable offence being committed by Deshmukh. HC noted that it could not remain a “mute spectator” to the complaints received against high-level officers and ruled, “It is, hence, certainly an issue of credibility of state machinery, which would stare at face when confronted with the expectations of law and when such complaints are received against high-ranking public officials. This court cannot be a mute spectator in these circumstances.” It further observed that as the state police force was under Deshmukh [he resigned after HC’s directions for probe], it would serve the ends of justice if a preliminary probe was conducted by an independent agency such as CBI. “Deshmukh is home minister. The police department is under his control and direction. There can be no fair, impartial, unbiased and untainted probe if the same were entrusted to the state police force. As of necessity, probe has to be entrusted to an independent agency like CBI,” the bench noted in its judgment. “The allegations made by Shri Param Bir Singh are serious in nature and against the highest functionary of the government of Maharashtra when it comes to the functioning of the police department. Prima facie, the issues are such that the very faith of citizens in the functioning of the police department is at stake. If there is any amount of truth in such allegations, certainly it has a direct effect on the citizens’ confidence in the police machinery in the state. Such allegations, therefore, cannot remain unattended and are required to be looked into in the manner known to law when prima facie they indicate commission of a cognisable offence,” the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-records-statement-of-dr-jaishri-patil-in-preliminary-probe-ordered-by-bombay-hc-101617824309429.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Hritik-Kangana row, copyright violation cases taken away from CIU||Two cases, including the row involving actors Hritik Roshan and Kangana Ranaut, which were previously investigated by now-suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze have been taken away from the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) which has been at the centre of controversies lately. After Vaze’s arrest in the Antilia case and the subsequent revelations about his way of working, joint commissioner of police (crime) Milind Bharambhe directed the cyber police station to take over the probe of Roshan’s case on Wednesday.The decision to take away the two cases from CIU was taken after a quick review of the cases handled by Vaze during his nine-month tenure after his reinstatement in June 2020. In the past, high-profile cases registered by the Mumbai Police were being transferred to CIU and Vaze by then police commissioner Param Bir Singh, police sources said.Roshan had lodged a complaint with the cyber police at Bandra-Kurla Complex in 2016 against an unidentified imposter who had allegedly sent emails to several women. The cyber police had then recorded the statements of Ranaut and her sister while probing the case.The reason for the row between the two actors was an email id. Ranaut claimed to have received messages from Roshan from the id, proving they were in a relationship. Roshan, however, said he never had such an email id and added that it was an impostor who had been communicating with Ranaut all along.In December 2020, Roshan’s lawyer made a complaint to Singh about no progress in the case. Following this, Singh had transferred the case to CIU which was then headed by Vaze.Similarly, another case of copyright violation involving the chief executive officer of Maha Movie television channel was also transferred from CIU. Puneet Mehra, son of late filmmaker Prakash Mehra, had filed a complaint of copyright violations with Juhu police last year. He had alleged that their film Zanjeer starring Amitabh Bachchan and Pran was allegedly telecasted on Box Cinema channel on March 12, 2020 without their permission. Mehra holds copyrights of the film.Some of the accused in this case are also named in the TRP manipulation case, hence the case was earlier transferred from Juhu police to CIU. However, the case has been transferred to unit 9 of the Mumbai Police’s crime branch for further probe, a crime branch officer confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-hritik-kangana-row-copyright-violation-cases-taken-away-from-ciu-101617824129454.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Top ministers asked me to extort money: Vaze||Suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze alleged on Wednesday that top Maharashtra ministers asked him to extort from businessmen and establishments, echoing similar charges by former Mumbai commissioner Param Bir Singh that are being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).Vaze, who is currently being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly planting explosives in a car outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house in February and killing businessman Mansukh Hiran in March, made the allegations in a letter he intended to submit before the special NIA court hearing his case.The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government denied the allegations. Transport minister Anil Parab debunked Vaze’s allegations saying he was not involved in any extortion case and it was the BJP’s conspiracy to defame the MVA government.“In order to defame the Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray), it was necessary to vilify someone close to the Chief Minister and this is a part of agenda being pursued by the BJP,” Parab told reporters. “I am ready for an inquiry by any agency whether NIA, RAW or anyone. I am even ready for narco test,” he added.In his four-page letter, Vaze alleged that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and sitting transport minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money, but he refused. He also said that he was approached for money by a man claiming to be close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.NCP chief Sharad Pawar was not available for a comment. Former home minister Anil Deshmukh did not respond to calls and text messages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/top-ministers-asked-me-to-extort-money-vaze-101617824130085.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Pak issues visas to 1,100 Sikh pilgrims for Baisakhi||New Delhi: The Pakistan high commission on Wednesday said it has issued over 1,100 visas to Sikh pilgrims from India to participate in the annual Baisakhi celebrations from April 12 to 22. Under the framework of the Pakistan-India protocol on visits to religious shrines of 1974, a large number of Sikh pilgrims from India visit Pakistan to observe various religious festivals every year, the high commission said. It said the visas have been issued as a “special gesture” by the Pakistan government in view of the importance of Baisakhi for Punjabis and Sikhs marking the start of their new year. “The Pakistan high commission extends special felicitations to all those celebrating this auspicious occasion and wishes the visiting pilgrims a fulfilling yatra,” the high commission said in a statement. “The issuance of pilgrimage visas is a part of the Government of Pakistan’s efforts for facilitating visits to religious shrines,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pak-issues-visas-to-1-100-sikh-pilgrims-for-baisakhi-101617824070238.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||DCP, ACP contradict Param Bir Singh’s allegations about Anil Deshmukh||Amid leaks of various letters and complaints surrounding controversial cop Sachin Vaze, who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in the bomb scare case outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house Antilia, statements of two Mumbai Police officers, who have been named as key witnesses by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh in his letter while making allegations against former home minister Anil Deshmukh about demanding a monthly ₹100 crore collection, got leaked on Wednesday. In the statements, the two officers have contradicted Singh’s version. A crime branch officer has confirmed the genuineness of the statements.Statements of deputy commissioner of police (establishments) Dr Raju Bhujbal and assistant commissioner of police (social service) Sanjay Patil which were recorded as suo motu measure by joint commissioner of police Milind Bharambhe as head of the crime branch immediately after Singh’s letter to CM mentioned the two officers from his department.Singh had alleged that Deshmukh had asked Vaze to collect extortion money and had also attached a chat with Patil to corroborate the same. However, Patil in his statement to the joint commissioner (crime) stated that he met Deshmukh on March 1 to brief him about some bars and hookah parlours in Thane. On the same day Vaze met Patil and told him that the home minister had asked him if “ ₹3 lakh were being collected from the 1,750 bars and restaurants in Mumbai”, according to Patil’s statement. It was a query and not a demand, Patil stressed.It was Vaze who informed Patil and Bhujbal about his alleged discussion with Deshmukh over collection from 1,750 bars and restaurants. The same was never discussed with Patil and Bhujbal independently by Deshmukh. Patil also stated that he doesn’t know if Vaze met the home minister in person.Singh had also stated that on March 4 Patil and Bhujbal had visited Deshmukh’s official residence Dyaneshwar, but in their statements the two maintained that the three never met.“On March 4, Deshmukh’s secretary Palande was seen asking Bhujbal if such (huge) amount is collected from city’s establishments? To which we (Patil and Bhujbal) responded him in negative,” Patil stated in the statement.Patil further added that he never met the home minister before or after March 1.Singh, in his letter, had cited content of chats with Patil about discussion on Deshmukh demanding money. However, Patil stated that these discussions were pertaining to Vaze informing them about Deshmukh allegedly asking him about daily collection of money from establishments. The chats were not about Deshmukh directly asking Patil for collecting money, the officer said.After recording statements of the two officers, Bharambhe informed the home department about it. A crime branch officer said it was important to record the statements of the two immediately, before they could come under pressure by anyone. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), which is carrying out the preliminary probe on the orders of the Bombay high court in Singh’s allegations on Deshmukh, would also be independently recording statements of Bhujbal and Patil. Bhujbal and Patil did not respond to calls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/dcp-acp-contradict-param-bir-singh-s-allegations-about-anil-deshmukh-101617824009395.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Decks cleared for domestic airport on air force land in Ambala||Ambala Decks have been cleared for the domestic airport project in Ambala Cantonment with an agreement between the district administration and the defence ministry for using air force land, officials said on Wednesday. The project was lingering for almost two years over the land. Officials in a meeting at the Air Force Station on Tuesday discussed and mutually agreed on the land for the project and the location of gates. As per a statement issued by the administration, the air force officials have agreed upon allowing land next to Mama-Bhanja Peer on the Jagadhri Road to be used for the project. “It has been agreed that one gate will open on the Jagadhri road and the other inside the station, so that the flight operations from the air force strip could take place safely,” the statement read. Ambala being a sensitive zone due to the presence of large army apparatus and force, the land selection was lingering for quite some time, especially after Rafale jets were stationed here last year. Deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said other than district revenue officials, representatives of the Airport Authority of India and Cantonment Board were also part of the meeting. The DC had inspected the land in Garnala, Barnala and other adjoining villages of the station last year. He also held several meetings with the defence officials to resolve the issue. On February 23, Haryana home minister and local MLA Anil Vij had met defence minister Rajnath Singh to discuss the issue. This was his third such meeting. On Wednesday, Vij said there will be a transfer of nearly 15 acres near the station and the construction will be done by the ministry of civil aviation, after necessary approvals. “The airport has already been cleared under Udaan-3.0 scheme by the ministry and I expect that the flight operations for Lucknow and Srinagar will start within two years,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/decks-cleared-for-domestic-airport-on-air-force-land-in-ambala-101617823830334.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Police use mild force against protesting farmers in Sirsa||Rohtak Farmers staged a demonstration in Sirsa on Wednesday, the day election to local municipal council’s chairperson took place. Farmers in good numbers assembled for a showdown near the civic body’s office where BJP’s Lok Sabha member Sunita Duggal and the Haryana Lokhit Party (HLP) local MLA Gopal Kanda were expected to arrive. Police had a tough time managing the tense situation and used mild force and water cannons to disperse the protesters who broke the barricades. The police, however, managed to escort MP Duggal and MLA Kanda out of the MC office. HLP-backed candidate wins Sirsa MC’s top post Haryana Lokhit Party-backed Reena Sethi defeated BJP candidate Suman Bamania by two votes to become chairperson of Sirsa municipal council. Sethi secured 17 votes against Bamania’s 15. Sirsa SDM Jayvir Yadav, who was the election officer for the election, said that out of 31 councillors, one Baljit Kaur did not turn up. Local MP Sunita Duggal and MLA Gopal Kanda also voted, taking the total number of votes to 32. Election for the Sirsa municipal council were held in September 2016. A BJP councillor Sheela Sehgal was elected chairperson in December 2016. However, the chairperson faced rebellion and 22 councilors from different parties adopted a no-confidence motion against her on August 1, 2018, and she was removed from the post.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/police-use-mild-force-against-protesting-farmers-in-sirsa-101617823172784.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh mayor forms 12 municipal subcommittees||Mayor Ravi Kant Sharma on Wednesday constituted 12 municipal subcommittees. The sanitation subpanel comprises Bharat Kumar, Shakti Prakash Devshali, Farmila, Asha Jaswal, Jagtar Singh, Sunita Dhawan, Sheela Devi, Charanjiv Singh and Shipra Bansal. The environment and beautification subcommittee includes Sachin Kumar Lohtiya, Gurbax Rawat, Heera Negi, Hardeep Singh, Vinod Aggarwal, Rajesh Gupta, Satish Kainth, Jyotsna Wig and Maj Gen MS Kandal (retd). The power subcommittee has Kanwarjeet Singh, Haji Mohummad Khurshid Ali, Rajesh Kumar, Davesh Moudgil, Anil Kumar Dubey, Devinder Singh Babla, Ajay Dutta, Sat Parkash Aggarwal and Sachin Kumar Lohtiya as its members. Fire and emergency services subcommittee consists of Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, Sachin Kumar Lohtiya, Mahesh Inder Singh, Davesh Moudgil, Dalip Sharma, Hardeep Singh, Satish Kainth, Ravinder Kaur Gujral and Haji Mohummad Khurshid Ali. The apni mandi and day market subcommittee has Chanderwati Shukla, Rajesh Kumar, Raj Bala Malik, Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, Jagtar Singh, Sunita Dhawan, Sheela Devi, Kamla Sharma, and Jyotsna Wig. The women empowerment subpanel comprises Ravinder Kaur Gujral, Asha Jaswal, Farmila, Raj Bala Malik, Heera Negi, Sunita Dhawan, Chanderwati Shukla, Sheela Devi, and Shipra Bansal. The members of enforcement subcommittee are Asha Jaswal, Shakti Prakash Devshali, Mahesh Inder Singh, Arun Sood, Rajesh Kumar, Bharat Kumar, Ravinder Kaur Gujral, Charanjiv Singh and Sachin Kumar Lohtiya. The slum development subcommittee has Jagtar Singh, Kanwarjeet Singh, Raj Bala Malik, Anil Dubey, Rajesh Gupta, Dalip Sharma, Sheela Devi, Satish Kainth, and Sat Parkash Aggarwal, while the arts, culture and sports panel has Shipra Bansal, Heera Negi, Davesh Moudgil, Gurpreet Singh Dhillon, Vinod Aggarwal, Hardeep Singh, Gurbax Rawat, Devinder Singh Babla and Ajay Dutta. The primary health subcommittee comprises Jyotsna Wig, Ajay Dutta, Haji Mohummad Khurshid Ali, Farmila, Dalip Sharma, Rajesh Gupta, Anil Kumar Dubey, Vinod Aggarwal and Bharat Kumar. Cattle upkeep and care subcommittee includes Heera Negi, Mahesh Inder Singh, Arun Sood, Shakti Prakash Devshali, Devinder Singh Babla, Satish Kainth, Kamla Sharma, Maj Gen Kandal and Shipra Bansal. The street vendor welfare subcommittee consists of Shakti Prakash Devshali, Charanjiv Singh, Arun Sood, Asha Jaswal, Anil Kumar Dubey, Jagtar Singh, Kanwarjeet Singh, Chandrawati Shukla and Gurbax Rawat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mayor-forms-12-municipal-subcommittees-101617823170012.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Issues galore in Chandigarh MC’s garbage collection drive||The Chandigarh municipal corporation’s takeover of the door-to-door garbage collection in the city, now in its fourth month, is still facing teething problems, leaving many residents dissatisfied with the new system.In Sectors 1 to 30, the situation has improved over time, but in most other localities, the MC is struggling to achieve seamless collection of waste.Even as the civic body has pressed its own collection vehicles into service this time, three of its MRF (material recovery facilities) plants are yet to become operational. This has resulted in a longer turnaround time of the waste collection vehicles.With the MRF system, the MC would be able to replace around 40 Sehaj Safai Kendras (SSKs). The construction of two MRFs has already started, while the tendering process of the third one was recently finalised. Two of the MRFs will come up in Phases 1 and 2 of the Industrial Area (one near the MC public health store and second near 3BRD), and third one will be set up adjacent to the garbage processing plant in Sector 25. The MRF near 3BRD is expected to be ready by April-end. “The start of MRFs will help reduce the time taken by garbage collection vehicles to cover each sector. Currently, once in every trip, the collector vehicles have to go dump the waste at the Sector 25 processing plant. Since all the vehicles turn up there around same time, the dumping process takes longer,” said MC commissioner KK Yadav.What the residents sayMeanwhile, residents have been complaining about inadequate collection of garbage in the southern sectors, especially from the first and second floors of the residential units. “This is particularly causing much trouble to senior citizens and persons with disabilities. While the mayor and even the MC waste management rules have stipulated that waste would be picked up from people’s doorsteps, but in reality, many areas are being given a miss,” said Vinod Vashisht, convener, City Forum of Residents Welfare Organisations (CFORWO).Joginder Singh, president, Sector 38-A and B resident welfare association, said, “The MC vehicles came inside the sectors only for a couple of days. Thereafter, the cart-based collectors picked up the waste and carried it to the MC vehicles which were stationed at a central location near the sector.”Hitesh Puri, chairman, Chandigarh Resident Associations Welfare Federation (Crawfed), said, “In Sector 43, the MC vehicles only came for two days and then the cart-based collectors picked up the waste. They segregated the garbage near our houses and then dumped it in the MC vehicles. The situation is similar in the northern sectors like Sector 28.”“In Sector 33, sometimes garbage is picked up on rehris and at times it is done by a garbage van. But the collectors neither wear masks nor take any other safety precautions. Moreover, time to collect garbage is also not fixed,” said Kuljinder Sra, general secretary, Sector 33-B RWA.Meanwhile, under the current system, the MC-deployed vehicles are not collecting waste such as dry leaves. “Garbage is being collected by the same persons who were engaged by us after the MC retained them. But they are now refusing to take dry leaves, horticulture waste and broken pots etc. The civic body has not provided any facility for such waste,” said Kidar Nath Sharma, president, RWA, Sector 46.MC commissioner Yadav said, “I have directed the MC officials to post four attendants on vehicles so that garbage can be collected from the first and second floors also.”Now, most of the informal sector garbage collectors, who were earlier picking up waste through the cart-based system, have also joined the MC, added Yadav.User charges in water bills from JuneThe MC has started collecting garbage user charges in some sectors through point of sale (POS) machines. So far, it has collected ₹18 lakh in user charges through the POS mode.It is planning to add these charges in the water bills from June onward. “All the data regarding the waste collection drive, like total number of kitchens and plot size, is being formulated and once the same is finalised, we will start adding user charges to water bills,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/issues-galore-in-chandigarh-mc-s-garbage-collection-drive-101617823052764.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh: Revised exam dates for Classes 9, 11 announced||The Chandigarh district education officer on Wednesday issued the revised examination dates for classes 9 and 11.According to the revised dates, the examination will start from April 12 with chemistry/ B study paper of Class 11, followed by social science paper for Class 9 students on April 13.The mathematics exam for Class 11 students will be held on April 15, while Class 9 mathematics exam is scheduled on April 16. The examination of Hindi and biology for classes 9 and 11 will be conducted on April 17, respectively.The final exams of classes 9 and 11 of government schools were halted midway as educational institutions in the city were asked to shut down on March 23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-revised-exam-dates-for-classes-9-11-announced-101617823049871.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||HC stays minority status of Chandigarh’s St Kabir School||A division bench of Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the minority status of St Kabir School, Sector 26.The order has been passed by the bench of justice Ajay Tewari and justice Rajesh Bhardwaj, confirmed senior standing counsel, UT, Pankaj Jain.It was in March 2020 that a high court bench had dismissed a February 2018 plea filed by the Chandigarh administration challenging the minority status given to the school. In a fresh plea, the administration appealed against the decision.The school was granted minority status in March 2014. Chandigarh has 22 minority schools, and out of the 13 schools that opted for minority status after 2012, only two got a no-objection certificate (NOC) from the UT administration.There has been a spurt in the cases of schools seeking minority status after the apex court directed in 2012 that minority schools were not bound to reserve 25% of the seats under EWS category for entry-level classes under the Right to Education (RTE) Act. The city has a total of 82 private schools.The UT has argued that as per the 2011 Census, Sikhs constitute the second largest majority after Hindus in Chandigarh. With minority status, the school goes out of the purview of the RTE Act for reservation to EWS and the administration is left with no control over fee regulation and no parent can approach it in case of any complaint, the UT had told court.“(St Kabir) School has complete monopoly and can function without any fear of state supervision or accountability,” the UT argued. It added that the school has not got an NOC from the administration, and the commission granted it minority status even after the UT contested the same.In another case of minority status in August 2018, a high court single judge bench had ruled against minority status obtained by Vivek High School, Sector 38, on a plea by the UT administration. Vivek High’s appeal against that judgment is pending before a division bench.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hc-stays-minority-status-of-chandigarh-s-st-kabir-school-101617822869818.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Udayvir Dhillon elected Zirakpur MC president||Udayvir Singh Dhillon, 32, son of Mohali Congress president Deepinder Singh Dhillon, was elected the president of the Zirakpur municipal council for a five-year term on Wednesday.The election was held during the first meeting of the newly elected members of the House, amid a boycott by the Shiromani Akali Dal councillors. No polling took place for the posts of senior vice-president and vice-president. The Congress had won 23 out of the 31 seats in the civic body elections held in February, grabbing the majority from the Shiromani Akali Dal, which had been in power for two decades but managed only eight seats this time. NK Sharma, Akali MLA from Dera Bassi, said the party boycotted the meeting as its demand to conduct elections on all three posts was ignored. Udayvir said the elections to other posts were not held as it was decided by all members. “We will hold the elections for the two posts in the next meeting,” he said. ‘Will remove all encroachments’Udayvir, who is also the Punjab Youth Congress general secretary, won from Ward No. 12. He did his schooling from St John’s High School, Chandigarh, and completed a five-year law course from Punjabi University, Patiala. After getting elected as the council president, he listed removal of encroachments from Zirakpur his top priority. “Before the elections, we gave the slogan of Smart Zirakpur, and we will work towards achieving it,” he said, adding that a committee comprising both councillors and officers will be constituted to identify and remove encroachments.Udayvir said that after more than a decade of unplanned development, the city finally got a master plan in 2009, which has not been implemented yet. “The population is expected to shoot up to 8 lakh by 2030, but now we will change the picture of Zirakpur,” he said.The new council president said even though the MC collected ₹170 crore as development charges from builders, it has failed to elevate the infrastructure, which will be looked into. On unauthorised buildings, he said: “We will first conduct a survey and accordingly take action.”Among other priorities, he listed better waste management, making Zirakpur pollution-free, automated traffic signals at intersections, and construction of community toilets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/udayvir-dhillon-elected-zirakpur-mc-president-101617822810553.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra’s stock of vaccine doses to last three more days||Maharashtra is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses and had to shut down several vaccination centres. It has already requested the Centre to provide adequate stock as it has set a target of inoculating 600,000 beneficiaries a day, said Rajesh Tope, state health minister, on Wednesday.The state is left with 1,400,000 vaccine doses, which will last only three days. It has demanded a stock of four million doses a week from the Centre.Maharashtra tops the chart in vaccinating maximum beneficiaries across the country. Currently, it is covering 450,000 beneficiaries a day and the health minister guaranteed that it will cross the 600,000 mark in the next two-three days, provided it gets adequate stock from the Centre.Tope urged the Centre to prioritise Maharashtra and if required, delay stock supplies to other states as it is the most affected state in the country. The demand to the Centre was made in a video conference meeting chaired by the union minister of health and family welfare Dr Harsh Vardhan. Tope attended the meeting along with the health minister from six other states on Tuesday evening.“Union minister Prakash Javadekar had asked us to double the vaccination numbers and had assured to provide adequate stock. We accepted it as a challenge and increased the daily vaccination to 450,000 from 300,000. However, we have started facing shortage of vaccine stock and have to shut down many centres across the state as there is no stock left there,” the health minister told reporters later. “We have a stock of 1,400,000 vaccines left, which means the state has a stock of three days only and then vaccination would be stopped if fresh stock is not provided. We need a stock of at least 4,000,000 vaccines per week. As health minister of Maharashtra, I can guarantee we will achieve the target of inoculating 600,000 beneficiaries in the next 2-3 days as we have planned mobilization of the resources in that manner,” Tope added.“Vaccination is the most effective measure to control the pandemic at present,” the health minister said, urging the Centre to provide adequate stock and if needed, delay supplies of the stock in other states as the daily cases have breached the 50,000 mark in Maharashtra.He avoided making any allegations of bias against the Centre, but pointed out that there is a difference between what they say and what they do, when it comes to handling the Covid-19 pandemic. “I don’t believe the central government doesn’t want to provide vaccine stock as they have been doing it regularly, but the pace is slow. Dr Harsh Vardhan (union health minister) is a very soft spoken and helpful minister and urged him to give more attention towards Maharashtra,” he commented.Responding to the remarks, leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the state government is expected to discuss the issue with the Centre, instead of disclosing them before the media. He stressed that Maharashtra is getting maximum stock of vaccine from the Centre, compared to other states.“The state government should discuss issues with the Centre instead of running away from the situation by speaking about issues in the media. The state government asks the opposition party (Bharatiya Janata Party) not to bring in politics in handling Covid-19 pandemic but its ministers and the chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) do the same,” Fadnavis told reporters.He said that the state is getting enough stock for the target group on a regular basis for vaccination. “Sometimes it happens that the stock is left for a few days but then fresh stock arrives from the Centre as supplies are going across the states,” Fadnavis clarified.To increase vaccine production, the state owned Haffkine Institute has already sought permission from the Centre for transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech that has developed Covid-19 vaccine — ‘Covaxin’. It has also sought permission for fill and finish operations of Covid vaccine in which Haffkine Institute will only fill vaccines in bottles and make them ready as a product.Haffkine is a public sector undertaking owned by the state government and has developed a number of vaccines that include anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum, oral polio vaccine etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtras-stock-of-vaccine-doses-to-last-three-more-days-101617822811108.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh night curfew from 10:30pm to 5am||A day after the Chandigarh administration decided to impose night curfew in the city, the formal orders were on Wednesday and came into effect immediately.The curfew will stay in force from 10:30pm to 5am daily. The Tuesday press release had mentioned the timings as 10pm to 5am.The order issued by deputy commissioner Mandip Singh Brar prohibit movement of people for all non-essential activities during the curfew. “No person shall leave their homes or shall move on foot or by vehicle or travel or stand or roam around on any road or public places during above said hours.” states the order issued under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Any breach of the order will invite action under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. Restaurants to close by 10pm All restaurants and food courts will be allowed to run only with 50% of their capacity and will have to be closed by 10pm. The last order for food can be accepted till 9pm. Meanwhile, exemptions have been made for various categories, including passengers going to or returning from airport, railway station or the bus stand Who all are exemptedPeople with a restricted movement curfew pass are exempted No curbs on inter-state and intra-state movement of essential and non-essential goods All such vehicles/persons will be allowed to pass after due verification Hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs will be allowed to remain open 24X7 Pregnant women and patients are allowed to move for getting medical services Those tasked with law and order, emergency, Covid-19 and municipal services besides accredited mediapersons exempted on production of identity card||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-night-curfew-from-10-30pm-to-5am-101617822750815.html
08-04-2021||Other||Justice MS Gill takes oath as Punjab chief vigilance commissioner||Punjab governor VP Singh Badnore on Wednesday administered oath of office to justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) as chief vigilance commissioner and to Amritpartap Singh Sekhon as state information commissioner in a virtual ceremony held from the Punjab Raj Bhawan. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan, from her office, sought permission of the governor to start the swearing-in ceremony. Patiala MP Preneet Kaur was also present. A three-member committee headed by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had recommended the name of justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retd) to head the Punjab State Vigilance Commission. The selection panel comprised Punjab assembly speaker Rana KP Singh and local government minister Brahm Mohindra.Sekhon has served as officer on special duty (OSD) to Preneet Kaur, when she was the Union minister of state for external affairs. For the past four years, he has been serving as OSD to the CM.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/justice-ms-gill-takes-oath-as-punjab-chief-vigilance-commissioner-101617822749772.html
08-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 59,907 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 59,907 new Covid-19 infections, its highest single-day spike, and 322 deaths, taking the tally to 3,173,261 and toll to 56,652. The number of active cases also crossed the 500,000 mark with 501,559 active infections. The increasing number of cases in Maharashtra has started burdening its health infrastructure. According to data from the state health department on Wednesday, 80.51% of isolation beds for Covid-19 patients across the state are occupied. It also stated that 32.77% oxygen beds and 60.94% ICU beds are also occupied across the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, in his address to citizens last week, had indicated that the availability of beds will be a huge concern if cases continue to rise at its current pace. Between April 1 and 7, the state has reported over 360,000 new cases. Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, the state health department, in a meeting chaired by Thackeray on Wednesday, said the number of patients in the state has increased thirty-fold since February 2021. On February 11, 2021, the state had 30,265 active cases. Vyas also said as per an estimation by the Centre, the number of active cases is expected to increase up to 1.2 million by the end of April. If compared to the first wave, there were 310,752 active cases on September 17, 2020, the state said. On Wednesday, Mumbai also reported 10,442 cases and 24 deaths, taking the tally to 483,042 and toll to 11,856. Mumbai also has 83,185 active cases, the second-highest in the state, after Pune, which has 90,048 active cases and which reported 5,637 new cases on Wednesday.State government and medical experts have been expressing concern over the grim statistics, appealing to people to take all precautions. State environment and tourism minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday tweeted, “The 2nd surge that is higher than the 1st has put massive pressure on our doctors, medical staff, frontline workers, Govt and Local Self Govt staff. But more worrisome is the rising cases in this pandemic. I urge all to stay home, stay safe and not endanger self or others.” In a meeting chaired by Thackeray with various trade bodies, Dr. Shashank Joshi, a member of the state task force, said, “The second wave is like a tsunami, we have to take all the required steps to prevent it. The new strain is also affecting young people and children. The solution lies in breaking the chain of the virus.” A surgeon from Mumbai tweeted, “BMC war room staff is really trying hard to get people the beds they desperately need. But the situation is very grim. I’m continually flooded with calls for beds of patients whose oxygen levels are crashing rapidly. Please avoid all unnecessary travel, and use maximum precautions.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-59-907-new-covid-19-cases-101617822630458.html
08-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity logs 987 Covid cases, highest since outbreak||The tricity on Wednesday recorded 987 fresh Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike since the outbreak last March.With 399 cases, Chandigarh set a new second-wave record, while Mohali reported 481 cases and Panchkula accounted for 107.Chandigarh has recorded around 3,100 cases and nine deaths in the first week of April. On Tuesday, when the administration decided to reintroduce night curfew, the Union health secretary had even flagged Chandigarh as the only area of concern among small states and union territories.The total number of cases has reached 29,197, of which 3,121 (10.7%) are active. While 25,688 (88%) patients have recovered, 388 have died, including an 80-year-old man from Sector 45 and a 62-year-old woman from the Industrial Area who succumbed on Wednesday.In Panchkula district, the total count has gone up to 14,053. There are 1,184 (8.4%) active cases, 12,713 (90.5%) patients have been cured and 156 have succumbed to the virus to date. In April, 1,024 cases and two deaths have been reported.Though fatalities have remained low in Chandigarh and Panchkula this month, experts warn the impact of the present surge will be seen in terms of deaths in the coming weeks. Seven patients succumb in MohaliAmid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Mohali district is also recording a steep spike in fatalities, with seven more patients reported to have died on Wednesday. While the death toll stands at 465, the total number of cases has reached 29,518.The district has logged 2,825 cases and 32 deaths in the first week of April, as compared to 6,315 cases and 48 deaths throughout March. The number of active cases has bumped up to 4,277, nearly 15% of the total, and recovery rate has dropped to 84%, with 24,776 discharged so far, including 110 on Wednesday.Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases, with 181 surfacing on Wednesday, followed by 102 in Dhakoli, 91 in Kharar, 45 in Gharuan, 32 in Dera Bassi, 13 in Kurali, six each in Banur and Boothgarh and five in Lalru. Underling the urgent need to adhere to Covid appropriate behaviour and intensification of the vaccination drive, Bhavneet Bharti, director-principal, Dr B R Ambedkar State Institute of Medical Sciences, Mohali, urged people to wear masks and follow social distancing norms at all costs to save themselves and their loved ones from the virus. “The vaccine is the most potent shield we have against this deadly virus, urging everyone eligible to get the shot at the earliest,” said Bharti while addressing an awareness function at the institute on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-logs-987-covid-cases-highest-since-outbreak-101617822629912.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Masks must in pvt cars, even if driving alone, says Delhi high court||It is compulsory for people to wear a mask in a private vehicle even if they are driving alone, the Delhi high court ordered on Wednesday, ruling that a private vehicle on the roads is also covered under the definition of a public place.The high court also came down on four lawyers who petitioned the court last year against fines imposed by the Delhi Police for violating the mask rule, observing that compliance by lawyers encourages common people to wear the masks.A single judge bench of justice Prathiba M Singh held that a moving vehicle, even if occupied at a given point in time by one person, will be a “public place” due to the immediate risk of exposure to other persons in varying circumstances to the outside world.“A mask acts as a suraksha kavach (protective shield) which will prevent the spread of the deadly virus,” the HC said, recalling that several experts, doctors and researchers have emphasised the need to wear face masks right from the early days of the pandemic.The judge said that a person driving alone could get infected while visiting a market, their workplace or a busy street, and go on to infect others who occupy the vehicle later.“If a person is travelling in the car alone, the said status is not a permanent one. It is merely a temporary phase. There could be other occupants in the car prior to the said phase and post the said phase. There could be elderly family members or children who may be picked up from the school or even simply friends or colleagues may travel in the car in the immediate future. Such persons can also be exposed to the virus if the occupant was not wearing the mask,” the court said in its 32-page judgment.Saurabh Sharma, a lawyer who was fined ₹500 for not wearing a mask, had challenged the penalty in his petition filed in September last year. Sharma said the officers who imposed the fine had failed to provide any executive order to establish that it was mandatory to wear masks while travelling alone in a private vehicle.Sharma’s petition echoed a view that had been articulated by many people on and off social media who argued that people should be allowed to take off their masks when driving alone.“Advocates as a class, owing to their legal training have a higher duty to show compliance especially in extenuating circumstances such as the pandemic. Wearing of masks cannot be made an ego issue. Compliance by advocates and lawyers would encourage the general public to show greater inclination to comply,” said the court.The Centre, which had first made it compulsory for people to wear masks in public places in April last year, did not take a stand and left it to state governments to see how they wanted to implement the rule.Residents of the national capital, however, have reservations about the high court ruling.BS Vohra, president of East Delhi’s joint resident welfare association (RWA) forum, said the decision was “not fair”.“We have no option other than to obey the court order. But I think wearing a mask while driving a car with all windows closed should not be made mandatory. When all windows of a car are closed and the person is in the vehicle, then it is a private environment. The court should also take cognisance of political rallies and protests where hardly anyone is seen wearing masks or following social distancing norms,” Vohra said.It is not clear if the HC’s ruling will persuade other states to review their stand on the matter.Political parties seem to have opposing views on the ruling.Mudit Aggrawal, vice-president of the Delhi Pradesh Congress Committee, said, “I urge the court to reconsider their decision… This will lead to unnecessary harassment and corruption without any actual benefits in controlling Covid-19 cases.”The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), however, welcomed the decision.Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor said, “We support the court’s ruling. We have even run mask and sanitiser distribution campaigns. We call upon our workers to encourage use of masks by distributing them wherever they are needed.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-masks-must-in-pvt-cars-even-if-driving-alone-says-delhi-high-court-101617821832429.html
08-04-2021||Other||Bus services hit as RTC workers begin strike||BengaluruThe Karnataka government on Wednesday said it incurred losses to the tune of around ₹17 crore due to the strike called by employees of the four major state-run bus corporations.Around 1.3 lakh workers of the transport corporations -- Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC), and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) -- started their strike on Wednesday over unfulfilled demands to be paid on par with the sixth pay commission.In Bengaluru, where public buses ferry around 45 lakh passengers a day, the number was down to a few thousand due to the strike.“Normally there are 5,600 buses in Bengaluru. But on Wednesday, there were 145 buses from BMTC, 1,124 private buses and 2,000 maxi cabs were allowed to ferry people as permitted by the transport department,” said an official of BMTC, requesting anonymity.Thousands of people were left stranded in Bengaluru and other parts of the state as buses account for most of the mass transport options in Karnataka and its capital.With buses off the road, auto-rickshaws and cabs reportedly charged over double the average cost of commute in most places.Karnataka chief secretary P Ravi Kumar on Wednesday wrote to the Railways for special train services to mitigate the impact of the bus strike.“This (strike) will cause severe hardship to travelling public. In addition due to upcoming festivals there will be a rush of people going out of Bangalore to their native places,” Kumar wrote in a letter to the general manager of the southwestern railways.The chief secretary requested for special trains on April 9 and 10.“The government has not called us for any talks but continue to give statements in the media that they are ready for talks. The government has asked to call off the strike and then come for talks which is conditional and could prolong the stalemate,” Vijay Bhaskar, a senior office bearer of the transport workers union, said.He said the government had threatened to use Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) against them and was also creating an adverse public opinion against their legitimate demands to be paid on par with government employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bus-services-hit-as-rtc-workers-begin-strike-101617822089763.html
08-04-2021||Other||Jarkiholi shifted from hospital, to stay in home quarantine||BengaluruFormer Karnataka minister and Bharatiya Janata Party legislator Ramesh Jarkiholi was discharged from a private hospital in Gokak in Belagavi district on Wednesday. Jarkiholi, who is accused of sexually exploiting a woman after promising her job, was to appear before the special investigation team (SIT) probing the case, but he failed to do so after testing positive for Covid-19. Following his discharge, he was shifted to his house in Gokak. Citing Covid-19, Jarkiholi refused to talk to reporters waiting outside the hospital. On Tuesday, SIT officers visited the hospital to confirm reports of the BJP leader’s admission. An SIT officer told HT that doctors have advised Jarkiholi to remain in quarantine at home for two weeks. The officer added that the SIT will take a call on questioning him based on expert opinion. Jarkiholi was earlier questioned by the SIT on March 29, when he had sought four days’ time to answer their questions. Jarkiholi’s lawyer Shyam Sundar told reporters on Monday that his client could not appear for questioning because he was unwell. “I have been now officially informed that he has tested positive for Covid-19 and was admitted at the Gokak government hospital. Based on inputs from the doctors as to when he will be fit, accordingly, we will inform the investigation officers,” Sundar said. The Karnataka High Court on Monday directed the SIT to submit a report on the investigation so far. A division bench of Chief Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Suraj Govindaraj, while issuing notice to the state government and other respondents, said, “We direct the respondent (SIT) to place on record in a sealed cover, report on the investigation so far carried out. Report shall be tendered on the next date-April 17,” read the order. During the hearing of two petitions filed by advocates Geetha Misra and S Umesh, the lawyers had claimed that police officials leaked sensitive investigation details to media personnel with ulterior motives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jarkiholi-shifted-from-hospital-to-stay-in-home-quarantine-101617822029768.html
08-04-2021||Other||Yatnal continues tirade against CM||BengaluruBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) legislator Basanagouda Patil (Yatnal) on Wednesday said that BS Yediyurappa should resign on his own after April 17, adding that he should thank party workers and high command for getting a two-year bonus as the chief minister.Stating that party legislators were not happy with the CM, Yatnal said they were being forced to stand in front of the media and praise Yediyurappa even though “most of them have not been released any funds for development in their own respective constituencies”.He said the party’s rule bar those over 75 years of age from holding any administrative posts, adding that calls for Yediyurappa to become chief minister in 2023 were not possible.“Does the rule for persons above 75 years not apply? Or have they granted him a special status…,” Yatnal said in Bengaluru on Wednesday.Yatnal has openly sought the removal of 78-year-old Yediyurappa from the top chair. He said Yediyurappa has already got a bonus of two years as chief minister and should resign on his own after April 17. The bypolls to two assembly seats and a Lok Sabha seat will take place on April 17.The BJP has given Yatnal a show cause notice, but there has been no real effort to control the leader or his tirade against his own leader.Yatnal’s stand has given the Congress and Janata Dal (Secular) more ammunition to attack Yediyurappa, who faces dissent from within his own government. Several BJP legislators have claimed that they have not been given any grants for developmental works as Yediyurappa continues to help turncoat ministers.Senior BJP leader and rural development and Panchayati Raj minister KS Eshwarappa had recently approached the Karnataka governor to complain that Yediyurappa had bypassed the minister and awarded projects from his department to legislators and others in violation of procedure and rules.Eshwarappa softened his stand against Yediyurappa on Wednesday as he said the national leadership was looking into the issue.“It’s a lie that I filed a complaint against the CM. The question of lodging a complaint does not arise at all. Yediyurappa is our CM. He is my leader,” Eshwarappa said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yatnal-continues-tirade-against-cm-101617822029183.html
08-04-2021||Other||B’luru reports rapid growth in Covid cases||Bengaluru From 464 Covid-19 cases on January 1, Bengaluru on Wednesday reported a new high of 4,991 cases, with experts saying the nine-fold increase in around 100 days was an indication of the rapid pace at which the infection was spreading the city. In comparison, Bengaluru took 118 days from its first Covid-19 case on March 8, 2020 to breach the four-figure mark on July 7 last year, when it reported 1,172 of Covid-19 infections, according to government data. The first time Bengaluru breached the four-figure mark this year was on March 19 when the city reported 1,037 cases. It took just nine days since to touch 2,000 cases, 14 days to breach the 3,000 mark and 18 days to cross 4,000 Covid-19 cases. Bengaluru reported almost 5,000 new cases on Wednesday. The rapid pace of infections in the second wave has prompted experts to draw up estimates that the city is likely to record around 6,500 cases per day by April 20. With 4,991 new cases on Wednesday, Bengaluru’s total number of active cases rose to 35,789. The city also accounted for 25 of the total 35 fatalities due to Covid-19 in the state. Karnataka reported 6,976 new cases on Wednesday, taking the active case count to 49,254. The positivity rate in the state is hovering around 6%, according to government data. On the growing number of cases, K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health & family welfare minister on Wednesday said the government will take up more testing where positivity is high. “Nearly 5,000 cases have been reported in Bengaluru alone with a positivity rate of 5.56%. 25 out of 35 deaths in the state have been reported in Bengaluru. Tomorrow I have called a meeting of all senior officers of BBMP, Bengaluru Urban and Rural Districts. The prime minister will also hold a video-conference with all CMs,” he added.The highest case count in a single day in Bengaluru was on October 8 last year when it reported 5,121 infections in 24 hours. But the rapid pace of infections in the second wave, said to have commenced in the beginning of March, is likely to outdo that figure by within another week, experts said. The city has seen only two days without any fatalities due to Covid-19 this year, which highlights the severity of infection. Dr. CN Manjunath, director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research and member of the state’s technical advisory committee (TAC) on Covid-19, said Bengaluru was taking around one fourth of the time taken last year. “Transmissibility in the second wave is faster and definitely higher as well,” Dr Manjunath told HT. According to data from the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP, the city’s civic body) total positive cases in the city came down from 18,551 in December last year to 10,311 in January and 6813 in February this year, until it saw another spike. Total positive cases went up to 31,886 in March and stood at 17,292 in April so far. Experts said the “release phenomena” saw an increased participation in religious fairs, political events, marriages and other public gatherings that later turned into super-spreader events. Dr V Ravi, former head of the neurovirology department at NIMHANS and member of Karnataka’s TAC on Covid-19, said there was a graded lifting of lockdown restrictions after the first wave, which helped control the spread. But people continue to move freely “as though Covid-19 has come and gone”. He said people had adopted caution even after the lifting of the restrictions, but that has now faded with time. “There is tremendous laxity in terms of Covid-appropriate behaviour,” Dr Ravi said. “This is being driven by clusters that occur in crowded cities and closed spaces,” he added. According to experts, the chief minister BS Yediyurappa-led state government, which continues to look at people entering the state, has failed to look within for the problem or find an appropriate solution to contain the surge. Meanwhile, the Bengaluru City Police have ordered a ban on use of gyms and swimming pools within the city. They have also imposed Section 144 of CrPC in the city. Bidar, where one of the bypoll constituencies (Basavakalyan) is located, reported 214 new cases on Wednesday, while neighbouring Kalaburagi reported 205 cases. Mysuru, about 125 km from Bengaluru, continued to see a sharp spike as it saw 243 new cases while Tumakuru reported 204 new cases. The mutation of the virus, experts said, showed a possibility of higher transmissibility but nothing to indicate so far conclusively that they were more severe.The Karnataka government hopes that increasing its vaccination cover will help the state contain the growing number of cases. Starting April 11, Covid-19 vaccination can be distributed in all private and government work places that have at least 100 beneficiaries above 45 years of age, the state government said in a statement on Wednesday.“Several large IT firms and industries had earlier requested us to allow vaccination at their premises. Companies can now provide vaccination to their employees at their offices if there are more than 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries. We have crossed 50 lakh inclinations in the state today. Soon we will reach 1 crore,” K Sudhakar, Karnataka’s health & family welfare minister said on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-reports-rapid-growth-in-covid-cases-101617821969200.html
08-04-2021||Other||Russian couple robbed of $8,000 in Karol Bagh||New Delhi: A Russian couple visiting Delhi for medical treatment were allegedly robbed of $8,000 by three men posing as security officials in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh on Monday evening.According to a senior police officer, not authorised to speak to the media, the suspects arrived in a car and posed as security officials while the foreign couple was outside a hotel in Karol Bagh around 8.30pm on Monday.“The suspects told the couple that they needed to search them as they have received information about suspicious activity. They found $8,000 during the search and tried to flee with it,” said the officer.As the suspects fled, the woman tried to chase them but she was allegedly assaulted. The suspects escaped in their car with the money even as the couple contacted their language interpreter in Delhi.The police were subsequently alerted and a case of robbery was registered. The suspects remained unidentified until late Wednesday evening.The couple arrived in Delhi from Russia in late March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/russian-couple-robbed-of-8-000-in-karol-bagh-101617820649532.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi adds 5,506 Covid-19 cases, 20 more deaths||The fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic continued to surge in Delhi, with cases hitting a fresh high for the year on Wednesday after 5,506 new infections were recorded.The seven-day rolling average of infections also crossed the 4,000 mark, which is for the first time since December 4 last year, indicating the return of the city’s Covid graph to levels not seen since the third wave that lasted from October to December in 2020.With a little over 90,000 tests, the city’s positivity rate — proportion of samples that return positive among the total samples tested — also shot up to 6.1%, on Wednesday, the highest since December 1.The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends a test positivity rate below 5% for a two-week period for an infection to be considered under control in an area. Delhi crossed this threshold on Monday for the first time in 124 days. The positivity rate dropped just below 5% on Tuesday, on the back of a record 103,453 new tests.Delhi’s fourth wave has seen infections rise sharply, with the number of cases increasing from less than 1,000 to over 5,000 within 16 days, showed Delhi government data.“Delhi, where there were less than 200 cases for two to three months, has crossed the 5,000 mark within three weeks. The infection has been around for a year and we know that the best way to protect oneself is to wear a mask and maintain social distance. I urge people to follow these precautions,” said Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain.Delhi also added 20 more deaths of Covid-19 to its toll, taking the overall fatality count to 11,133 on Wednesday.More than 15 people died of the infection on average daily over the last seven days. In comparison, 7.7 deaths were recorded on average daily the week before and 3.5 deaths the week before that.“The increase in the number of deaths always follows the curve of the infection. The severity of the infection is at the peak between the eighth and 12th day, so if the incidence is high today, the impact on deaths will be seen 10 days later,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).He added that mortalities have been fewer this year because people are more aware and reach hospitals on time. Health care facilities also have clinical protocols in place for appropriate treatment.The number of people hospitalised has been increasing sharply too along with the number of cases.Almost 3,000 beds have been added over the last one week; the occupancy has hovered at around 46% however.“The bed situation is getting worse by the day. Everything is gradually filling up as the number of cases goes up. Hospitals are again moving from non-Covid to Covid services,” said Dr Anant Mohan, head of the pulmonology department at AIIMS.The number of people in home isolation crossed the 10,000 mark on Wednesday. There are over 19,400 people living with the infection currently in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-adds-5-506-covid-cases-20-deaths-101617820469646.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Few follow the rules at Delhi’s busy weekly markets||New Delhi: On Wednesday, when the national capital reported over 5500 fresh Covid-19 cases at a positivity rate of 6.10%, many weekly markets across the city were packed to capacity, with most shoppers clearly flouting social distancing norms.HT visited two such markets and saw poor compliance of social distancing protocols with shoppers jostling with each other for space.Last week, the Delhi government identified weekly markets among several super-spreader areas where enforcement efforts and awareness campaigns were required.At the weekly Wednesday market in Govindpuri, mask discipline was poor with little to no social distancing, despite public address systems relaying announcements about standard operating procedures.Tina, 18, a resident of Govindpuri, who was at the market along with her siblings and mothers, said that the market was crowded as usual despite the government confirming that Delhi was witnessing the fourth wave of the infection.“The market is usually crowded on Wednesday. If you go by the crowds, you’d think that the pandemic is over,” said Tina, who goes by her first name. She said that while there were announcements reminding people to maintain physical distancing, shoppers were not mindful of the rules.Pooja Jaiswal, another visitor, who was seen without a mask, said that she was surprised by the footfall at the market. “I’m in Delhi for a short visit and decided to do some essential shopping. I didn’t anticipate that the market would be crowded to this extent,” said Jaiswal.Vendors in the market, however, said that they were reminding visitors to wear masks and follow all protocols. “Out of 100 people, if 2-3 people are not wearing a mask, we cannot blame the entire market. We can’t do much if someone doesn’t want to follow the rules,” said Manish Kumar, who runs a fabric shop during the weekly market.Kumar said that night curfew, which started on Tuesday night, will have terrible consequences for vendors who were already facing losses.“Things were getting back on track for us since January but once again, they are going downhill. Due to the curfew, our earnings will be reduced by 50%. We are following all protocols but continue to suffer. Since it’s summer, people use to step out to shop in the evening around 6-7 pm. By the time, we start selling, it’s already 8 pm and by 9 pm, we need to start wrapping up. When will sell our goods?” said Kumar.The government has imposed night curfew until April 30 across Delhi, from 10pm till 5 am.At the weekly market at Sadiq Nagar, lack of mask discipline was the main concern. A significant number of people were seen lowering down the mask to speak or they had worn it incorrectly.Due to a relatively lesser crowd, visitors maintained sufficient distance from one another. Delhi police officials were making announcements at the market. “We are reminding people about the curfew timings so that they can return home well in time,” said a police official, who did not wish to be identified.Shopkeepers said that social distancing was not a problem since limited people were stepping out due to the recent surge in cases. They said that while protocols were being followed, the business had suffered. “If 80% of our customers used to come earlier, only around 20% come now. The numbers have reduced after Holi. Our earnings have been affected and will further reduce if restrictions continue,” said Suresh Kumar, 69, who runs a grocery shop at the weekly market. Kumar said that the government had not taken any steps for the welfare of hawkers despite the losses they had suffered in the past year.Another shopkeeper, Baleshwar Singh Yadav, said the footfall has gone down due to the fear of Covid-19. Yadav said the curfew was detrimental to the business of hawkers. “The fear of Covid-19 has set in again. They (shoppers) are not stepping out anyway. To add to our miseries, the government has imposed a curfew,” said Yadav.Ramesh Kumar, head of the South Delhi Weekly Market association, said all vendors had been given directives to enforce SOPs and they were doing the same. Kumar said that the association had arranged for public address systems at different markets to ensure that rules are followed. “We have hired people to manage crowds and also make announcements regularly through the speaker. We are following all rules but the government should think of our welfare too. If we set up our markets at 6-7 pm and start wrapping up by 9 pm, we hardly get any time to conduct business. Our livelihood depends on these markets. The government should think about us as well,” said KumarRP Meena, deputy commissioner of police (south-east), said that the local police were trying to curb social distancing violation at the weekly markets by prosecuting violators aggressively. “With the district administration, we are dishing out challans to as many violators as we are able to. We already have a public announcement system in place, but we are trying to dissuade them from being careless by fining them,” said Meena.The Delhi government did not comment on the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-few-follow-the-rules-at-delhi-s-busy-weekly-markets-101617820409555.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Police fan out to spread the word as Delhi adjusts to night curfew||From making announcements asking people to reach homes early to issuing fines to violators, the first two days of the implementation of the night curfew in the capital saw teams of Delhi police personnel hitting the roads much before the restrictions started at 10pm on Tuesday and Wednesday.Led by district deputy commissioners of police (DCP), the police teams were spotted in prominent markets like Connaught Place and Khan Market, in addition to other important stretches across the city. Officers said multiple teams have been formed at every police station to check curfew violations.The night curfew -- from 10pm to 5am -- till April 30 was ordered by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday to limit the spread of the coronavirus disease.Data shared by the police showed that police filed 200 FIRs, temporarily detained 534 violators and fined 842 people for not wearing masks on the first day of the night curfew. Police said the focus on Tuesday night was on informing people about the new rule, adding that more teams will be posted on the roads from Wednesday night.Owners and management of banquet halls, restaurants, bars and shopkeepers in markets were among those against whom FIRs were filed under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and sections of the Disaster Management Act.Also Read| 'Parties were being held': Delhi health minister on why night curfew was imposedPolice said that almost all the 1,000 police control room (PCR) vans spread out across most market places in the city, using their loud speakers to advise people to stay indoors. In southeast Delhi, police teams coordinated with managements of gurdwaras, temples and mosques to inform citizens about the curfew rules.Delhi police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said police across the city are stringently following the DDMA directions on the curfew.In New Delhi area, which has prominent markets such as Connaught Place and Khan Market, district DCP Eish Singhal said, “Before 10pm, our officers had started making announcements. Through word of mouth, news of the curfew had spread and most people complied with the rules. We issued 76 challans and registered one case. Our intention is not to just prosecute people, it is also to ensure that they start complying with the rules and head back home on their own well in time before the 10pm deadline.”In north Delhi, police focused on ensuring that only people engaged in essential services were on the road. “We ensured that vehicles engaged in delivery of essential items were not stopped. Many vehicles take the Ring Road (that passes through north Delhi and connects the national Capital with nearby state of Haryana) to enter or leave Delhi and we helped such goods pass the district without any hindrance. We also visited markets in the Walled City and ensured that only people engaged in essential services were on the road. There are trucks that load and unload items that come under essential services in Old Delhi market. We did not face any problems as people were cooperative. We issued around 40-45 challans against those who were flouting the night curfew rules,” said the north district’s DCP, Anto Alphonse.In southeast Delhi, which has areas such as Lajpat Nagar, New Friends Colony and Jamia Nagar, the curfew rules were announced from loudspeakers of masjids, gurdwaras and temples. The guidelines issued by DDMA were circulated among locals through social media. “All streets, passages and subways connecting the main roads were blocked using barricades to restrict the movement of vehicles for better imposition of night curfew,” said the south east district’s DCP RP Meena.Each district administration also deployed teams on Wednesday to enforce the rules.“The respective MCDs have been asked to ensure restaurants and markets are shut by 10pm. Further, SDMs have been directed to be on the field from 9pm to midnight to monitor the situation. Teams have also been deployed from the DM’s office to assist the police. Also, the district control room will work round-the-clock at the DM’s office to monitor the curfew and to issue e-passes,” said another revenue official.Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said the seven-hour-long curfew was imposed in the capital as people were found organising parties and other events where Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, were often ignored. “The night curfew has been imposed because there were reports about parties, which cause unnecessary gatherings and put people in close contact. Hence the night curfew is aimed to avoid this situation because if even one is positive among the 50 people, all 50 would test positive,” he said while interacting with reporters.Also Read| Night curfew in Delhi to control Covid-19 spread. See picturesGovernment officials, essential workers and those travelling to airports, railway stations, interstate bus terminals, Covid-19 vaccination centres and hospitals are exempt from the seven-hour night curfew, with some requiring e-passes. The order mandates all restaurants, markets, wedding halls, pubs and commercial establishments to shut by 10pm.Pending e-passes adds to worryMeanwhile, a large number of people complained of not getting e-passes despite applying through the Delhi government website -- www.delhi.gov.in -- on Wednesday. Some even queued up at various DMs’ offices, hoping to get the pass.“The application status keeps showing ‘pending’. I work in a medical shop in Rajouri Garden which remains open round-the-clock. Now, because my e-pass is getting delayed, I have to shut my store at 9pm itself today because my staff and I will need at least one hour to reach our homes. I hope the government expedites the e-pass system,” said Ritesh Singh, an owner of a medical store.Data showed that till Wednesday noon, the 11 districts of Delhi had collectively received 73,154 applications for e-passes, out of which 6,133 were approved, 34,759 were rejected and 30,940 were pending.A senior revenue official said that the pendency is also because of certain grey areas for which different districts have raised queries. “The revenue headquarters has received queries from district administrations on whether e-passes should be granted for food delivery persons, airport cargo transport, weddings and so on. Other queries also include whether construction activities and operation of small factories and production units should be allowed during the curfew hours. A detailed clarification on these issues are likely to be issued on Thursday,” said the official on condition of anonymity.When asked about the pendency in applications and issues with the government website, Jain said, “It has begun from yesterday only. So, I think these teething problems will be sorted out in a day or two.”Talking about the effectiveness of the night curfew, the health minister said such curbs cannot be limited to certain parts of the city. “It has to be applied to all of Delhi. However it has been done only for the time being and we will analyse the impact. It is not a harsh decision as people generally finish their work by 10pm. Taxis are allowed and if someone is coming from outside and have valid tickets, they can travel. For restaurants and hotels, the timing is anyway 11pm. I believe that the condition of the virus spread is not mellow, so we have to be aware and careful. People talk in extremes, either they are in favour of a complete lockdown or none at all. There has to be a middle ground as well,” Jain said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-fan-out-to-spread-the-word-as-capital-adjusts-to-night-curfew-101617820410199.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||As Covid-19 cases rise, Delhi health minister Jain warns of another peak||With the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) spreading at a fast pace in the state, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday expressed concerns that the new cases may cross the previous record of 8,593 recorded on November 11 last year.“In Delhi, where less than 200 cases were being reported each day for two to three months, the number has crossed the 5,000 mark within three weeks. The pace at which the cases are increasing, we worry that it might break the previous record. We cannot say anything for sure, but many other states have a higher positivity rate than Delhi,” said Jain.“Delhi’s positivity rate is 5%, it’s 25% in Maharashtra and 16% in Chhattisgarh; many states have a positivity of over 10%. If the positivity rate in Delhi increases to that level, think about the situation we will be in,” he added.Delhi reported 5,506 cases on Wednesday after conducting over 90,000 tests, putting the positivity rate at 6.10%. This is the highest positivity rate the city has seen since December 1. The city also saw 20 deaths on Wednesday.The government has already directed officials to increase the number of beds in 11 government and 54 private sector hospitals. The city has already added over 2,000 beds in the last two to three days and another 2,000 are likely to be added in the next couple of days, taking the total number of available beds for Covid patients to around 10,000.The government has also instituted a night curfew between 10pm and 5am. “There were reports of people partying. What happens when people gather in large numbers and are in close contact unnecessarily? Even if one person is positive and 50 people have gathered, all of them get it. The measure is not for a long time, but for a short while to control the number of cases. We will see what the impact of the night curfew is. It is not a harsh step. People usually finish all their work before 10pm. This step is between a complete lockdown and complete relaxation,” said Jain.He also informed that 84,213 Covid vaccine shots were administered till 10 pm on Tuesday, of which 75% were given in government centres and 25% in private hospitals.“People over the age of 45 years need the vaccine more, but those between 18 and 45 are getting infected now. It is spreading among them because they are mobile. They are not getting a severe disease but they spread it to their parents, grandparents,” the minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-cases-rise-jain-warns-of-another-peak-101617820351498.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Food corporation not procuring wheat at MSP in Delhi, alleges Rai||Senior Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader and Delhi minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday alleged that the Food Corporation of India (FCI), which comes under the central government, has not yet opened counters for procurement of wheat at Delhi’s grain markets at the minimum support price (MSP) – an allegation that was denied by the Union ministry of food and public distribution and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).MSP is the assured price at which the government buys major farm produce to give farmers assured returns for their yield. It also acts as a base price for private traders. MSP applies to 23 crops, which include paddy and wheat.“FCI has not opened a single counter for wheat procurement in Delhi, yet it is making false claims of purchasing the crops at MSP rates from April 1. Despite three letters of plea addressed to the FCI, it has not opened its wheat procurement counters, forcing farmers to sell their wheat below MSP through commissioning agents. The central government determines the MSP and the FCI purchases, but the BJP is falsely accusing the Delhi government of not buying wheat at MSP,” said Rai, who is in charge of the agriculture department in Delhi.“This is the reality of the Prime Minister’s assurances of buying crops at MSP. This is why it is imperative to have a law for MSP. It is our demand that the Central government begin purchasing wheat at MSP from Najafgarh and Narela Mandi, and also investigate and act against those making false claims of shops opening in Delhi from April 1,” said Rai, expressing solidarity with farmer groups who have gathered at Delhi’s borders against three contentious farm laws passed in the Parliament and demanding a new law concerning MSP.However, a spokesperson of the Union ministry of food and public distribution dismissed the allegation and said, “The contentions of Delhi state government are not true.In fact the FCI Delhi region is fully prepared to procure wheat from farmers of Delhi at three centres -- FSD Mayapuri, FSD Narela and APMC Najafgarh mandi,which have been completely operational from April 1, 2021. Till date, 158 quintals of wheat from FSD Narela has been purchased by FCI Delhi region.”The Delhi BJP said in a press statement, “FCI has started the purchase of wheat at MSP in Narela from April 5. On the other hand, farmers in Delhi are still looking forward to the fulfilment of two promises made by the Kejriwal government. First, the payment of 50% over and above MSP to farmers and, second, free electricity for irrigation lines. Tomorrow (Thursday), Delhi BJP’s Kisan Morcha will hold a demonstration near the chief minister’s residence demanding payment of 50% above MSP and free electricity for farmers.”Delhi has around 800 hectares of agricultural land, show government records. Most of it is located in the western, northern and north-west peripheries of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/food-corporation-not-procuring-wheat-at-msp-in-delhi-alleges-rai-101617820350854.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Covid protocols in place inside schools, social distancing norms flouted outside||While Delhi schools have started taking extra precautions to ensure the safety of students appearing in the ongoing offline pre-boards and practical exams, amid the spike Covid-19 cases, many parents raised concerns about the physical distancing norm being violated outside several schools in the national capital.Currently, students of classes 9 to 12 (academic year 2020-21) are allowed to visit schools for examinations and board exam preparations. While the majority of private schools in Delhi have already completed their class 9 and 11 exams, the only students going to school are those in classes 10 and 12, whose practical exams are underway.In government schools, students of classes 9 to 12 are going to school for their practicals, pre-boards, and mid-term examinations.Despite clear guidelines from the directorate of education (DoE) for ensuring the entry and exit of students in a staggered manner, large groups of students can be seen outside many schools, violating physical distancing norms.Outside the government girls’ school in east Delhi’s Vasundhara Enclave, a large number of students could be seen without face masks and standing in groups on Wednesday afternoon. Similar scenes were seen outside several schools at ITO, Minto Road, Jasola, and Subhash Nagar, among other areas.Also Read| Covid-19: Few follow the rules at Delhi’s busy weekly marketsAnju Chaudhary, the mother of a class 9 student at a government school in Subhash Nagar, said, “I had gone to pick my son from school on Wednesday after his midterm exam and I saw students standing in large groups without maintaining any distance. We have heard in the news that students of many schools have tested Covid-19 positive recently and the violation of norms makes me fearful about the safety of my son. The government should either postpone the exams or instruct schools to ensure the safety of children. ”Many parents shared similar concerns. Sushil Kumar, the father of a class 12 student at a private school in Jasola, said, “My daughter is going to the school for her practical exams these days and I have seen how students violate the mask rule and social distancing norms outside the school. It makes me doubt the precautions being taken inside the school as well. She has to appear for her board exams from May 4. What will happen if something unfortunate happens now?”Aprajita Gautam, president of the Delhi Parents’ Association, said the government should either postpone the exams or issue fresh guidelines to schools. “This fresh wave of Covid-19 is scary. Several cases have been reported among students and teachers in the past few days,” she said.At least seven students tested positive for Covid-19 at Arya Kanya Gurukul in New Rajender Nagar on Monday. The principal and some staff members of another private school, DAV Sreshta Vihar, had also been tested Covid-19 positive last week. Besides, another private school in west Delhi on Monday cancelled a scheduled exam after a class 12 student tested positive.Several principals said it is a challenge for them to ensure physical distancing outside the school premises. The principal of a government school in Karawal Nagar said, “Most of our teachers are busy with invigilation work, while others are busy with distribution of books, ration and even Covid-19 related work. It’s not possible for schools to deploy staff members outside the campus to ensure enforcement of social distancing norms. It would be better if the government could deploy some civil defence volunteers for the purpose.”A senior official at the Delhi government’s education department, who asked not to be named, said, “It’s not possible for the government to postpone practical exams of board classes at a time when the CBSE board exams are near. Schools have already been directed to strictly abide by the Covid-19 protocols. The government might consider the ongoing midterm exams for class 9 and 11 as their final exams if the situation continues to remain the same.”Meanwhile, officials at several schools, both government and private, said they have stepped up the Covid-19 preventive measures. Harpreet Kaur, principal of Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya (SKV) in Tilak Nagar, said, “We have fixed seats for every student so that they can directly go to their assigned room, sit at their assigned seat and take the exam. We have also assigned duties to our staff at the gates to ensure students do not stand in groups while entering and leaving the school premises.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-protocols-in-place-inside-schools-social-distancing-norms-flouted-outside-101617820350227.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Will not demolish Lal Masjid, Centre informs Delhi HC||The Centre on Wednesday told the Delhi high court that it will not demolish the Lal Masjid, an ancient mosque situated on a disputed land near Lodhi Road in the national capital.Additional solicitor general (ASG) Chetan Sharma told justice Sanjeev Sachdeva that the Union government will not demolish the mosque till April 29, when the case will be next heard by the court.The submission came on a plea by the Delhi Waqf Board, challenging the demolition order of the mosque in village Aliganj, alongside Link Road. The Waqf Board plea, filed through advocate Wajeeh Shafiq, said even when the land dispute is pending before the Waqf Tribunal, the Centre and the CRPF (Central Reserve Police Force) have asked them to vacate the mosque as the structure was going to be demolished.On Tuesday, the court asked the Centre and the CRPF if they had plans to demolish the mosque.The Waqf petition has also said since time immemorial, the land in question has been occupied by a graveyard and the Lal Masjid. However, in 2017, the land of the graveyard was taken over by the Centre, a dispute which is pending adjudication before the Waqf Tribunal.On Tuesday, appearing for the Waqf Board, senior advocate Sanjoy Ghose submitted that even though the tribunal was made functional and appointments were made on court orders, since December 2020, the tribunal is not operational as the posts of two members are lying vacant.He had said the Centre’s Land and Development Officer (L&DO)is taking advantage of the situation and on March 31, the SHO of Basti Nizamuddin police station visited the site and told the imam that the mosque will be demolished since the area was to be used by CRPF for canteen, barracks and parking.He sought that the tribunal be constituted and the matter be decided before taking any untoward step.On Wednesday, justice Sachdeva, while taking on record the statement of the ASG, also asked the Delhi government to expedite the filling of vacancies in the Waqf Tribunal. The court posted the matter for further hearing to April 29.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-not-demolish-lal-masjid-centre-informs-delhi-hc-101617820349575.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||AAP protests against Covid-19 vaccine exports||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Wednesday protested outside the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) headquarters against the Centre’s decision to export Covid-19 vaccines, and urged that the jabs be made available for all adults in the country. The BJP, however, alleged that AAP workers were not wearing masks or distancing during the protest.The Delhi Police broke up the protest, arguing that no gatherings in the city are allowed, as per Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) orders.Senior AAP leader and chief spokesperson Saurabh Bhardwaj said the country’s population of 1.3 billion has the first right over Covid-19 vaccines that have been produced and manufactured by scientists in India.“Before Pakistan and Afghanistan, every Indian citizen has the right to get vaccinated first. It is being said that one of the widespread variants of coronavirus is affecting children below the age of 15. Today, the number of Covid-19 cases in India is among the highest in the world, because of which the country is getting defamed globally. But instead, the Centre is planning to export the vaccine to 68 countries only for the Prime Minister to gain applause,” he said.The Delhi BJP, however, lashed out at the AAP for allegedly shirking Covid norms.“The people of Delhi are questioning the double standards of the AAP. On one hand, the AAP government is slapping fines of up to ₹2,000 on people for not wearing masks. On the other, the party is holding protests where no one is wearing a mask or distancing,” said Praveen Shankar Kapoor, of the Delhi BJP. htc||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aap-protests-against-vaccine-exports-101617820349003.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Civic bodies keep crematoriums ready to cope with possible rise in Covid death toll||Taking note of the steep rise in Covid-19 cases, and apprehending a similar rise in related fatalities, Delhi’s three civic bodies on Wednesday said they are prepared to deal with any additional toll if the need arises. Authorities of the north, east and south civic bodies said they have resources to handle 450-500 Covid-19 fatalities (confirmed and suspected) every day across their 21 facilities — crematoriums and burial grounds. According to the daily health bulletin, the city recorded 5,506 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday and 20 deaths. The city recorded the highest single-day death on November 18 last year, during the third wave of the infection in the city, when 131 people succumbed to the infection. As new infections and deaths peaked during the third wave, crematoriums struggled to cope with the increased fatalities. The Delhi high court, too, had asked the government to indicate steps it had taken to manage crematoriums and graveyards in the national capital.During the third wave, people had to wait outside crematoriums and cemeteries for five to six hours to conduct the last rites of loved ones who succumbed to the virus.Covid-19 deaths have increased sharply in the Capital over the past few weeks, since the outbreak of the fourth wave. In the first week of March, the Capital recorded less than two daily deaths of the infection. This number jumped to 15 in the first week of April, giving rise to fears that the city’s crematoriums have struggle to meet demands, if the spike continues.“Seeing the current steep rise in Covid-19 cases, we cannot help but be apprehensive about the possibility of the death toll rising as well. So, we have made standby arrangements. At Nigambodh Ghat, we have opened three more CNG furnaces, taking the total count to six. We have also increased the number of platforms for cremation to 120 from 104,” Jai Prakash, mayor, North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said.He said their crematoriums and graveyards can perform nearly 200 last rites a day.Data from the three civic bodies showed that there are 21 crematoriums and graveyards where Covid-19 bodies (confirmed and suspected) are being cremated or buried. Of these, eight facilities are under the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, eight under the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) and five under the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC). Officials said these facilities can dispose of the bodies of nearly 400 people who have died of Covid-19, if operating at full capacity. “We have eight facilities, including crematoriums and burial grounds, where Covid-19 bodies are disposed of. These facilities can handle 215 bodies per day. We have also made additional arrangements to perform last rites of Covid-19 victims,” Narendra Chawla, leader of the house, SDMC, said.He said that a new CNG crematorium, with two furnaces, was inaugurated in Green Park in February, and the facility can be converted into a dedicated Covid-19 facility if required.Sandeep Kapoor, former chairman standing committee, EDMC, said the civic body has dedicated five crematoriums and graveyards for Covid-19 victims and added that there is no rush at any of the facilities so far.“We will increase the number of wood pyres if need be. We have also ample space available in graveyards and, so far, there is no cause to worry,” Kapoor said.Experts, however, say the city is better prepared this time around to keep the Covid fatalities low. “We still cannot be sure whether the disease is less severe this time around. However, the case fatality ratio is definitely lower now as compared to the first wave of cases (last March-April). This is because the hospitals were not well equipped back then; there was a shortage of PPE kits, beds, non-invasive and invasive ventilators. The treatment protocol had also not been finalised -- now we know what to do at what stage of the disease. Also, people have become more aware. They are coming to the hospitals on time; almost everyone has a pulse oximeter to monitor their oxygen saturation,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology, All India Institute of Medical Sciences.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/civic-bodies-keep-crematoriums-ready-to-cope-with-possible-rise-in-covid-death-toll-101617820291481.html
08-04-2021||Other||Tanha bail plea: Delhi HC seeks unredacted statements of protected witnesses||The Delhi high court on Wednesday directed a trial court to give in a sealed cover the unredacted statements of protected witnesses for deciding the bail plea of Jamia Millia Islamia student Asif Iqbal Tanha.Tanha was arrested under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in May last year for allegedly being part of a “premeditated conspiracy” in the north-east Delhi riots that happened in February last year.“The trial court is directed to forward the original unredacted statements of protected witnesses in a sealed cover to this court on or before the next date of hearing, that is, April 14,” said a bench of justices Siddharth Mridul and Anup Jairam Bhambhani.With this direction, it allowed and disposed of an application by the Delhi Police seeking to call for unredacted statements of protected witnesses in a sealed cover from the trial court. Names and personal details of protected witnesses are redacted in their statements.The high court, which had on March 18 reserved its order on Tanha’s bail plea, had asked the police to file written submissions, unredacted copies of witness statements and other relevant documents.During the proceedings, the court also frowned on the prosecution for the absence of unredacted statements of the witnesses with them.Special public prosecutor (SPP) Rajat Nair, representing the police, said these are protected witnesses and the unredacted copies are with the trial court only. He pointed out that when the investigating officer had applied for protection of witnesses, the statements were signed and sealed by the trial court judge and redacted copies were given to the investigation officer.Tanha has challenged a trial court’s October 26, 2020, order which dismissed his bail application.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tanha-bail-plea-hc-seeks-unredacted-statements-of-protected-witnesses-101617820290841.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||DMRC steps up measures to ensure social distancing on trains, inside stations||With Covid-19 cases in the city on an upward spiral, the Delhi Metro has stepped up crowd control measures to ensure social distancing inside stations and aboard trains, including increasing the number of enforcement teams and temporarily shutting entry into Metro stations to limit crowds.The Delhi Metro’s ridership has increased consistently since the service resumed operations in September 2020 after the lockdown. Data seen by HT shows that the average passenger journey in September last year was 619,242, but it crossed 2.6 million in March this year.The increase in the number of commuters, officials admit, has made crowd management challenging. The Metro on Tuesday temporarily closed entry to four stations on the Yellow line (Samaypur Badli to HUDA City Centre) to control the swelling crowds.While entry to Patel Chowk, Chandni Chowk, New Delhi and Chawri Bazaar stations was closed for around 10 minutes, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) officials said passengers were allowed to deboard trains and exit the stations. “This is part of our crowd control measures to ensure social distancing at the stations and on trains,” said a DMRC official.DMRC officials said that though passenger journeys have increased since September, they are still just around 50% of the numbers recorded during the corresponding period last year. For instance, the Metro recorded 4.3 million passenger journeys in March 2020.With the Delhi government on Tuesday imposing a night curfew between 10pm and 5am, the Metro body expects the number of commuters to drop as well. According to the state government’s guidelines, only essential service providers with valid ID cards and government-issued passes are allowed to travel in the Metro after 10pm.The DMRC has also stepped up measures to check for Covid-19 protocol violations.“We now have seven teams — up from four earlier — to crack down on violations. The number of penalties issued has increased considerably in March, when cases began to increase,” said a DMRC official.In September last year, 5,180 people were penalised for not following Covid-appropriate behaviour. But in January and February this year, the numbers dropped to 3,131 and 2,823 respectively. But the number of penalties has again increased. A senior DMRC official said, “In March, we penalised 7,058 people for violating Covid protocols. Since we resumed operations, 29,267 people have been penalised.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dmrc-steps-up-measures-to-ensure-social-distancing-on-trains-inside-stations-101617820290213.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||Clean Yamuna project: 13 effluent treatment plants slapped with fine of ₹12 crore||Environment minister Gopal Rai on Wednesday said the Delhi Pollution Control Committee (DPCC) has issued show cause notices to 13 common effluent treatment plants (CETP), which are entrusted with the treatment of wastewater in the city, and imposed environment compensation charge of over ₹12 crore for violating protocols under the Clean Yamuna project.“In a bid to fulfil the decision of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal to clean the Yamuna by 2023, the DPCC has issued show cause notices for imposing total environmental compensation of ₹12.05 crore to 13 CETPs. CETPs have been found not complying with prescribed effluent standards even after repeated directions being given by the DPCC. The Delhi government has found CETPs to be non-functional or not properly functioning, as a result of which the Yamuna is getting more polluted,” said Rai in a press statement.He further said the compensation was calculated on the basis of monthly analysis reports of the DPCC. “CETPs play a key role in treating the polluted waters from the industries, and, therefore, the prescribed effluent standards must be maintained. After repeated interventions in cases where they have not complied with our directions, stern action has been taken and we will monitor the situation,” Rai said.According to Rai, 13 CETPs, with a total capacity of 212.3 MLD (million litres daily), are in operation in Delhi. The CETPs, which are in Wazirpur, Mayapuri, Bawana, Narela, SMA, GTK, Okhla, Mangolpuri, Nangloi, Badli, Jhilmil, Lawrence Road and Naraina, have been constructed to treat industrial effluent/wastewater generated in the 17 industrial areas of Delhi.While 11 of them are managed by cooperative societies, two are operated by a private limited company.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/clean-yamuna-project-13-effluent-treatment-plants-slapped-with-fine-of-12-crore-101617820228931.html
08-04-2021||Education||JNU imposes night curfew in line with Delhi govt's order||The Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) administration has imposed a night curfew on its campus from 10pm to 5am till April 30, in line with a Delhi government order that puts in place similar restrictions in the national capital.A notice issued by JNU registrar Anirban Chakraborti on Tuesday said that as part of the curfew, dhabas and canteens on campus will shut by 9pm, and library timings will be restricted.“Dr BR Ambedkar Central Library will stay open from 9am to 8pm on weekdays, and 10am to 6pm on weekends and holidays till further notice,” the notice read.“However, there will be no restrictions on the movement of people engaged in emergency services, in cases of medical emergency, and on the supply of goods during the curfew period on the production of a valid ID card,” it added.People travelling to or from the airport, railway stations, or bus terminals will be exempt from the curbs as well, upon producing valid tickets. Shops selling groceries, fruits, medicines, and ATMs have also been exempt.Movement within campus, and all entries and exits will be “restricted” for all residents. The University’s security branch has been asked to comply with the instructions and ensure that all gates are shut during the curfew period.“Anyone who violates the above directions and Covid-19 protocols... shall be liable for disciplinary action,” the notice said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jnu-imposes-night-curfew-in-line-with-delhi-govt-order-101617820169486.html
08-04-2021||Delhi||19 Tihar prisoners hospitalised after testing Covid positive, jail on high alert||At least 19 prisoners in the Tihar Jail have tested positive for Covid-19 and are admitted to different city hospitals, senior prison officials who were aware of the matter said, adding that the authorities were high alert and monitoring the health of all inmates.A senior prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said it was suspected that a new asymptomatic inmate may have spread the infection. The jail staff, designated front line workers, has already been vaccinated.However, with the number of inmates at its highest at 20,120 --- twice the jail’s sanctioned capacity of 10,026, experts have cautioned that immediate measures should be taken to decongest the prison so that adequate measures for isolating new inmates before being transferred to barracks are taken and social distancing is observed. Experts suggested that the government may consider releasing convicts on special parole and interim bail like last year when prisoners were released after the pandemic broke out.Last year, when the pandemic broke out, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole to ensure social distancing in jail. However, between February 6 and March 18, almost all have surrendered, leaving little space for isolation of suspected cases and new inmates, a second prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said.“With prison population increasing daily, breaking new records, it will be difficult to create space for isolation.The government should at least release those convicts who had surrendered on time in February,” the officer said.Advocate Ajay Verma, former convener of the National Forum for Prison Reforms -- a group of lawyers that fights for implementation of reforms across prisons — said, “The government should immediately start work on decongesting the jail. Prisoners who surrendered in February and March could be sent back temporarily again on parole on interim bail. If such prisoners did not pose a threat when they were out for nearly 10 months, why would they be a threat again. It is important to have social distancing in prison.”A second officer, who also requested to remain anonymous, said with thousands of prisoners who were released on special parole last year being back in jail, the situation has worsened. “We are on high alert and monitoring the health of all inmates. Between February 6 and March 18, around 6,000 prisoners surrendered after staying out of the jail for nearly a year. These prisoners were released on special parole and interim bail last year when the pandemic broke out, as one of the first measures to decongest the prison. During the first three waves of the infection, they were all out. It is an unfortunate coincidence that they have returned while the cases have started rising again,” the officer, who is also involved in the Covid containment measures, said.Until February, when the 6,000-odd prisoners were out on Covid-19 parole and interim bail, the prison department designated jail number 2 in Tihar complex and another jail at Mandoli for isolating new inmates. But now, these jails are packed with prisoners.Director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel confirmed that 19 prisoners have tested Covid-19 positive and were admitted to different hospitals in the city.“As a precaution, we have admitted the prisoners to hospitals. The prison population has crossed 20,000 but we are taking all possible measures within the jail complex to ensure social distancing. Our officers are at work round-the-clock and checking for possible symptoms among prisoners.We conduct an extensive medical examination of all inmates once arrive at the prison. Those who show any flu-like symptoms are immediately quarantined,” the director general said.Officials said a separate drive to vaccinate prisoners above 45 years of age is also on. Until Tuesday evening, at least 161 prisoners above 45 have been vaccinated, they added. The jail hospital in sub-jail number 3 has been designated as a vaccination centre.Former Tihar law officer, Sunil Gupta, who worked in the prison for more than three decades, said, “It is important to decongest the prison. We have in the past used school buildings as temporary jails. If the population is now over 20,000, the authorities should not take any chances. During the Emergency, when the prison population was increasing, the jail administration had set up tents and created more spaces within the prison complex. Some steps have to be taken immediately.”Till date, two prisoners have died of Covid-19. As many as 293 jail officials, including the director general Goel, were infected but they have all recovered. At least 139 prisoners have been infected till date, according to the prison’s Covid data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-over-20-000-inmates-packed-in-its-jails-19-test-positive-at-tihar-101617820168981.html
08-04-2021||Noida||Noida: Night curfew, cap on guests plague weddings||The night curfew imposed in Delhi on Tuesday, coupled with the Uttar Pradesh government’s guidelines capping the number of guests attending weddings in the state, has come as a blow to Noida. People are either cancelling their booking in banquets and halls for wedding functions, or worrying over which guest to invite and whom to leave out.Banquet operators said they have been getting calls from their clients to cancel and refund their bookings.“Three weddings planned in our hall were such where the bride’s side is from Noida but the groom’s side was supposed to come from Delhi. It is nearly impossible for the baraat (wedding procession) to arrive in Noida before 10pm. Many guests have to go back home to Delhi. Because of such issues, two of our bookings have been cancelled,” said the manager of a wedding hall in sector-16’s World Trade Tower.Pavan Verma, a resident of Green Arch apartments in Noida Extension, has postponed the engagement ceremony of his daughter that was scheduled to take place on April 25.“As soon as I heard the new guidelines on Monday, I decided to cancel the booking for the ceremony. Thankfully, the banquet hall owner has agreed to refund the token amount paid after a deducting 10%,” said Verma, who had booked a banquet in Greater Noida.Another banquet hall owner said the restrictions are hurting those who have bigger halls.“Big banquet halls are operated in a way such that it can accommodate up to 300-400 guests. With the restrictions in place, we will have to increase our prices if only 100 people are allowed because the fixed prices will be same, be it for a gathering of 300 people or 100. Because of this, clients have cancelled bookings with us and moved to smaller banquets where prices are lower,” said Shashank Gupta, who runs Rajdhani party hall in sector-104, adding that smaller banquets will charge much less for a gathering of 100 people.“Moreover, we have to give in to clients’ requests for refund on booking amount and return the money,” said Gupta.Making arrangements for stay of Delhi guests With just a fortnight to go for a host of functions lined up for majority of weddings, most residents in Noida who had functions planned are now finding it embarrassing to ask some of their guest to not come for the ceremony.“The wedding invites have already been sent. Earlier, we had decided the groom’s side will have 100 guests and the bride’s side will have another 100. However, now we have decided to have 50 guests each from both sides and brainstorming on whom to say sorry to and whom to invite,” said M C Singhal, whose son’s wedding has been planned at a banquet hall in sector 62.He added the banquet hall owner offered him a solution. “The banquet hall owner said since there is a cap on the number of guests in one hall, he will make a booking for another hall in my name so that I can invite all 200 guests. However, I refused as I do not want to violate any guidelines,” he said.Those who have guests coming in from Delhi are also in a fix. “We have a ring ceremony planned for April 24 and the wedding is scheduled for the next day. Since a night curfew has been imposed in Delhi, I doubt if our guests will be able to leave the ring ceremony on April 24 before 10pm. In such short notice, I have little option but to arrange for their overnight stay in Noida itself,” said Mina Chaturvedi, whose daughter’s wedding will be held at a banquet hall in sector 71.Some people are making changes in timing of their functions so that guests coming from Delhi can leave on time. “We have a mehendi function in sector-104 that was earlier supposed to start at 7pm. Now, we have preponed the timing to 5pm so that guests coming from Delhi can leave before 10pm,” said Prakhar Mohan Mathur, a resident of Sector 75.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-night-curfew-cap-on-guests-plague-weddings-101617817528558.html
08-04-2021||Pune||Indiscriminate use, hoarding of Remdesivir create injection shortage in Pune||City hospitals have started facing acute shortage of Remdesivir as there has been a surge in demand for the injection. As per the current needs, Pune requires at least 8,000-8,500 vials of the drug daily and gets a supply of about 16,000-17,000 vials every alternate day. However, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials have stated that hoarding of the injection could cause artificial shortage while Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that indiscriminate use of the life-saving injection is being administered without following protocol issued on March 23 this year. To curb the misuse of the drug, the district administrations have now been asked to investigate any indiscriminate use of the drug and also capped the price of the drug between ₹1,100 and ₹1,400. The health minister on Wednesday said that to curb the shortage of oxygen the state might also decide to shut industries that consume maximum oxygen. During the Wednesday’s press conference, Tope said that all district administrations have been asked to ensure that every injection is used judiciously. “During the meeting with officials from each district, I stressed on the monitoring if there’s any indiscriminate use of Remdesivir. The state is getting 50,000 doses every day and all of them are being consumed, leading to shortage,” said Tope. The anti-viral dose is being used to treat Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome patients before it was directed for Covid-19 treatment last year. Currently, doctors and hospitals are prescribing the injection even for those suffering with mild problem of breathlessness, Tope said, adding it’s a violation of the protocol. In view of those instructions, district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has instructed Covid hospitals to buy only the required stock of Remdesivir and not to hoard stock. Also, hospitals have been asked to maintain a register with each patient’s name and address to ensure that the right patient gets the injection. The hospital must return unused vials to the patient’s relative. FDA joint commissioner for Pune division, SB Patil, said, “Pune needs about 8,000 vials daily as of now and we have only 4,000 vials available. We will get replenishments by tonight. We usually get 16-17 thousand vials every alternate day so there is no shortage as of now. We have hospitals to ensure that they have to buy only the required vials of Remdesivir and not stock estimating for the future.” Tope said the process to increase beds in all major hospitals has begun. Tope said, “We will increase 200 more beds for Covid in BJ medical college, 200 at Dalvi, 500 at Baner and 200 at COEP. To cope with shortage of oxygen, if need be, we will shut the industrial units consuming maximum oxygen and the refilling sites will be monitored to ensure any leakage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/indiscriminate-use-hoarding-of-remdesivir-create-injection-shortage-in-pune-101617811827906.html
08-04-2021||Pune||Pune artistes change professions to cope with, and survive lockdown uncertainties||For many stage artistes, the 2020 lockdown was a sort of bring down the curtain on their career. They had to change their profession for survival and now fresh restrictions have left them with uncertainties. With no permission for stage shows throughout the year, artistes explored various options for financial support. Prasad Kulkarni who is known for his magic tricks across Pune was left with no work in 2020 due to restriction on public shows. Along with colleagues, he started Kulkarni vada pav centre on Sinhgad road in May 2020. “We sold one vada pav for one rupee during the first three days to attract customers. It worked as people started visiting our shop regularly. With people liking our quality, financially things began to fall in place for us,” said Kulkarni. With restrictions imposed again, Kulkarni and his colleagues are in a spot, again, apprehensive about the future of their vada pav centre. “With only the parcel system allowed, the business had definitely hit and it is the same for all eateries. We changed our profession to survive, but if this also does not allow us to earn then it will become difficult to survive,” said Kulkarni whose video online on problems faced due to the lockdown got viral. “Actually the video was to only portray the difficulties people are facing and there was no political motive against the state government. Many people took it the wrong way and now I am getting calls asking for explanations about the video. Breaking the chain of Covid transmission is a must, but total lockdown will hurt the economic condition badly,” Kulkarni said. Another artiste, Chaitali Majgaonkar Bhandari, who is a stand-up comedian from the city was left with zero income for seven months (March-September, 2020) before she started selling puppets online. “Before the lockdown, I had a monthly income of ₹1 lakh which went to zero. From October I started to sell puppets which brought me stability. I used to conduct online shows, but it is completely different then performing in front of a live audience. “Thing were getting normal and I did many shows between December-February. Now activities are again on halt due to the lockdown and it will make things difficult for many artistes,” said Bhandari. “Artistes are creative people and many find ways to survive, but some will not cope with another long lockdown,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-artistes-change-profession-to-cope-survive-lockdown-uncertainties-101617810630143.html
08-04-2021||Pune||PMC seeks 450 beds of Southern Command hospital for Covid treatment||PUNE: The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has sought the help of the Indian Army to provide beds for Covid patients in the newly constructed Southern Command hospital at Wanowrie, off Kondhwa road. Union minister Prakash Javadekar, who hails from the city, is in talks with the Army authorities as Pune is seeing record rise in virus cases. Mayor Murlidhar Mohol said, “The city’s health infrastructure is struggling with the spike in Covid cases during the second wave. We have requested Javadekar to ask Army authorities to get beds at the new command hospital. Divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao will also meet the central government and Army representatives.” The Rs380-crore newly constructed Southern Command hospital was inaugurated by Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane on January 8, 2021. The hospital has 1,082 beds. The mayor said, “We have requested at least 450 beds for Covid treatment but are likely to get around 350 beds.” With Pune being the Southern Command’s headquarters and the Army having strong health infrastructure in the city, PMC plans to seek more help to address the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-seeks-450-beds-of-southern-command-hospital-for-covid-treatment-101617803306985.html
08-04-2021||World||US Prez Joe Biden tightens some gun controls, says much more needed||President Joe Biden, in his first gun control measures since taking office, announced a half-dozen executive actions Thursday aimed at addressing a proliferation of gun violence across the nation that he called an “epidemic and an international embarrassment."“The idea that we have so many people dying ever single day from gun violence in America is a blemish on our character as a nation,” Biden said during remarks at the White House.Family members whose children were killed at the Sandy Hook, Connecticut, school massacre in 2012 and the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida, in 2018 attended the hearing, and Biden thanked them for attending, saying he understood it would remind them of the awful days when they got the calls.He assured them, “We’re absolutely determined to make change."Biden's Thursday announcement delivers on a pledge the president made last month to take what he termed immediate “common-sense steps” to address gun violence, after a series of mass shootings drew renewed attention to the issue. His announcement came the same day as yet another, this one in South Carolina, where five people were killed.Biden emphasized the scope of the problem: Between the mass killings in Atlanta massage businesses and the Colorado grocery store shooting last month, there were more than 850 additional shootings that killed 250 and injured 500 in the US, he said.But Thursday's announcement underscores the limitations of Biden's executive power to act on guns. His orders tighten regulations on homemade guns and provide more resources for gun-violence prevention but fall far short of the sweeping gun-control agenda he laid out on the campaign trail.Indeed, Biden again urged Congress to act, calling on the Senate to take up House-passed measures closing background check loopholes. He also said Congress should pass the Violence Against Women Act, eliminate legal exemptions for gun manufacturers and ban assault weapons and high capacity magazines. Biden said“This is not a partisan issue among the American people," Biden insisted.While Biden asserted that he's “willing to work with anyone to get it done,” gun control measures face slim prospects in an evenly divided Senate, where Republicans remain near-unified against most proposals.Biden was joined at the event by Vice President Kamala Harris and Attorney General Merrick Garland. Garland said he was “under no illusions about how hard it is to solve the problem of gun violence” and emphasized a need for a “collective effort to keep guns out of the hands of criminals and save lives.”The Justice Department cannot solve the problem by itself, he said, but "there is work for the department to do, and we intend to do it.”Biden is tightening regulations of buyers of “ghost guns” — homemade firearms that usually are assembled from parts and milled with a metal-cutting machine and often lack serial numbers used to trace them. It’s legal to build a gun in a home or a workshop and there is no federal requirement for a background check.The Justice Department will issue a proposed rule requiring such gun kits be treated as firearms under the Gun Control Act, which would require that the parts be made with serial numbers and that buyers receive background checks.Months before Biden was elected, the federal government had already been working on a proposed rule that would change the definition of a firearm to include lower receivers, the essential piece of a semiautomatic rifle, in an effort to combat the proliferation of ghost guns and to stave off losing court battles over the issue.The process had been in the works in the waning months of the Trump administration, according to four people familiar with the matter. Justice Department leaders and officials at the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives had been working on language for a proposed rule since at least the summer of 2020, the people said.A second proposed rule, expected within 60 days, will tighten regulations on pistol-stabilizing braces, like the one used by the Boulder, Colorado, shooter in a rampage last month that left 10 dead. The rule will designate pistols used with stabilizing braces as short-barreled rifles, which require a federal license to own and are subject to a more thorough application process and a $200 tax.The department also is publishing model legislation within 60 days that is intended to make it easier for states to adopt their own “red flag” laws. Such laws allow for individuals to petition a court to allow the police to confiscate weapons from a person deemed to be a danger to themselves or others.The department also will begin to provide more data on firearms trafficking, starting with a new comprehensive report on the issue. The administration says that hasn’t been done in more than two decades.The Biden administration will also make investments in community violence intervention programs, which are aimed at reducing gun violence in urban communities, across five federal agencies.The president argued that gun violence was also a massive economic strain, citing the costs from hospital visits, legal fees, and the cost of keeping people in prison and providing therapy to victims and others. A majority of firearm deaths are from suicides.Biden is also nominating David Chipman, a former federal agent and adviser at the gun control group Giffords, to be director of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives.The ATF is currently run by an acting director, Regina Lombardo. Gun-control advocates have emphasized the significance of this position in enforcing gun laws, and Chipman is certain to win praise from this group. During his time as a senior policy adviser with Giffords, he spent considerable effort pushing for greater regulation and enforcement on ghost guns, changes to the background check system and measures to reduce the trafficking of illegal firearms.Chipman spent 25 years as an agent at the ATF, where he worked on stopping a trafficking ring that sent illegal firearms from Virginia to New York, and served on the ATF’s SWAT team. Chipman is a gun owner.He is an explosives expert and was among the team involved in investigating the Oklahoma City bombing and the first World Trade Center bombing. He also was involved in investigating a series of church bombings in Alabama in the 1990s. He retired from the ATF in 2012.During his campaign, Biden promised to prioritize new gun control measures as president, including enacting universal background check legislation, banning online sales of firearms and the manufacture and sale of assault weapons and high-capacity magazines. But gun-control advocates have said that while they were heartened by signs from the White House that they took the issue seriously, they've been disappointed by the lack of early action.With the announcement of the new measures, advocates did laud Biden's first moves.“Each of these executive actions will start to address the epidemic of gun violence that has raged throughout the pandemic, and begin to make good on President Biden’s promise to be the strongest gun safety president in history,” said John Feinblatt, president of Everytown for Gun Safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prez-joe-biden-tightens-some-gun-controls-says-much-more-needed-101617903682171.html
08-04-2021||World||Nepal: 4 Maoist Centre ministers relieved of Parliament membership||Four ministers in Prime Minister K P Sharma Oli-led Cabinet, who belonged to the CPN-Maoist Centre led by Pushpa Kamal Dahal ‘Prachanda’, were relieved of their Parliament membership on Thursday.Energy Minister Top Bahadur Rayamajhi, Industry Minister Lekhraj Bhatta, Urban Development Minister Prabhu Sah and Labour Minister Gaurishankar Chaudhary lost their positions as lawmakers upon the recommendation of their party.Reading out a notice during Thursday's meeting of the House of Representatives, Speaker Agni Prasad Sapkota said that the four ministers have been relieved of their position as lawmakers after the decision of the CPN-Maoist Centre.The four leaders, however, can continue as ministers in the Oli-led Cabinet for six more months. But, they should retain their post if they wish to continue more than that, according to prevailing laws.Rayamajhi, Bhatta, Sah and Chaudhary did not return to the CPN-Maoist Centre even after the revival of their party in February this year.Instead, they decided to join the Oli-led CPN-UML, where they have been enjoying Cabinet berths.Prime Minister Oli's dissolution of the House of Representatives in December last year triggered a political crisis in Nepal. However, in a landmark ruling, the Supreme Court in February reinstated the lower house of Parliament.The political scenario in the country worsened after the Supreme Court last month nullified CPN-MC's merger with CPN-UML. The two parties had merged in May 2018 to form a unified Nepal Communist Party following the victory of their alliance in the 2017 general elections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-4-maoist-centre-ministers-relieved-of-parliament-membership-101617903618984.html
08-04-2021||World||UK, Ireland leaders urge 'calm' after Northern Ireland violence||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson and his Irish counterpart Micheal Martin on Thursday called for "calm" in Northern Ireland after holding talks following days of violence in the British province.Martin and Johnson "spoke this afternoon about the concerning developments in Northern Ireland", where they stressed that "violence is unacceptable" and "called for calm", according to the Irish leader's office."The way forward is through dialogue and working the institutions of the Good Friday Agreement. They agreed that the two governments would continue to stay in contact," added the statement.Leaders in Northern Ireland had earlier jointly condemned days of rioting stemming from the territory's pro-UK community, including a petrol-bomb attack on a moving bus, as police said they were probing possible paramilitary involvement.It was the worst unrest in Belfast in recent years, which erupted amid anger over apparent economic dislocation due to Brexit and existing tensions between the pro-UK unionist and pro-Irish nationalist communities.The UK province's devolved legislative assembly interrupted its Easter break to pass an emergency motion condemning the unrest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-ireland-leaders-urge-calm-after-northern-ireland-violence-101617903265458.html
08-04-2021||World||In a first, Biden unveils limited gun control measures||US President Joe Biden on Thursday announced limited gun control reforms through six actions in the aftermath of three deadly mass shootings including the killing of Asian-Americans in Atlanta and shoppers at a grocery store in Colorado.“Gun violence in this country is an epidemic. We say it again, gun violence in this country is an epidemic,” Biden said at a White House event to announce the executive actions, in the presence of survivors of gun violence and relatives of victims. “And it’s an international embarrassment,” he added.The justice department will be required to propose a rule within the next 30 days to stop the proliferation of “ghost guns” that are bought in parts and can be assembled into a weapon within 30 minutes, according to one of the actions. The next will ask the justice department to announce a rule that will subject stabilisation braces that can turn pistols into mini rifles to the National Firearms Act, that are more stringent.The justice department will also be required to publish a model “red flag” legislation for states that allows for a person to be denied access to firearms if petitioned by family members or police. The remaining two actions called for increased investment in evidence-based community violence intervention and the publication of an annual report on firearm trafficking, which has not been done since 2000.These actions did not address the issue of assault rifles, which have been used most commonly in mass shootings.The president is backing a legislation passed recently by the Democratic-controlled House of Representatives that seeks to expand background checks for gun deals, covering transactions made on the internet, and closes certain loopholes in the current law. He called for the passage of the bill.“Every day in this country 360 people are shot, every single day 106 of them die, every day,” Biden said, reeling off numbers. “Our flag was still flying at half-staff for the victims of the horrific murder, primarily Asian-American people in Georgia … 10 more lives were taken in a mass murder in Colorado.”“You probably didn’t hear between those points in less than one week apart more than 850 additional shootings; 850, that took the lives of more than 250 people and left 500 injured. This is an epidemic, for God’s sake, and it has to stop.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-a-first-biden-unveils-limited-gun-control-measures-101617902327720.html
08-04-2021||World||‘International embarrassment’: Biden introduces limited gun control measures||President Joe Biden announced a set of executive actions Thursday to curb gun violence, urging Congress to adopt stricter laws and rebutting arguments that his new measures impinge on Americans’ second amendment rights.“Gun violence in this country is an epidemic, and it’s an international embarrassment,” Biden said in the Rose Garden of the White House.Recent shootings that left 18 dead in Colorado and Georgia have thrust gun violence back into the spotlight, with gun-control advocates calling on the president to make the issue a top legislative priority. The actions unveiled Thursday reflect the limited power the president has to regulate guns without action on Capitol Hill.Biden has called on Congress to pass gun control legislation, but he has also acknowledged that Republican opposition makes progress unlikely. He said he first wants to focus on beating the coronavirus pandemic and boosting an economic recovery.In addition to the orders, Biden announced his plan to nominate David Chipman to lead the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, or ATF -- an agency that has been without a permanent director since 2015.One of the executive actions would take steps to stop the proliferation of so-called ghost guns, which come in kits and can be assembled in as little as 30 minutes. The weapons can’t be traced by law enforcement because they lack serial numbers. Two high-profile shootings in California were carried out using ghost guns but they have otherwise not been commonly used in mass shootings.“Anyone from a criminal to a terrorist can buy this kit,” Biden said.The ATF said in a December 2020 search warrant application that about 10,000 ghost guns were recovered by law enforcement in 2019.The White House also said Thursday that the Justice Department will issue a new rule clarifying that when a shoulder brace is used to effectively turn a pistol into a short-barreled rifle, the gun is subject to the requirements of the National Firearms Act. Authorities say the suspect in the Boulder, Colorado, shootings -- in which 10 people were killed -- used a pistol with an arm brace that made the weapon more stable and accurate.In addition, the Justice Department will publish model “red flag” legislation for states, which would allow petitions to courts to take away firearms from people who present a danger to themselves and others. Such measures can’t be enacted at the federal level without Congress, but administration officials have said they hope their move encourages states to pass new laws right away.A gunman last month killed eight people, including six Asian women, at spas during a string of shootings in the Atlanta area.The president also said he is allocating federal funds for community violence intervention and prevention programs aimed at heading off conflicts that can lead to violence in urban communities. Biden’s proposed American Jobs Plan includes $5 billion over eight years for community intervention programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/international-embarrassment-biden-introduces-limited-gun-control-measures-101617900315114.html
08-04-2021||World||Lack of oxygen from police restraint killed George Floyd, doctor testifies at Chauvin murder trial||A critical care doctor called as a prosecution witness in Derek Chauvin's murder trial testified on Thursday that George Floyd died from a lack of oxygen caused by being handcuffed face down in the street with the former Minneapolis police officer's knee on his neck."Mr. Floyd died from a low level of oxygen," Dr. Martin Tobin, who treats patients in a Chicago hospital's intensive care unit, told the jury as the prosecution sought to undermine the argument by Chauvin's defense that Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man, died of a drug overdose in the May 2020 arrest.Chauvin, who is white, has pleaded not guilty to murder and manslaughter charges. Video of the arrest, widely viewed on social media, showed Chauvin pinning Floyd's neck to the ground with his knees for more than nine minutes as Floyd begged for his life, repeatedly gasping: "I can't breathe."The way that Chauvin and other officers pushed Floyd into the street as they arrested him was like putting the left side of his body "in a vice," Tobin testified. Tobin appeared to confirm the findings of the county medical examiner, who ruled Floyd's death a homicide caused by police restraint.Floyd's death prompted protests against racism and police brutality in many cities across the United States and around the world.Here are important moments from the ninth day of witness testimony:DR. MARTIN TOBIN, EXPERT IN THE RESPIRATORY SYSTEMAfter giving the jury a brief overview of how oxygen enters the body through air sacs deep in the lungs, Tobin said the way police restrained Floyd meant he could not take in enough oxygen leading to his heart to stop beating, which he said could be described as asphyxia."The cause of the low level of oxygen was shallow breathing," Tobin said.This resulted from a combination of forces applied by police, including placing Floyd prone on the street, handcuffing his hands behind his back and the officer kneeling on his back and neck.Tobin unbuttoned his shirt collar at one point and asked jurors to do the same as he felt his neck, describing how Chauvin's knee compressed the delicate tissue of the hypopharynx, blocking that part of the respiratory system in the lower part of the throat.Tobin calculated that at times Chauvin was exerting 91.5 pounds (41.5 kg) of downward pressure on Floyd's neck."All of those forces are going to result in the low tidal volume, which gives you the shallow breaths that we saw here, and so the air will not be able to reach those air sacs," Tobin said.Chauvin and the three other officers were attempting to arrest Floyd on suspicion of using a fake $20 bill to buy cigarettes at a food store. They were fired the following day.Tobin discussed frames from the video that he said showed Floyd trying to push his chest up from the street using his fingers and his face as leverage as he struggled for breath. The way Chauvin and another officer, Alex Kueng, manipulated the handcuffs also limited Floyd's breathing, he testified."They're pushing the handcuffs into his back and pushing them high, then on the other side you have the street. The street is playing the crucial part," Tobin said. "It's like the left side is in a vice."Kueng and two other officers are set to face a trial later in the year on charges of aiding and abetting Chauvin in killing Floyd.Tobin told the jury he declined to take an offered fee from the Minnesota attorney general's office in part because it was his first time testifying as an expert witness in a trial.In introducing Tobin, prosecutor Jerry Blackwell held up the 1,500-page textbook "Principles and Practice of Mechanical Ventilation" written by Tobin, and he agreed when Blackwell asked if the medical journal Lancet had called it the "bible" on the topic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lack-of-oxygen-killed-george-floyd-doctor-testifies-at-chauvin-murder-trial-101617899809487.html
08-04-2021||World||‘Don't want to pay for a racist': UK TV host Piers Morgan wants Meghan, Harry to name the Royal||British television host Piers Morgan renewed his call for Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, the Duke and Duchess of Sussex, to name the member of the royal family who allegedly raised concerns about the potential skin colour of their son, Archie, before he was born. Morgan, who had to step down as a presenter of ITV breakfast show "Good Morning Britain" after his comments on Markle, said that he, as a taxpayer, doesn’t want to pay for a racist.During a tell-all interview with iconic talk show host Oprah Winfrey last month, Meghan Markle had claimed that the British royal family refused to make her son a prince partly due to conversations about how dark his skin might be. Markle refused to explicitly name the person because it would be “damaging” to them but Harry later clarified that Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip were never part of those conversations.“Was there a problem about the skin colour of this child in the eyes of the Royal? If it were, if this is how it was done, then I want to know who that Royal is because I'm paying for them as a British taxpayer. I don't want to be paying for a racist,” Morgan said in an interview with Extra's Billy Bush aired on Wednesday.Also Read | Meghan Markle filed formal complaint about UK TV host Piers Morgan commentsPiers Morgan has been a vocal critic of Meghan Markle ever since she cut off contact with the tabloid newspaper editor after she met Prince Harry. After Markle’s interview was aired on CBS, Morgan said that he did not believe her when the Duchess of Sussex said at one point she "didn't want to be alive anymore". Morgan’s comment sparked a deluge of complaints to Britain's broadcasting regulator Ofcom."On Monday, I said I didn't believe Meghan Markle in her Oprah interview. I've had time to reflect on this opinion, and I still don't," he later wrote on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-tv-host-piers-morgan-renews-call-for-meghan-harry-to-name-the-racist-royal-101617895962528.html
08-04-2021||World||In U-turn, US to now provide $235mn to Palestine as aid||The United States is resuming financial assistance to Palestine with at least $235 million, reversing a 2018 decision by then president Donald Trump to discontinue it.“US foreign assistance for the Palestinian people serves important US interests and values,” Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on Wednesday. “It provides critical relief to those in great need, fosters economic development, and supports Israeli-Palestinian understanding, security coordination and stability.”The revival of assistance to Palestine is yet another reversal of a Trump-era foreign policy decision, joining a growing list that includes efforts currently under way for the US to rejoin (the Iran deal (the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action). The US has also rejoined the Paris Agreement on climate and World Health Organization.The bulk of the US assistance for Palestine - $150 million - will go through the UN Relief and Works Agency (UNRWA), which was set up 72 years ago to help displaced Palestinian people. Another $75 million will go towards economic and development assistance in the West Bank and Gaza and $10 million for peace-building programmes, Blinken said. These payments will be disbursed by the US Agency for International Development (USAID).“The United States is committed to advancing prosperity, security, and freedom for both Israelis and Palestinians in tangible ways in the immediate term, which is important in its own right, but also as a means to advance towards a negotiated two-state solution,” said the secretary of state.The Palestinian Authority, which is headquartered in Ramallah, welcomed the move. “This is a positive, important and constructive step in the direction of rectifying Palestinian-American relations, which the Trump administration destroyed,” said Ahmad Majdalani, the social development minister of the Palestinian Authority, according to reports. “We believe it can be built upon by dealing with some other outstanding issues.”The United Nations, which runs UNRWA, also welcomed the US announcement. “We hope that others will now follow suit. There were a number of countries that had greatly reduced or halted contributions to UNRWA. We hope that the American decision will lead others to rejoin as UNRWA donors,” UN spokesman Stephane Dujarric said.Trump ended the assistance in 2018 as part of his overall tilt towards Israel. He had also recognised Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and Israel’s sovereignty over Golan Heights, which it had seized from Syria in 1967.Israel has criticised the resumption of aid. Gilad Erdan, its ambassador to the US and the UN, called it “anti-Israel and anti-Semitic”. “I have expressed my disappointment and objection to the decision to renew UNRWA’s funding without first ensuring that certain reforms, including stopping the incitement and removing anti-Semitic content from its educational curriculum, are carried out,” Ambassador Erdan said.Congressional Republicans have also opposed the aid resumption and said they will scrutinise the package for violation of American laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-u-turn-us-to-now-provide-235mn-to-palestine-as-aid-101617895367119.html
08-04-2021||World||PM Modi, Seychelles president jointly e-inaugurate Magistrates’ Court Building||Appreciating the solidarity shown by India over the years, President of Seychelles Wavel Ramkalawan on Thursday said that the support they have received from India has contributed immensely to the socio-economic development of their country."In little less than two months, we will be commemorating the 45th anniversary of the formal establishment of diplomatic relations between Seychelles and India. The support we have received from India has contributed immensely to the socio-economic development of Seychelles," said President Ramkalawan at a high-level virtual event with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Lauding India's support on the Covid-19 vaccine front, President Ramkalawan said Seychelles is nearing its target of achieving 70 per cent of heard immunity by the end of this month due to the precious donation of vaccines by India."What better example of Indian solidarity than your spontaneous donation of 50,000 doses of Covishield vaccine. If we are nearing our target of achieving 70 per cent of heard immunity by Apr 2021 and have re-opened our country to business, it is due to this precious donation," he added.Also Read: India hands over ₹100 cr patrol boat to boost Seychelles’ maritime securityThe high-level virtual event saw the joint-inauguration of the New Magistrates' Court Building in Seychelles, new naval ship, one MW solar power plant, 10 HICDPs (High Impact Community Development Projects).The Magistrates' Court Building project is a landmark project and will help bring magistrate courts spread over different locations in Mahe into a single building. It is situated next to the Supreme Court of Seychelles built by Chinese assistance in 2013.The vessel that was inaugurated is a 48.9-meter fast-patrol vessel built by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineering Ltd. (GRSE), at a cost of ₹100 crore. The ship will be used for multi-purpose operations such as patrolling, anti-smuggling, anti-poaching and search and rescue (SAR).The FPV was delivered to Seychelles with the assistance of the Indian Navy on March 16 and was handed over by Prime Minister Modi to the Seychelles Coast Guard during the virtual event. Christened as 'PS Zoroaster', the FPV is the fourth ship to be gifted by India to Seychelles. The other vessels gifted by India include PS Topaz (2005), PS Constant (2014), Patrol Boat Hermes (2016).These HICDP projects are aimed at implementing small people-oriented projects which contribute significantly towards the socio-economic development and improvement of local communities. Twenty-nine projects have so far been taken up for execution under the MoU.The one MW solar project is in addition to the installation of solar systems at 146 government building rooftops and domestic households which has already been completed and commissioned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pm-modi-seychelles-president-jointly-e-inaugurate-magistrates-court-building-101617894473488.html
08-04-2021||World||India hands over ₹100 cr patrol boat to boost Seychelles’ maritime security||India on Thursday formally handed over a ₹100-crore patrol vessel to Seychelles, with Prime Minister Narendra Modi saying the Indian Ocean archipelago is central to New Delhi’s vision for security and development in the region. Besides the donation of the PS Zoroaster to the Seychelles Coast Guard, Modi and President Wavel Ramkalawan inaugurated the new magistrates’ court building in Mahé constructed with a $3.5-million grant, a 1 MW solar power plant built at a cost of $3.4 million, and 10 community development projects during a virtual event. India has been working closely with countries in the Indian Ocean, especially the Maldives and Seychelles, to bolster maritime security through the supply of aircraft and patrol vessels. The PS Zoroaster is the fourth made-in-India patrol boat to be gifted to Seychelles since 2005, and more than 50% of Seychelles’ maritime and air assets have been provided by India. The 48.9-metre patrol boat was built by Garden Reach Shipbuilders and Engineering at a cost of ₹100 crore and has a top speed of 35 knots and an endurance of 1,500 nautical miles. The vessel will be used for multi-purpose operations, such as patrolling, anti-smuggling and anti-poaching operations, and search and rescue. “India is committed to strengthening the maritime security of Seychelles...This vessel will help Seychelles to protect its maritime resources,” Modi said at the virtual event. Seychelles, he added, is central to India’s vision of “SAGAR” or “Security and Growth for All in the Region”, and India will help develop the archipelago’s security capabilities and meet its infrastructural and developmental needs. Ramkalawan, who has his roots in Gopalganj district of Bihar, said the vessel will play a key role in counter-narcotics operations within Seychelles’ vast maritime zone and contribute to regional stability and security. “In India, we have a reliable and trusted partner. India has never failed us, India stands by us and Seychelles stands by India,” Ramkalawan said, adding that India’s “precious donation” of 50,000 doses of Covid-19 vaccines had helped his country in moving towards the goals of achieving 70% herd immunity by the end of April and opening up the economy. The magistrates’ court building brings together several courts that were spread over Mahé and is located next to the Supreme Court of Seychelles, built with Chinese assistance in 2013. This is the first India-backed construction project in the archipelago and was completed amid the pandemic. The building has eight courtrooms, separate holding cells for men, women and children, and multi-functional conference rooms and video rooms. India has so far taken up 29 small people-oriented development projects in Seychelles, while the 1MW solar project was built in addition to installing solar systems at 146 government buildings and domestic households. The solar plant will meet the electricity needs of around 400 houses round the year. The virtual event was the first interaction between Modi and Ramkalawan, who came to power in the October 2020 elections. Seychelles was the first destination in Modi’s tour of Indian Ocean countries in 2015. It was during this tour that Modi had unveiled the “SAGAR” vision.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-hands-over-rs-100-cr-patrol-boat-to-boost-seychelles-maritime-security-101617893626722.html
08-04-2021||World||WHO rejects SII's proposal seeking extension of Covishield's shelf life from 6 to 9 months||The WHO has rejected Serum Institute of India's proposal seeking extension of the shelf life of Oxford-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, from six to nine months, citing insufficient data, sources said.The WHO has also sought a meeting with Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI) to discuss the matter, they said.The move comes even as India's drug regulator has extended Covishield's shelf life from six to nine months from its manufacturing date.In a recent communique to Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII), the WHO has also asked the firm to formulate the doses with enough titer and/or implement a higher specification at release so that the minimum specification of  ≥ 2.5 x 108 ifu/dose is fulfilled throughout the shelf life.  Shelf life is the length of time for which an item remains fit for use.The DCGI in a letter to SII in February said it has no objection in respect of 'extension of shelf life of Covishield vaccine' in multi-dose glass vial (10 dose-5ml) from six months to nine months."You are permitted to apply the shelf life of nine months to unlabelled vials available on hand, subject to the condition that the details of such stock, batch-wise, shall be submitted to this office and Central Drugs Laboratory, Kasauli," DCGI Dr V G Somani had said in the letter.The DCGI's decision will help health authorities in reducing vaccine wastage. According to an update by the UK drug regulator dated February 22, the shelf-life of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine is six months.Meanwhile, concerns have been raised about the vaccine as the European Union's health agency concluded a "possible link" between the vaccine and rare blood clots but stressed that the benefits of the vaccine to protect against Covid-19 continue to outweigh the risks.The UK's medicines regulator on Wednesday said that under-30s in the country will be offered an alternative to the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine due to "evolving evidence" linking it to rare blood clots. Developed by Oxford University and Swedish-British pharma major AstraZeneca, Covishield is being manufactured by SII.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-rejects-serum-institute-of-india-s-proposal-seeking-extension-of-covishield-s-shelf-life-from-6-to-9-months-101617891363098.html
08-04-2021||World||Leaders condemn 'deplorable' Northern Ireland rioting||Leaders in Northern Ireland on Thursday jointly condemned days of rioting stemming from the territory's pro-UK community, including a petrol-bomb attack on a moving bus, as police said they were probing possible paramilitary involvement.The British and Irish governments also denounced what was the worst unrest seen in Belfast in recent years, which erupted amid anger over apparent economic dislocation as a result of Brexit and existing tensions between the pro-UK unionist and pro-Irish nationalist communities."Destruction, violence and the threat of violence are completely unacceptable and unjustifiable, no matter what concerns may exist in communities," said the Northern Ireland executive -- made up of unionist, nationalist and centrist parties."While our political positions are very different on many issues, we are all united in our support for law and order."Northern Ireland's legislative assembly interrupted its Easter break to pass an emergency motion condemning the unrest.Pro-Irish nationalist and centrist leaders identified Brexit as one root cause and criticised London for breaking promises to the unionists.For her part, unionist First Minister Arlene Foster refrained from her recent criticisms of the nationalist party Sinn Fein, condemning "rioting, criminality and wanton destruction"."It is not in the name of the people who live in the areas," she told lawmakers.- 'Sectarian violence' -In the latest disorder Wednesday, gates were set alight on a "peace line" -- walls separating pro-Irish nationalist and pro-UK unionist communities -- and police said crowds from either side broke through to attack each other with petrol bombs, missiles and fireworks.Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) temporary assistant chief constable Jonathan Roberts said the scale and nature of the violence was unprecedented in recent years."The fact that it was sectarian violence and there was large groups on both sides... again is not something we have seen for a number of years," he told reporters.The six nights of violent incidents have left 55 police officers injured, he noted, as well as a press photographer and the driver of the bus fire-bombed Wednesday.Roberts said children as young as 13 were suspected of involvement following encouragement from adults, and the large volume of petrol bombs used suggested "a level of pre-planning".The PSNI is probing if Northern Ireland's notorious paramilitary groups were involved in the unrest."Whether or not paramilitary groups were involved remains an active line of investigation," Roberts added.- Johnson's 'fantasy' promises -Northern Ireland endured 30 years of sectarian conflict that killed 3,500 people.Unionist paramilitaries, British security forces and armed nationalists -- seeking to unite the territory with the Republic of Ireland -- waged battle until a landmark peace deal in 1998.The accord let unionists and nationalists coexist by blurring the status of the region, dissolving border checks with fellow European Union member Ireland.But Britain's shock Brexit vote in 2016 to quit the EU revived the need for border checks. A special "protocol" was agreed that shifted the controls away from the land border, but many unionists accuse London of selling them out.There is also outrage within the unionist community after the authorities decided not to prosecute Sinn Fein leaders for attending a large funeral last year of a former paramilitary leader, in apparent breach of Covid restrictions.- 'Defuse tensions' -Johnson's Northern Ireland secretary Brandon Lewis was due to fly to Belfast Thursday, where he is to meet leaders from the main parties, including Foster and deputy First Minister Michelle O'Neill of Sinn Fein, as well as faith and community advocates.British Prime Minister Boris Johnson tweeted that he was "deeply concerned", saying "the way to resolve differences is through dialogue, not violence or criminality".Irish premier Micheal Martin also condemned the unrest, calling on "all sides to work together to defuse tensions and restore calm".At Thursday's Northern Irish Assembly debate Naomi Long, justice minister for the centrist Alliance Party, spoke of feeling "some sympathy to those people out there who feel betrayed" by the British government's Brexit policy.She charged that Johnson had made "fantasy" promises of "sunlit uplands" after Britain quit the EU.Meanwhile, with some unionist leaders demanding the EU protocol be scrapped, European Commission spokesman Eric Mamer also condemned the unrest "in the strongest possible terms".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/leaders-condemn-deplorable-northern-ireland-rioting-101617890060970.html
08-04-2021||World||African Union drops plans to buy Covid-19 vaccines from Serum Institute of India||The African Union has dropped its plans to buy coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccines from the Serum Institute of India (SII) and is instead exploring options with Johnson & Johnson, news agency Reuters reported on Thursday, citing the Africa Centre for Disease Control and Prevention. The Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine, codenamed AZD1222 and sold by the Serum Institute under the brand name 'Covishield', has been facing concern from experts worldwide after a few rare blood clotting-events were reported in several European countries.European drug regulators say there’s some evidence of a link between AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine and a rare type of blood clots, though occurrences are low, according to a Bloomberg report. It’s up to individual countries to set guidelines, which means there’s no unified response, something that may confuse, or even worry, people due to receive the shot. Some countries are still using it on all adults for now, others are restricting to certain age groups, and a few have stopped it completely.The African Union has said that the Serum Institute of India will still supply the AstraZeneca vaccine to the continent through the COVAX vaccine-sharing facility, but additional supplies would be sought from Johnson & Johnson. John Nkengasong, the head of the Africa CDC, said however that the possible link between the Anglo-Swedish vaccine and the blood clot reports had nothing to do with the Union's decision. The Africa Union, a continental body consisting of the 55 member states that make up the countries of the African continent, has shifted its efforts to the Johnson & Johnson vaccine, Nkengasong said, citing the deal signed last week to secure up to 400 million doses beginning in the third quarter of this year.Additionally, the Serum Institute of India has fully refunded South Africa for 500,000 doses of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine which the country did not want and which had not yet been delivered, the country's health minister Zweli Mkhize said on Thursday, as per Reuters. South Africa, too, is expected to get more than 1 million vaccine doses from Johnson & Johnson in April as the country looks to ramp up its vaccination drive, the news agency cited the minister as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/african-union-drops-plans-to-buy-covid-19-vaccines-from-serum-institute-of-india-101617886355578.html
08-04-2021||World||Janet Yellen tells world's big economies: Spend big, danger lurks||U.S. Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen on Thursday warned of the risk of a permanence divergence in the global economy in the wake of the Covid-19 crisis, and urged major economies to inject significant new fiscal support to secure a robust recovery.In a statement to the steering committees of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, Yellen underscored the need for major economies to continue supporting developing countries as they grapple with the Covid-19 pandemic, climate change and high debt burdens.She urged the World Bank to help countries, particularly the world's poorest, get timely access to Covid-19 vaccines, and backed accelerated negotiation to replenish the World Bank's International Development Association fund for the poorest countries - a goal the bank aims to reach by December.The United States had pledged $4 billion to the COVAX global vaccine distribution initiative, Yellen said, urging others to join in.She signalled that Washington, which so far has only loaned vaccines to Mexico and Canada, could provide excess doses to other countries in the future."The United States will continue to work with partners to increase vaccine supplies, explore sharing excess vaccines, and make sure financing does not become an obstacle for global vaccination," Yellen said, without providing any details.Yellen's comments reflect the Biden administration's focus on strong international cooperation to tackle global challenges - a sharp departure from the "go-it-alone" approach pursued by former President Donald Trump's administration."The (Covid-19) crisis has exacerbated the trend of rising income inequality, raising concerns about a divergent path within and across countries. We also face the existential threat of climate change. We can only resolve these problems through strong international cooperation," Yellen said in remarks prepared for her first meeting with the IMF's International Monetary and Financial Committee and the World Bank's Development Committee.The former head of the Federal Reserve said substantial fiscal and monetary support from major economies had improved the global economic outlook significantly, but more efforts were needed.Washington was implementing a $1.9 trillion Covid-19 relief plan and was working on another large infrastructure package, Yellen said, urging other major economies to take similar actions."The job is not yet done, given high uncertainty and the risk of permanent scarring," she said. "I urge major economies to not just avoid removing support too early, but to strive to provide significant amounts of new fiscal support to secure a robust recovery."Yellen said developing countries should work with the IMF and World Bank on economic policies and structural reforms and seek full-fledged IMF financing programs, which carry conditions, where necessary. Some countries may need deeper debt treatment, she added.She called on all creditors to "fully and transparently" implement the Group of 20's common framework for debt treatments to avoid "unnecessary delays that can prolong debt overhangs and exacerbate growth shocks."She also urged the World Bank to lead on "transformative climate investments" and to continue to set an aggressive agenda on climate and the green recovery from the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/janet-yellen-tells-world-s-big-economies-spend-big-danger-lurks-101617888696749.html
08-04-2021||World||COVAX vaccines reach more than 100 countries, despite supply snags||The COVAX vaccine facility has delivered nearly 38.4 million doses of Cov-19 vaccines to 102 countries and economies across six continents, six weeks after it began to roll out supplies, according to a statement on Thursday.The programme offers a lifeline to low-income countries in particular, allowing them in the first instance to inoculate health workers and others at high risk, even if their governments have not managed to secure vaccines from the manufacturers.But there have been some delays, the GAVI vaccine alliance and World Health Organization said in a statement.Reduced availability of delayed some deliveries in March and April, and much of the output of the Serum Institute of India, which makes the AstraZeneca vaccine, is being kept in India, where daily infections surpassed 100,000 for the first time on Monday.The Caribbean island of St. Lucia became the 100th country to receive vaccines through COVAX. Iran, also battling a record rate of infection, is another recent recipient.The 102 countries reached so far include 61 benefiting from a mechanism essentially financed by donors.WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus on Monday called it a "travesty" that some countries still did not have enough vaccines to begin inoculating health workers and the most vulnerable.GAVI said last month that it planned to deliver 237 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine - which has been produced at cost for a few dollars a dose, and does not require the advanced refrigeration of some other coronavirus vaccines - to 142 countries by the end of May."COVAX may be on track to deliver to all participating economies in the first half of the year, yet we still face a daunting challenge as we seek to end the acute stage of the pandemic," GAVI chief executive Seth Berkley said in the statement.Nonetheless, COVAX still expects to deliver at least 2 billion doses this year 2021, and to diversify the offering beyond the AstraZeneca/Oxford and Pfizer/BioNTech shots it is currently supplying.(Reporting by Stephanie Nebehay; Editing by Kevin Liffey)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covax-vaccines-reach-more-than-100-countries-despite-supply-snags-101617888960978.html
08-04-2021||World||US Senate panel to consider major China competition bill on April 14: Report||The U.S. Senate Foreign Relations Committee has scheduled a meeting on April 14 to consider major bipartisan legislation to boost the country's ability to push back against China's expanding global influence, a Senate aide said on Thursday.The draft measure, seen by Reuters on Thursday and titled the Strategic Competition Act of 2021, says, among other things, that Washington must encourage allies to do more to check Beijing's "aggressive and assertive behavior" and says every federal department and agency should designate a senior official to coordinate policies with respect to strategic competition with China.Introduced by Senators Bob Menendez, the committee's Democratic chairman, and Jim Risch, its ranking Republican, the draft bill is 283 pages long.The draft legislation is the foreign relations panel's contribution to a broad effort in the U.S. Senate announced in February by Democratic Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer to write legislation to counter China.The Senate Commerce Committee announced on Wednesday that it would hold a hearing on April 14 on its bipartisan measure to bolster U.S. technology research and development efforts. That bill, titled the Endless Frontier Act, was first proposed in 2020 and calls for $110 billion over five years to advance U.S. technology efforts.The package of Senate legislation reflects bipartisan hard-line sentiment on Beijing in Congress.It is intended to address economic competition with China, but also humanitarian and democratic values, such as the treatment of the minority Muslim Uighurs, suppression of dissent in Hong Kong and aggression in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-senate-panel-to-consider-major-china-competition-bill-on-april-14-report-101617887201438.html
08-04-2021||World||US jobless claims up to 744,000 as Covid-19 still forces layoffs||The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits rose last week to 744,000, signaling that many employers are still cutting jobs even as more people are vaccinated against Covid-19, consumers gain confidence and the government distributes aid throughout the economy.The Labor Department said Thursday that applications increased by 16,000 from 728,000 a week earlier. Jobless claims have declined sharply since the virus slammed into the economy in March of last year. But they remain high by historical standards: Before the pandemic erupted, weekly applications typically remained below 220,000 a week.For the week ending March 27, 3.7 million people were receiving traditional state unemployment benefits, the government said. If you include supplemental federal programs that were established last year to help the unemployed endure the health crisis, a total of 18.2 million are receiving some form of jobless aid the week of March 20.Economists monitor weekly jobless claims for early signs of where the job market is headed. Applications are usually a proxy for layoffs: They typically decline as the economy improves. Or they rise as employers retrench in response to sluggish consumer demand.During the pandemic, though, the numbers have become a less reliable barometer. States have struggled to clear backlogs of unemployment applications, and suspected fraud has clouded the actual volume of job cuts.By nearly all measures, though, the economy has been strengthening. During March, employers added 916,000 jobs, the most since August, and the unemployment rate declined from 6.2% to 6%. In February, the pace of job openings reached its highest level on record. Last month, consumer confidence posted its highest reading in a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-up-to-744-000-as-covid-19-still-forces-layoffs-101617887185448.html
08-04-2021||World||‘The less he speaks…’: Imran Khan’s ex-wives slam Pak PM for linking rape to how women dress||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan’s ex-wives blasted the former cricketer for linking rape and sexual violence to how women dress. During a television interview, Oxford-educated Khan blamed “fahashi” (vulgarity) for the rise in rape cases in the country, advising women to cover up to prevent the “temptation”.“This entire concept of purdah (covering up or segregating) is to avoid temptation, not everyone has the willpower to avoid it," he had said.Jemima Goldsmith, Khan’s first wife, quoted Quran to say the onus is on men. “Say to the believing men that they restrain their eyes and guard their private parts: Quran 24:31. The onus is on men,” the British filmmaker wrote on Twitter. Goldsmith, who was married to Khan from 1995 to 2004, added, “I’m hoping this is a misquote/mistranslation. The Imran I knew used to say, ‘Put a veil on the man’s eyes not on the woman’.”I'm hoping this is a misquote/ mistranslation. The Imran I knew used to say, "Put a veil on the man's eyes not on the woman." https://t.co/NekU0QklnLReham Khan, who was married to the Pakistan leader for ten months in 2015, joined Goldsmith and rights activist in criticising Imran Khan for his controversial remark. Reham, a former BBC presenter, quote-tweeted an Associated Press report on the issue, and wrote, “The less he speaks the better it will be for all.”Also Read: Pakistan’s flip-flop on India reflects divisions within Imran Khan govtIn his weekend TV appearance, the Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf leader had also singled out Bollywood and blamed divorce rates in Britain on the “sex, drugs and rock and roll” culture that began in the 1970s. “World history tells when you increase fahashi (vulgarity) in society, two things happen: sex crimes increase and the family system breaks down,” he said.Khan’s comments drew ire from Pakistan rights campaigners who accused the prime minister of "baffling ignorance". "Not only does this betray a baffling ignorance of where, why and how rape occurs, but it also lays the blame on rape survivors, who, as the government must know, can range from young children to victims of honour crimes," the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, an independent rights watchdog, said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imran-khan-s-ex-wives-slam-pak-pm-for-linking-rape-to-how-women-dress-101617885293874.html
08-04-2021||World||Pope tells IMF, World Bank to cut the debt of poor countries||Pope Francis has told world financial chiefs that poor countries hit by the economic impact of the coronavirus need to have their debt burden reduced and be given a greater say in global decision making.In a letter to the participants of the International Monetary Fund and World Bank's annual spring meeting, the pope said the pandemic had forced the world to come to terms with interrelated socioeconomic, ecological, and political crises."The notion of recovery cannot be content to a return to an unequal and unsustainable model of economic and social life, where a tiny minority of the world's population owns half of its wealth," the pontiff said in the letter dated April 4.He called for a new "global plan" that "necessarily means giving poorer and less developed nations an effective share in decision-making and facilitating access to the international market."A spirit of global solidarity "demands at the least a significant reduction in the debt burden of the poorest nations, which has been exacerbated by the pandemic," he said.Financial chiefs of the Group of 20 large economies on Wednesday extended a suspension of debt servicing costs for developing countries but fell short of cancelling debt or expanding debt relief as requested by non-profit organisations.Financial markets need to be underpinned by laws and regulations that ensure they work for the common good, the pope said, calling for "a justly financed vaccine solidarity.""We cannot allow the law of the marketplace to take precedence over the law of love and the health of all," he said.With inoculation campaigns in poor African countries lagging far behind those of the rich world, particularly the United States and Britain, the pope appealed to political and business leaders to provide "vaccines for all, especially for the most vulnerable and needy."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-tells-imf-world-bank-to-cut-the-debt-of-poor-countries-101617882160091.html
08-04-2021||World||Ahead of talks in Turkey, Afghan side for ‘conditions-based’ approach with Taliban||As the Afghanistan government prepares for talks with the Taliban in Turkey this month, the Afghan side is hoping the US will adopt a “conditions-based” approach instead of a time-bound framework for its dealings with the Taliban, people familiar with developments have said. Afghan government representatives and the Taliban are expected to hold talks in Istanbul on April 16 as part of the US administration’s fresh push to put in place a ceasefire and create conditions for a transition in Kabul. The talks are part of a four-point plan outlined in a letter sent by US secretary of state Antony Blinken to President Ashraf Ghani in February. The Biden administration is yet to take a call on pulling out all American troops from Afghanistan by May 1, the deadline set by the previous Trump administration in an agreement signed with the Taliban last year. The White House has said it will be tough to meet the deadline and that President Joe Biden is continuing consultations with his national security team and partner countries. “The US should adopt a conditions-based approach with the Taliban and not a time-bound approach. The agreement signed by the Trump administration imposed conditions with huge consequences on the Afghan side, which wasn’t even party to the agreement signed last year,” one of the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. Also Read | US faults NATO ally Turkey with range of human rights issues“More time is needed to address the security situation and anyway, the Afghan forces are now in the lead in the operations being conducted on the ground,” the person added. The Indian government has not commented publicly on the issue of the May 1 deadline but the Indian side has in the past informed the US side that the troop drawdown in Afghanistan must be done in a planned and orderly manner to ensure that it doesn’t create a vacuum that can be exploited by the Taliban and foreign terror groups operating in the war-torn country, including the Lashkar-e-Taiba and Jaish-e-Mohammed. The Afghan side believes there has been no change in the attitude of the Taliban, which is believed to be behind a wave of targeted assassinations and bombings in Afghan cities that have claimed scores of lives. “The Taliban have also not cut their links with al-Qaeda or other foreign groups operating in Afghanistan as they were required to do under the agreement with the US,” said a second person. “The removal of sanctions and other restrictions on the Taliban has also reduced the leverage that can be used against them,” the first person said. Some experts believe one of the focus areas of the upcoming talks in Istanbul will be an extension of the deadline for withdrawal of US troops. Besides the talks in Turkey, the Biden administration intends to ask the UN to convene a meeting of the foreign ministers of India, Russia, China, Pakistan, Iran and the US to forge a unified approach for a settlement in Afghanistan. One of the factors behind the decision to ask Turkey to host the peace talks is the country’s perceived leverage and close relations with Pakistan, which exercises a great deal of control over the Taliban, the people cited above said. “The Doha process has run its course and several countries were interested in hosting the next round of talks, including Indonesia, Uzbekistan, the United Arab Emirates and Turkey, which was considered to be more suitable,” the first person said. Germany and Norway, which have played a role in facilitating peace talks between Afghan groups, have shown an interest in having a role in the upcoming talks in Istanbul, either in the form of formal participation or as observers, the people said. In recent years, Germany had even offered to host intra-Afghan talks. While addressing the Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process meeting in Tajikistan on March 30, President Ghani outline his vision for a peaceful settlement – a ceasefire and a negotiated political settlement with the Taliban to be endorsed by a Loya Jirga or traditional assembly, consensus on forming a transitional government within the framework of the Afghan Constitution, and a time-bound plan for holding an internationally monitored presidential election.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ahead-of-talks-in-turkey-afghan-side-for-conditions-based-approach-with-taliban-101617884985798.html
08-04-2021||World||Talks with India to resolve LAC tension not delayed: China||China said it was in contact with India to hold the 11th meeting of military commanders to resolve the tension along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh but did not confirm the date for the talks.Responding to a question on the meeting, the Chinese foreign ministry on Thursday blamed India for the “situation” at the border but denied that the talks have been delayed though the 10th round was held on February 20, nearly seven weeks ago.News reports from India had said that New Delhi and Beijing were likely to hold the next round of corps commander level talks on Friday where the two sides were expected to focus on disengaging troops from the remaining friction points in eastern Ladakh.The two militaries had completed the withdrawal of frontline troops with armoured formations and artillery from the banks of Pangong Lake ahead of February 20 negotiations.“China and India are in communication for holding the 11th round of talks. There is no delayed meeting as you cited,” ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said.“I have no information about the upcoming talks,” he said, responding to a related question. “I want to stress that the merits of the situation at (the) India- China border are very clear and the responsibility does not rest with the Chinese side.”“We hope the Indian side will work with China to follow through the important consensus of our two leaders, abide by relevant agreements and treaties to de-escalate the tension at the border,” Zhao added.To a question on whether China will consider India’s proposal of restoring the status quo of April 2020, Zhao said: “For the proposal you mentioned I believe it should be talked in the meetings and I already made clear my position on the border issue just now.”On March 12, Indian and Chinese diplomats had agreed to ensure stability in the Ladakh sector of the LAC and to convene the 11th meeting of senior military commanders soon to take forward disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the disputed border.Those outcomes were agreed upon during a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs between the two countries.According to India’s external affairs ministry, it had been agreed at the WMCC meet to convene the 11th meeting of the senior military commanders “at an early date so that two sides could work towards complete disengagement from the remaining friction areas”.The Chinese readout on the same meeting had noted that the two sides had positively evaluated the disengagement at Pangong Lake and had a candid and in-depth exchange of views on promoting resolution in other areas.It added that the two sides had agreed to stabilise the situation on the border and avoid any “repetition of the situation on the ground in accordance with the five-point consensus reached at the Moscow meeting of the two foreign ministers and the spirit of their February 25 phone call”.The two neighbours have been locked in a standoff since May last year after Chinese troops impeded patrols by Indian forces.A brutal clash at Galwan Valley last June - which left 20 Indian soldiers and at least four Chinese troops dead and was the first incident on the LAC involving fatalities since 1975 - took bilateral ties to an all-time low.India has insisted that China’s actions on the LAC have seriously damaged bilateral ties and normalcy can be restored only by disengagement, de-escalation and restoration of the status quo on the border.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/talks-with-india-to-resolve-lac-tension-not-delayed-china-101617883594567.html
08-04-2021||World||Netherlands: Man arrested over 'plot' to attack Covid-19 vaccination center||Police in the Netherlands have arrested a 37-year-old man on suspicion of plotting a crime with “terrorist intent” for allegedly planning to set off what they described as a “firework bomb” at a coronavirus vaccination center, prosecutors said Thursday.The man, whose identity was not released in line with Dutch privacy guidelines, was arrested March 18. He allegedly wanted to attack the former town hall in the northern port of Den Helder, 90 kilometers (55 miles) north of Amsterdam, which is being used as a vaccination center.Prosecutors said the alleged plot is being treated as a terror act because it “aimed to instill serious fear among the population and to disrupt the economic and social structures of the country.”The suspect “sought to sabotage a crucial government process, the nationally coordinated vaccination program, in an extremely violent manner,” the prosecution statement said. “This also affects public health: The fewer people can be vaccinated, the more victims the virus will claim.”The suspect has been detained since his arrest as investigations continue into possible accomplices, prosecutors said.Early last month, a blast caused by what police called a “homemade device” smashed windows at a coronavirus testing center in a small Dutch town. Nobody was hurt in the explosion. In January, rioters torched a coronavirus test facility in the fishing village of Urk on the first night of a 9 p.m.-to-4:30 a.m. nationwide curfew imposed as part of the government’s latest coronavirus lockdown.The Netherlands remains in a months-long lockdown amid stubbornly high coronavirus infection numbers. Restaurants, bars, museums and other public places remain closed, although the government is experimenting with relaxing some restrictions for people who can prove they have been vaccinated or have tested negative for COVID-19.___Follow AP’s pandemic coverage at:https://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-pandemichttps://apnews.com/hub/coronavirus-vaccinehttps://apnews.com/UnderstandingtheOutbreak||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/netherlands-man-arrested-over-plot-to-attack-covid-19-vaccination-center-101617882851735.html
08-04-2021||World||China accuses US for tensions over Taiwan||China on Thursday blamed the US for tensions over Taiwan, protesting the passage of an American warship through the Taiwan Strait as the two countries increase naval activity near the self-ruled island, claimed by Beijing as a breakaway region.The People’s Liberation Army (PLA) tracked and monitored the USS John S. McCain, a guided missile destroyer, throughout its passage on Wednesday, Zhang Chunhui, spokesperson for the Chinese military’s eastern theatre command, said.The US move sent the “wrong signal” to Taiwan’s government and “wilfully disrupted the regional situation by endangering peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait”, Zhang said.China firmly opposed the move and Chinese forces will respond with “strict precautions and vigilance’, he added.Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said the American ships engaging in “provocations” “send a seriously wrong signal to the forces of Taiwan independence, threatening peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait”.“Would a Chinese warship go to the Gulf of Mexico to make a show of strength?” he added.Earlier, the US Navy’s 7th fleet said the warship’s transit through the Taiwan Strait was made according to international law. “The Arleigh Burke-class guided missile destroyer USS John S McCain (DDG 56) conducted a routine Taiwan Strait transit April 7 (local time) through international waters in accordance with international law. The ship’s transit through the Taiwan Strait demonstrates the US’s commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific. The United States military will continue to fly, sail, and operate anywhere international law allows,” Lt Mark Langford, 7th Fleet spokesperson, said.The same US warship had transited through the Taiwan Strait in February, triggering protests from Beijing.China claims the democratically-run Taiwan as its own territory and has repeatedly protested over Washington stepping-up support for the island, including arms sales and sailing warships through the Taiwan Strait.The PLA itself has increased its presence in the waters surrounding Taiwan, and even deployed an aircraft carrier last week.Taiwan’s defence ministry on Wednesday said 15 Chinese aircraft, including 12 fighters, entered its air defence identification zone, with an anti-submarine aircraft flying to the south through the Bashi Channel between Taiwan and the Philippines.Taiwan’s air force sent up aircraft to intercept and warn the Chinese away, the Reuters news agency quoted the Taiwanese defence ministry as saying.The PLA’s air force carried out its largest air drill around the island March-end, deploying more than 36 aircraft during the exercise.“The large-scale exercise showed that the PLA is capable of surrounding the island of Taiwan and blocking it from receiving foreign reinforcements, and also sent a strong warning to the coast guard agreement the US signed with the island on Friday,” analysts told state media.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-accuses-us-for-tensions-over-taiwan-101617881554250.html
08-04-2021||World||Africa CDC says vaccine passports 'inappropriate' for now. Here's why||The head of the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on Thursday described Covid-19 vaccine passports as “inappropriate" while poor countries lag behind others in acquiring the shots.“Our position is very simple. That any imposition of a vaccination passport will create huge inequities and will further exacerbate them,” Dr. John Nkengasong told a briefing.“We are already in a situation where we don't have vaccines, and it will be extremely unfortunate that countries impose a travel requirement of immunization certificates whereas the rest of the world has not had the chance to have access to vaccines."Vaccine passports are documents that show that travelers have been vaccinated against Covid-19 or recently tested negative for the virus. Technology companies and travel-related trade groups in some wealthy countries are developing and testing out passports to encourage travel.The matter of vaccine passports has been a hotly debated topic around the world, including in the United States and Israel. One question relates to whether governments, employers, and organizers of large gatherings have a right to know about a person’s virus status. Many disagree over what the right balance is between a person’s right to medical privacy and the collective right of groups of people not to be infected with a dangerous disease.Critics also point out that such vaccine passports will enable discrimination against poor nations that do not have ready access to vaccines.Only 2% of all vaccine doses administered globally have been in Africa, according to the World Health Organization.The Africa CDC warned last week that the continent is unlikely to meet its vaccination targets amid supply delays from a key manufacturer. Africa has been mostly reliant on the global COVAX initiative, which aims to ensure that low- and middle-income countries have fair access to the shots. But the Serum Institute of India recently announced that as many as 90 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine destined for COVAX worldwide will be delayed through the end of April as India’s government grapples with a spike in infections at home.Amid delays in COVAX shipments, the African Union's Vaccine Acquisition Trust signed a deal last week with Johnson & Johnson for 220 million doses of its vaccine to be delivered by the third quarter of this year, with an option to acquire an additional 180 million doses through 2022.Africa's target is to vaccinate 60% of its 1.3 billion people by the end of 2022. That goal still may not be met without widespread use of the AstraZeneca vaccine, which is widely seen as key to the global strategy to stamp out the coronavirus pandemic. The vaccine from the Anglo-Swedish drugmaker is cheaper and easier to store than many others.Africa has confirmed more than 4.3 million cases, including 114,000 deaths, representing about 3.3% of the global caseload. But some experts worry that the continent will suffer greatly in the long term if more of its people are not vaccinated in efforts to achieve so-called herd immunity, when enough people are protected through infection or vaccination to make it difficult for a virus to continue to spread. That means about 1.5 billion vaccine doses for Africa, or less if the one-dose Johnson & Johnson vaccine is widely used.“In terms of trade and travel, the world will be watching to see which nations achieve herd immunity and are safe,” Ugandan health entrepreneur Dr. Ian Clarke wrote in a recent column in the local Sunday Vision newspaper. “If Uganda stays as a pocket of Covid-19 while other countries have developed herd immunity, we can expect travel advisories from embassies that it is not safe to visit Uganda.”In a sign of what could come next, Kenya reacted angrily to the British government's decision to ban most travelers from the East African country because a significant number of them are testing positive for a variant first found in South Africa. Britain's travel restrictions begin Friday.Kenya has retaliated by making it mandatory for all passengers originating from or transiting through U.K. airports to undergo 14 days of quarantine at a government facility at their own cost. Authorities also charged in a statement that the British government's decision “seems to be motivated by a discriminatory policy against certain countries and peoples.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/africa-cdc-says-vaccine-passports-inappropriate-for-now-here-s-why-101617880301172.html
08-04-2021||World||Australia backs Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine over AstraZeneca for under-50s||Australia recommends the use of Pfizer's coronavirus vaccine for people younger than 50 in preference to the shot made by AstraZeneca, the government said on Thursday, changing its advice for those deemed most at risk.The move, after Europe’s drug regulator found a possible link between the Anglo-Swedish vaccine and rare blood clotting issues, is a huge hurdle for Australia's faltering inoculation effort, which relies heavily on the AstraZeneca vaccine.Chief Medical Officer Paul Kelly said Australia would advise health providers to only give a first dose of the AstraZeneca vaccine to adults younger than 50 when the benefit clearly outweighs the risks.Those who have already had a first Astrazeneca dose without any serious adverse events "can safely be given their second dose," he added.On Wednesday the European Medicines Agency said it found rare cases of blood clots among some adult vaccine recipients, but added that the advantages still outweighed the risks.Kelly said despite the risks being extremely low, Australian experts have changed their advice for those at greatest risk.Australia has ordered 20 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine and Prime Minister Scott Morrison said Canberra was in talks to increase the order.It will continue to give the AstraZeneca vaccine to people aged over 70, but those above 50 who opt for the Pfizer vaccine will have to wait, the government said.The European regulator's latest findings spurred Britain to recommend an alternative vaccine for people younger than 30, while Italy suggested limiting AstraZeneca shots to those older than 60.Australia's immunisation campaign, which is more than 80% behind its original schedule, relies heavily on the AstraZeneca vaccine for a population of nearly 26 million.It had pledged to administer at least 4 million first doses by the end of March, but could only deliver 670,000, with the government blaming the delay on issues over supply from Europe.It had been looking to ramp up the immunisation effort, underpinned by plans to make 50 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine in Australia, produced by CSL Ltd.Australia began vaccinations much later than some other nations because of its few infections, which stand at just under 29,400, with 909 deaths, since the pandemic began.Neighbouring New Zealand has barred entry to all travellers from India, including its own citizens, over the next two weeks after numerous arrivals from the South Asian nation tested positive.It is the first time New Zealand has barred its own citizens and residents, although both it and Australia shut their borders to non-citizens very early in the pandemic to rein in outbreaks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-backs-pfizer-covid-19-vaccine-over-astrazeneca-for-under50s-101617880294482.html
08-04-2021||World||China's capital envisages 10,000 fuel cell vehicles by 2025||The city of Beijing aims to have over 10,000 fuel cell vehicles on the road and build 74 hydrogen filling stations by 2025, as the Chinese capital maps out an ambitious plan to develop the low-carbon fuel, state media reported on Thursday.China is the world's largest green house gas emitter but is aiming for carbon-neutrality by 2060. It is leading the global expansion in renewable energy like solar and wind power, and has in the last few years begun early planning for venturing into hydrogen.Many provinces and cities are scrambling to map out hydrogen plans and are calling for state subsidies to help spur the sector.The capital forecasts its hydrogen use for road transport and power generation to reach 50 tonnes a day by 2023, and 135 tonnes by 2025, Beijing Daily reported, citing a local government draft plan for 2021-2025.Part of the new hydrogen vehicle fleet would be those deployed for the 2022 Winter Olympics Games due to take place in and near Beijing, before being expanded to ply highways in the Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei region to replace heavy-duty trucks powered by diesel fuel.Between 2021 and 2025, some 4,400 trucks are expected to shift to fuel cells, displacing 145,000 tonnes of diesel consumption annually, the report said.At the end of 2020, China had fewer than 10,000 trucks and buses powered by hydrogen, with annual use of the fuel at 3,000 tonnes, the world's second-largest after the United States.Beijing-based commercial vehicle maker Beiqi Foton Motor said last September it aimed to sell 4,000 hydrogen vehicles by 2023, and 15,000 such vehicles by 2025.Beijing will source part of the hydrogen production from Yanshan Petrochemical Corp, owned by state refiner Sinopec Corp , which wants to become China's No.1 hydrogen player.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-capital-envisages-10-000-fuel-cell-vehicles-by-2025-101617878657311.html
08-04-2021||World||A city wrestled down an addiction crisis. Then came Covid-19||Larrecsa Cox steered past the used tire shop, where a young man collapsed a few days before, the syringe he’d used to shoot heroin still clenched in his fist.She wound toward his house in the hills outside of town. The man had been revived by paramedics, and Cox leads a team with a mission of finding every overdose survivor to save them from the next one.The man’s mother stood in pink slippers in the rain to meet her. People have been dying all around her.“People I’ve known all my life since I was born, it takes both hands to count them,” she said. “In the last six months, they’re gone.”As the Covid-19 pandemic killed more than a half-million Americans, it also quietly inflamed what was before it one of the country’s greatest public health crises: addiction. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that more than 88,000 people died of drug overdoses in the 12 months ending in August 2020 — the latest figures available. That is the highest number of overdose deaths ever recorded in a year.The devastation is an indictment of the public health infrastructure, which failed to fight the dueling crises of Covid-19 and addiction, said Dr. Michael Kilkenny, who runs the health department in Cabell County, which includes Huntington.Simultaneously, Kilkenny said, disruptions in health care exacerbated the collateral consequences of drug use — HIV, hepatitis C, deadly bacterial infections that chew flesh to the bone and cause people in their 20s to have open-heart surgeries. There were 38 HIV infections tied to injection drug use last year in this county of fewer than 100,000 people — more than in 2019 in New York City.Huntington was once ground zero for the addiction epidemic. On the afternoon of August 15, 2016, 28 people overdosed in four hours in Huntington. Connie Priddy, a nurse with the county’s Emergency Medical Services, describes it as their “day of reckoning.”By 2017, the county had an average of six overdoses a day. Some businesses changed out their bathroom lightbulbs to blue — to make it harder for drug users to find a vein.They couldn’t ignore it anymore. The county got two grants and selected Cox, a paramedic, to lead a crew of addiction specialists, faith leaders and police officers who crisscross the county, tracking down people who overdosed. “Facing addiction? We can help,” reads the decal plastered on the side of the Ford Explorer.If the people they find are ready for treatment, they get them there. If they aren’t, they give them the overdose-reversal medication naloxone and other supplies to try to help them survive in the meantime.A white board in their office lists the names of clients they’ve ushered into treatment — about 30% of those they’re able to track down. After two years, the county’s overdose calls dropped by 50 percent.The federal government honored Huntington as a model city. Other places came to study their success.The first couple months of the pandemic were quiet, said Priddy, who coordinates the team and tracks their data. Then came May. There were 142 EMS calls for overdoses, nearly as many as in the worst of their crisis.By the end of 2020, Cabell County’s EMS calls for overdoses had increased 14% over the year before.“That makes us sick,” Priddy said, but she’s heard from colleagues in other counties that their spike was twice as high.The CDC estimates that across the country overdose deaths increased nearly 27% in the 12-month span ending in August 2020. In West Virginia, fatal overdoses increased by more than 38%.Report after report arrived on Cox’s desk. In October, she saw a name of a woman she knew well and lost her breath: Kayla Carter.Carter had a brilliant mind for math and loved the stars. Her family always thought she’d grow up to work for NASA.Instead, she was addicted to opioids by the time she turned 20.“We went through living hell,” said her mother, Lola.Carter overdosed dozens of times. At 30 years old, she already walked with a cane that she painted her favorite color, pink. Infection coursed through her body. She had Hepatitis C and HIV.In 2018, HIV started spreading among injection drug users here. Kilkenny said the county ramped up testing, treatment and the needle exchange program that offers clean syringes to drug users, recommended by the CDC. Cases subsided.But they’ve surged again.As Huntington tries to beat back the damage the pandemic has done, Priddy said it feels like their own state is working against them. The state legislature is pushing a bill to strictly limit needle exchange programs, citing the dangers of discarded syringes.Syringe programs have been the subject of decades of scientific study. The CDC describes them as “safe, effective, and cost-saving,” — they do not increase drug use, studies have found, and they dramatically cut the spread of HIV.Priddy sent her legislator a message imploring that if they restrict syringe exchanges, many more will die.Carter was hospitalized last summer with endocarditis, a heart infection from using dirty needles. Her parents stood at her bedside and thought she looked 100 years old. They cried all the way home.She stayed off drugs when she got out of the hospital. She gained 30 pounds. She said she was sorry for all she’d missed: babies born, birthday parties, funerals. They thought they had her back.Then she stopped answering calls. Her mother went to her apartment and found her dead on her bathroom floor.They are still waiting for the medical examiner’s report, but her father Jeff, a retired paramedic, would rather never see it. It brings him comfort to think she died from complications from her surgeries, and not that she relapsed and overdosed.Now the box of her ashes sits in their living room. Her mother talks to them every night, then cries herself to sleep.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/a-city-wrestled-down-an-addiction-crisis-then-came-covid19-101617877702400.html
08-04-2021||World||Are some Covid-19 vaccines more effective than others?||Are some Covid-19 vaccines more effective than others?It's hard to tell since they weren't directly compared in studies. But experts say the vaccines are alike on what matters most: preventing hospitalisations and deaths.“Luckily, all these vaccines look like they're protecting us from severe disease,” said Dr. Monica Gandhi of the University of California, San Francisco, citing study results for five vaccines used around the world and a sixth that's still in review.And real-world evidence as millions of people receive the vaccines show they're all working very well.Still, people might wonder if one is better than another since studies conducted before the vaccines were rolled out found varying levels of effectiveness. The problem is they don't offer apples-to-apples comparisons.Consider the two-dose vaccines from Pfizer and Moderna, found to be about 95 per cent effective at preventing illness. Studies for those shots counted a Covid-19 case whether it was mild, moderate or severe — and were conducted before worrisome mutated versions of the virus began circulating.Then Johnson & Johnson tested a single-dose vaccine and didn't count mild illnesses. J&J's shot was 66 per cent protective against moderate to severe illness in a large international study. In just the US, where there's less spread of variants, it was 72 per cent effective. More importantly, once the vaccine's effect kicked in it prevented hospitalisation and death.AstraZeneca's two-dose vaccine used in many countries has faced questions about the exact degree of its effectiveness indicated by studies. But experts agree those shots, too, protect against the worst outcomes.Around the world, hospitalizations are dropping in countries where vaccines have been rolling out including Israel, England and Scotland — regardless of which shots are given. And the US government's first look at real-world data among essential workers provided further evidence that the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines are highly protective -- 90 per cent -- against infections whether there were symptoms or not.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/are-some-covid-19-vaccines-more-effective-than-others-101617866158346.html
08-04-2021||World||Covid-19: China's rapid vaccination strategy leads to shortage in supply||China’s ambitious effort to vaccinate 560 million people -- 40% of its population -- by the end of June is running into a supply shortage, forcing health authorities to extend the intervals between two doses, and leaving some people unable to book their second shots.The supply bottleneck comes as China’s vaccination roll out accelerates to nearly 5 million doses a day, the fastest in the world, though the proportion of its vast population covered still lags the U.S., Israel and other leading inoculating nations.While China gets its vaccine supply from domestic manufacturers, thus giving it more control than most countries which are struggling to secure doses, the accelerated pace is pushing the limits of what its homegrown makers can churn out, said people familiar with the matter.This partly drove a decision at the end of March by China’s National Health Commission to issue guidelines on vaccination that said the interval between the first and second dose can be stretched to as long as eight weeks, said the people, who asked not to be identified as they’re not authorized to speak publicly.This is over twice as long as the dose interval used during clinical trials of the vaccines made by state-owned China National Biotec Group and Beijing-based Sinovac Biotech Ltd.Among Western vaccines, dose intervals for mRNA shots range from 21 days to 28 days, while the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommends a maximum of six weeks. In the U.K., AstraZeneca Plc.’s vaccine is advised to be administered with an interval of between four to 12 weeks.The moves underscore the mammoth effort ahead of China, which has virtually eliminated the pathogen domestically and yet risks falling behind other countries -- particularly geopolitical rivals like the U.S. -- in achieving herd immunity and re-opening its economy and borders. In recent weeks, a hardening propaganda campaign that links vaccination to maintaining China’s global prestige in containing the coronavirus has raised take-up rates considerably, but it’s still vaccinating just five out of every 100 people, compared to 27 in the U.S. and 56 in Israel, according to Bloomberg’s vaccine tracker.The National Health Commission did not respond to questions sent by fax.The supply shortage is being exacerbated by Beijing’s pledge to make its shots a global public good to help end the pandemic. More than 100 million doses have been donated and sold overseas and more will be exported as Chinese makers are on track to be included in the WHO-backed Covax program to provide immunization access to poorer nations.China has also offered vaccines to the International Olympics Committee for the upcoming Tokyo Games, while carrying out discussions with European countries looking for supply.The supply shortage appears to be felt unevenly across China. Beijing, the capital, does not appear to have any supply concerns and has raced ahead with over half of its population dosed. Meanwhile, financial center Shanghai -- whose population is also over 20 million people -- has raised Sinovac dose intervals from 14 to 21 days due to supply concerns, said one of the people. To date, Shanghai has given out only 5.5 million doses.In southern Guangdong province, China’s manufacturing hub, the local government has selected five key cities of Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Foshan, Dongguan and Zhuhai to prioritize for vaccination while halting new doses in all other cities, said a person familiar with the situation there.In the central Chinese city of Wuhan, the local CDC branch notified some residential compounds to temporarily suspend vaccinations because shots are running out, said people familiar with the situation there.Given supply constraints, the 40% vaccination target is a nationwide one and doesn’t mean coverage will be even across places, said one person familiar with authorities’ thinking. Densely populated megacities along the developed eastern part of China are being prioritized for vaccination, while remote, sparsely inhabited western provinces will be further behind in the line.In recent days, some people have complained on social media platforms that they’ve been unable to book appointments for second shots.In northeastern Jilin province, resident Wang Yuemei said she’s been told by local officials that she can’t get a vaccination appointment. Some cities in northeastern China are barring people from getting first doses, as their remaining supply will be rationed for those who have already taken a first shot and are waiting for a second, said people familiar with the situation there.“They said it’s due to the shortage of the vaccine. I’m in a wait-and-see mode because even if I get a first shot, there’s a chance I can’t get the second,” said Wang, 42. “This already happened to one of my family members who has passed his set date for the second shot but is still told to keep waiting.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-china-s-rapid-vaccination-strategy-leads-to-shortage-in-supply-101617876558272.html
08-04-2021||World||Beijing overtakes New York City as home to most billionaires, Mumbai behind London | Top 10 cities||New York City lost its crown of being the home to most number of dollar billionaires to Beijing, according to the latest Forbes’ annual rich list released on Wednesday. While NYC added 7 new billionaires, Beijing added 33 billionaires as China quickly bounced back from the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic which has adversely impacted the global economy. A record number of new billionaires in Beijing took the Chinese capital from the fourth position to the first position.Beijing now boasts of 100 dollar billionaires, one more than New York City which remains ahead of the Chinese capital in terms of the total net worth of the billionaires. As per the Forbes report, Beijing’s billionaires have a total net worth of around $484 billion while the billionaires of New York City have a total net worth of more than $560 billion, with NYC resident Michael Bloomberg being the richest individual among them.New York City got sandwiched between two Chinese cities as Hong Kong, a former British colony, claimed the third position with 80 dollar billionaires, per Forbes. Other Chinese cities to make it to the top 10 cities of most numbers of billionaires are Shenzhen, Shanghai, and Hangzhou.Also Read | Kim Kardashian joins the billionaire clubMumbai is the only Indian city to feature in the list with 48 dollar billionaires as it added 10 billionaires last year. Mukesh Ambani, chair of conglomerate Reliance Industries and now Asia’s richest man, doubled his net worth to nearly $85 billion, about one-third of Mumbai billionaires’ total wealth, according to Forbes. The list of top 10 cities with the most number of billionaires features five Chinese cities, two American cities, and one city each from India, Russia, and Britain.Here’s the Forbes list of top 10 cities with most billionaires:1. Beijing2. New York City3. Hong Kong4. Moscow5. Shenzhen6. Shanghai7. London8. Mumbai9. San Francisco10. Hangzhou||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/beijing-overtakes-new-york-city-as-home-to-most-billionaires-top-10-cities-101617876543891.html
08-04-2021||World||YouTube most used social media in US, followed by Facebook. Here are the Top 10||YouTube remains the most popular social media platform in the United States, a new report by the Pew Research Center has revealed. Facebook takes the second place, followed by Instagram, Pinterest, and LinkedIn, according to the American think-tank's 2021 survey report. Snapchat, Twitter, WhatsApp, TikTok, and Reddit are next in the list, respectively, while Nextdoor, a neighbourhood-focused platform, has also registered its presence in the list.The Pew Research Center's "Social Media Use in 2021" report reveals some interesting facts about the American social media landscape. While YouTube and Facebook continue to dominate internet culture, a trend that has been continuing over the past five years, the number of US adults using Facebook remained almost the same since 2018. YouTube, on the other hand, has reported an 8% growth in American users since 2019. Reddit is the only other social media platform that reported significant growth — registering a 7% rise in users since 2019.Here are the top 10 social media platforms in the US, as per the Pew Research Center's 2021 survey report (listed along with the percentage of US adults who acknowledged using them):1 . YouTube (81%)2 . Facebook (69%)3 . Instagram (40%)4 . Pinterest (31%)5 . LinkedIn (28%)6 . Snapchat (25%)7 . Twitter (23%)8 . WhatsApp (23%)9 . TikTok (21%)10 . Reddit (18%)Nextdoor has also found a place in the list, with 13% of US adults saying they use the platform for connecting with users in the neighbourhood.Age groupsInstagram, Snapchat, and TikTok remain popular among young adults aged 18 to 29 years, according to Pew Center's report. Facebook, although used by around 70% of the younger users, is also accessed by 50% of users aged 50-64. YouTube, being the most popular social media platform in America, has a fairly decent user base across all age groups, with 49% of older users and 95% of younger users accessing the platform.Identities and demographicsFacebook, Instagram, and LinkedIn are also popular across most demographic groups and identities, with the 2021 social media survey showing that Hispanic (52%) and Black Americans (49%) use Instagram more than White Americans (35%). This trend holds true for most other social media platforms, including YouTube, Facebook, Snapchat, Twitter, and TikTok, as well. Only in the case of LinkedIn were White Americans found statistically more likely to use.Similarly, Pinterest is a social media platform preferred mostly by women (46%) over men (16%).GrowthA particularly notable feature of the 2021 social media survey is the fact that the growth in Facebook's userbase has plateaued over the last five years, even though it remains the second most popular social media platform for US adults. The situation is almost the same for Instagram, Pinterest, LinkedIn, Twitter, Snapchat, and WhatsApp, the userbase for all of which have remained statistically unchanged since 2019.On the other hand, Reddit's userbase has grown from 11% in 2019 to 18% in 2021. YouTube, has registered an increase in users from 73% in 2019 to 81% in 2021 among US adults.Click here for the detailed report of Pew Research Center's "Social Media Use in 2021" survey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/youtube-most-used-social-media-in-us-followed-by-facebook-here-are-the-top-10-101617871367800.html
08-04-2021||World||'Not a childish prank': Students falsified Covid-19 results to skip school, now face disciplinary action||Students in the Swiss city of Basel falsified positive Covid-19 results in a bid to skip school, resulting in the entire class being put in quarantine, and now disciplinary measures against the perpetrators after the hoax was discovered.Three students in Basel's Kirschgarten High School falsified SMS messages from Switzerland's Covid-19 contact tracing app, the Swiss newspaper Blick reported.That forced about 25 classmates to be confined to their homes for some 10 days. Several teachers were also affected by the incident just before spring break in March."This is not just a childish prank, this is a serious incident," Simon Thiriet, a spokesman for Basel's education department, told Blick.The school plans to pursue criminal charges for falsifying "health-relevant documents" though it does not plan to expel them. Thiriet said that students are in a "difficult situation" due to the pandemic, but that doesn't excuse the threesome's stunt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/not-a-childish-prank-students-falsified-covid-19-results-to-skip-school-101617872495326.html
08-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Bhutan vaccinates over 60% people in record time, leaves behind Israel||At a time when all the countries in the world are racing against time to give Covid-19 vaccine to most of their population, the tiny Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan has created a record. The country may not be well-known as economic powerhouse, but when it comes to giving vaccine shots, over 60 per cent of Bhutan's population has received a first jab.Surprisingly, the Himalayan kingdom started its two-dose vaccination drive just 11 days ago. It is using the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine donated by India.By Wednesday, 470,000 people out of 770,000 (61.03%) had been administered the first shot.Ninda Dema, a 30-year-old woman born in the year of the Monkey as per the Buddhist astrology, became the country’s first to receive the shot on March 27. She was given the vaccine jab at a school-turned-vaccination centre in the capital Thimphu.“Let this small step of mine today help us all prevail through this illness,” Ninda was quoted by the Kuensel newspaper as saying after being selected to take the first jab.And in just nine days, Bhutan has achieved what many other countries couldn't.When Bhutan's campaign launched on March 27, it set the speedy target of vaccinating over half a million adults - in just one week.With this record, Bhutan has left Israel behind which has given both shots of the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine to more than half of its population.The country has recorded 896 Covid-19 infections and one death so far. Bhutan has been able to slow the spread of the virus with early screening and monitoring at entry points, testing and sealing of borders.Bhutan received 150,000 doses of the vaccine manufactured by the Serum Institute of India in January. The authorities waited for 400,000 more shots that were provided last month to begin the campaign in one go.The scenic country is famous for its “gross national happiness” index.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-bhutan-vaccinates-over-60-people-in-record-time-leaves-behind-israel-101617874331870.html
08-04-2021||World||Virginia becomes first southern US state to legalize pot||Virginia on Wednesday became the first southern US state to approve the use of small amounts of marijuana for personal use.The state Senate and House of Delegates voted to allow adults to possess marijuana as of July 1, in a measure approved despite fierce opposition by Republican lawmakers.Democratic Governor Ralph Northam in a statement said his state had "made history as the first state in the South to legalize the simple possession of marijuana.""Marijuana laws were explicitly designed to target communities of color, and Black Virginians are disproportionately likely to be stopped, charged, and convicted," he said."Today, Virginia took a critical step to right these wrongs and restore justice to those harmed by decades of over-criminalization."Several other US states, including New York and Colorado, have approved similar measures, but Virginia is the first to do so in the socially and politically conservative US south.A measure approved by the state in February would have seen the state legalize pot by 2024, but Northam asked lawmakers to move that date forward in a bid to keep regular users out of trouble.Adults over the age of 21 will be able to legally possess up to one ounce (28.3 grams) of cannabis for personal use, as well as cultivate up to four plants per household.Like limits on drinking in public, consuming cannabis in public will not be allowed.The licensing of cannabis production and commercial cannabis sales will not take place until July 1, 2024."Legalization will bring an end to the thousands of low-level marijuana infractions occurring annually... ending a discriminatory practice that far too often targets Virginians who are young, poor, and people of color," said Jenn Michelle Pedini with NORML, a national group lobbying for pot legalization.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/virginia-becomes-first-southern-us-state-to-legalize-pot-101617871569377.html
08-04-2021||World||'Britons should be confident': Govt assures on Covid jab monitoring system||Britons should be confident that the system to monitor COVID-19 vaccines is working following the change in advice on giving young people the Oxford-AstraZeneca jab, Health Secretary Matt Hancock said on Thursday."People can be reassured that we have the high class safety system run by our world class regulator (...) and then we're totally transparent with all of the side effects, no matter how extremely rare they are like these ones," he told Sky News.Britain's vaccine advisory committee said on Wednesday that an alternative to Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine should be given to under 30s where possible due to a "vanishingly" rare side effect of blood clots in the brain.Hancock said new guidance would not delay Britain's vaccination programme because alternatives from Pfizer and Moderna would be available for the affected group.Britain is aiming to give a first dose of COVID-19 vaccine all over-50s by mid-April and all adults by the end of July.Hancock said there were 10.16 million people aged between 18 to 29, of whom 1.6 million had already had a first dose of vaccine."We have more than enough Pfizer and Moderna vaccines to cover all of the remaining eight and a half million people," he said."We are on track to hit the target that we've set that we will ensure every adult in the UK is offered the jab by the end of July."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britons-should-be-confident-govt-assures-on-covid-jab-monitoring-system-101617870639335.html
08-04-2021||World||Myanmar ambassador to UK says he is locked out of embassy||Myanmar's ambassador to the United Kingdom, who has criticized the military coup in the country, says he has been locked out of his London office by colleagues.Kyaw Zwar Minn said he was barred from entering the embassy on Wednesday evening by diplomats loyal to the military regime.Last month, the ambassador called for the release of Myanmar's democratic leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, who was detained when the military seized power on Feb 1.“They are refusing to let me inside. They said they received instruction from the capital, so they are not going to let me in,” he told the Daily Telegraph, calling the move a “coup.”British Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab on Thursday condemned the “bullying actions of the Myanmar military regime,” and praised the ambassador's “courage.” But it was unclear what, if anything, the UK could do about the move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-ambassador-to-uk-says-he-is-locked-out-of-embassy-101617871538669.html
08-04-2021||World||Biden plans to crack down on 'ghost guns' with action on Thursday||President Joe Biden on Thursday will unveil his administration's first steps to curb gun violence, including a plan to reduce the proliferation of "ghost guns," after a slew of mass shootings have put pressure on him to act.Biden will announce that the Justice Department intends to issue a proposed rule within 30 days to help reduce the increasing prevalence of untraceable, self-assembled "ghost guns," a White House official told reporters. The details of the rule were not immediately clear.The department also will issue proposed rules within 60 days that make clear that devices marketed as "stabilizing braces" that effectively turn pistols into rifles will be subject to the National Firearms Act, which requires the registration of firearms, the official said.Other measures include investment in community violence prevention, the planned release of a model "red flag law" that states can use to draft their own versions, and plans for a Justice Department report on arms trafficking. Red flag laws allow courts and local law enforcement to remove guns from people deemed a risk to communities.Gun control is a divisive issue in the United States, which has experienced a significant number of deadly mass shootings at schools and other public venues for decades. The U.S. Constitution's Second Amendment protects the right to bear arms.The administration has been working on gun control measures for months that would limit gun violence without starting a legal battle that could lead to courts quickly dismantling the policies.The official said Biden would continue to advocate for legislation and called the administration's planned actions on Thursday initial steps."The president will not wait for Congress to act before the administration takes our own steps, fully within the administration's authority and the Second Amendment, to save lives," she said.Recent mass shootings in Georgia and Colorado have put pressure on the White House to act on its own. Legislation is not likely to pass swiftly through Congress.The top Republican in the U.S. House of Representatives, Kevin McCarthy, criticized Biden's move."President Biden plans to announce his attempts to trample over our constitutional 2A rights by executive fiat," McCarthy said in a tweet. "He is soft on crime, but infringes on the rights of law-abiding citizens."The proposal is also likely to face legal challenges. The National Rifle Association (NRA) said in a statement it will fight Biden's executive actions."Biden has made clear his sights are set on restricting the rights of law-abiding gun owners while ignoring criminals and foregoing substantive measures that will actually keep Americans safe," spokeswoman Amy Hunter said.It will force Americans to give up guns and states to enforce confiscation orders, Hunter added.ATF PICKThe U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives (ATF) has said more than 30% of the illegal weapons it has confiscated in some areas of California are "ghost guns," not currently regulated as firearms requiring background checks.Biden had chosen David Chipman, a former ATF special agent, to serve as the agency's director, White House spokeswoman Jen Psaki told reporters on Wednesday. Gun control activists and some of Biden's fellow Democrats in Congress had pleaded with the White House to name someone to the post.Chipman is an adviser to Giffords, a gun violence prevention organization spearheaded by former U.S. Representative Gabrielle Giffords, who survived a 2011 mass shooting in Arizona.The NRA said it will oppose Chipman's nomination.The list of initiatives to be unveiled on Thursday leave out a number of Biden's campaign promises, many of which require congressional action, including opening gun makers up to lawsuits over murders committed using their weapons, banning assault weapons altogether, and requiring background checks for most gun sales.Biden had also promised other actions he said he could take unilaterally, such as banning assault weapons from being imported, as well as fielding suggestions on how to reform the ATF and the federal gun safety background check system within his first 100 days in office, a period that ends on April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-plans-to-crack-down-on-ghost-guns-with-action-on-thursday-101617871499302.html
08-04-2021||World||Japan: Tokyo seeks government permission to impose emergency Covid-19 curbs||Tokyo has asked Japan's central government for permission to implement emergency measures to curb a surge in a rapidly spreading and more contagious coronavirus variant, just over three months before the start of the Olympics.Tokyo came out of a state of emergency on March 21. Its governor, Yuriko Koike, told reporters Thursday that she asked the government to allow her to issue binding orders under a new virus prevention law enacted in February that include penalty for business owners who defy measures and compensation for those who comply.Tokyo's step follows Osaka in western Japan, which declared a medical emergency after its hospitals became overwhelmed with new cases.Tokyo reported 545 cases Thursday, highest since early February. Koike said she is alarmed by the rapid spread of the new variants, especially one initially detected in Britain.“It would be a matter of time before Tokyo faces a situation similar to Osaka,” Koike said.She said timing and details of the new measures, including shorter hours for restaurants and bars, will be decided later, possibly on Friday.The latest surge started in western Japan, including Osaka, where the daily toll hit a record 878 and Gov. Hirofumi Yoshimura asked that the Olympic torch relay scheduled for Tuesday and Wednesday be held at a park and not on the public road. He said more than 70% of hospital beds have been occupied, a threshold for a local medical alert.Infections have also surged elsewhere in the country. With Japan's vaccination drive still at an early stage, the surge may cause further cancelations of Olympic-related events.Inoculations started mid-February with medical workers, but still account for less than 1% of the population. Vaccinations of elderly people are to start next week and the rest will likely have to wait until around July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-tokyo-seeks-government-permission-to-impose-emergency-covid-19-curbs-101617870887505.html
08-04-2021||World||Two bots, one selfie: Nasa on 1st photo of Mars Perseverance rover with Ingenuity||The two bots of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration(Nasa) on the mission to Mars took their first selfie on the red planet on Tuesday. Nasa’s Perseverance Mars rover took the selfie with its new companion, the Ingenuity helicopter on the Martian day or sol of the mission.“Two bots, one selfie. Greetings from Jezero Crater, where I’ve taken my first selfie of the mission. I’m also watching the #MarsHelicopter Ingenuity as it gets ready for its first flight in a few days. Daring mighty things indeed,” the US space agency tweeted, with the image captured by the rover using a WATSON (Wide Angle Topographic Sensor for Operations and Engineering)camera.Two bots, one selfie. Greetings from Jezero Crater, where I’ve taken my first selfie of the mission. I’m also watching the #MarsHelicopter Ingenuity as it gets ready for its first flight in a few days. Daring mighty things indeed.Images: https://t.co/owLX2LaK52 pic.twitter.com/rTxDNK69rsWATSON is a part of the SHERLOC (Scanning Habitable Environments with Raman and Luminescence for Organics and Chemicals) instrument, located at the end of the Perseverance’s robotic arm.The selfie was stitched together from 62 individual images taken by the rover, said Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory(JPL).The Ingenuity helicopter, which was stored in the rover’s belly, detached last week and survived its first night alone on the frigid red planet. Nasa hailed it as a major milestone as the helicopter is expected to attempt its first flight no earlier than April 11.“Once the team is ready to attempt the first flight, Perseverance will receive and relay to Ingenuity the final flight instructions from JPL mission controllers. Several factors will determine the precise time for the flight,” Nasa said.Also Read | For the first time, scientists find X-ray emission from UranusThe helicopter, which carries a small piece of cloth from the first aircraft that achieved the powered flight on Earth, will be the first aircraft to attempt powered flight on another planet.The Mars Perseverance mission is part of the US agency’s moon to mars exploration approach, with its key objective to search for ancient microbial life on the planet. It will characterize the geology and the past climate of the planet to pave the way for human exploration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/two-bots-one-selfie-nasa-on-1st-photo-of-mars-perseverance-rover-with-ingenuity-101617868629561.html
08-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Study finds 10% rise in mobility rate sparks 25% spike in weekly cases||A 10% increase in the mobility rate or movement of people outside their homes in Canada correlated to a 25% spike in weekly growth rates of Covid-19 infections, according to a study published on Wednesday in the Canadian Medical Association Journal (CMAJ).The study was conducted by researchers from Public Health Ontario, University of Toronto, St Michael’s Hospital, Unity Health, Sinai Health System and University Health Network, Sunnybrook Research Institute, Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Communications Research Centre Canada, Women’s College Hospital and the Public Health Agency of Canada.It was released as Canada is facing a third wave of the coronavirus crisis with 6,151 new cases reported on Wednesday, an increase of 63% over the past 14 days, taking the total number of infections to 1,027,050, while 23,171 deaths have been recorded so far.The study used anonymised smartphone data along with that on cases related to the Covid-19 pandemic in Canada over a time span covering March 15, 2020 to March 6 this year.“This study shows that mobility strongly predicts Sars-CoV-2 growth rate up to three weeks in the future, and that stringent measures will continue to be necessary through spring 2021 in Canada,” lead author Dr Kevin Brown, an infectious diseases epidemiologist with Public Health Ontario, wrote, along with the co-authors of the research.The researchers based their findings on the metrics of mobility threshold or the level required to control the spread of the coronavirus and the mobility gap.“Mobility strongly and consistently predicts weekly case growth, and low levels of mobility are needed to control Sars-CoV-2 through spring 2021,” the authors wrote. They also pointed out that the mobility metrics they measured “can be used by public health officials and governments to estimate the level of restrictions needed to control the spread of Sars-CoV-2 and guide, in real-time, the implementation and intensity of non-pharmaceutical public health interventions to control the Covid-19 pandemic.”The authors also pointed out that such interventions “remain the primary means of controlling” Covid-19 until “vaccination coverage is sufficient to achieve herd immunity”.With the surge in cases, Canada’s largest province Ontario announced stay-at-home orders that came into effect on Thursday, while other provinces have also introduced more restrictive measures to combat the deadly virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-study-finds-10-rise-in-mobility-rate-sparks-25-spike-in-weekly-cases-101617866373475.html
08-04-2021||World||India’s farm laws, Kashmir’s status to come up at Canada-based NDP’s convention||Condemnation of the Indian government over last year’s farm deregulation laws that have sparked protests, as well as the 2019 revocation of Jammu and Kashmir’s semiautonomous status are among the resolutions that feature on the agenda of the Canada-based New Democratic Party’s (NDP) national convention starting on Friday.The resolutions at the three-day affair will be voted upon by the delegates, and if accepted, will become the party’s policy.The resolution for “International solidarity with Indian farmers” was moved by members of the party from Brampton East. The NDP is led by Jagmeet Singh, who was denied a visa by the Indian government in December 2013. At that time, he was a member of the provincial parliament (MPP) in Ontario, making him perhaps the first-ever sitting member of a Western legislature to have been barred from travelling to India. Later, in March 2018, he was forced to disavow all “acts of terrorism” even as he was in the eye of a storm over his appearance at a 2015 event in San Francisco, during which he spoke at a platform in the backdrop of a poster of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, considered in India as the person who gave the Khalistan movement a violent spin in the 1980s.While he contested elections in 2019 to the House of Commons from Burnaby South in British Columbia, the town of Brampton, in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), is Singh’s home base and his brother Gurratan Singh is an Ontario MPP from the region.The resolution calls for “the federal government to condemn India’s actions and take a firm stand in standing up for farmers and the human rights abuses being carried out by the Indian government” and demands “international accountability to protect the rights of farmers to peacefully protest without duress”. Also, two resolutions on Jammu and Kashmir feature in the section “Redefining Canada’s place in the world”. One expresses solidarity with the people of the region who the resolution claims have been “denied their right to self-determination” by both India and Pakistan. The second one claims the revocation of Article 370 has led to “renewing the dispute over Kashmir with Pakistan and China that resulted in heightened diplomatic, military and civil unrest, including widespread human rights abuses, in the area”.Many of the resolutions to be considered by the party have already come in for sharp criticism for being impractical. Among them are the phasing out of the Canadian Armed Forces; defunding, disarming and disbanding police forces in the country including the Royal Canadian Mounted Police; Canada’s withdrawal from Nato; abolishing billionaires; and nationalising the auto industry, big banks and insurance companies.Without referring to the India-specific resolutions, columnist Terry Glavin wrote in the daily Ottawa Citizen on Wednesday that to read through the resolutions in the chapter on “Redefining Canada’s place in the world”, was to be “left with the impression, if you’re a reasonably literate observer of the world, that these people have lost their damn minds”. On Monday, columnist John Ivison wrote in the daily National Post that “the sheer number of impractical and preposterous ideas suggests not so much an irrational fringe, as an institution that is in danger of being taken over by its moonstruck inmates”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-farm-laws-kashmir-s-status-to-come-up-at-canada-based-ndp-s-convention-101617864873552.html
08-04-2021||World||Mysterious plumes of methane gas appear over Bangladesh||One of the countries most vulnerable to climate change has also been revealed as a major contributor of methane, a greenhouse gas that’s about 80 times more potent in its first two decades in the atmosphere than carbon dioxide. The 12 highest methane emission rates detected this year by Kayrros SAS have occurred over Bangladesh, according to the Paris-based company, one of several that specialize in analyzing satellite observations to locate leaks. “It has the strongest sustained emissions we've seen to date where we can’t clearly identify the source,” said Stephane Germain, president of GHGSat Inc, which also picked up the plumes.Bluefield Technologies Inc., which analyzed European Space Agency data to identify a large methane plume in Florida in May, also detected the concentrations over Bangladesh. “Our analysis shows that Bangladesh has some of the highest methane emissions in the world that can be detected by satellites,” said Yotam Ariel, the company’s founder.Scientists are just beginning to pinpoint the biggest sources of methane. Observations from space can be seasonal due to cloud cover, precipitation and varying light intensity. Satellites can also have difficulty tracking offshore emissions and releases in higher latitudes such as the Arctic, where Russia has extensive oil and gas operations. Because of these limitations existing data isn’t yet globally comprehensive.But the emissions over Bangladesh are drawing attention. Its low elevation and high population density make it particularly vulnerable to extreme weather events and rising oceans. The country chairs the Climate Vulnerable Forum, whose 48 members represent 1.2 billion people most threatened by climate change. “We’re aware of the problems,” Bangladesh’s Environment and Climate Change Minister Shahab Uddin said in an interview. The bulk of the methane likely came from rice paddies, he said. When farmers flood their fields, bacteria in the waterlogged soil can produce large quantities of the gas. “The other source is the landfill gas,” Uddin said, released when trash breaks down. “We’re working to take mitigation measures.” Domesticated livestock, leaks from the oil and gas industry, landfills and coal mining are just some of the human activities that result in methane emissions, according to the Global Methane Initiative. At least a quarter of today's global warming is caused by man-made methane emissions, the Environmental Defense Fund estimates.Methane concentrations in Bangladesh likely originate from a combination of sources including paddy fields, landfills, leaky natural gas pipelines and coal stockpiles, according to Kayrros. The company uses data from the ESA’s Sentinel-5P and Sentinel-2 satellites. It ran a dispersion simulation that takes into account atmospheric conditions such as wind, that can move methane plumes away from their source.Methane is a particular concern for those working to slow the pace of climate change. The gas is odorless and colorless, making leaks extremely difficult to detect. Halting accidental emissions from energy infrastructure is some of the lowest-hanging fruit because companies stand to benefit from cleaning up operations. They’re losing product that could have been sold and risk reputational damage as investors such as BlackRock Inc. demand higher standards.“The methane concentrations we see over Bangladesh are a signal and deserve more study,” said Steven Hamburg, chief scientist at the EDF, which plans to launch its own satellite to track methane emissions next year. “It will require more work to make reliable quantitative estimates of emissions and determine sources.”The ability to attribute leaks to individual operators is getting closer as more satellites are launched that offer greater precision and more frequent coverage. GHGSat in February said it tracked methane leaks from at least eight natural gas pipelines and unlit flares in Central Turkmenistan that released as much as 10,000 kilograms per hour.EDF’s PermianMap project, which combines data from satellites and other ground-based observations to attribute and aggregate emissions by operator in one of the world’s most active fossil fuel basins, is a sign of the transparency to come. “The ability to attribute methane emissions at an asset level is here now,” said GHGSat’s Germain. “The challenge is to increase the frequency of the observations with more satellites.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mysterious-plumes-of-methane-gas-appear-over-bangladesh-101617862519027.html
08-04-2021||World||Britain slams 'bullying' Myanmar over London embassy standoff||Britain on Thursday condemned "bullying" by the Myanmar junta after the country's ambassador to London was ousted in an extraordinary diplomatic coup after calling for the release of civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi.Diplomats loyal to the Myanmar military authorities seized control of the embassy on Wednesday, leaving ambassador Kyaw Zwar Minn locked out in the street.The ambassador said the defence attache had taken over the mission in "a kind of coup", two months after the military seized power in Myanmar.Daily protests demanding a return of democracy have rocked the country and brought a brutal response from the armed forces, with almost 600 civilians killed according to a local monitoring group.The coup prompted several high-profile diplomatic defections, including the country's ambassador to the United Nations.The junta recalled Kyaw Zwar Minn last month after he issued a statement urging them to release Suu Kyi and deposed civilian President Win Myint.British foreign minister Dominic Raab tweeted his support for the ambassador."We condemn the bullying actions of the Myanmar military regime in London yesterday, and I pay tribute to Kyaw Zwar Minn for his courage," Raab wrote."The UK continues to call for an end to the coup and the appalling violence, and a swift restoration of democracy."Protesters gathered outside the mission on Wednesday evening with the ousted ambassador, who told the Daily Telegraph that "when I left the embassy, they stormed inside the embassy and took it.""They said they received instruction from the capital, so they are not going to let me in," he added, calling on the British government to intervene.Asked who had taken over, he replied: "Defence attache, they occupy my embassy".According to The Times newspaper, the ambassador said the defence attache had sought to install his former deputy, as charge d'affaires.AFP has tried to contact Myanmar's military authorities for comment on the incident, but has not yet received a response.- Heartthrob actor held -Myanmar's security forces have struggled to quell protests and a civil disobedience movement aimed at stopping the military from running the country.They have used rubber bullets and live rounds to break up rallies and used night raids to arrest suspected dissidents.The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) says at least 598 civilians have been killed and nearly 2,900 detained.AAPP said that 12 people were killed on Wednesday alone.As part of its efforts to suppress the movement, the junta has issued a wanted notice for some 120 celebrities accused of fanning the protests by lending their support.On Thursday, the military arrested leading actor, model and heartthrob Paing Takhon in a dawn raid at his mother's home in Yangon.The 24-year-old -- a star in both Myanmar and neighbouring Thailand -- has been active in the protest movement both in person at rallies and through his massive social media following.In February, he posted pictures of himself in a white tracksuit with a megaphone, hard hat and a white fluffy dog strapped to his chest at a protest.- UN meeting -International powers have voiced anger and dismay at the junta's brutal approach, but the UN Security Council has stopped short of considering sanctions, with both China and Russia against the move.A group representing the ousted civilian government on Wednesday began talks with UN investigators, saying it had gathered more than 270,000 pieces of evidence showing rights abuses by the junta.A lawyer for the Committee for Representing Pyidaungsu Hluttaw (CRPH) -- a group of MPs from Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy (NLD) party -- met the investigators to discuss alleged atrocities.The CRPH says it has evidence of more than 540 extrajudicial executions and 10 deaths of prisoners in custody as well as torture and illegal detentions.The military has defended seizing power, pointing to allegations of voting fraud in the November election which Suu Kyi's party won comfortably, and says it is responding proportionately to the demonstrations.Junta chief General Min Aung Hlaing accused the protesters of wanting to "destroy the country" and said only 248 protesters had been killed, along with 16 police officers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/britain-slams-bullying-myanmar-over-london-embassy-standoff-101617863087694.html
08-04-2021||World||US sanctions Pakistan-based transnational human smuggling network||The US treasury department on Wednesday sanctioned a Pakistan-based transnational human smuggling network that brought in an unspecified number of migrants illegally since at least 2015 - some of whom could pose a national security risk.The sanctions pointed to the possibility of a previously unnoticed South Asian route. The Pakistan-based network, with links to Afghanistan, appears similar to the one operating out of India, which is referred to as the “game” because of the risk of discovery and deportation. They seemingly use similar routes through South American and Central American countries, costing clients ₹25-30 lakh each ($33,596-$40,305) - $20,000 for the Pakistani route, according to the US treasury.Pakistani national Abid Ali Khan is the key figure sanctioned by the US treasury department along with his network, the Abid Ali Khan Transnational Criminal Organisation (TCO). Afghan national Redi Hussein Khal Gul served as Khan’s secretary and Pakistanis Shakeel Karim and Mohammed Choudry Ikram Waraich, who is based in West Asia, took care of the country-hopping travel.“Treasury’s designation of this human smuggling organisation as a significant Transnational Criminal Organisation is an important step, taken alongside our partners, towards disrupting Abid Ali Khan’s operations based in Pakistan and around the world,” said Andrea Gacki, director of the office of foreign assets control.Top homeland security agent in Miami, Anthony Salisbury, who led the investigation, said the Abid Khan network is “exploiting systemic vulnerabilities in order to move people with nefarious motivations into the United States and elsewhere”.The Abid Khan network, run since 2015 according to the US treasury department, started operating in Pakistan and Afghanistan. No specifics were cited about the exit route, nor anything about how the migrants were transported to South America for long and arduous journey over land to the US.“The Abid Ali Khan TCO frequently utilises a common route of travel that begins in Pakistan or Afghanistan, transiting through certain South and Central American countries before arriving at the southern border of the United States,” the US treasury department said in the sanction’s announcement.There is a possibility that Pakistani and Afghan clients of this network could be following a route also used by Indian smugglers.A farmer from Punjab who played the “game” in 2013 for ₹26.5 lakh ($35,596), told HT earlier that he and his group “first flew to Dubai and then to Moscow in Russia”. They never left the airports in both cities.From Moscow, they flew over the Pacific to El Salvador, where Indians can get visas on arrival. It could not be immediately ascertained if this is true also for the Pak-Afghan smuggling route.From the landing point of choice in South America, the trail for Indians takes a somewhat established path. Another Indian migrant who could not pull it off, said he had first landed in Brazil, from where he had worked his way up north through Bolivia, Peru, Ecuador, Columbia, Panama and Costa Rica.Human smuggling of this kind is known to be a lucrative business. “Based on migrants’ accounts of how much they paid smugglers, media reports have estimated Latin American smuggling networks generate at least $150 million and as much as $350 million a year - not counting payments to corrupt officials, local agents or others on the US-Mexico border who exploit the desperation of migrants,” the US treasury department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-sanctions-pakistan-based-transnational-human-smuggling-network-101617862413097.html
08-04-2021||World||Joe Biden likely to extend US troop presence in Afghanistan||Without coming right out and saying it, President Joe Biden seems ready to let lapse a May 1 deadline for completing a withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan.Orderly withdrawals take time, and Biden is running out of it.Biden has inched so close to the deadline that his indecision amounts almost to a decision to put off, at least for a number of months, a pullout of the remaining 2,500 troops and continue supporting the Afghan military at the risk of a Taliban backlash.Removing all of the troops and their equipment in the next three weeks — along with coalition partners who can't get out on their own — would be difficult logistically, as Biden himself suggested in late March.“It's going to be hard to meet the May 1 deadline,” he said. “Just in terms of tactical reasons, it's hard to get those troops out.” Tellingly, he added, “And if we leave, we're going to do so in a safe and orderly way.”Also Read | In Afghanistan, India must embrace the role of peacemakerJames Stavidis, a retired Navy admiral who served as NATO's top commander from 2009 to 2013, says it would be unwise at this point to get out quickly.“Sometimes not making a decision becomes a decision, which seems the case with the May 1 deadline,” Stavidis said in an email exchange Wednesday.“The most prudent course of action feels like a six-month extension and an attempt to get the Taliban truly meeting their promises — essentially permitting a legitimate conditions based' withdrawal in the fall.”There are crosscurrents of pressure on Biden. On the one hand, he has argued for years, including during his time as vice president, when President Barack Obama ordered a huge buildup of US forces, that Afghanistan is better handled as a smaller-scale counterterrorism mission. Countering Russia and China has since emerged as a higher priority.On the other hand, current and former military officers have argued that leaving now, with the Taliban in a position of relative strength and the Afghan government in a fragile state, would risk losing what has been gained in 20 years of fighting.Also Read | In Kabul, be ready for political uncertainty"A withdrawal would not only leave America more vulnerable to terrorist threats; it would also have catastrophic effects in Afghanistan and the region that would not be in the interest of any of the key actors, including the Taliban,” a bipartisan experts group known as the Afghan Study Group concluded in a February report.The group, whose co-chair, retired Gen Joseph Dunford, is a former commander of US forces in Afghanistan and former chairman of the Joint Chiefs, recommended Biden extend the deadline beyond May, preferably with some sort of agreement by the Taliban.If the troops stay, Afghanistan will become Biden's war. His decisions, now and in coming months, could determine the legacy of a 2001 US invasion that was designed as a response to al-Qaida's Sept. 11 attacks, for which the extremist group led by Osama bin Laden used Afghanistan as a haven.Biden said during the 2020 campaign that if elected he might keep a counterterrorism force in Afghanistan but also would “end the war responsibly” to ensure US forces never have to return. The peace talks that began last fall between the Taliban and the Afghan government are seen as the best hope, but they have produced little so far.Postponing the US withdrawal carries the risk of the Taliban resuming attacks on US and coalition forces, possibly escalating the war. In a February 2020 agreement with the administration of President Donald Trump, the Taliban agreed to halt such attacks and hold peace talks with the Afghan government, in exchange for a US commitment to a complete withdrawal by May 2021.When he entered the White House in January, Biden knew of the looming deadline and had time to meet it if he had chosen to do so. It became a steep logistical hurdle only because he put off a decision in favour of consulting at length inside his administration and with allies.Flying thousands of troops and their equipment out of Afghanistan in the next three weeks under the potential threat of Taliban resistance is not technically impossible, although it would appear to violate Biden's promise not to rush.Biden undertook a review of the February 2020 agreement shortly after taking office, and as recently as Tuesday aides said he was still contemplating a way ahead in Afghanistan. White House press secretary Jen Psaki stressed that May 1 was a deadline set by the prior administration and that a decision was complicated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-likely-to-extend-us-troop-presence-in-afghanistan-101617857732867.html
08-04-2021||World||US expects 'difficult and long' conversations with Iran on nuclear programme||The US has said that it expects that the indirect talks with Iran on its nuclear programme in Vienna will be difficult and a long process.The European Union-brokered Iran nuclear talks, which began in Vienna on Tuesday, is being attended by diplomats from the UK, China, France, Germany, Russia and Tehran.The US and Iran last week said that they would begin negotiations through intermediaries in a bid to get both the countries back into the landmark 2015 nuclear accord which limits Tehran’s atomic programme. Former president Donald Trump pulled the US out of the deal in 2018.As the key talks began in Vienna, White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters at her daily news conference, “We expect this to be -- these conversations to be difficult. We expect this to be a long process. And we're very much at just the beginning period.”Special envoy Robert Malley is leading the US in the indirect talks with Iran that are being conducted by the European Union.“The talks are continuing today in Vienna. It’s only the second day of talks. You may have seen a tweet from one of the European officials attending who called this -- said, “There's unity and ambition,” and that was their description of the conversations,” she said.“This is just a constructive early step. We're at the early part of the process here. The primary issues, as you know, that will be discussed are both steps that would need to be taken for Iran to come back into compliance and the sanctions relief steps that the United States would need to take,” Psaki said.State Department Spokesperson Ned Price on Tuesday said that he does not expect any immediate breakthrough."We recognise this to be potentially the start of a process, knowing that we do have a long – a potentially long road ahead. We’ve always said this will be hard, and I think that’s also worth underscoring. It will be hard for several reasons. It will be hard because of logistics. These talks are indirect, and as a result, the mechanics of them can be cumbersome. It will be hard because these are very technical and complex issues,” he said.These are not strategic talks, he said.The American team on the ground in Vienna has had consultations with European allies as well as with Russian and Chinese partners. They in turn have met with the Iranian delegation, he said.“So in all of this, we have heard more about Iran's position. Our partners have in turn heard from us more about our position, which they have then relayed to the Iranians. And in short, this is what we had hoped to accomplish at the outset, really nothing more and nothing less,” Price said.Under the 2015 nuclear deal, Iran had agreed to greatly limit its nuclear programme through 2025. However, Trump argued that this gave the Iranians a pathway to nuclear weapons.The 2015 accord is aimed at preventing Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Tehran denies it is seeking such an arsenal.Iran has stepped up its nuclear work in violation of the accord after US sanctions were reimposed as part of Trump's "maximum pressure" policy to weaken the Iranian regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-expects-difficult-and-long-conversations-with-iran-on-nuclear-programme-101617858409694.html
08-04-2021||World||Jill Biden shines fresh spotlight on military family programme||Jill Biden on Wednesday delivered on her promise to prioritise the struggles of military families by reviving a decade-old initiative that challenged Americans to do something as simple as mow the lawn or drop off a meal for a family with a loved one in the armed forces.Biden said military families are as important to the United States as a rudder is to a ship and that national security will be served by attending to their physical, social and emotional health.“How can we hope to keep our military strong if we don't give our families, survivors and caregivers what they need to thrive?" she asked at the White House.Biden said the reiteration of Joining Forces , education for the more than 2 million children of enlisted parents and veterans, and the overall health and well-being of these families.Just 1 per cent of the country serves in the all-volunteer military, she said. She also cited a Defense Department estimate of a 22 per cent unemployment rate for military spouses.Some military spouses face employment headaches after moves to a new base in a new state, especially in professions that require licensing, which ends up costing time and money. They and their children can have trouble adjusting to a new home or school, or making new friends.“Service members cannot be focused on their mission if their families don't have what they need to thrive at home,” said the first lady, who is the daughter and mother of service members. “And we can't expect to keep the best and brightest if our service members are forced to choose between their love of country and the hopes and dreams they have for their families.”“We have to help you carry this weight," she said.She cited commitments from the departments of Defense, Education and Labour, saying the work was just beginning. “Our effort will take all of our government working together, and we expect every agency to step up and be part of it," she said.The first lady was joined virtually Wednesday by military families, advocates and others from around the world, a total of more than 100 people appearing in individual boxes on screens behind her on the stage at the White House.She later visited the Military OneSource call center, a Department of Defense-funded operation that provides a range of counseling and other support for services for members and their families 24 hours a day, seven days a week.Biden toured the facility in Arlington, Virginia, one of three locations around the country, and listened to a military spouse and a member of the Army offer testimonials about the guidance they received after they sought assistance from Military OneSource."Thanks for helping our military members and their families," she said after meeting some of the workers who answer the calls. “I don't know if people thank you enough.”She spent her first weeks as first lady conducting listening sessions with the spouses of senior Defense Department officials and military leaders, military family advocates and military children. Last month, she toured US bases in Washington state and California, where she met with families and students.She had promised during the 2020 presidential campaign to revive Joining Forces. Shortly before President Joe Biden took office, the first lady named Rory Brosius as the initiative's executive director. Brosius previously served as the program's deputy director.Jill Biden's father, Donald Jacobs, was a Navy signalman in World War II who went to college on the GI Bill. Her late son, Beau, a father of two children, served in the Delaware Army National Guard, including a year in Iraq. Beau Biden died of brain cancer in 2015 at age 46.Jill Biden's other causes are education and cancer research. She is a longtime English professor at community colleges.Joining Forces was rolled out in 2011 under President Barack Obama's administration and was led by then-first lady Michelle Obama and Jill Biden, when Joe Biden was vice president. The mission was to encourage the public and private sectors to support service members, veterans, their families and their caregivers with a focus on education, employment and wellness.After leaving the White House in 2017, Jill Biden continued to work with military families through the Biden Foundation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jill-biden-shines-fresh-spotlight-on-military-family-programme-101617853164670.html
08-04-2021||World||US begins study assessing allergic reactions to Pfizer, Moderna Covid vaccines||US' National Institutes of Health (NIH) announced on Wednesday that it is launching a study to determine the risk of allergic reactions to the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna vaccines among certain individuals.A clinical trial is underway to determine whether people who are highly allergic or have a mast cell disorder are at increased risk for an immediate and systemic allergic reaction to the Moderna or Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccines."The public understandably has been concerned about reports of rare, severe allergic reactions to the Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccines," said Anthony S Fauci, MD, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (NIAID), part of the National Institutes of Health. "The information gathered during this trial will help doctors advise people who are highly allergic or have a mast cell disorder about the risks and benefits of receiving these two vaccines. However, for most people, the benefits of COVID-19 vaccination far outweigh the risks."Data from the study, which is sponsored and funded by the NIAID, is expected to be released in late summer.The study team will enroll 3,400 adults aged between 18 and 69 years at up to 35 academic allergy-research centres nationwide. About 60 percent of study participants, group 1, must have either a history of severe allergic reactions or a diagnosis of a mast cell disorder, while 40 per cent of participants, group 2, will not.Study staff will collect blood, urine and nasal swabs from participants before each injection, and blood and urine after each injection.If a significant number of systemic allergic reactions to either or both vaccines occur during the trial, investigators will analyse these biological samples to examine possible mechanisms for the reactions and whether certain genetic patterns are associated with higher risk.The Moderna and Pfizer-BioNTech COVID-19 vaccines are the first two coronavirus vaccines authorised by the Food and Drug Administration for emergency use and already have been given to millions of Americans.Most of the rare, severe allergic reactions to these vaccines have occurred in people with a history of allergies. A substantial number of these people had previously experienced a life-threatening allergic reaction called anaphylaxis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-begins-study-assessing-allergic-reactions-to-pfizer-moderna-covid-vaccines-101617852906762.html
08-04-2021||World||Covid-19: EU regulator says AZ clot risk rare as countries battle surges||The EU’s medicines regulator said on Wednesday that blood clots should be listed as a rare side effect of AstraZeneca’s jab against Covid-19 but the benefits continue to outweigh risks, as several countries battle fresh coronavirus surges amid vaccine shortfalls.A number of nations have suspended the use of AstraZeneca’s vaccine for younger populations after it was earlier banned outright in several places over blood clot scares.The UK on Wednesday said that people under the age of 30 should choose alternatives to the vaccine, after reporting 19 deaths from clots among people who received the shot.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said blood clots should be listed as a “very rare” side effect, encouraging countries to continue its use.The announcement came after the EMA’s safety committee examined reports of blood clots, but EMA chief Emer Cooke said no particular risk factor had been identified and the clots could be linked to an immune response to the vaccine.“Specific risk factors such as age, gender or medical history have not been able to be confirmed, as the rare events are seen in all ages,” she said. “The benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine in preventing Covid-19 overall outweigh the risk of side effects... It is saving lives.”In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed support for a snap lockdown to stem rising cases.Hard-hit France imposed tighter measures this week, while Ukraine reported record new fatalities and hospitalisations despite tightening measures.AstraZeneca’s UK vaccine trial on children pausedVaccinations of children in a study of the Covid-19 shot developed by AstraZeneca and the University of Oxford have been paused. No safety issues have arisen in the children’s trial, the university has said.The action comes after a growing number of reports of rare brain blood clots in younger adults have led some countries, including several in the EU, to suspend use of the vaccine in certain age groups.Germany halted use of the Astra-Oxford vaccine for people younger than 60 last week, while Canada has limited its use to those more than 55 years old.CDC: Strain found in UK is most common in USA variant of the coronavirus first identified in Britain is now the most common strain circulating in the US. The director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Dr Rochelle Walensky, said the strain, known as B.1.1.7, is “now the most common lineage circulating in United States”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-eu-regulator-says-az-clot-risk-rare-as-countries-battle-surges-101617848844251.html
08-04-2021||World||Covid-19 prevalence in UK dropped in March, but decline flattening off: Study||The prevalence of Covid-19 infections in England dropped steeply in March, a closely watched survey said on Thursday, but in a note of caution it also showed that the drop in infections had slowed.The REACT study, run by Imperial College London, found that infections fell by approximately 60% from the last study in February, with only 1 in 500 people infected.However, the study found that the speed of decline started to plateau in mid-March. Schools reopened on March 8, and Covid-19 restrictions will be loosened further next week, with the reopening of all shops and outdoor hospitality venues."We have seen a gratifying fall in infections since our last survey in February... This is hugely encouraging and shows we’re headed in the right direction," Paul Elliott, director of the REACT programme, said."However, in our most recent data there has been a flattening off in the infection rate with an R (reproduction) number now around one. This shows that we need to continue to approach the situation with caution and keep sticking to the rules."Overall, national prevalence in England dropped from 0.49% in February to 0.20% in March.The REACT study is one of the biggest Covid-19 surveys of its kind in England, with over 140,000 volunteers tested in England between March 11 and March 30 in the latest round.The study found that the correlation between infections and deaths was diverging, possibly an effect of Britain's Covid-19 vaccination programme, which has seen over 31 million people receive a first Covid-19 vaccine dose."These findings are promising and illustrate the significant impact that lockdown, combined with our phenomenal vaccination programme, is having on the prevalence of this dreadful virus," health minister Matt Hancock said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-prevalence-in-uk-dropped-in-march-but-decline-flattening-off-study-101617841725050.html
08-04-2021||World||UK variant of Covid-19 now most common strain in United States, says CDC||The highly contagious variant of Covid-19 first discovered in the United Kingdom has become the most common strain of the virus in the United States as cases continue to climb, a top U.S. health official said on Wednesday.The strain, known as B.1.1.7, was identified in Britain last fall and has since been detected in 52 jurisdictions in the United States, U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Rochelle Walensky told reporters at a White House briefing.U.S. public health officials have urged Americans to get vaccinated as soon as possible in part to prevent new variants of the novel coronavirus from spreading.The United States has also detected cases of a variant first discovered in South Africa that is thought to be resistant to some Covid-19 vaccines and treatments. That strain has been found in 36 U.S. jurisdictions, according to federal data last updated on Tuesday.The United States is administering about 3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses per day on average over the past week, up 8% over the previous seven-day average, Walensky said.Vaccine supply has increased significantly in the United States in recent weeks as Johnson & Johnson has begun making millions of doses of its recently authorized shots. Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna have also recently boosted their vaccine production capacity.U.S. President Joe Biden has doubled his goal for shots administered in his first 100 days in office from 100 million to 200 million and urged states to begin giving shots to all adults by mid-April.Still, daily U.S. cases of novel coronavirus are averaging 63,000 over the past seven days, up 2.3% from the previous seven-day average, Walensky said.Walensky said that the CDC has identified a number of Covid-19 outbreaks tied to youth sporting events and that communities experiencing high case counts should avoid holding such events. Testing should also happen twice a week, she said.White House Covid-19 adviser Andy Slavitt also told reporters that the U.S. government is expanding its community health center program, which it set up in recent weeks to help get vaccines into underserved communities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-variant-of-covid-19-now-most-common-strain-in-united-states-says-cdc-101617840857859.html
08-04-2021||World||Scientists call for new investigation into Covid-19 origins: Report||A group of international scientists called for a new investigation into the origins of Covid-19 on Wednesday after China and the World Health Organization (WHO) released a scrutinized report last week concluding that the virus most likely came from wildlife instead of a laboratory.Twenty-four scientists from Europe, the US, Australia and Japan issued an open letter, which was obtained by The New York Times, that analyzed steps to complete a more comprehensive investigation, as reported by The Hill."Calling for a full investigation into the origins of the pandemic by the best available means is not intended to point fingers at any one country. Its purpose is to leave no stone unturned in seeking to understand how this catastrophe began so we can prioritize efforts to address our greatest shortcomings for the benefit of all people and all nations," the letter read.The Hill reported that the letter, which followed a previous open letter criticizing the WHO report, pointed out that "critical records and biological samples that could provide essential insights into pandemic origins remain inaccessible."The scientists requested a probe involving biosecurity and biosafety experts conducted either by WHO or another group of nations to study the origins of Covid-19, which was first reported in Wuhan, China, in 2019.The WHO report determined that the possibility the virus came from a lab was "extremely unlikely," noting there was "no record" any lab had closely related viruses.Jamie Metzl, an author, senior fellow of the Atlantic Council, an international policy think tank and signatory of the scientists' letter, said the renewed calls for a more thorough investigation reflected the need for greater monitoring of and restrictions on what viruses can be studied in labs around the world."This is not about ganging up on China," Metzl said according to The New York Times.WHO Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, said later that the mission's consideration of a possible lab leak was not "extensive enough."Metzl said he couldn't agree more and said that in the future, such a review should include US labs. But, he said, the pandemic is of utmost urgency and he wants to start right away with China."It absolutely makes sense to establish a global regulatory system overseeing aggressive work with dangerous or deadly pathogens everywhere," he said.India, last week, said that it fully supports the World Health Organization Director-General Tedros Adhanom's expectation that future collaborative studies will include more timely and comprehensive data sharing but raised concerns over China's delaying tactics and lack of access to "complete, original data and samples".Tedros, who has been accused of complacency towards China, hardened his tone acknowledging the concerns about China's refusal to share raw data about early Covid-19 cases.The United States, Australia, Canada, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia and Israel said in a statement that they "fully" supported the WHO's efforts to bring an end to the pandemic, including understanding how it "started and spread".But they added it was "essential that we voice our shared concerns that the international expert study on the source of the SARS-CoV-2 virus was significantly delayed and lacked access to complete, original data and samples".US Department of State Spokesperson Ned Price on Wednesday (local time) said that what is evident from Washington's review of the report is that it lacks crucial data, it lacks information, and it lacks access. "It represents a picture that is partial and, in our view, incomplete. That's not just our view. Many other countries share that view," he said during a briefing.China has been criticised widely across the world for its role in the spread of the novel coronavirus that has infected over 132 million people across the world. More than 2.8 million people have lost their lives to the virus, as per Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/scientists-call-for-new-investigation-into-covid-19-origins-report-101617841407868.html
08-04-2021||World||Brazil detects first case of South African Covid-19 variant||Brazil has recorded its first confirmed case of the highly contagious coronavirus variant discovered in South Africa, a fresh danger sign for a country already ravaged by the world's worst daily death toll and scrambling to make space for burials.Scientists warned on Wednesday that yet another new variant could be emerging in Brazil's inland city of Belo Horizonte.The Federal University of Minas Gerais said in a statement that two samples taken in the city included a previously unseen set of 18 mutations, including some in the same genes modified by the South African variant and Brazil's already prevalent variant, known as P.1.The detection of additional variants adds to concerns that a brutal Covid-19 wave battering Brazil may keep breaking grim records for weeks to come. On Tuesday, the health Ministry reported a single-day record of 4,195 deaths, followed by another 3,829 fatalities on Wednesday.Sao Paulo, the country's biggest city, on Wednesday said it would begin opening some 600 new graves per day, well beyond the record of 426 burials in a day on March 30. The city is also preparing plans for a "vertical cemetery," a crypt with 26,000 drawer-like graves that can be built in 90 days once approved.The outbreak in South America's largest country may overtake the United States to become the world's deadliest, some medical experts predict.The woman in Sao Paulo state now confirmed as infected by the South African virus variant was first identified by the Butantan biomedical institute as a possible case of a new local variant. Further analysis confirmed it as the first known local case of the variant widely circulating in South Africa and elsewhere.Scientists fear a showdown between the South African variant and Brazil's P.1 variant, both of which are more contagious and possibly more deadly than the original version of the coronavirus, worsening Covid-19 surges."It could be a huge duel," said Maria Carolina Sabbaga, one of Butantan's coordinators for studying new variants. "I think P.1 has already taken over. I'm not sure if the South African will overtake P.1, let's see."The South African variant in studies appears to lessen protection from current vaccines.José Patané, a Butantan researcher, said the variant most likely arrived in Brazil after traveling through Europe toward the end of 2020.The first local diagnosis, a woman in her 30s in the city of Sorocaba, had not traveled abroad or come into contact with someone who did, indicating local community transmission, researchers said.SLOW VACCINE ROLLOUTA possible surge of the South African variant could further complicate Brazil's slow vaccine rollout.Brazil's Covid-19 immunization program is built around the vaccines from AstraZeneca Plc and China's Sinovac Biotech Ltd, which have proven effective against the Brazilian variant in preliminary studies, according to officials.Research released on Wednesday showed the Sinovac shot was 50% effective at preventing symptomatic Covid-19 in a study of nearly 68,000 health workers in Manaus, where the P.1 strain first emerged as the predominant variant. The results support preliminary findings of separate research reported by Reuters last month.Immunizations have been slow to ramp up in Brazil after the government dragged its feet last year in acquiring vaccines while other countries raced to secure supplies.President Jair Bolsonaro has shifted his tone on vaccines, touting shots he had until recently disdained. But the far-right former army captain still opposes social distancing and mask requirements that health experts see as essential for curbing virus transmission.Under pressure from business leaders desperate to vaccinate their workforces and reopen operations, the lower house of Congress approved a controversial bill to allow private-sector vaccine purchases. After the lower house concluded voting on amendments Wednesday, the bill will now go to the Senate for consideration.The proposal would allow businesses to acquire vaccines to inoculate their employees as long as they donate the same number of shots to the public health system. Under current rules, businesses could only do that once the country has fully vaccinated risk groups outlined in a national immunization plan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazil-detects-first-case-of-south-african-covid-19-variant-101617840468873.html
08-04-2021||World||US 'prepared to lift' sanctions imposed on Iran inconsistent with JCPOA||The United States is prepared to lift sanctions imposed on Iran to resume mutual compliance with the 2015 nuclear agreement, State Department spokesman Ned Price said on Wednesday."We are prepared to lift sanctions that are inconsistent with the JCPOA [the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action]," Price told reporters during a daily briefing, as reported by Sputnik.The spokesperson reiterated that there will be no unilateral gestures as the United States favors a "compliance for compliance" formula.Price further said that The United States delegation met at the conference on reviving the Iran nuclear agreement in Vienna with their counterparts from Europe, Russia and China."The team on the ground in Vienna has had consultations with our European allies, with our Russian and Chinese partners. They, in turn, have met with the Iranian delegation," he said.Sputnik reported that a US delegation is attending an in-person meeting by the JCPOA members in Vienna to discuss steps needed to fully restore the nuclear agreement.The US representatives had meetings with counterparts from China, France, Germany, Russia and the United Kingdom, but are not expected to engage in direct talks with Iran's team.In 2015, Iran signed the JCPOA with the P5 1 group of countries. The agreement required Iran to scale back its nuclear program and downgrade its uranium reserves in exchange for sanctions relief. In 2018, the US withdrew from the JCPOA and began imposing sanctions on Iran in violation of the nuclear agreement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-prepared-to-lift-sanctions-imposed-on-iran-inconsistent-with-jcpoa-101617840322508.html
08-04-2021||World||AstraZeneca vaccine clot risk 'very rare', says EU regulator as nations battle Covid-19 surge||The EU's medicines regulator said Wednesday that blood clots should be listed as a rare side effect of the AstraZeneca jab but the benefits continue to outweigh risks, as several countries battle fresh virus surges amid vaccine shortfalls.A number of nations have suspended the use of AstraZeneca's vaccine for younger populations after it was earlier banned outright in several places over blood clot scares.The United Kingdom on Wednesday said it will adopt new medical advice to offer most people under 30 an alternative to AstraZeneca if possible, after reporting 19 deaths from clots among people who received the shot.The debate comes as countries from Germany to Ukraine and India face new waves of the virus that has now killed more than 2.8 million people.Governments are scrambling to secure much-needed vaccine doses, with Australia the latest nation to complain of shortages that it blamed on EU export controls.The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said Wednesday that blood clots should be listed as a "very rare" side effect, encouraging countries to continue its use.The announcement came after the EMA examined 86 blood clotting cases, 18 of which were fatal, out of around 25 million people in Europe who received the AstraZeneca vaccine. Most of the cases were in women aged under 60.But EMA chief Emer Cooke said no particular risk factor had been identified and the clots may be linked to an immune response to the vaccine."The benefits of the AstraZeneca vaccine in preventing Covid-19 overall outweigh the risk of side effects," she told a news conference."It is saving lives."- 'Plausible but not confirmed' -The World Health Organization's vaccine experts on Wednesday echoed EMA's findings, saying a causal relationship between the vaccine and blood clots was "plausible but is not confirmed"."We believe the benefit-risk balance is very much in favour of the vaccine," said the WHO in response to an AFP query.AstraZeneca itself said two studies by British and European regulators "reaffirmed" that the benefits of its vaccine "far outweigh the risks".Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Belgium, Spain and the Netherlands are among countries not recommending the shot for younger people.Britain's decision to offer an alternative jab if possible to most people under 30 came after data showed 79 blood clots and 19 deaths among people who had received one of 20 million AstraZeneca doses administered in the UK.AstraZeneca's vaccine has been administered in at least 111 countries, more than any of its rivals, according to AFP data. It is being used both in wealthier countries and poor nations, largely as part of the Covax scheme to ensure equitable access to vaccines.The controversy surrounding the jab has marred a global vaccine rollout that will help countries emerge from a pandemic that has ravaged the world's economy and subjected much of humanity to some form of confinement.In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel expressed support for a snap lockdown to stem rising cases, after decentralised measures failed to quell outbreaks.Hard-hit France imposed tighter measures this week, as French Open organisers announced the tennis tournament would be delayed by one week until May 30 in the hopes of accomodating more fans.Ukraine on Wednesday reported record new deaths and hospitalisations after tightening measures in the capital.Canada's most populous province of Ontario was ordered into a four-week lockdown, while Qatar reimposed strict measures.India, which registered a 24-hour record of almost 116,000 new cases on Wednesday, said it too would rollout tougher curbs with new curfews in place in 20 cities, including the capital New Delhi.Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro however doubled down on his opposition to lockdown measures, despite the country registering its deadliest day yet on Tuesday with more than 4,000 deaths."We're not going to accept these policies of 'stay home, close everything, lock down,'" he said.- Amnesty slams hoarding -Australia was facing vaccine woes of its own, after just 700,000 of a contracted 3.8 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine were delivered.Prime Minister Scott Morrison blamed the EU for the shortages, accusing the bloc of "strict export controls".More than 694 million doses of coronavirus vaccines have been administered globally, according to an AFP tally, with just a handful of countries leading the pack by a wide margin.Israel has inoculated 61 percent of its people with one dose, while the US has administered 33 percent with a first shot.Amnesty International said in its annual report that wealthy countries are failing a test of global solidarity by hoarding Covid vaccines.Echoing calls to help hard-hit nations, G20 finance ministers and central bankers agreed to extend a moratorium on debt interest payments for the poorest countries.Meanwhile in the United Kingdom, where around 60 percent of adults have received a first dose, health workers started rolling out the Moderna jab, the third approved after AstraZeneca and Pfizer."I'm an unpaid carer for my grandmother so it is very important to me that I get it, so I can care for her properly and safely," said 24-year-old Elle Taylor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-vaccine-clot-risk-very-rare-says-eu-regulator-as-nations-battle-covid-19-surge-101617839918848.html
08-04-2021||World||Belgium imposes ban on AstraZeneca Covid-19 jabs for people under 56||Belgium is disregarding Wednesday’s advice from the European Union’s drug regulator and imposing a four-week ban on administering the AstraZeneca vaccine to people aged under 56.The European Medicines Agency said that even though it found a “possible link” between the AstraZeneca coronavirus vaccine and a rare clotting disorder, it placed no new restrictions on using the vaccine in people 18 and over. The EMA insisted that the benefits of the shot still largely outweigh the risks.Nevertheless, Belgium imposed a ban on administering it to younger people.“We will keep it this way for the next four weeks and reassess it then,” said Belgian Health Minister Frank Vandenbroucke. He said the decision would have little impact on the vaccination campaign since few from that age group are in line to get jabs this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/belgium-imposes-ban-on-astrazeneca-covid-19-jabs-for-people-under-56-101617839814740.html
08-04-2021||World||Biden taps gun control backer as alcohol, tobacco, firearms boss||President Joe Biden has tapped David Chipman, a gun control advocate, to lead the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, according to a person familiar with the matter.Chipman is a senior policy adviser at Giffords, an organization led by former Congresswoman Gabrielle Giffords, an Arizona Democrat who was gravely wounded injured in a 2011 shooting that killed six other people, including a federal judge. The group focuses on tightening gun control measures.Chipman was a special agent for the ATF for 25 years. During his career with the bureau, he disrupted a gun trafficking ring that operated between Virginia and New York City and became special agent in charge of the ATF’s firearms programs, according to his biography on Giffords.“It is far too easy for violent people to get their hands on deadly weapons,” Chipman said at a September 2019 congressional hearing. “The American people overwhelmingly want Congress to act now to make their communities safer. Assault weapons are a class of semiautomatic firearms originally intended for military use designed to kill people quickly and efficiently. These weapons are often the weapon of choice for mass shooters.”Chipman would have to win Senate confirmation to assume the role of ATF director. Giffords’ husband is Senator Mark Kelly, an Arizona Democrat who was elected in November.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-taps-gun-control-backer-as-alcohol-ttobacco-firearms-boss-101617838994504.html
08-04-2021||World||Trump's tariffs on China helped protect US jobs: Commerce Secretary Raimondo||US Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo said on Wednesday that steel and aluminum tariffs imposed by former President Donald Trump's administration have helped protect jobs in the United States and she will aggressively use all available tools to counter China's unfair trade practices going forward.Speaking at a White House Briefing, Raimondo said that President Joe Biden's American Jobs plan is to "make sure that every American has the opportunity to get a decent well-paying job with dignity.""It's a historic investment in America intended to create tens of millions of jobs, rebuild our country's infrastructure, and position the United States to out-compete China... We need to play offense and defense. The jobs package is offense -- investment in America so that we can play offense. A lot of the tools that commerce has are defense; entities lists, tariffs, etc... We are in the middle of an overall review on the China policy," she said."My broad view is that what we do on offense, is more important than what we need to do on the defense. In order to compete with China, we need to rebuild America... We have to work with our allies and find common ground where we can," the secretary added."The 232 tariffs on steel and aluminum have in fact helped save American jobs in steel and aluminum industries. So what do with the tariffs? We have to now level the playing field. No one can now out-compete the American worker if the playing field is leveled," she said furtherRaimondo emphasized that she will use all available tools in her power to aggressively protect US jobs from unfair trade practices by China."China's actions are uncompetitive, conversive, underhanded. They have proven that they will do whatever it takes. I plan to use all the tools in my toolbox as aggressively as possible to protect American workers and businesses from unfair Chinese practices," the commerce secretary said.The Commerce Department had overseen the restrictions on China via an "Entity List" created by the Trump administration. It was responsible for broad national-security-based tariffs the United States imposed on steel and aluminum from key trading partners, including the European Union, as reported by Sputnik.Toward the end of his term last year, then-President Trump also went after Chinese social media and payment applications TikTok and WeChat, trying to force their sale to US entities. Those moves were later struck down by US courts.Under the Trump administration, ties between the two countries had deteriorated over issues such as human rights violations in Xinjiang, encroachment on the special status of Hong Kong, accusations of unfair trade practices by Beijing, lack of transparency concerning the pandemic and China's military aggression in various parts of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trumps-tariffs-on-china-helped-protect-us-jobs-commerce-secretary-raimondo-101617838573030.html
08-04-2021||World||UK advises limiting AstraZeneca vaccine in under-30s amid blood clot worry||British authorities recommended Wednesday that the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine not be given to adults under 30 where possible because of strengthening evidence that the shot may be linked to rare blood clots.The recommendation came as regulators in the United Kingdom and the European Union emphasized that the benefits of receiving the vaccine continue to outweigh the risks for most people — even though the European Medicines Agency said it had found a “possible link” between the shot and the rare clots. British authorities recommended that people under 30 be offered alternatives to AstraZeneca. But the EMA advised no such age restrictions, leaving it up to its member-countries to decide whether to limit its use.Several countries have already imposed limits on who can receive the vaccine, and any restrictions are closely watched since the vaccine, which is cheaper and easier to store than many others, is critical to global immunization campaigns and is a pillar of the UN-backed program known as COVAX that aims to get vaccines to some of the world’s poorest countries.“This is a course correction, there’s no question about that,” Jonathan Van-Tam, England’s deputy chief medical officer, said during a news briefing.Van-Tam said the effect on Britain’s vaccination timetable — one of the speediest in the world — should be “zero or negligible,” assuming the National Health Service receives expected deliveries of other vaccines, including those produced by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna.EU and UK regulators held simultaneous news conferences Wednesday to announce the results of investigations into reports of blood clots that sparked concern about the rollout of the AstraZeneca vaccine.The EU agency described the clots as “very rare” side effects. Dr Sabine Straus, chair of its Safety Committee, said the best data was from Germany, where there was one report of the clots for every 100,000 doses given, although she noted far fewer reports in the UK. Still, that’s less than the clot risk that healthy women face from birth control pills, noted another expert, Dr. Peter Arlett.The agency said most of the cases reported were in women under 60 within two weeks of vaccination, though it was unable to identify specific risk factors based on current information. Experts reviewed several dozen cases that came mainly from Europe and the UK, where around 25 million people have received the AstraZeneca vaccine.“The risk of mortality from Covid is much greater than the risk of mortality from these side effects,” said Emer Cooke, the EMA's executive director.Arlett said there is no information suggesting an increased risk from the other major Covid-19 vaccines.In a statement, AstraZeneca said both UK and EU regulators had requested their vaccine labels be updated to warn of these “extremely rare potential side effect(s).”“Both of these reviews reaffirmed the vaccine offers a high-level of protection against all severities of Covid-19 and that these benefits continue to far outweigh the risks,” it said.The EMA’s investigation focused on unusual types of blood clots that have occurred along with low blood platelets. One rare clot type appears in multiple blood vessels and the other in veins that drain blood from the brain.“We are not advising a stop to any vaccination for any individual in any age group,” said Wei Shen Lim, who chairs Britain’s Joint Committee on Vaccination and Immunization. “We are advising a preference for one vaccine over another vaccine for a particular age group ... out of the utmost caution rather than because we have any serious safety concerns.”In March, more than a dozen countries, mostly in Europe, suspended their use of AstraZeneca over the blood clot issue. Most restarted — some with age restrictions — after the EMA said countries should continue using the vaccine.Britain, which relies heavily on AstraZeneca, however, continued to use it.The suspensions were seen as particularly damaging for AstraZeneca because they came after repeated missteps in how the company reported data on the vaccine's effectiveness and concerns over how well its shot worked in older people. That has led to frequently changing advice in some countries on who can take the vaccine, raising worries that AstraZeneca’s credibility could be permanently damaged, spurring more vaccine hesitancy and prolonging the pandemic.Dr. Peter English, who formerly chaired the British Medical Association’s Public Health Medicine Committee, said the back-and-forth over the AstraZeneca vaccine could have serious consequences.“We can’t afford not to use this vaccine if we are going to end the pandemic,” he said.In some countries, authorities have already noted hesitancy toward the AstraZeneca shot.“People come and they are reluctant to take the AstraZeneca vaccine, they ask us if we also use anything else,” said Florentina Nastase, a doctor and coordinator at a vaccination center in Bucharest, Romania. “There were cases in which people didn’t show up, there were cases when people came to the center and saw that we use only AstraZeneca and refused (to be inoculated).”Meanwhile, the governor of Italy’s northern Veneto region said earlier Wednesday that any decision to change the guidance on AstraZeneca would cause major disruptions to immunizations — at a time when Europe is already struggling to ramp them up — and could create more confusion about the shot.“Put yourself in the place of citizens — it is hard to understand anything,” Luca Zaia told reporters.The latest suspension of AstraZeneca came in Spain's Castilla y León region, where health chief Verónica Casado said Wednesday that “the principle of prudence” drove her to put a temporary hold on the vaccine that she still backed as being both effective and necessary.On Wednesday, South Korea said it would temporarily suspend the use of AstraZeneca’s vaccine in people 60 and younger. In that age group, the country is only currently vaccinating health workers and people in long-term care settings.Officials in Italy and Spain also said Wednesday that AstraZeneca would be recommended for people over 60 years of age.After the EMA's announcement, Belgium's health minister, Frank Vandenbroucke, declared a four-week ban on administering the AstraZeneca vaccine to people under 56, but said that would have little impact on the vaccination campaign, since few from that age group are in line to get the shots this month.“For the vast majority of people the benefits of the Oxford AZ vaccine far outweigh any extremely small risk,'' said Dr. Anthony Harnden, the deputy chair of Britain’s vaccination committee. "And the Oxford AZ vaccine will continue to save many from suffering the devastating effects that can result from a Covid infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-advises-limiting-astrazeneca-vaccine-in-under-30s-amid-blood-clot-worry-101617833330096.html
08-04-2021||World||Former US Vice President Mike Pence memoir set for 2023 release||Former Vice President Mike Pence has a book deal. His autobiography, currently untitled, is scheduled to come out in 2023.“I am grateful to have the opportunity to tell the story of my life in public service to the American people, from serving in Congress, to the Indiana Governor’s office and as Vice President of the United States,” Pence said in a statement. “I look forward to working with the outstanding team at Simon & Schuster to invite readers on a journey from a small town in Indiana to Washington, DC.”According to Pence’s agent, David Vigiliano, “all major publishers” competed for the book, and the deal was worth “well into seven figures.” A top editor from a rival publishing house confirmed that amount. The editor was not authorized to discuss negotiations and asked not to be identified.Simon & Schuster announced Wednesday that it also signed Pence to a second book but did not immediately provide details. Pence is the first major Trump administration official to have an announced deal since the president left office in January, although former White House advisor Kellyanne Conway and former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo are among those reportedly working on books.At this time in 2017, former President Barack Obama; former first lady Michelle Obama; former Vice President Joe Biden and his wife, Jill Biden; and former Secretary of State John Kerry were among the recently departed Obama administration officials who had agreed to book deals. Several top publishing executives have told The Associated Press that they were not interested in a Trump memoir, citing the siege of the US Capitol on Jan. 6 by Trump’s supporters. Publishers also have expressed wariness about other members of the Trump administration, worrying about a backlash from readers, authors and employees.A Pence memoir will likely be subject to similar tensions the former Vice President has faced since he refused then-President Donald Trump’s demands that he help overturn the election results. Among Democrats and others who opposed Trump, Pence is widely seen as Trump’s loyal and complicit ally. Meanwhile, Trump supporters, and Trump himself, denounced him for not intervening Jan. 6 in Congress’ formal certification of Biden’s presidential victory.The certification — which Pence had no power to change — was delayed for hours after hundreds of Trump supporters, some chanting “Hang Mike Pence,” stormed the US Capitol.Simon & Schuster Vice President and Publisher Dana Canedy said that Pence’s book would be “revelatory,” without specifically saying whether he would address the events of Jan. 6.“Vice President Pence’s life and work, his journey as a Christian, the challenges and triumphs he has faced, and the lessons he has learned, tells an American story of extraordinary public service during a time of unrivaled public interest in our government and politics,” Canedy said. “His revelatory autobiography will be the definitive book on one of the most consequential presidencies in American history.”A Simon & Schuster spokesperson declined comment on what Pence planned to say about Jan. 6, and referred back to Canedy’s statement.The signing of Pence comes three months after Simon & Schuster dropped a book by Sen. Josh Hawley of Missouri, who had supported the rally in Washington which preceded the overrunning of the Capitol. Simon & Schuster has published several anti-Trump books over the past two years, including former National Security Advisor John Bolton’s “The Room Where It Happened” and niece Mary Trump’s “Too Much and Never Enough.” Its other authors have included Trump supporter Sean Hannity; the candidate Trump defeated in 2016, Hillary Clinton, and Trump himself.Pence's book deal continues the former vice president's re-emergence since January. On Wednesday, he launched an advocacy group, Advancing American Freedom, which will promote the Trump administration's record and could serve as a springboard for a Pence presidential run in 2024. The advisory board includes anti-abortion rights advocate Marjorie Dannenfelser and Ed Meese, who was President Ronald Reagan’s attorney general, and such former Trump administration officials as Conway, economic adviser Larry Kudlow and U.S. Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/former-us-vice-president-mike-pence-memoir-set-for-2023-release-101617833085135.html
08-04-2021||World||Protests after reports Myanmar military 'stormed' London embassy||Protesters gathered outside the Myanmar embassy in London on Wednesday following reports that the ambassador had been locked out and barred from entering the building.Ambassador Kyaw Zwar Minn told the Daily Telegraph that Myanmar military figures had taken over the diplomatic mission."When I left the embassy, they stormed inside the embassy and took it. They are from the Myanmar military," he said."They said they received instruction from the capital, so they are not going to let me in," he added."They are not able to do this. The British government won't allow this one, you'll see that."Britain's Foreign Office would not confirm or deny the reports.Metropolitan Police said that they were "aware of a protest" outside the building in the Mayfair neighbourhood, and that public order officers were in attendance.Britain has been a strong critic of the Myanmar military since it seized power there in February, and last week ramped up sanctions against business conglomerates wholly or partially overseen by generals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protests-after-reports-myanmar-military-stormed-london-embassy-101617824905385.html
08-04-2021||World||To bolster cooperation in Indo-Pacific and counter China, Japan PM Suga to visit India||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga is expected to visit India in either late April or early May as part of efforts to bolster cooperation across the Indo-Pacific to counter China’s aggressive actions, people familiar with developments said on Wednesday. This would be the first visit by a top Japanese leader to India since the Covid-19 outbreak last year, and also the first since a planned summit between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his former Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe in Guwahati in December 2019 was called off because of protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Modi and Suga have spoken several times on phone amid the pandemic and also participated in the first virtual summit of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad on March 12 along with US President Joe Biden and Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison. Both India and Japan are committed to efforts to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific and this is expected to be a key part of the agenda for Suga’s visit, the people cited above said on condition of anonymity. The exact dates for Suga’s visit are being finalised through diplomatic channels though a final decision will also hinge on the Covid-19 situation, the people said. Like India, which has been engaged in a standoff with China on the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for almost a year, Japan has its own concerns over aggressive Chinese actions in the waters off Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea. The joint statement issued after the Quad Summit has said the four members of the group will “facilitate collaboration, including in maritime security, to meet challenges to the rules-based maritime order in the East and South China Seas”. Japan has invested ₹1,600 crore in development projects across India’s northeastern states and is also working closely with India on infrastructure projects in third countries such as Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. India and Japan also signed the Acquisition and Cross-Servicing Agreement (ACSA) last September for reciprocal provision of supplies and services between their defence forces. Suga, who will visit Washington for talks with Biden on April 16, is keen to bolster cooperation with the US, Australia and India to counter China’s growing assertiveness in the region, the people said. Suga is also expected to visit the Philippines, which too has been coping with China’s aggressive actions in the South China Sea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/to-bolster-cooperation-in-indo-pacific-and-counter-china-japan-pm-suga-to-visit-india-101617820289620.html
08-04-2021||India||India-Russia relations not influenced by ties with other countries: MEA||India’s relations with Russia are time-tested and strategic and are not influenced by ties with other countries, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi said on Thursday. Bagchi was responding to questions during the weekly news briefing on Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s visit to Pakistan after a trip to India, and Moscow’s offer to supply military equipment to Islamabad. Lavrov’s visit to India provided a “good opportunity to renew and review our special and privileged partnership” and a broad range of issues were discussed, he said. While declining to comment on Lavrov’s visit to Pakistan, Bagchi said: “India’s close, time-tested and strategic relations with Russia stand on their own merit and are not influenced by relations with other countries.” He added, “As regards the supply of defence equipment by Russia to Pakistan, you are aware of India’s well-known position on this and I need not repeat it.” Lavrov had said at a joint news conference with his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi on Wednesday that Russia stands ready to supply special military equipment to Pakistan to strengthen its counter-terrorism capabilities. Lavrov, the first Russian foreign minister to travel to Islamabad in almost a decade, also met Pakistan Army chief Gen Qamar Bajwa and Prime Minister Imran Khan, who raised the Kashmir issue during their talks. There was no meeting between Lavrov and the Indian prime minister during his two-day visit to New Delhi. In response to another question, Bagchi dismissed speculation about Prime Minister Narendra Modi travelling to Pakistan for a possible summit of the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC). Several reports in the Pakistani media had speculated that Modi could visit Pakistan for the summit later this year. “Regarding speculations about the SAARC Summit, I have nothing to share with you at the moment,” Bagchi said. Asked if there were channels of communication between India and Pakistan, he said, “Let me just recall that our respective high commissions exist and are functioning, so that’s a very effective channel of communication.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiarussia-relations-not-influenced-by-ties-with-other-countries-mea-101617905567980.html
08-04-2021||India||'Night Corona Curfew' imposed in 7 K'taka district centres from April 10-20: CM||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday announced "night corona curfew" between 10 pm to 5 am in seven district centres of the state along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19."Night corona curfew between 10 pm to 5 am every day, from April 10 to 20, will be imposed in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru, Udupi-Manipal cities. It will be applicable in district centres," Yediyurappa said.Speaking to reporters after a video conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with Chief Ministers of various states on the COVID situation, he said essential services will be allowed."Vaccination drives will be conducted from April 11- Jyotiba Phule's birthday till April 14- Ambedkar's birthday," he added.Appealing to people of the state, especially those from places where the curfew has been imposed for cooperation, the Chief Minister said "as corona is spreading, we have taken this measure to control it.We are not imposing any lockdown."People should not give room for such an action (lockdown) and should wear masks, maintain social distancing, and not gather at a place, he said. "We are trying to implement the suggestions given by the Prime Minister within this framework." With public cooperation, the spread of virus can be contained, the chief minister said. "...that's the reason, without imposing night corona curfew in the state, we have selected some district centres... we want to see how effective it will be, if things don't come under control, we may have to extend it to the entire state," he said.Responding to a question, the Chief Minister said the curfew was on a trial basis and people should support it.Marriages, functions, meetings and events will have to happen within the limitations that have been fixed, he said, adding that ₹250 fine is being imposed for not wearing the mask and it will be made more stringent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-corona-curfew-imposed-in-7-k-taka-district-centres-from-april-10-20-cm-101617904842632.html
08-04-2021||India||ED summons Mehbooba Mufti's mother for questioning in money laundering case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has summoned the mother of former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Mehbooba Mufti for questioning in a money laundering case, officials said on Thursday.They said Gulshan Nazir, in her seventies, has been asked to appear before the central probe agency at its office in Srinagar on April 15.Mufti, 61, also the president of the People's Democratic Party (PDP), was questioned in this case on March 25 in Srinagar.After her five-hour-long questioning that day, Mufti had told reporters that central agencies like the NIA, CBI and the ED were being "misused" to silence the opposition.A PDP spokesperson said the latest summons are "part of the political vendetta against Mehbooba Mufti and PDP"."It is an attempt to stop her from giving voice to the sentiments of the people in which they have failed miserably."Nazir is the wife of former J&K CM Mufti Mohammad Sayeed.The criminal case filed under the provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) is linked to the recovery of at least two diaries by the ED, after raids on an alleged associate of Mufti, in which some purported payments made from the CM's discretionary fund were made in alleged contravention of rules.These funds are alleged to have been diverted during the tenure of Mufti as the CM of the erstwhile state.Few lakh of rupees from these funds are alleged to have been transferred into the account of Nazir and some others about which the ED wants to question her.The J-K Police CID had recently rejected the passport applications of Nazir and Mufti following adverse police reports against the mother and the daughter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ed-summons-mehbooba-mufti-s-mother-for-questioning-in-money-laundering-case-101617903983122.html
08-04-2021||India||Major part of Covid-19 management is to prevent vaccine wastage: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that a major part of COVID-19 management is to prevent vaccine wastage and appealed to the youth of the country to help people above 45 to get vaccinated.Speaking with the chief ministers during a meeting to review the ongoing COVID-19 situation, PM Modi said, "We need to prioritise what is available with us; we can't put all vaccines at one state because we need to manage the whole nation. A major part of COVID-19 management is also to prevent vaccine wastage."Also Read: At Covid review meet, PM Modi politely rejects Uddhav Thackeray’s requestThe Prime Minister said the efforts are being made to improve the maximum manufacturing facility of the vaccine. Meanwhile, the development of new vaccines is also underway, he added.PM Modi also appealed to the youth of the country to help people above 45 to get vaccinated. "Our emphasis should now be on 'test, track, treat, covid appropriate behaviour and covid management.""We have crossed the mark of vaccinating 40 lakh people in one day," PM Modi said adding that the criteria set by the world's most developed nations are no different to the ones set by India.He said that there is a need to impose micro-containment zones in areas where Covid-19 cases are rising. He further said that India has in the past successfully brought down the peak of Covid-19 cases and it can be done again."The last time, we had brought active COVID cases from 10 lakh to 1.25 lakh. The strategy that made it possible is equally effective even today," he said.The country has been witnessing a massive surge in COVID-19 cases in recent days and registered more than 1.2 lakh new infections on Wednesday.India had started COVID-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).India commenced its second phase of the COVID-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus from March 1.The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/major-part-of-covid-19-management-is-to-prevent-vaccine-wastage-pm-modi-101617902617743.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Gujarat records 4,021 new cases, highest single-day spike yet||Gujarat reported 4,021 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far, taking the tally to 3,32,474, the state health department said.The daily count surpassed the previous highest one-day rise of 3,575 Covid-19 cases recorded on Wednesday. As many as 35 persons succumbed to the infection in Gujarat in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 4,655, said a release by the department.The fresh fatalities included 14 from Surat city, nine from Ahmedabad district, four from Rajkot, three from Vadodara and one each Amreli, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Jamnagar and Mehsana, it said.Ahmedabad city registered 951 new cases, the highest in Gujarat, during the last 24 hours. It was followed by 723 cases in Surat city, 427 in Rajkot city, 379 in Vadodara city, 237 in Surat district, 111 in Vadodara district and 104 in Jamnagar district.With 2,197 patients getting discharged during the day, the tally of recovered cases rose to 3,07,346 cases, said the release, adding Gujarat's rate of recovery has gone down to 92.44%.The number of active cases stood at 20,473, of which, 182 patients are on ventilators, while 20,291 are stable, the release said. As many as 74.04 lakh persons in the state have been given the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, while 9.27 lakh administered the second dose till date, said the release.A total of 31 new cases were reported in the adjoining union territory of Dadra Nagar Haveli and Daman & Diu in the last 24 hours, said a release by the authorities. Also, 12 patients recovered from the infection during the day, the release said.Of the total 3,814 persons found positive for coronavirus in the Union Territory since the outbreak, two have died, 3,603 have recovered while 209 are still under treatment, it said. Gujarat's Covid-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 3,32,474 new cases 4,021, deaths 4,655, discharged 3,07,346, active cases 20,473, people tested so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-gujarat-records-4-021-new-cases-highest-single-day-spike-yet-101617901556731.html
08-04-2021||India||Call night curfew 'corona curfew' to spread awareness: PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said night curfew has been an accepted experiment globally to contain the Covid-19 spread and called for popularising such restrictions, which have already been imposed in various parts of the country, as 'corona curfew' to spread awareness among people.He also dismissed the "intellectual debate" about coronavirus only having an effect in the night and said such a curfew helps in spreading awareness about the deadly virus with minimal impact on daily lives of people.Night curfew has been imposed by local administration in several places including Mumbai, Delhi, Noida, Lucknow and other parts of the country amid a spike in COVID-19 cases."Where ever night curfew is in place, there the phrase 'corona curfew' should be used so that awareness regarding coronavirus is maintained," Modi said during his interaction with chief ministers to discuss the COVID-19 situation and the ongoing vaccination drive."Some people have this intellectual debate that 'does corona only come in the night'. In reality, the world over night curfew has been an accepted experiment because every person during the curfew time is reminded that I am living in Corona-era and lifestyle is not affected to a large extent," he said.The prime minister said, however, it would be better that the 'corona curfew' starts at 9 PM or 10 PM in the night and goes on till 5 AM or 6 AM in the morning so that other activities are not affected."It should be popularised as 'corona curfew'. Corona curfew is helping make people aware (about the virus)," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/call-night-curfew-corona-curfew-to-spread-awareness-pm-modi-101617901693875.html
08-04-2021||India||India rejects report of Taiwan’s role in arranging vaccine supplies to Paraguay||India on Thursday scotched reports that Taiwan played a role in arranging supplies of Indian-made Covid-19 vaccines to Paraguay, saying the doses were delivered in response to a request from the Paraguayan side. Taiwan’s foreign minister Joseph Wu had said on Wednesday that his country worked with other democracies, including India, to help its diplomatic ally Paraguay get Covid-19 vaccines after China pressured the South American country to ditch Taipei in exchange for doses. Taiwan has formal ties with only 15 countries, and China, which contends that the island doesn’t have the right to diplomatic recognition, has stepped up efforts to coax them away. However, external affairs ministry spokesperson Arindam Bagchi told a weekly news briefing that India plans to open an embassy in Paraguay. “During a telephone conversation between the external affairs minister and the foreign minister of Paraguay, a request for vaccines was raised by the Paraguayan side and the external affairs minister responded positively to this request,” he said. “A shipment of made-in-India vaccines was sent to Paraguay. I would like to confirm that no third party was involved in this,” Bagchi said. Wu had said that the Chinese government was “very active” in Paraguay and was saying to the public that if Paraguay severed diplomatic ties with Taiwan, they would get millions of doses of Chinese vaccines. This put pressure on Taiwan to help, Wu added. “In the last few weeks, we have been speaking to like-minded countries, including Japan, the US, India etcetera, and India fortunately has been able to provide some Covaxin vaccines to Paraguay,” he said, referring to a shot developed by India’s Bharat Biotech. India already shipped 100,000 doses to Paraguay last month and WU said there would be another 100,000. Both India and Taiwan maintain representative offices in New Delhi and Taipei and there has been speculation about the two sides expanding ties against the backdrop of the India-China standoff along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh sector. China has bristled at all such contacts between India and Taiwan, saying it goes against the “One China” policy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-rejects-report-of-taiwan-s-role-in-arranging-vaccine-supplies-to-paraguay-101617900647486.html
08-04-2021||India||At Covid review meet, PM Modi politely rejects Uddhav Thackeray’s request||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India will have to keep Covid-19 vaccinations for certain age groups, despite calls from many states to extend the shots to younger people.Also Read: 'We defeated Covid without vaccines', says PM ModiAt a meeting with chief ministers to review Covid-19 situation, PM Modi said that efforts are being made to develop a new Covid-19 vaccine."You know how much vaccine is being produced. Now it is not that we can set up factories overnight. We will need to prioritise according to the available stocks. It is not that we can move stocks to one state and we will get the results. This thinking is not correct. We will have to think of the entire country," the Prime Minister told chief ministers.Also watch | ‘Corona curfew, Tika Utsav’: PM Modi asks States to focus on Covid-19 testing﻿﻿"The criteria set by more prosperous countries to vaccinate people against coronavirus is not different from what we have. You can study a bit. You are educated people and have all the information," he said adding that a big part of Covid management is to reduce wastage of vaccines.The Prime Minister also asked states to focus on testing and ensuring that people follow Covid-appropriate behaviour rather than relying on vaccines."Today, the problem is that we have forgotten about Covid-19 testing and have moved to vaccination. We have to remember that we had won the fight against Covid-19 without a vaccine. We have to emphasise on testing," PM Modi told the chief ministers.The Prime Minister's reference to supply constraints come against the backdrop of concerns expressed by vaccine manufacturers. Serum Institute of India (SII) CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday that his company, which is making the Covishield vaccine (over 90% of all doses given in India till now are of this), “was very outstretched”.An analysis of production capacities show that between SII and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, India’s current capacity is around 75 million doses a month, or roughly 2.5 million a day. Over the last week, 3.1 million doses a day on average have been delivered across the country.India is currently only vaccinating people above 45 years of age and frontline workers.With his remarks, PM Modi rejected the demands raised by some chief ministers to increase the ambit of the nationwide vaccination drive. Among them is Uddhav Thackeray, the chief minister of worst-affected Maharashtra, who wrote a letter to PM Modi earlier this week urging him to allow the inoculation of people aged 25."I request you to lower it to 25, as the states facing the surge are having to place curbs to safeguard lives of the population. However, if a larger number of our young and working population is vaccinated, the intensity of the cases would be much lower than the treatment that they need today," Thackeray said in his letter.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wrote a letter to PM Modi urging him to remove age-related restrictions for the ongoing vaccination drive and ease protocols for starting new vaccine sites.He said that Delhi government can vaccinate all the people in national capital within three months if these norms are relaxed.PM Modi chaired the meeting on a day when India recorded 1.26 lakh Covid-19 cases - the highest daily caseload since the pandemic began. The recent surge in the number of cases has worried officials; NITI Aayog member Dr VK Paul even said that next four weeks are very critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/factories-not-set-up-overnight-pm-modi-defends-45-rule-for-covid-19-vaccine-101617899729096.html
08-04-2021||India||Kerala CM Pinarayi Vijayan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday and was rushed to the medical college hospital in Kozhikode as a precaution. His office said he was asymptomatic but was shifted to the hospital considering his age. The 76-year-old was the star campaigner of the ruling Left Democratic Front and he had travelled extensively during the last two weeks. He had taken the first dose of the vaccine on March 3. Later the CM tweeted about his health condition and advised all who came in contact with him recently to go into self-isolation. His daughter Veena Vijayan tested positive for the viral infection on polling day on Tuesday and she visited the polling booth in the evening in a PPE kit to exercise her franchise. Later his son-in-law Mohamad Riyas also tested positive and both of them are undergoing treatment at the Kozhikode medical college hospital. Kerala on Thursday reported 4,353 new Covid-19 cases-- the biggest spike in recent days and the test positivity rate also climbed to 6.81. The state has a caseload of 11.48 lakh and has reported 4728 deaths so far. On Tuesday, the state’s core committee dealing with the pandemic had decided to tighten norms to contain the spread of the viral infection. Kerala was forced to take such a decision after many norms were diluted at the height of the election by almost all political parties. In some of the poll rallies more than 25,000 people participated. Though the Election Commission had issued strict directives, on the final day of campaign all political parties carried out a show of strength.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-pinarayi-vijayan-tests-positive-for-covid19-101617898967226.html
08-04-2021||India||'Tika Utsav' from April 11-14: PM Modi tells states to focus on Covid-19 testing||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said states should hold a 'Tika Utsav' (vaccine festival) from April 11 to April 14 to ensure optimum utilisation of their Covid-19 vaccination capability. Speaking at a virtual review meeting with chief ministers over the nationwide surge in the viral infection, PM Modi said as many eligible people as possible should be vaccinated in all states as part of this festival.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageTalking about vaccine distribution, he said there was a need to prioritise. "We need to prioritise (vaccine distribution) with what we have. We won't achieve anything by keeping vaccines in one state. It is not right to think in this way. We have to manage by thinking about the country," he said.In addition to vaccinating all, there was a need to boost testing, he said. "We have to make people aware about how they can catch the infection. And aggressive testing is the only way," he said, emphasising on increasing the RT-PCR test.Also Read | 'Covid situation challenging, focus on micro-containment zones': PM Modi to CMs"The problem today is that we have forgotten about testing and have moved to vaccination. We have to remember that we had won the fight against Covid-19 without a vaccine," he said.Reiterating the need to wear mask and follow social distancing, the PM said there was a need to raise awareness regarding Covid-appropriate behaviour."Once again we need to raise awareness about the importance of wearing a mask and following safety protocols in view of coronavirus," he said, adding that involvement of celebrities and other noted personalities in encouraging Covid-appropriate behaviour would go a long way.Despite calls from states to extend the vaccine shots to younger people, PM Modi said the country would have to keep them limited to certain age groups for now. Currently, only people above 45 years of age and front line workers are getting vaccinated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tika-utsav-from-april-11-14-pm-modi-tells-states-to-focus-on-covid-testing-101617894328682.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata challenges EC day after poll body's notice for appealing to minorities||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Day after EC notice for appealing to minorities, CM Mamata challenges poll panelA day after the Election Commission of India sent a notice to the Trinamool Congress chief for appealing to minority voters to prevent their votes from being divided; West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee challenged the poll panel on Thursday. Read moreDelhi registers 7,437 new Covid-19 cases, highest spike in over four monthsDelhi has recorded 7,437 new Covid-19 cases and 24 coronavirus disease-related deaths in the last 24 hours, the Delhi government health bulletin notified on Thursday. Read moreRandeep Hooda shares cute pic with pet dog Bambi. People love itIf you’re someone who follows Randeep Hooda on social media, there’s a possibility you’ve seen the adorable pictures of animals that he often shares. A regular among them is his dog named Bambi. Case in point, the latest post shared by the actor. Read moreIPL 2021: How will Mumbai Indians spin it this time?Defending champions Mumbai Indians again carry the tag of favourites going into a fresh IPL season starting on Friday. The main reason is that there is hardly any chink in their armour—the batting line-up is the best in the eight-team field and the bowling unit is as good as any of its rivals. Read moreThe Big Bull movie review: Abhishek Bachchan film makes messiah out of criminal, is a daunting watchImagine a SparkNotes version of any of Shakespeare's works, say Othello. Now imagine the SparkNotes editor deciding to make Iago the good guy, the voice of true benevolence, who out of the purity of his purpose, helps Othello rid himself of his wife. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor shares pictures from Maldives vacation in sexy iridescent swimsuitJanhvi Kapoor has been making the most of her summer and the Roohi actor recently jetted off to the Maldives, a recent hot favourite holiday destination among Bollywood celebrities including Sara Ali Khan, Ananya Panday, Tara Sutaria, Taapsee Pannu, Disha Patani, among others. Read moreWatch: Abducted CRPF jawan released by Naxals; family thanks governmentCRPF jawan kidnapped by Maoist rebels after a deadly encounter in Chhattisgarh on Saturday has now been released. Rakeshwar Singh Manhas of the 210th CoBRA division was brought to the CRPF camp in Bijapur after his release. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-9-pm-mamata-challenges-ec-day-after-poll-body-s-notice-for-appealing-to-minorities-and-all-the-latest-news-101617892268430.html
08-04-2021||India||Mumbai's daily Covid-19 tally below 10,000, Maharashtra records 56,286 new cases||Mumbai's tally of daily Covid-19 cases went below the 10,000 mark on Thursday, the state health department showed. The city, which has been witnessing a spike in the number of coronavirus disease cases, added 8,938 new infections in the last 24 hours, the health department bulletin said.With this, the total caseload in Mumbai reached 4,91,698.The city also say 4,503 people recover from the disease and 25 related fatalities. The total recoveries and death toll stand at 3,92,514 and 11,881, respectively.Maharashtra, meanwhile, added 56,286 new cases to its tally and the total number of cases has now reached 3,229,547, according to health department.Mumbai recorded more than 10,000 daily Covid-10 cases thrice this month. On Wednesday, Mumbai recorded 10,442 new cases, on Tuesday the number was 10,030, while on Sunday, it reported 11,163 new cases, the highest since the pandemic began.Maharashtra is among 10 states which have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases, the Union health ministry said. These states account for 84.21 per cent of the 1,26,789 new infections recorded by India on Thursday, the ministry added.The other states in the list are: Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab.The national weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased by 6.21 per cent - from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent - in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-daily-covid-19-tally-below-10-000-maharashtra-records-56-286-new-cases-101617894864693.html
08-04-2021||India||'We defeated Covid without vaccines': PM Modi tells CMs on way forward||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said that there is a need to impose micro-containment zones in areas where Covid-19 cases are rising, as he held a meeting with chief ministers to take stock of the situation in the country and ongoing vaccination programme. He also said that India has in the past successfully brought down the peak of Covid-19 cases and it can be done again.PM Modi reminded the chief ministers that India was able to successfully bring the Covid-19 wave down last year without any vaccine.Also Read: Second lockdown if imposed to be detrimental for economy, says report"Test, track and treat remains an effective strategy to check the spread of the disease," PM Modi said while addressing the chief ministers, calling the situation in the country challenging. He said this should be particularly followed in containment zones."There is a need to work on war footing again to fight Covid-19. Despite all the challenges, we have a better experience, resources and vaccines," he said.Also Read: How India can overcome the Covid-19 surgeThe Prime Minister also backed the night restrictions imposed by several states to check the spread of the infection.He also pointed out how laxity shown by people of the country has resulted in the resurgence in the number of cases. "We should start an aggressive campaign to urge people to go for testing," the Prime Minister said."We have to make people aware about how they can catch the infection. And aggressive testing is the only way," he added, emphasising on increasing the RT-PCR test."I appeal to you all to stress on Covid-19 testing. Our target is to do 70% RT-PCR tests. Let the number of positive cases come high, but do maximum testing. Proper sample collection is very important, it can be checked through proper governance," said PM Modi.The Prime Minister gave CMs the target to bring down the country's positivity rate below 5%."Many states including Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Punjab have crossed first wave of peak in Covid-19 cases. This is a serious concern. People have become complacent. In most states administration has also become relaxed," said PM Modi.Also Read: Ten states showing upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 casesWest Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee did not attend the virtual meeting due to campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections in the state. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay represented her, said officials.The meeting was called on a day when India recorded 1.26 lakh cases - a fresh spike and the country's highest-ever rise in daily caseload. Before this, India recorded more than one lakh cases twice - both this week - as the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) returned with a vengeance.The number of cases were declining after reaching a peak in September last year, but the recent surge has health experts and the government worried. Dr VK Paul, a member of government think tank NITI Aayog, said earlier this week that the next four weeks are crucial for India in its fight against Covid-19.PM Modi previously chaired a high-level meeting with government officials on Sunday where he asked them to ensure the people follow Covid-19 protocols. He also ordered awareness programmes to be launched across the country.The union health ministry said on Thursday that 10 states - Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab - have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases. They account for 84.21 per cent of the new infections, it added.India's weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry further said.Meanwhile, the number of people who have taken Covid-19 vaccine dose crossed 9 crore mark on Thursday. The Union health ministry said that 9,01,98,673 vaccine doses were administered through 13,77,304 sessions till 7am on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-situation-challenging-focus-on-micro-containment-zones-pm-modi-to-cms-101617893287824.html
08-04-2021||India||War of words over Covid-19 'vaccine shortage' in Maharashtra: Who said what||In the backdrop of rising Covid-19 cases in the country, Maharashtra health minister Rakesh Tope said that the state may run out of vaccines within days. It started a war of words between the state government and the Centre which claimed that Maharashtra has enough stock. The Maharashtra government, however, alleged that the Centre is discriminating in vaccine supply and giving enough support.Maharashtra which is at the top of the list of states worst hit by the viral disease, has a total of 3,173,261 total cases and the death toll stands at 56,652. According to the state health department, Maharashtra requires 1.6 crore vaccine dosages per month and 40 lakh every week to vaccinate residents of the state.Here is who said what on the row:Maharashtra governmentState health minister Rakesh Tope said, "Satara, Sangli, Panvel have stopped vaccination today while Buldhana has only today's vaccine stock left," news agency ANI quoted him as saying.Citing numbers from the Centre's latest release order of vaccines, Tope also said, "Maharashtra has been given 7.5 lakh vaccine dosages only. While Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana etc have been given far more vaccines than Maharashtra."During the row, Tope also announced that the Centre did increase the supply from 7 lakhs to 17 lakhs. However, it is still "less because we need 40 lakh vaccine doses a week and 17 lakh doses are not enough," he also said.Centre's response"I want to make it clear that the Maharashtra government has 23 lakh doses of the vaccines with it...which is a stock for five to six days. Now, to distribute in villages and districts is the responsibility of the state government," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said, according to the ANI report.He also alleged that the Maharashtra government has "wasted five lakh doses of the vaccines, and it is not a small number, due to its lack of planning. The planning for carrying out a vaccination drive is the responsibility of the state government," ANI reported.Health teamA central team visited the BKC Covid Vaccination centre in Mumbai to assess the current situation in the city. After the visit, Kunal Kumar, a member of the Central health team, said, "The Centre and State are discussing the issue (vaccine) and we will work as per their decisions. We are doing our best to manage the Covid situation in Maharashtra. Centre, State, and community need to work together to win this fight," ANI reported Kumar as saying.Maharashtra Congress chiefTaking shots at the Centre, Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said, "Today, our country is providing free vaccines to Pakistan but for Maharashtra, they are doing politics over it. BJP’s state and central leaders are targeting Maharashtra and they surely will face the consequences," as per ANI report.NCP Sharad PawarSharad Pawar whose party Nationalist Congress is part of the Maha Vikas Aghadi alliance in Maharashtra assured that the Centre is cooperating with the state government in its fight against the pandemic. "We all have to come together and fight this menace. State and centre both have to come together and find out a way to fight the pandemic," he also said, according to the news agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-over-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-in-maharashtra-who-said-what-101617890513167.html
08-04-2021||India||'No violations in Rafale deal with India', says Dassault Aviation||French aerospace major Dassault Aviation, the makers of Rafale, said on Thursday that the deal to supply 36 fighter jets went through numerous checks and no violations were reported. The company also said that it has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption."Numerous controls are carried out by official organizations, including the French Anti-Corruption Agency. No violations were reported, notably in the frame of the contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales," Dassault aviation spokesperson said in a statement.Click here to read full statementThe statement, said the spokesperson, is in connection with certain allegations reported in the press about the contract signed in 2016 with India."Since the early 2000s, Dassault Aviation has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption, guaranteeing the integrity, ethics and reputation of the company in its industrial and commercial relations. In the context of the Sapin 2 law, the company has completed and strengthened its system for the prevention and detection of corruption and influence peddling, both at the level of the parent company and its subsidiaries," the statement further said."The contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales has been established on a government-to-government basis. This contract, as well as the offsets corresponding contract, meet the criteria established by these regulations and are being executed in full transparency between the various government and industrial partners," the company said in the statement.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government signed a ₹59,000-crore deal on September 23, 2016 to procure 36 Rafale jets from Dassault Aviation, replacing a nearly seven-year exercise by the previous Congress-led United Progressive Alliance (UPA) government.The Congress raised several questions about the deal, including on rates of the aircraft which he said were inflated, and alleged corruption but the government rejected all the charges. The Supreme Court and government's top auditor, Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG), also did not find any corruption.But the controversy was reignited over the last week after a French online journal, Mediapart, claimed that Dassault Aviation, which manufactures the Rafale jet, paid €1 million to a Sushen Gupta, described as a “middleman”, in connection with the deal for 36 jets.Also Watch: 'How much bribery...' asks Congress after French report; BJP respondsThe first batch of five Rafale jets arrived in India on July 29, 2020, nearly four years after India signed the agreement with France. The formal induction ceremony of the fleet took place at Ambala on September 10 last year.A second batch of three Rafale jets arrived in India on November 3, while a third batch of another three jets joined the Indian Air Force (IAF) on January 27.Another group of the French-made fighter jets landed in India on April 1 this year and six more are coming on April 28. The IAF will get four more Rafales in May.The first Rafale squadron is based in Ambala air force station. The IAF is set to raise the second squadron of the Rafale combat jets which will be based in Hasimara in West Bengal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-violations-in-rafale-deal-with-india-says-dassault-aviation-101617889797965.html
08-04-2021||India||CBI begins probe into death of elephants, poaching in forests of Tamil Nadu||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has launched a probe into alleged poaching and killing of elephants in the forests of Tamil Nadu, an issue raised by wildlife activists over the years. The Madurai bench of the Madras high court had, in February this year, asked the CBI to probe the larger nexus of middlemen, poachers and the kingpins in these killings on the basis of a report submitted by the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau (WCCB). The agency has lodged three First Information Reports (FIRs) registered by local police – into the death of an Indian elephant (Elephas Maximus) at Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve in Hasanur (Tamil Nadu) in December 19, 2020; death of another male elephant in April 2014 in Udumalpet Forest Range (Anamalai Tiger Reserve) and the killing of another elephant at Boluvampatti Forest Range (Coimbatore) on January 5 this year. Several elephants have been electrocuted or killed by poachers in Tamil Nadu and Kerala in the last few years. In an incident which led to massive outrage, a pregnant elephant was killed after it ate a pineapple containing firecrackers in June last year. It is not clear whether the CBI will probe the death of elephants in Kerala as well over the years or not. While ordering a CBI probe, the HC had observed that elephant deaths were not just limited to few specific forest areas and that the perpetrators belonged to various states and a CBI probe is necessitated to ensure that the kingpins are nabbed. In its order, the high court had observed that the WCCB made an extensive study including review of cases that were already filed and statements obtained from persons who were accused and suspected in those cases. The report revealed the involvement of different people operating at various levels, and in all the cases, only the accused are arrested while the middlemen and kingpins are never identified or apprehended. “The greed of the man could well be seen from the transaction that happened. It is not a case of poaching for livelihood but of international trade and sadistic pleasure in creating art out of fellow living beings,” the HC had observed. With regard to electrocution of elephants in forests, the HC had expressed suspicion as to how tusks from electrocuted elephants in forests were removed by poachers without the knowledge of the authorities who guard the forests. The directions were issued on a batch of PILs which sought protection of elephants from poaching and electrocution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbi-begins-probe-into-death-of-elephants-poaching-in-forests-of-tamil-nadu-101617889546592.html
08-04-2021||India||Rafale deal being executed with full transparency, says Dassault Aviation: Full statement||Dassault Aviation on Thursday issued a statement on 2016 deal to supply Rafale githter jets to India, saying the contract went thorugh numeroud controls and there are no violations.The company said that it has issued the statement after certain allegations were reported in the press about the deal. France has to supply 26 Rafale fighter jets as part of the contract.Dassault Aviation, said the company spokesperson, has stringent checks in place to prevent corruption.Read the full statement:- Dassault Aviation wishes to reiterate that it acts in strict compliance with the OECD Anti-Bribery Convention and national laws, in particular the law of December 9, 2016 known as Sapin 2.- Since the early 2000s, Dassault Aviation has implemented strict internal procedures to prevent corruption, guaranteeing the integrity, ethics and reputation of the company in its industrial and commercial relations. In the context of the Sapin 2 law, the company has completed and strengthened its system for the prevention and detection of corruption and influence peddling, both at the level of the parent company and its subsidiaries.- The contract with India for the acquisition of 36 Rafales has been established on a government-to-government basis. This contract, as well as the offsets corresponding contract, meet the criteria established by these regulations and are being executed in full transparency between the various government and industrial partners. The aircraft were delivered in respect of the schedule, despite the Covid-19 health crisis, and fully meet the security needs of the Indian authorities.- Dassault Aviation and the Reliance Group established the Dassault Reliance Aerospace Ltd (DRAL) Joint Venture in 2017 and built a plant in Nagpur that has been producing numerous Falcon parts and pieces since 2018.- Dassault Aviation and its partners are working with 60 companies in India and negotiations are underway to establish potential new cooperations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/contract-to-supply-36-rafale-fighter-jets-to-india-being-executed-in-full-transparency-says-france-s-dassault-aviation-101617889275007.html
08-04-2021||India||Cash-strapped Jagan govt to sell prime Visakhapatnam land to raise ₹1.5k crore||Faced with severe financial crunch, the YS Jagan Mohan Reddy government in Andhra Pradesh has put up prime lands in Visakhapatnam, the proposed executive capital of the state, for sale. As per a notification, the government hopes to raise at least ₹1,500 crore through the sale. The notification for the sale of 18 land parcels, measuring around 14.7 acres in the port city, through e-auction was issued last week and the last date for submission of bids is April 22. A prime property measuring 13.59 acres, located at Harbour Park on the Ramakrishna Puram beach road is the largest of these land parcels. The previous Telugu Desan Party government had leased it out to the United Arab Emirates-based infrastructure major Lulu Group for the development of an international convention centre, a five-star hotel and a multi-storeyed mall. The Lulu Group promised an investment of ₹2,200 crore on the projects it claimed would also provide employment to over 7,000 locals. However, the Jagan Mohan Reddy government terminated the project in October 2019, claiming it was not viable. Instead, it proposed multi-storeyed commercial plazas and residential complexes on the land. On February 8 this year, the CM approved NBCC and AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation’s proposals for the project, expected to generate ₹1,450 crore. “However, the proposal has now been dropped, since the government doesn’t have the money to take up the construction. So, it has been decided to sell the land outright and raise money for government schemes,” an official in the state secretariat, familiar with the development, said on condition of anonymity. Andhra Pradesh principal secretary (Finance) S S Rawat could not be reached for comments. The government is of the view that it will get more money through outright land sale, than by developing and leasing it. A base price of ₹1,452 crore has been set for the Harbour Park plot, which amounts to ₹106.80 crore per acre.“The registration value of the land in the area is around ₹1 lakh square yard, which comes to around ₹48 crore per acre. Even if the market value is taken into consideration, it will be ₹2 lakh per square yard, which translates into around ₹96 crore per acre. So, the base price of ₹106.80 crore is on the higher side,” said O Naresh Kumar, director of AP Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Visakhapatnam. He, however, said it could still be attractive to realtors due to its prime location. “The bid document itself projects a built-up area of 40 lakh square feet in the land. Even if each square foot of built-up area is sold for around ₹8,000, it would fetch ₹3,200 crore,” Kumar said. Senior TDP leader from Visakhapatnam and former minister Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy strongly opposed the sale of prime government lands in the city. “Jagan drove away the Lulu Group that proposed to develop the land on beach road and generate employment for hundreds of people. Now, he is selling the land to raise money to fund his vote-fetching schemes,” he said, adding that the TDP will move the court challenging the decision.In October 2019, the Jagan government started Mission Build Andhra Pradesh, an initiative to promote infrastructure development and resource mobilisation in the state. The aim of the mission was to identify government lands not in use and sell them at market price.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cashstrapped-jagan-govt-to-sell-prime-visakhapatnam-land-to-raise-rs-1-5k-crore-101617887626025.html
08-04-2021||India||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan tests positive for Covid-19||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the chief minister's office said in a statement on Thursday. Currently, he is camping in his native village in Kannur and is not showing any major symptoms, according to the official statement. He will be shifted to Kozhikode medical college hospital later in the day, it also said.The state chief minister also made the announcement on social media site. "I have been confirmed Covid +ve. Will get treated at the Government Medical College, Kozhikkode. Request those who have been in contact with me recently to go into self observation," he wrote on Twitter.I have been confirmed Covid +ve. Will get treated at the Government Medical College, Kozhikkode. Request those who have been in contact with me recently to go into self observation.The chief minister's daughter Veena Vijayan and son-in-law PA Mohammed Riyas tested positive two days ago.The diagnosis comes during the Assembly elections in the state. The voting for the 140-member Kerala Assembly was held on April 6. The counting will take place on May 2.Over the last few days, Vijayan extensively travelled across the state as part of the election campaign.Meanwhile, the state reported 4,353 fresh coronavirus cases on Thursday in the biggest single-day spike. The total caseload in the state has now increased to 11.48 lakh, while the death toll stands at 4,728.Out of the fresh cases, Ernakulam recorded the highest number of cases with 654, followed by Kozhikode 453 and Thiruvananthapuram 444, three districts accounted for over 300 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-chief-minister-pinarayi-vijayan-tests-positive-for-covid19-101617886913444.html
08-04-2021||India||87-year-old man gets vaccinated in Madhya Pradesh, urges others to do so||A man, who is 87-year-old as per the electoral rolls but 122 according to his Aadhaar card details, got his first dose of Covid-19 vaccination in Madhya Pradesh’s Sagar district, officials said on Thursday. The officials said the man was vaccinated at a Community Health Centre at Pipariya village in Sagar on Wednesday, and if his Aadhaar details are to be believed, could be the oldest person in the area to be vaccinated.Prashant Sedhia, the centre’s cold chain manager, said nurse Brijeshwari Dubey administered the dose to Khete Patel. He added Patel’s Aadhaar card declared his year of birth as 1898, which pegs his age at 122.For Aadhaar, if an applicant provides documentary evidence of the date of birth, then it is considered as “verified”. In case there is no documentary evidence, then it is considered as “declared”. The date of birth for Aadhaar is voluntary and may not be based on a certificate issued by a government institution.Also Read | ‘Adequate arrangements will be made’: MP CM assures those in line for Covid drugSedhia said a health department team visited Patel’s village on Thursday and felicitated him for getting vaccinated. “He is fit and doing fine,” he said.In a video message, Patel said: “Today [Wednesday], I got Covid vaccine on my own. I myself went to the health centre. I am 122-year-old and after the vaccination, I have no pain or any other side effect. My message to everyone is to get vaccinated.”Patel, a marginal farmer, quit farming about 20 years ago and now lives with his grandson. He has two surviving sons who are 55 and 60 years of age, respectively.On April 3, a 118-year-old woman, Tulsabai, was also administered the Covid vaccine at Khimlasa village in Sagar district.In Madhya Pradesh, 4.9 million people were vaccinated until Wednesday as 3,722 Covid cases were reported taking the active cases to 24,155 in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/87yearold-man-gets-vaccinated-in-madhya-pradesh-urges-others-to-do-so-101617886845903.html
08-04-2021||India||No lockdown or curfew in Assam to control Covid-19, says Himanta Biswa Sarma||Assam health minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said on Thursday that no lockdown or curfew would be imposed in the state to contain the spread of Covid-19. Admitting that the second wave of the viral disease had hit India, the minister said tests for Covid-19 would be increased to around 100,000 daily. He added that the Assamese New Year, Rongali Bihu, which falls next week, will be celebrated. “We have decided to increase testing to around 100,000 daily in the next few days. Due to this we are likely to see a rise in the number of positive cases,” said Sarma during a media interaction in Guwahati. “There won’t be any lockdown or curfew in Assam. We will follow the strategy of testing-tracing-tracking to bring down the rate of infection. We are well prepared, so I request people not to panic, but ask them to be alert,” he added. On Wednesday, Assam recorded 195 Covid-19 cases, the highest single day figure this year. Of these, Guwahati alone recorded 104 cases. At present, the state has 847 active Covid-19 cases. “There’s a big difference between the Covid-19 surge last year and now as doctors and healthcare workers are vaccinated. I request all those above 45 to take Covid-19 vaccines. The vaccines are safe and we haven’t seen any notable side effect in the state,” said Sarma. The minister added that Rongali Bihu, which witnesses large cultural events across the state, will be celebrated with standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place on timings and Covid-19 protocols. “Last year, we were unable to celebrate Bihu due to Covid-19. It affected lot of people associated with the celebrations. This year, we will hold the celebrations and some SOPs will be introduced,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-lockdown-or-curfew-in-assam-to-control-covid-19-says-himanta-biswa-sarma-101617886306235.html
08-04-2021||India||Positive development in CoBRA commando’s rescue: Chhattisgarh Police||Chhattisgarh police said on Thursday that there are some positive developments in the efforts in secure release of the CoBRA commando abducted by Maoists on April 3 following an ambush at the borders of Sukma and Bijapur districts of Bastar region. However, the state government has yet not appointed interlocutors as demanded by Maoists in their press release on Tuesday. Rakeshwar Singh Mahnas, a commando of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite CoBRA unit -- went missing after the Maoist attack that left 22 security personnel dead and many others injured. “Efforts are on to bring back the abducted CoBRA jawan safely. There are few positive developments in this direction since Thursday morning. Details would be disclosed once some concrete breakthrough is achieved in this regard,” said IG Bastar, Sunderaj P. On Wednesday , a photograph of the commando was released purportedly by Maoists who had demanded that a mediator be appointed by the government to negotiate Manhas’s release. Also Read | With 812 Covid cases, J&K sees six-month highThe commando’s photograph, which was circulating on social media, surfaced on a day his family protested in Jammu, demanding that the government facilitate his swift return. A day before that, the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) issued a press release, signed by its spokesperson Vikalp, asking the government to decide on a mediator to discuss Manhas’s release. The note, issued by the Maoist Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee said, “The state government should appoint an interlocutor, we will then hand over the jawan to them. Until then, he will be safe in the custody of Jantana Sarkar.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/positive-development-in-cobra-commando-s-rescue-chhattisgarh-police-101617885467292.html
08-04-2021||India||CRPF jawan, captured by Maoists in Chhattisgarh after April 3 gunfight, released||A soldier of the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), who was captured by the Maoists in Chhattisgarh after April 3 gunfight, was released on Thursday.Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, a commando with CRPF's CoBRA unit, was released deep in the jungle and was brought to the Terrem camp.Also Read | Chhattisgarh ambush: Maoists release image of missing commando"At around 4.30pm the abducted jawan Rakeshwar Singh Manhas returned safely to Terrem police station along with the facilitators who went inside the jungle to trace his location. He has now been admitted to the Basaguda field hospital for medical examination," Inspector general of police (Bastar range), Sundarraj P said.The Maoists earlier released a photograph of the 35-year-old which showed him sitting alone in what appeared to be a hut. Manhas is a commando with the 210th CoBRA battalion.Manhas' family had appealed to the Centre to ensure he is released unharmed. He is the family’s sole breadwinner, and has a five-year-old daughter.On Wednesday, hundreds of people including the soldier's family members blocked the Jammu-Poonch Highway and demanded that the government show urgency and ensure his safe return just like it did when wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman was held prisone.Also Read: 22 bodies of security personnel found at Chhattisgarh encounter siteAfter he was released, his wife Meenu expressed her gratitude to the government and said, "Today is the happiest day of my life. I always remained hopeful of his return. I thank the government."Twenty-two soldiers from the CRPF’s CoBRA unit, District Reserve Guard, and the Special Task Force lost their lives in a five-hour-long clash with Maoists on April 3. The security personnel were caught unaware when Maoists started to fire indiscriminately from hill tops after luring them into a U-type ambush.The operation, planned over two weeks, was led by the commander of battalion number-1, Madvi Hidma, officials familiar with the developments said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/crpf-jawan-kidnapped-by-maoists-in-chhattisgarh-released-101617884875996.html
08-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu announces reintroduction of Covid-19 curbs from April 10||Amid rise in fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, the Tamil Nadu government on Thursday announced reintroduction of curbs like permission only for 50% seating capacity in cinemas and ban on select activities with effect from April 10.The government has advised that those above the age of 45 should get vaccinated within two weeks in either government or recognised private facilities to help prevent the spread of Covid-19.Tamil Nadu logged 3,986 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 9,11,110, while the death toll rose to 12,821 with 17 more fatalities, the health department said.Here's what allowed and what's not in Tamil Nadu lockdown:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-announces-reintroduction-of-covid-19-curbs-from-april-10-101617885001999.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid surge in J&K: Half of Valley’s cases recorded in Srinagar||Coronavirus cases in Jammu and Kashmir’s Srinagar are surging with around half of the Kashmir Valley’s total infections in the first week of April being reported from the district.Government’s health department data revealed that the Union Territory had as many as 3,867 cases in the first week of April. Of this, Kashmir had 2,755 cases and around 48% of those, at 1,347, were reported in Srinagar alone.“In densely populated areas like Srinagar, the virus tends to spread rapidly. It is a crowded place with people taking fewer precautions. People hold gatherings here – indoors as well as outdoors – because of which we are reporting more cases in Srinagar,” said president, Doctors Association Kashmir, and influenza expert, Dr Nisar ul Hassan. “This virus spreads through gatherings in closed spaces. And we have been seeing many indoor functions –government meetings as well as social functions,” he said.Also Read | With 812 cases, J&K sees six-month highFrom 461 daily cases in the UT on April 1, the count reached a six-month high of 812 cases on April 7.Hassan said that tourists were also a cause of spread of the infection. Srinagar saw daily cases range between 140 and 240 during these seven days and 341 of its total infections in the first week of April were travellers.“The tourist influx is mostly concentrated in Srinagar. That also could be a reason that we have escalation of cases,” he said.Srinagar was declared an orange zone on March 30 but people were allowed to gather in public parks and gardens for festivals. The government decision to organise Tulip festival, which began on April 3, has also been severely criticised as it saw heavy footfall. Meanwhile, till April 7, health authorities in Srinagar had administered around 81,500 vaccine doses to healthcare and front line workers, and citizens over 45 years of age as against 226,000 doses in Jammu.“We need to ramp up the vaccinations and also start vaccinating our young population which is now getting affected. Out of the total J&K’s population of 12.5 million, we have vaccinated just 172,000 people with both the doses,” Hassan said.Overall, Srinagar has recorded 28,115 cases and 477 deaths out of the total 127,774 cases and 2018 deaths in the UT.The J&K administration closed schools from Monday due to surge in cases. While grades till class 9 will remain closed for two weeks; classes 10 to 12 will be shut till April 11.The Valley’s largest tertiary care hospital in Srinagar, Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS), on Wednesday decided to stop all non-emergency surgeries and admissions to cater to the increasing rush of Covid patients.Deputy commissioner Srinagar Aijaz Asad on Wednesday reviewed Covid-19 containment measures and established special vaccination sites at Kashmir University, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology and J&K Bank Headquarter at Tourist Reception Centre.“Last year, this day we were fighting without (a) vaccine. By now, 80 Covid vaccination centres have been set up in the district. Please visit your nearest centre to take the jab and let’s fight from a position of strength,” Asad said in a tweet. HT’s attempts to get a specific response from him elicited no response.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-surge-in-j-k-half-of-valley-s-cases-recorded-in-srinagar-101617884326211.html
08-04-2021||India||TN parties manning strong rooms||After the single-phase voting for Tamil Nadu assembly elections ended at 7pm on Tuesday, the focus shifted to 75 strong rooms across the state housing electronic voting machines (EVMs) and Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPATS) units till the counting day on May 2. While Central forces guard the strong rooms 24x7, representatives of political parties are also allowed to maintain round-the-clock vigil in temporary shelters put up near strong rooms. Several such tents have come up inside the three Chennai college campuses, doubling up as strong rooms every election. Each tent can house at least 20 volunteers and some plastic chairs and four moveable fans, provided by the election commission. After five months of non-stop campaigning and mobilisation of people, the ordinary party workers guard the strong rooms as an additional layer of security against any suspected “tampering”, a common yet unproven allegation in Indian politics. The ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK) and its rival Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) have already appealed to the cadre not to slip-up. “Our mission is not yet complete,” said an April 7 letter to the cadre, written jointly by chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam. “EVM storage centres must be guarded day and night by party volunteers,” the letter said. The party seeks to win a third consecutive term.Similarly, Stalin wrote to party cadre and coalition candidates, telling them to be cautious. “It is our chief duty to keep an eye on the centers until the counting of votes takes place,” Stalin said. “Be vigilant 24-hours of the day. I urge (you) to sit and watch with vigilance on a turn-by-turn basis until the day of counting of votes, keeping in mind that the electoral mission continues.” He also recollected the illegal entry of a Tahsildar into a strong room in Madurai in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The DMK has stationed at least six people outside each strong room in the state. “They will work in shifts and keep vigil round the clock,” said DMK’s organising secretary R S Bharathy. “They started the job last night.”Each strong room approximately stores XXX EVMs and is protected by a three-tier security cover comprising XXX personnel. In the inner cordon, the security is provided by the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), the middle cordon is looked after by the state reserve police force and the outer cordon is secured by the local police, an official said. No one is allowed to enter the strong rooms and those visiting the premises are videographed. Even the power supply to the strong room is switched off to avoid the possibility of short-circuit or fire.Party president MK Stalin contested from Kolathur in Chennai and voting machines from the constituency are stored in Loyola College. “The election commission sealed the strong room in front of us today at 1pm and it is extremely secure, no one can go in,” said DMK’s east wing district secretary in-charge of the constituency E Muralidharan. The strong rooms have been sealed and its security is verified by the chief agent of every contesting candidate. Muralidharan said two teams of six partymen will work in two shifts to keep a strict vigil.In neighbouring Puducherry, the Congress said it had faith in the election commission. “25 days are left,” says Congress’ Puducherry president and candidate A V Subramanian referring to the day of counting on May 2. “Where the EVMs are stored is called the dark room here,” he adds. He says he has heard rumours about EVMs with chips, which can be remote controlled from a distance up to 300 meters. “But we can’t verify everything we hear. We believe it won’t be unsafe in Puducherry as it is guarded by police and CCTV cameras,” he added.Needed a quote from the CEO on the rumour about chips in EVMs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tn-parties-manning-strong-rooms-101617883294456.html
08-04-2021||India||Night curfew imposed in Noida, Ghaziabad. Check what's allowed, what's not||A night curfew has been imposed in Noida in Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar, as well as in the state's Ghaziabad district, both adjoining Delhi, from Thursday till April 17 to check the spread of rising number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the national capital region (NCR). The night curfew will remain in effect from 10pm to 5am. Markets, restaurants, pubs, bars, nightclubs, and other public places will be required to shut down by 10pm every night, a government order notified. Emergency and essential services, including medical facilities, groceries, and nutriment shops in both districts would, however, remain exempt from the restrictions.Also Read: From today, night curfew imposed in Noida and GhaziabadThe night prohibition and regulation orders in Noida and Ghaziabad come two days after a similar night curfew was imposed in national capital Delhi, owing to the worsening Covid-19 crisis in the city-state. Restrictions remain mostly the same, with a few exceptions. Here's what will remain open and what won’t post 10pm in Noida and Ghaziabad till April 17:Night curfew in Noida, Ghaziabad: Markets, pubs, bars, restaurants to shut down by 10pmOwing to the night curfew in Noida and Ghaziabad, crowds gathered at public places, including all restaurants, pubs, bars, nightclubs, and party venues, will require to be dispersed by 10pm. This will also be applicable to guests gathered at social occasions, such as wedding halls, laws, and banquet halls. All shopping complexes and markets in Noida and Ghaziabad will have to shut down by 10pm. However, restaurants shall be given an additional hour of exemption from 10pm to 11pm to get done with cleaning and sanitization-related work. Also Read: Delhi announces night curfew. List of restrictions in other statesParks, community centers, and gyms will be closed in Ghaziabad once again, as per the district administration. Household helps, maids, and domestic servants shall also not be not be allowed to be called into service during the night curfew.From 10pm to 5am, only essential services allowedIn the seven-hour window between 10pm to 5am during the night curfew in Noida and Ghaziabad, only essential services will be allowed to operate. Essential services include emergency medical and healthcare-related facilities, such as hospitals, nursing homes, diagnostic centers, medicinal clinics, pharmacies and other associated services. Pharmaceutical companies and medical insurance offices shall also remain open. Pregnant women and patients shall be allowed unrestricted access to healthcare facilities in Noida and Ghaziabad.Emergency services personnel, such as medical professionals, healthcare and family welfare workers, police, civil defense, fire and emergency services personnel, electricity, water and sanitation workers will be allowed to continue on with their services, given they produce valid identification (ID) cards.Also Read: Ten states showing upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 casesGroceries, dairies, shops selling farmers' goods, fruits and vegetables, bakeries and confectionaries, dairies, fish and meat shops shall also remain open. Banks, insurance offices, ATMs, print and electronic media, internet, broadcasting and cable-related services shall be allowed to function. However, these establishments will be required to ensure Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in their premises, as per official protocols.Movement of essential goods will be allowed. No ID cards whatsoever will be required to be produced. Petrol pumps, LPG, CNG, petroleum and gas outlets shall remain open. Door-to-door delivery of food items will be allowed.Public transport passengers need to produce ticketsCommuters arriving at or travelling from the airports, railway stations, and inter-state bus terminals in Noida and Ghaziabad will be allowed free movement, given they produce valid tickets. In case of movement of essential goods during the night curfew in Noida and Ghaziabad, no particular 'e-pass' will be required.There will, however, be no curbs in Ghaziabad on inter-state travel, nor shall any 'e-pass' be required. Officials and workers assigned on duty over the upcoming panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh shall also be exempt from the Covid-19 night curfew-related curbs. No physical classes in educational institutes till April 17All government and private educational institutes in Noida and Ghaziabad shall be barred from holding physical classes till April 17, as per a press note cited by news agency PTI. The restrictions shall be applicable for all coaching institutes across Noida and Ghaziabad as well. However, medical, paramedical and nursing institutes, both public and private, will remain exempt from the curbs.Authorities to enforce Covid-19 protocols in public placesPolice personnel will ensure strict adherence to all Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in public places. There shall also be an "intensive enforcement" of masks to curb the spread of the coronavirus in Noida, a press note issued by the Gautam Buddh Nagar district administration stated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-noida-ghaziabad-check-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101617878287797.html
08-04-2021||India||6 Rafale fighters to land in India on April 28, 4 more in May: Official||Six Rafale warplanes will land in India on April 28, enabling the Indian Air Force (IAF) to take the first steps to raise its second squadron of the fourth-generation-plus fighter jets at West Bengal’s Hasimara airbase, people familiar with the matter said on Thursday. Four more fighters are scheduled to reach next month.The 6 planes will allow the IAF to fully raise the No. 17 Squadron, also known as the Golden Arrows. The squadron, disbanded in 2016 after the IAF started phasing out of Russian-origin MiG 21 jets, was revived in September last year after the induction of the first batch of the French-origin warplanes. The squadron is based out of Ambala Air Force Station, India’s oldest airbase that is strategically located near India’s border with Pakistan and China.A senior IAF official said induction of the 6 fighters will complete the Golden Arrows squadron - it currently has 14 fighters against a standard squadron strength of 18 - and enable the air force to induct 2 remaining planes from this batch in the second Rafale squadron to be raised at the Hasimara airbase in Bengal’s Siliguri corridor. The four planes expected in May will also be sent to the squadron in Hasimara which will cover central and eastern Tibet.A second IAF official said the IAF was trying to see if the six Rafale fighters could be flagged off by IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria during his visit to Paris later this month. “But it looks difficult,” he said.The arrival of 10 fighters in two batches by next month will raise the strength of the Rafales in the air force to 24. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain told reporters last week that the delivery of all 36 Rafale jets will be completed by 2022 as per the contract.India had inked a ₹59,000 crore ($8.7 billion) agreement with the French government to buy 36 Rafale fighter jets, replacing the previous United Progressive Alliance (UPA) regime’s decision to buy 126 Rafale aircraft, 108 of which were to be made in India by the state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd (HAL).The deal was dragged into a controversy after the opposition led by the Congress claimed that the NDA government was buying the planes at an inflated price. The Supreme Court and the government’s top auditor, Comptroller and Auditor General, did not find any indication of malfeasance. But the controversy was reignited over the last week after a French online journal, Mediapart, claimed that Dassault Aviation, which manufactures the Rafale jet, paid €1 million to a Sushen Gupta, described as a “middleman”, in connection with the deal for 36 jets.A French diplomat in Delhi said the French aviation giant, Dassault Aviation, and the government would issue an appropriate rebuttal to the ‘so-called expose’ by the online portal.The diplomat cited a $3.7 billion deal between France and Greece for the sale of 18 Rafale jets including 12 used fighters to assert that this agreement sealed in Athens suggested that New Delhi had negotiated better terms.The warplanes received by the IAF are equipped with India-specific enhancements including the Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missiles, Mica multi-mission air-to-air missiles, Scalp deep-strike cruise missiles and the Hammer smart weapon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/6-rafale-fighters-to-land-in-india-on-april-28-4-more-in-may-official-101617882396017.html
08-04-2021||India||'Adequate arrangements will be made': MP CM assures those in line for Covid drug||A day after Madhya Pradesh government decided to procure coronavirus disease (Covid-19) drug Remdesivir so that they could provide free of cost treatment to economically weak patients, chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday said that adequate arrangements will be made to ensure there is no shortage of the medicine."Yesterday we decided to purchase the Remdesivir injection, which we are short of. A system is made for purchase, we will make it available wherever it is needed. Adequate arrangements will be made to ensure that there is no shortage of medicines," the CM said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageRemdesivir is an anti-viral drug considered key in the treatment of Covid-19.Meanwhile, to curb the spread of the infection, a weekend lockdown was announced in all urban areas of the state from 6pm on Friday to 6am on Monday.Watch: Shivraj Chouhan declares 60-hour weekend lockdown in all MP cities"In the wake of Covid-19 situation, there'll be lockdown from 6 pm on Friday to 6 am on Monday in all urban areas of Madhya Pradesh. For cities where cases have increased, appropriate action will be taken after the meeting of the crisis management group. We are making containment areas in big cities," Chouhan said.On Wednesday, a temporary suspension of buses running from the neighbouring Chhattisgarh was also announced till April 15. "For the prevention of Covid-19 infection, passenger bus services to and from Chhattisgarh in the public interest has been postponed till 15 April," he said.Madhya Pradesh reported 4,043 fresh cases of coronavirus on Wednesday, taking the total tally to 3,18,014.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/adequate-arrangements-will-be-made-mp-cm-assures-those-in-line-for-covid-drug-101617881290553.html
08-04-2021||India||Medical store owner arrested for selling remdesivir at higher price than MRP||The owner of a medical store was arrested for allegedly selling remdesivir injections at a higher price than the MRP in Maharashtra's Parbhani district, an official said on Thursday.Based on a complaint, a trap was laid at the medical store on Wednesday night and the accused Vijay Hake was caught red handed while selling a vial of remdesivir for ₹6,000 as opposed to the actual price of ₹4,800, deputy collector Sanjay Kudetkar said.The Parbhani district administration acted on a phone call received by the collector, the official said.An offence was registered against the accused, who has been remanded to police custody till April 15, a police official said.Officials from the district administration and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) also raided a medical store in Shivaji Nagar area of Parbhani, where they found that some vials of the injection had been sold without receipts, the deputy collector said.The license of the medical store has been cancelled, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-store-owner-arrested-for-selling-remdesivir-at-higher-price-than-mrp-101617880843965.html
08-04-2021||India||Congress' Rahul Gandhi demands 'Kharcha Pe Charcha' over fuel prices||Taking a dig at Prime Minister Narendra Modi's 'Pariksha Pe Charcha' Congress leader Rahul Gandhi questioned PM Modi over no discussion on high fuel prices, and demanded 'Kharcha Pe Charcha'.Accusing the central gvernment of hiking fuel prices by levying taxes, the Congress leader said that getting oil filled in one's vehicle is no less than an exam and questioned PM Modi for not holding a discussion on the same.The Congress leader in a tweet on Thursday said, "Due to the central government's tax collection, filling oil in one's car is no less than an exam, then why doesn't the PM discuss it? Kharcha Pe bhi Ho Charcha! (Discussion should also be held on expenses)."This comes a day after PM Modi interacted with students, teachers and parents at the fourth edition of 'Pariksha Pe Charcha', via video conferencing.Meanwhile, fuel prices remained unchanged for the ninth day on Thursday as oil marketing companies decided to keep rates on hold today.Petrol and diesel prices were cut three times in the month of March, during which petrol became cheaper by 61 paise per litre and diesel prices were reduced by 60 paise per litre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-rahul-gandhi-demands-kharcha-pe-charcha-over-fuel-prices-101617881668317.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Maharashtra to raise 4 issues including vaccine shortage in PM Modi meeting and all the latest new||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Complaining of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, Maharashtra heads to PM's meeting with 4 issuesThe Maharashtra government has once against raised the issue of shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, saying the replenishment ordered by the Centre is not enough. Read more'Serious' allegations against Anil Deshmukh require CBI probe, rules SCThe Supreme Court on Thursday said allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh by ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh were 'serious' and required a CBI probe. Read moreNight curfew imposed in Noida and Ghaziabad between 10pm and 5am till April 17In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the district authorities in Noida and Ghaziabad on Thursday imposed a night curfew with immediate effect. The curfew will be in place from 10pm to 5am till April 17, officials said. Read moreKangana Ranaut defines what makes one an ‘ultranationalist’ as she posts glam photos: ‘Every penny that you spend...’Kangana Ranaut explained the difference between a nationalist and ‘ultranationalist’, as she made a case for local weaves. Read moreShehnaaz Gill flaunts bangs, new hair cut and toned abs in latest Instagram postFormer Bigg Boss contestant Shehnaaz Gill who is best known as the Katrina Kaif of Punjab recently took to her Instagram to show off her new hairdo and it is absolutely perfect for the sweltering summers. Read more'I am as young as ever': At 37, AB de Villiers still 'excited' for another stint with RCB in IPL 2021There is no stopping AB de Villiers, it seems. When the former South Africa captain announced international retirement three years ago, many wondered why is he hanging his boots so early on in his career. Read moreWatch: Mamata Banerjee’s ‘gherao CRPF’ remark draws flak from BJP, EC seeks report||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-maharsahtra-to-raise-4-issues-including-vaccine-shortage-in-pm-modi-meeting-and-all-the-latest-news-101617879560051.html
08-04-2021||India||Second lockdown if imposed to be detrimental for economy: Report||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, Nippon Paint India on Thursday said a second lockdown, if imposed, will be detrimental not only for the industry but for the economy as well.Stating that the manufacturing sector is still reeling under the effects of the last lockdown, the company said labourers are skeptical and anticipating a second lockdown they have started planning their return journeys as the memories of the last lockdown are still fresh in their minds."With India in the middle of a second wave of coronavirus, second lockdown, if imposed, will be detrimental not only for the industry but for the economy as well," Nippon Paint India President (Automotive Refinishes and Wood Coatings) Sharad Malhotra said in a statement.The second wave of Covid-19 and a possible second lockdown is something to be concerned for, he said adding that "the manufacturing sector is still reeling under the effects of the last lockdown".Elaborating further, Malhotra said, "The supply chain is still not recovered completely and with the possibility of a second lockdown, we will have to wait for another 6-9 months, if not a year, for it to recover."To add to it, there are labour issues as well, he added."Labourers are skeptical, and anticipating a second lockdown they have started planning their return journeys as the memories of the last lockdown are still fresh in their minds."The sales for the first quarter of the year are not looking good already due to these factors," Malhotra said.According to Union health ministry data updated on Thursday morning, India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new Covid-19 cases, pushing its infection tally to 1,29,28,574, while the number of active cases also went upwards to breach the nine lakh-mark again.The death toll due to the disease in the country increased to 1,66,862, with 685 new fatalities being reported in a day.Various states such as Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have announced several measures, including night curfew and weekend lockdowns, as the number of cases of Covid-19 increases again.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/second-lockdown-if-imposed-to-be-detrimental-for-economy-report-101617880315907.html
08-04-2021||India||War of words over vaccines: Centre says Maharashtra wasted 5 lakh doses||The issue of vaccine shortage has resulted in a war of words between the Centre and the states. Leading the war is Maharashtra, where health minister Rajesh Tope issued a dire warning on Wednesday, saying supplies would run out in three days unless replenished.He also said that vaccination drive has been stopped at many centres because of the shortage of doses. On Thursday, Tope said that the Centre is sending 17 lakh doses, but this number is also less as Maharashtra needs 40 lakh doses to meet its daily target.But the Centre accused the Maharashtra government of wasting the doses."Maharashtra has 23 lakh doses, which is supply for five days. Every state has stock for 3-4 days. It is the state’s responsibility to send it to various districts. Maharashtra has, in fact, wasted five lakh doses," said Union minister Prakash Javadekar.On Wednesday, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan lashed out at Maharashtra government, accusing it of "misgovernance" in tackling Covid-19. In a strongly worded statement, the health minister said that Maharashtra followed "utterly casual approach".The statement was criticised by chief of Nationalist Congress Party's (NCP) Maharashtra unit and water resources minister Jayant Patil. In a tweet, Patil said, "The letter circulated by the Union health minister yesterday, is only hatred towards Maharashtra. The role of central government is non-cooperative with Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government as we do not have similar ideology."The number of Covid-19 cases had eased in India but a second wave of the virus has since returned with a vengeance, with more than 126,000 new infections recorded in the past 24 hours, a new record.Several regions have tightened curbs on activity while Maharashtra, the current epicentre of India's epidemic, is set to enter a lockdown at the weekend. The state government there has also announced a series of fresh curbs to check the spread of the infection.Prime Minister Narendra Modi is scheduled to hold a meeting with chief ministers of states on Thursday to take stock of Covid-19 situation in the country and the ongoing vaccination drive.The Centre has also dispatched 50 teams to various badly-affected states, including Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/war-of-words-over-vaccine-shortage-centre-says-maharashtra-wasted-5-lakh-doses-101617878921159.html
08-04-2021||India||'Serious' allegations against Anil Deshmukh require CBI probe, rules Supreme Court||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that allegations of corruption and misconduct levelled against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh by ex-Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh are "serious" and require a probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI).A bench of justices S K Kaul and Hemant Gupta were hearing the petitions filed by the Maharashtra government and Deshmukh against a CBI probe.Also Read: Anil Deshmukh resigns as Maharashtra home minister after HC orders CBI probe"Allegations are serious, the home minister and police commissioner are involved. They're closely working together till they fall apart, and both are holding a particular position. Should the CBI not probe? The nature of allegations and the persons involved require independent probe," said Justice Kaul.Watch | SC favors CBI probe in corruption allegations against Anil DeshmukhIt is only preliminary enquiry and nothing is wrong in it when serious allegations are made by senior officer against a senior minister, the bench said when counsel for Deshmukh alleged that oral allegations were made without any substance and CBI probe was ordered without hearing him.The petitions challenged the Bombay high court order directing a CBI probe into the allegations.In its plea, the state government questioned the procedure adopted by high court in passing the order. The state was heard on question of maintainability of the pleas seeking CBI investigation against Deshmukh and the order too was reserved on that issue but the court finally ended up directing the probe on April 5, the plea said.Also Read: Former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze blames top Maharashtra ministers for extortionDemanding a CBI enquiry into Deshmukh, Param Bir Singh, in his plea filed on March 25, said the minister asked police officers, including suspended cop Sachin Vaze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars and restaurants in Mumbai.Deshmukh, who has denied all allegations, resigned from the state government citing 'moral' grounds hours after the April 5 HC order directing a probe into his conduct.“The high court asked the CBI to conduct a preliminary inquiry. In the wake of the court’s decision I don’t feel morally right to continue on the position of the home minister. Hence, I have decided to step down from this position on my own,” read Deshmukh’s letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.In its 52-page judgement, the high court had said Singh's allegations against Deshmukh had put at stake the citizen's faith in the state police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/serious-allegation-against-anil-deshmukh-requires-independent-probe-rules-sc-101617877776718.html
08-04-2021||India||TS Singhdeo says Harsh Vardhan's statement on vaccination 'disappointing'||Chhattisgarh health minister TS Singhdeo said he was 'disappointed' by Union minister Harsh Vardhan's statement targeting some states for claiming that there was a coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine shortage. "It's an unfortunate statement. He had held a virtual meeting with the health ministers of 11 states the day before yesterday. He had said that we will work together. His statement soon after is very disappointing," he said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageVardhan said in a strongly worded statement that Chhattisgarh was seeing a "disproportionately higher number of deaths" in the last 2-3 weeks. "Their testing remains heavily dependent on rapid antigen tests which is not a wise strategy," the statement read."It's right and worrisome that mortality is increasing in the state but saying that vaccination isn't being done here is false. Centre's data show that Chhattisgarh is one of the top 4 states of the nation that have vaccinated more than 10 per cent of its population," Singhdeo added.In his statement, Harsh Vardhan further attacked the state and said some leaders from Chhattisgarh were spreading 'misinformation' and 'panic' on vaccination. "We have seen regular comments by leaders from Chhattisgarh that are intended to spread misinformation and panic on vaccination. I would like to humbly state that it would be better if the state government focuses its energies on ramping up their health infrastructure rather than on petty politicking," the statement read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ts-singhdeo-says-harsh-vardhan-s-statement-on-vaccination-disappointing-101617875594176.html
08-04-2021||India||SC rejects plea to stall deportation of Rohingyas from Jammu||The Supreme Court on Thursday rejects a plea that had sought the release of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu sub-jail and the stalling of deportation. A bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, added the caveat that the deportation of Rohingya refugees from Jammu must follow due procedure, which involved their proper identification and acknowledgment of their citizenship by the Myanmar government. “No Rohingya from Jammu will be deported without the procedure to be followed in such cases,” said the bench that included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The Centre on March 26 opposed the plea by Mohammad Salimullah while emphasising that India cannot become “the international capital of illegal immigrants”.The government called the Rohingya “absolutely illegal immigrants” who posed “serious threats to national security” and also contended that the right to settle in India could not be asserted by illegal immigrants under the garb of the Constitution’s Article 21, which guarantees the right to life and liberty. Also Read | Centre halts deportation of 16-year-old Rohingya girl to MyanmarOn March 6, on the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Jammu & Kashmir administration started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved some of them to a holding centre, pending their potential deportation.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing religious persecution. India has previously deported Rohingya refugees.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on March 26 submitted that a similar application to stop the deportation of Rohingya from Assam was dismissed by the top court in 2018 and that the present application must meet the same fate.He added the Centre has begun the process of deporting Rohingya after receiving a confirmation from the Myanmar government regarding their nationality, and that the apex court should steer clear of the “diplomatic issue” since it fell within the exclusive domain of the executive.Representing the Jammu & Kashmir administration, senior advocate Harish Salve also cautioned the bench against “starting a dangerous trend” by interfering with a subject related to illegal immigrants and diplomatic relations with another country.Salimullah’s lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, alluded to a January 2020 judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) that highlighted the persecution faced by the Rohingya in Myanmar.The Centre’s affidavit maintained that it has to first secure the interests of its own citizens before those of illegal immigrants who, it said, were casting a burden on the already depleting natural resources of the country in addition to posing a security threat.“The Constitution makes it abundantly clear that India as a sovereign nation, has the first and foremost Constitutional obligation and duty towards its citizens and to ensure that the demographic and social structure of the country is not changed to its detriment, the resulting socio-economic problems do not occur to the prejudice of the citizens and the resources of the nation are utilised to fulfil the fundamental rights of its own citizens and are not diverted to the detriment of the citizens, due to influx of illegal migrants into the territory of India,” said the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-plea-to-stall-deportation-of-rohingyas-from-jammu-101617875553981.html
08-04-2021||India||From today, night curfew imposed in Noida and Ghaziabad||In view of the rising Covid-19 cases, the district authorities in Noida and Ghaziabad on Thursday imposed a night curfew with immediate effect. The curfew will be in place from 10pm to 5am till April 17, officials said.The official statement from Ghaziabad district head office stated that, "Keeping in view the increasing impact of Covid-19 infection, District Magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey has decided to implement the night curfew in Ghaziabad district from tonight, after reviewing it with police officers and medical department officials."The decision to impose night curfew comes shortly after similar curb was introduced in Uttar Pradesh's capital Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi with effect from Thursday night. The stringent measure has also been imposed in Prayagraj from 10pm to 8am from Thursday till further notice.Officials said that the night curfew in Lucknow will continue till April 30.The move to impose night curfew comes on the day when India reported a record 126,789 new Covid-19 cases even as several states struggled to contain a second surge in infections, complaining of vaccine shortages and demanding inoculations be expanded to younger people.Daily infections surpassed 100,000 for the first time on Monday - the highest since the pandemic began - and have now exceeded that mark three times.The alarming rate of increase in cases has caught authorities across the country by surprise. The government blames the resurgence mainly on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks as shops and offices have reopened.Keeping the rising cases in consideration, New Zealand on Thursday suspended entry for all travellers from India, including its own citizens, for about two weeks.With 12.9 million cases, India is the third-worst affected country, trailing the United States and Brazil. Deaths rose by 685 - the most in five days - to 166,862, data from the health ministry showed.Vaccine centres in several states, including hardest-hit Maharashtra, have been shutting early and turning people away as supplies run out. Odisha state said it had closed half its vaccination sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-imposed-in-noida-between-10pm-and-5am-till-april-17-101617875206678.html
08-04-2021||India||Rahul takes dig at PM, says there should be ‘kharche pe charcha’||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday again questioned why domestic oil prices remain high when international rates have been dropping.“Due to the taxes levied by the government, filling oil in our vehicles is no less than a test. Why does not the PM [Prime Minister Narendra Modi] discuss it?” Gandhi said in a tweet.Also Read | Rahul Gandhi to begin ‘active’ campaign for Bengal soon, says functionaryAt the beginning of this month, international oil prices had started rising after the Organisation of the Petroleum Exporting Countries extended the production cut. Hopes of quicker demand recovery and the stimulus package which was rolled out by the US government also aided the rise of global oil prices.Crude oil prices have plummeted again as demand woes increased in the wake of the second wave of coronavirus across the globe, especially in Europe. Despite the fall in oil prices in the international market, domestic rates have remained unchanged. On March 30, petrol prices were cut by 22 paise and diesel by 23 paise per litre in the capital. Petrol was selling at ₹90.56 per litre while diesel at ₹80.87 in Delhi.The oil prices vary from state to state as both central and state governments levy taxes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-asks-pm-modi-to-talk-about-soaring-oil-prices-101617875258075.html
08-04-2021||India||Many vaccination centres in Mumbai shut due to shortage of vaccine doses||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday shut its Covid-19 vaccination centre in Mahim because of the shortage of doses, said assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar.The closure came two days after municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said they were facing a shortage of vaccines and were constantly in touch with the Centre for additional doses.Maharashtra health minister, Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that the state has only two days of Covid-19 vaccine stock, after which it will officially run out of vaccine doses for the immunisation drive. “Vaccination has stopped in districts such as Satara, Sangli and Panvel and others. We have two more days of stock,” he said on Thursday.Also Read | Odisha health minister says Covid-19 vaccines will last 2 daysTope also accused the Centre of supplying a lesser number of vaccines doses and said that the matter has been raised before the Centre through various mediums. Citing figures from the Centre’s latest release order of vaccines, Tope claimed that states such as Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Haryana have been given more vaccines in comparison with population and Covid-19 cases, while the state “has been given 750,000 vaccine dosages only”, in the latest allotment.While Tope was speaking, the Centre increased the the limit to 1.7 million. “Even this is less because we need 4 million vaccine doses a week; 1.7 million doses are not enough,” Tope said after Centre’s announcement. “Our pace has increased, centres have increased. How can a state that has the most number of cases in the country get lesser vaccine doses?” he asked. “I talked to Dr Harshavardhan [Union health minister]… I raised the issue of discrimination with us. We have the most number of active patients, positivity rate and death with a population of 120 million. Why are we given so few vaccines?” he asked.“Harshvardhan Ji assured me that corrections will be done soon. We are still waiting,” he said.Punjab and Delhi also on Wednesday said they will run out of vaccines within days and requested the central government for replenishments. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan accused the three non-Bharatiya Janata Party-ruled states of politicising the issue.The Union health minister issued a statement later on Wednesday evening, hitting out at what he said was attempts to “divert attention” from the state’s slow vaccination drive, and targetting Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi, all of which have asked for an expansion of the criteria for vaccination, something the Union government isn’t willing to do right away. “Doesn’t it seem evident that these states are trying to divert attention from their poor vaccination efforts by just continuously shifting the goal posts? Politicising such a public health issue is a damning indictment of certain political leaders who should know better,” said Harsh Vardhan in the statement.Later, the Union health ministry sent letters to Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab, asking them to take “immediate corrective action” to ensure doses are delivered to health and front-line workers. The letter carried the same figures as disclosed by Harsh Vardhan in his statement.In Mumbai, officials said several private vaccination centres have also expressed their inability to vaccinate people citing the unavailability of vaccines. The BMC has been vaccinating over 50,000 people daily. As on Tuesday, it had administered around 150,000 doses.To be sure, while overall supplies may be there at the state level, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.Only four of the 41 vaccination centres were operational in Navi Mumbai due to the shortage of vaccines. The vaccination centres in Panvel were shut since Wednesday due to the shortage.Anand Gosawi, health officer, Panvel Municipal Corporation, issued a statement saying the drive will be stopped for the next few days. “There are 21 approved centres across the city... We have no stock of Covishield while... Covaxin doses...will be used only for second doses.”The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC), which was the first in Thane district to start a jumbo vaccination centre with four booths, has closed it down. Around 37 centres run by the corporation in the city were shut as of Thursday. NMMC commissioner Abhijit Bangar said they have taken up the issue with the government and are expecting more doses in a day or two.Ramla Beevi, 63, a Kerala resident who was in Navi Mumbai to visit a relative and planned to get vaccinated in the city, had to return without getting her dose. “After we reached [the vaccination centre], we saw many people had to be turned away due to the lack of stock. The commotion was about the shortage of the stock which led to panic and most of them had to return,” Beevi said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahim-inoculation-centre-in-mumbai-shut-due-to-covid-vaccine-shortage-101617873813942.html
08-04-2021||India||Migrants leave Gujarat amid Covid-19 surge, lockdown fears||Fearing another lockdown in the wake of a sudden spike in Covid-19 cases in Gujarat, migrant workers and their families have started leaving Surat and Ahmedabad, two of the state's most severely affected cities.However, government officials on Thursday claimed the number of those leaving was very low and people cannot be stopped from moving from one place to another."There are no formal reports which suggest that a large number of migrants are leaving. However, we have asked district authorities to ensure that workers do not face any trouble," state Additional Chief Secretary, Labour and Employment, Vipul Mittra told PTI.Since there is no lockdown and trains are also running, people are free to move anywhere in the country, he said.Mittra said though some people are going back to their native places, "it's not happening on large scale"."Last year, there was a rush because the lockdown was imposed all of a sudden. Thus, as a precaution, migrants are going back home as they feel that transportation may not be available after some time," the official said.In Ahmedabad, a number of migrant workers, mostly hailing from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have been rushing to the city's main Kalupur railway station to travel to their native places, said Yogesh Mishra, member of the Zonal Rail Users Consultative Committee.The migrants fear they would be stuck here if the government imposes another lockdown, Mishra said, adding that the waiting list for reserved seats in trains is also increasing with each passing day."The Gujarat High Court recently suggested that a lockdown should be imposed. This has created panic among the migrant workers, who suffered a lot last year due to the sudden lockdown and travel restrictions," he said.Now, migrants are in a hurry to reach their native places, said Mishra."People from UP are leaving in large numbers, mainly because they don't want to miss the panchayat polls, starting from April 15. Many have also planned marriage ceremonies, which were cancelled last year," he said.People are extra cautious this time and want to leave before any travel restrictions are announced, he added.In Surat, migrant workers belonging to UP, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand have been leaving in luxury buses, but their number is not very large, Surat Luxury Bus Operators Association president Dinesh Andhan said."People from Saurashtra are not leaving. It's the migrants from other states who are leaving Surat city due to panic. They suffered a lot last year due to the lockdown and unavailability of transport. Many were forced to walk to their native places last year," Andhan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-leave-gujarat-amid-covid-19-surge-lockdown-fears-101617873282760.html
08-04-2021||India||Complaining of Covid-19 vaccine shortage, Maharashtra heads to PM's meeting with 4 issues||The Maharashtra government has once against raised the issue of shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, saying the replenishment ordered by the Centre is not enough. Ahead of the meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said he will raise four key issues.Also Read: ‘Why Maharashtra being discriminated?’ minister asks Centre"I have just been informed that the Centre increased Covid-19 vaccine doses from seven lakh to 17 lakh. Even this is less because we need 40 lakh vaccine doses a week and 17 lakh doses are not enough," Tope said while in interacting with reporters."We will raise these four issues before PM in today's meeting over Covid-19: Remdesivir supply and price control, supply of oxygen from nearby states, vaccine doses and ventilator operational support," he added. The meeting is scheduled to take place at 6.30pm today.Also Watch: 'Mumbai facing Covid vaccine shortage,' says MayorHe earlier accused the Centre of supplying less number of vaccines, adding that the issue has been raised through multiple mediums. On Wednesday too, the Maharashtra health minister blamed the Centre for vaccine shortage.Reacting to Tope's claims, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan lashed out at the Maharashtra government and accused it of "misgovernance" in tackling Covid-19, saying that it has followed "utterly casual approach" and is putting the residents in danger "by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandate for the sake of their personal vasuli".In a strongly worded statement on Wednesday, Vardhan asserted that it was nothing but "an attempt to divert attention from Maharashtra government's repeated failures to control the spread of pandemic". He accused the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in Maharashtra of focusing its energies on "playing politics and spreading lies to create panic".India's Covid-19 cases have soared 13-fold in barely two months - it reported a record 126,789 new cases on Thursday, the third day this week when the daily caseload surged to more than 100,000.More infectious variants of the virus may have played a role in India's surge, some epidemiologists say, with hundreds of cases found of variants first detected in Britain, South Africa and Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-heads-to-pm-modi-s-covid-19-meeting-with-4-issues-101617872438759.html
08-04-2021||India||Strict restrictions in Maharashtra on the advice of Centre, experts: Pawar||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar on Thursday urged the people to cooperate with the state administration amid opposition to strict norms put in place to curb a sharp rise in Covid-19 cases in the state. “Maharashtra has never been in such a serious and alarming situation. The Covid cases are rising sharply. The health infrastructure is under stress. The state government decided to impose strict restrictions following the advice of the health experts as there were no other options left. The central government too has urged the state government to take some strict decisions,” he said in his live address to the people on Facebook.Pawar, who said the Centre has extended its full cooperation to the state, spoke to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan over the situation. “We discussed the shortfall [of vaccines] and he [Vardhan] assured that the Centre and Union health ministry will stand with the state.”On Wednesday, state health minister Rajesh Tope said the state is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses and had to shut down many vaccination centres. His comments sparked a war of words when Vardhan accused Maharashtra of politicising the issue. Vardhan criticised the state government for “misgovernance and “utter casual approach” in battling the virus.Also Read | ‘Why Maharashtra being discriminated against?’: Minister to Centre on ‘vaccine shortage’Pawar, whose party is a part of the state government, said he understands discontent over the restrictions as people have to face difficulties. “But if we want success, then patience is the only key. ...the state government had to take some harsh decisions due to unavoidable circumstances and to save lives of the people.”Maharashtra is the worst Covid-19-hit state in the country with daily cases reaching close to the 60,000-mark. On Wednesday, 59,907 cases were reported, pushing the count to over three million.The state government has imposed a night and weekend curfew. It has closed down all non-essentials businesses and asked most offices to switch to remote working to check the surge in Covid-19 cases. At no point can over five people gather outdoors and at places of worship, malls, etc. Restaurants have been allowed to serve only takeaway food. The fresh restrictions will remain till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/strict-restrictions-in-maharashtra-on-the-advice-of-centre-experts-pawar-101617872673694.html
08-04-2021||India||Important for new generation to know stages of Guru Tegh Bahadur's life: PM||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said it is important for the new generation of the nation to know and understand the stages of Guru Tegh Bahadur's life. "All of you are aware of stages of his (Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur) life but it is important for the new generation of the nation too to know and understand it. From Guru Nanak Dev to Guru Tegh Bahadur and Guru Gobind Singh - our Sikh Guru tradition is a philosophy of life in itself," PM Modi said at a high-level meeting to commemorate 400th Jayanti of Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur.PM Modi said India will pay a fitting tribute to the Guru Tegh Bahadur on his 400th Parkash Purab.The PM said, "The occasion is a spiritual fortune and national duty. We have been blessed to be able to make a contribution to this. I am happy that we are taking forward our efforts, together with all citizens."Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, former prime minister Manmohan Singh and Union home minister Amit Shah were also present in the meeting.The Punjab chief minister sought an approval on launching various projects worth ₹937 crore. "We are all committed to celebrate this momentous occasion in a befitting manner.' He urged PM Modi to clear the state government’s proposal for launching various projects worth ₹937 crore, including the development of Sri Anandpur Sahib as Smart City, to pay befitting tributes to Guru Tegh Bahadur.Singh further requested PM Modi that the Centre should release a special commemorative stamp on this occasion. He suggested that the commemorative events should be held all across the country, as well as at all Indian missions abroad, the Punjab CMO said.Guru Tegh Bahadur is the ninth of the ten Gurus who founded the Sikh religion. He was the head of the followers of Sikhism from 1665 until his killing in 1675.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/important-for-new-generation-to-know-stages-of-guru-tegh-bahadur-s-life-pm-modi-101617869991170.html
08-04-2021||India||Odisha health minister says Covid-19 vaccines will last 2 days, demands supply for 10 days||After Maharashtra, Odisha has also expressed concerns about running out of Covid-19 vaccine stocks. Health minister Naba Kishore Das on Thursday said if the vaccines are not received within two days, the government will have to stop the process. Das said 700 vaccination centres out of the state's 1,400 centres have already been closed due to the shortage of injections, news agency ANI reported.“It is very important to get vaccines from Centre. If we don't get vaccines within these 2 days, then we will have to stop it (vaccination). Our 700 vaccination centres, out of 1,400, have already closed. We hope we get the vaccines soon,” he said.Also Read | Maharashtra has 2 more days of vaccine stock, says health minister Rajesh TopeAdding that the vaccination is going on well here, Das said the government currently has 5.34 lakh vaccine doses and 2.5 lakh vaccine doses are administered daily, so the stocks will end in two days.“Right now, we have 5.34 lakhs doses. We administer 2.5-lakh vaccines daily. So, our stock will last for 2 more days. We've written to the Centre to send us a minimum of 25-lakh vaccines for 10 days so that we can vaccinate properly. Vaccination is going on well here,” ANI quoted Das as saying.Maharashtra health minister on Wednesday appealed to the Centre for supplying more Covid-19 vaccines as the state with the highest number of Covid-19 cases is facing a vaccine crunch. Covid vaccination centres in several districts of the state have even closed due to the shortage of vaccines.The country is severely affected by the second wave of coronavirus disease and several states have written to the Centre to supply them with additional vaccine doses in the face of adversity. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the vaccine stock in the national capital will only last for over four and five days.Odisha reported 879 new Covid-19 cases and 246 recoveries in the last 24 hours on Wednesday, as per the information and public relations department of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-health-minister-says-covid-19-vaccines-will-last-2-days-demands-supply-for-10-days-101617869943384.html
08-04-2021||India||'Why Maharashtra facing discrimination?': Minister to Centre on vaccine shortage||Maharashtra health minister, Rajesh Tope on Thursday said that the state has only two days of stock of Covid-19 vaccines, after which it will officially run out of vaccine doses for the immunisation drive. "Vaccination has stopped in districts like Satara, Sangli and Panvel. There are many more districts where it has stopped. We have two more days of stock," he said on Thursday as the state remains on top to have the highest number of cases.He also accused the Centre of supplying a lesser number of vaccines and said that the matter has been raised before the Centre through multiple various mediums. Citing figures from the latest release order of vaccines from the Centre, Tope claimed that states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana etc have been given more vaccines in comparison with population and Covid-19 cases, while the state "has been given 7.5 lakh vaccine dosages only", in the latest allotment.While Tope was speaking, Centre increased the the limit to 17 lakhs. "Even this is less because we need 40 lakh vaccine doses a week and 17 lakh doses are not enough," Tope said after Centre's announcement.Also Read | 'Reacted like BJP spokesperson': Priyanka Chaturvedi on Centre's response to Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccine crunch"Our pace has increased, centres have increased. How can a state that has the most number cases in the country get lesser vaccine doses?" he asked. "I talked to Dr Harshavardhan (Union health minister)... I raised the issue of discrimination with us. We have the most number of active patients, positivity rate and death with 12 crore population. Why we are given so few vaccines?" he also asked.Also Read | Maharashtra Covid vaccine shortage: Pune, Panvel stop drive, Centre dismisses claimSpeaking further on the number of vaccines needed to inoculate Maharashtra residents, Tope said, "We want 1.6 crore vaccine dosages per month and 40 lakh every week because we are vaccinating 6 lakh people every day.""Harshvardhan Ji assured me that corrections will be done soon. We are still waiting," he also said.Many vaccination centres in Maharashtra are being closed temporarily owing to the shortage of vaccines. On Thursday, a vaccination centre in Mahim was closed after it ran out of vaccine doses. In Vashi, Jumbo Vaccination Center at ESIS Hospital also temporarily shut the vaccination operation as it also faced a shortage of vaccines to administer.On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 59,907 new Covid-19 infections, its highest single-day spike, and 322 fatalities, taking its total tally to 3,173,261 and death toll to 56,652. The number of active cases also crossed the 500,000-mark with 501,559 active infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-given-7-5-lakh-vaccine-dosages-only-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope-101617869016795.html
08-04-2021||India||Ten states showing upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 cases||Ten states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Kerala and Punjab have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases accounting for 84.21 per cent of the 1,26,789 new infections, the health ministry said on Thursday.The national weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased by 6.21 per cent from 2.19 to 8.40 per cent in the first seven days of March and April, the ministry said.India registered a record single-day spike of 1,26,789 new coronavirus infections pushing the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,29,28,574, according to the ministry data updated on Thursday morning.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 59,907. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 10,310 while Karnataka reported 6,976 new cases. India's total active caseload has increased to 9,10,319 and now comprises 7.04 per cent of the country's total infections. A net incline of 66,846 cases recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours."Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 74.13 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 55.26 per cent of the total active cases of the country," the ministry said.Twelve states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases, the ministry said.  India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,18,51,393 with 59,258 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.Besides, 685 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 87.59 per cent of the new deaths. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (322). Punjab follows with 62 daily deaths, the ministry said.Twelve states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. These are Assam, Ladakh, D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Mizoram, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ten-states-showing-upward-trajectory-of-daily-new-covid-19-cases-101617868081756.html
08-04-2021||India||Terrorist arrested from Jammu, say J&K Police||The Jammu & Kashmir police on Thursday said that the National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested a terrorist of little-known Ghaznavi Force outfit from Jammu around two months after an accomplice he was allegedly plotting to attack temples with to create communal disturbances was held. The arrestee was identified as Shahid Naveed, whose alleged accomplice, Sher Ali, was arrested from the Jammu airport on February 17. The two are from the Poonch district of Jammu & Kashmir.Police said the two were allegedly planning to attack temples in the Jammu region to create communal disturbances. “He [Ali] was the main coordinator and facilitator of terrorist activities of various terrorist groups involving facilitating infiltration of terrorists, smuggling of arms and ammunition, narcotics from PoJK [Pakistan occupied Jammu & Kashmir] to Indian Territory from Balakote area of Poonch district,” said a police spokesman. The spokesman added he was also involved in many other cases in the Poonch district.Also Read | Kashmir journalists protest top cop’s advice on covering encounters, stirsAli is accused of helping two Pakistan terrorists infiltrate into the Indian side from PoK from the Dabbi area of Balakote sector in November at the behest of a Pakistani handler identified as Sultan. “The two terrorists of JK Ghaznavi Force were later killed in an encounter on December 13 in Poshana area of Surankote in Poonch district,” said the spokesman. Ali was also allegedly involved in the smuggling of arms and ammunition including three pistols and one Improvised Explosive Device.“The receiver of these arms and ammunition Mushtaq Ahmed [father of Sher Ali] and Raskeem Akhter [sister of Sher Ali] were arrested by Poonch Police on September 11 last year...,” the spokesman said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/terrorist-arrested-from-jammu-say-jkpolice-101617867513322.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: ‘New tactic to write from jail’, says Raut on Vaze's letter and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘New tactic to write from jail’: Shiv Sena's Sanjay Raut on Sachin Vaze’s letter against Anil ParabShiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut on Thursday came out in support of Maharashtra’s transport minister Anil Parab, who has been accused in an extortion case by suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, and termed the claims a political conspiracy. Read morePriyanka Chaturvedi, Sharad Pawar react to Harsh Vardhan's 'political' statement on vaccinesA Centre versus Maharashtra war has ensued after Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday criticised the Maharashtra government and said the state government was trying to divert the attention from its mismanagement of the pandemic situation by creating an uproar over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines. Read moreAmit Sadh goes off social media amid partial lockdown in Maharashtra: ‘Silly things I do will not heal or entertain’Actor Amit Sadh is temporarily going off social media, amid the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India. As Maharashtra witnesses the highest number of cases in the country, the state government announced a weekend lockdown and night curfew during the weekdays, in addition to other restrictions. Read moreShanaya Kapoor adds a bold touch to old Hollywood charm in monokini and ₹12k trench coatShanaya Kapoor is truly the face of Gen Z's fashion sense. The stunner's sartorial picks are the perfect combination of bold and beautiful with a little bit of chic and that is why people look up to her and take inspiration from whatever she steps out in. The fact that she is the younger cousin of Sonam, Rhea and Janhvi Kapoor just means that an impeccable fashion sense is in her genes and the way she adds her own touch to it is just cherry on top. Read moreSakshi-slayer Sonam ready for Tokyo Olympics qualifierAjmer Malik recalls the moment last year when he told his trainee Sonam Malik that she has a big fight coming up – against Rio Olympics bronze medallist Sakshi Malik in the national selection trials for the Asian Championships. Read moreHyundai Alcazar revealed; 1st set of images, engine, transmission details & moreHyundai has officially released images and specification details its Alcazar, the latest SUV from the Korean company to join ranks with the likes of Tucson, Creta and Venue in the product portfolio for India. What sets the Alcazar apart from all other SUVs in the Hyundai India product portfolio is that it is its first foray into the three-row segment. Read moreMan’s bhangra routine after getting second dose of Covid vaccine is a must-watchIf you’re a regular on social media, you may have come across the feel-good videos shared by Gurdeep Pandher from Canada. Pandher grabbed the attention of netizens with his socially-distanced bhangra tutorials and recently, his dance in the middle of a frozen lake after getting the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine. Read moreWatch: PM Modi receives second dose of Covid vaccine; nurses share experiencePrime Minister Narendra Modi took his second dose of Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS on April 8. Nisha Sharma administered the second dose of Covid-19 vaccine to the prime minister. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-new-tactic-to-write-from-jail-says-raut-on-vaje-s-letter-and-all-the-latest-news-101617863522419.html
08-04-2021||India||Plea for compulsory masking during poll campaigns: HC seeks stand of Centre, EC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday sought response of the Centre and the Election Commission on a plea seeking to ensure that masks are worn mandatorily by everyone involved in poll campaigns during the ongoing elections in various states and union territories.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued notice to the Centre and the EC and sought their response to the application by Vikram Singh, the former DGP of Uttar Pradesh and also the chairman of think tank Centre for Accountability and Systemic Change (CASC).The court listed the application for further hearing on April 30 along with Singh's main petition seeking to debar campaigners and candidates from campaigning in the assembly elections for repeatedly violating the mandatory guidelines issued by the poll panel in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.Advocate Virag Gupta, appearing for Singh, told the bench that the poll body should "create awareness through digital, print and electronic media for compulsory masking and social distancing during assembly elections"."When all the authorities are unanimous on mandatory masking, it defies logic as to why the rule should not be enforced in election campaigns," Gupta argued.The Central government's standing counsel Anurag Ahluwalia accepted notice on behalf of the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-for-compulsory-masking-during-poll-campaigns-hc-seeks-stand-of-centre-ec-101617865449101.html
08-04-2021||India||'Reacted like BJP spokesperson': Priyanka Chaturvedi on Centre's response to Maharashtra Covid-19 vaccine crunch||A Centre versus Maharashtra war has ensued after Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday criticised the Maharashtra government and said the state government was trying to divert the attention from its mismanagement of the pandemic situation by creating an uproar over the shortage of Covid-19 vaccines.The statement of the health minister 'disturbed, saddened and disgusted' Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi who issued a video reply saying that the statement did not seem like coming from the health ministry of the country, but from a BJP spokesperson, as several non-BJP-ruled states have been severely criticised in the statement.My response to the political statement from the https://t.co/7izg7PU0hX Min of India on the genuine issues raised by me a) to provide more vaccines to Maharashtra because of an effective vaccination drive b) to universalise vaccine to include everyone above 18 years of age. pic.twitter.com/m5gv4U6yBP"It seemed he was trying to seek brownie points attacking some states," Chaturvedi said.Taking a step aside from the blame-game, Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar said the Centre is cooperating with the state government in this tough time of the pandemic."We all have to come together and fight this menace. State and Centre both have to come together and find out a way to fight the pandemic," Pawar said.After Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state's vaccine stock will last only for about three days and many vaccine centres were being forced to return people, the Union health minister said that the claims were baseless."The performance of Maharashtra government in terms of vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers is also not great. It is shocking to see how the state Government is putting Maharashtrians in danger by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandate for the sake of their personal Vasuli. Overall, as the state has lurched from one crisis to another, it seems as if the state leadership is happily sleeping at the wheels," the health minister said in his statement.Citing figures, the Centre said that Maharashtra was supplied with 1,06,19,190 vaccine doses. Out of this, 90,53,523 doses have been consumed, including 6 per cent wastage. The state has 23 lakh vaccine doses while a little over 7 lakh vaccination are in the immediate pipeline. "Central government replenishes more vaccine than what is needed for actual use," Union minister Prakash Javadekar said.After Dr Vardhan issued the statement on Thursday, former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, Union ministers Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar took to Twitter and missed no opportunity to slam the Maharashtra government. "Health Minister @drharshvardhan calls a spade a spade. Its time everyone focuses their energies on Covid management and vaccination instead of peddling falsehoods," Smriti Irani tweeted. NCP leader Jayant Patil on Thursday said the letter circulated by the Union health minister yesterday is only hatred towards Maharashtra."Maharashtra has received 85 lakh vaccines but the population of Maharashtra is 12.30 crore and the number of active patients is approx 4.73 lakhs. On the other hand, Gujarat gets 80 lakh vaccines, its population is 6.50 crore and the number of active patients is approx 17 thousand," he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-leaders-react-to-harsh-vardhan-s-political-statement-on-vaccines-101617864756564.html
08-04-2021||India||Madras HC gives Tamil Nadu 2 weeks to bring in Covid-19 restrictions||The Madras high court on Wednesday said the Covid-19 situation in Tamil Nadu appeared to be serious, yet there was no lockdown and people weren’t following infection containment norms. It asked the government to bring in restrictions within two weeks since assembly elections were over, said an advocate, whose plea seeking Covid restrictions was being heard in the court.Chief justice Sanjib Banerjee made the observations while passing orders on a public interest litigation (PIL)-- moved by advocate Ramkumar Adityan---seeking directions to the government to subject all international air passengers to RT-PCR test on arrival. The court will hear the matter next in two week’s time.“The court has said that some restrictions must be brought in place as cases are surging,” said Adityan. “The court has given state officials two weeks’ time to come up with a final decision, if not, the court will intervene.” No other specific instructions were given by the court, he said. A day after elections, Tamil Nadu reported 3,986 new Covid-19 cases, including 1,459 in Chennai, taking active cases to 27,743 and total infections to 911,110. 17 deaths were also reported on Wednesday. 79,927 samples were sent for RT-PCR testing in the backdrop of the test positivity rate crossing 10% on Monday. Tamil Nadu is among the 8 states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh that have seen a rise in daily Covid cases recently, together accounting for 80.70% of the new cases reported in a day.TN’s death toll of 12,821 is only behind Maharashtra’s 55,000 plus deaths out of 1,66,862 deaths recorded across India due to the disease. Karnataka-12,731, Delhi-11,133 and West Bengal-10,363 are other three states to have logged more than 10,000 fatalities due to the infection.TN assembly elections saw massive crowds gatherings with little adherence to Covid-compliant behaviour like social distancing and wearing masks. Greater Chennai Corporation commissioner G Prakash had said restrictions will be brought after the polls to contain the spread. However, the health secretary had ruled out the imposition of lockdown after the elections. “Don’t believe in rumours; we will bring restrictions to non-essential activities,” he said last week.Ramkumar filed the PIL in December 2020 stating that only passengers from the UK were being tested and quarantined to check for the new UK strain and prayed for testing all international passengers to ensure there were no loopholes. Several states including Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra have announced varying restrictions ranging from lockdown, night curfew, ban on mass events, closure of offices to suspension of state transport. GOVT REACTIONEXPERT QUOTE||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-gives-tamil-nadu-2-weeks-to-bring-in-covid-19-restrictions-101617864513492.html
08-04-2021||India||Army chief Gen Naravane leaves for Bangladesh on 5-day visit||Over a week after Prime Minister Narendra Modi returned from his two-day trip to Bangladesh, India’s chief of army staff (COAS) General MM Narvane embarked on a five-day visit to Bangladesh on Thursday. The visit is aimed to “deepen the bilateral relationships between the two armies and act as a catalyst for closer coordination and cooperation between the two countries on a host of strategic issues,” a statement released by the army said.Amid the celebrations of Swarnim Vijay Varsh marking 50 years of Bangladesh’s liberation, the army chief is scheduled to hold one-to-one meetings with the three service chiefs of Bangladesh’s armed forces on April 8.On the same day, the army chief will visit the Sheikh Mujibur Rahman Memorial Museum at Dhanmondi to pay tribute to the founding father of Bangladesh after attending a wreath-laying ceremony for liberation war martyrs at Shikha Anirban.Also Watch | Days after PM Modi’s trip, Indian soldiers in Bangladesh for military exerciseThe COAS will also attend a UN Peace Support Operations seminar at Dhaka on 11 April where he will deliver an address on “Changing Nature of Global Conflicts: Role of UN Peacekeepers”.The statement released by the army added that General Naravane will interact with the force commanders of the UN Missions in Mali, South Sudan and Central African Republic along with deputy chief operations officer of the Royal Bhutanese Army on April 12, 2021.After attending a closing ceremony of Shantir Ogrosena, a UN-mandated counterterrorism exercise involving armed forces of India, Bangladesh, Bhutan and Sri Lanka and observers from the US, UK, Turkey and Saudi Arabia, the army chief will interact with members of Bangladesh Institute of Peace Support and Training Operations.The statement said that during the last leg of his visit, the army chief will also attend a hardware display of the Bangladesh army to have a look at their weaponry innovation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-chief-gen-naravane-leaves-for-bangladesh-on-5-day-visit-101617864333326.html
08-04-2021||India||Govt working on CoBRA commando Manhas’s release from Maoists: J&K L-G||Jammu & Kashmir lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha has said the Union home ministry is working for the release of Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) commando Rakeshwar Singh Manhas from Maoist captivity in Chhattisgarh. “I express my solidarity with the jawan and his family. I am confident that by the grace of God, he will safely return home,” Sinha told reporters on the sidelines of a function on Wednesday. Sinha added efforts to bring back Manhas cannot be discussed in the public domain.The comments came as hundreds of angry people, including Manhas’s family, on Wednesday blocked a road demanding urgency to ensure his release.Also Read | As Maoist violence returns, decoding the rise of ultra left insurgencyManhas, 35, who is from Jammu, was part of the CRPF party that was attacked in Chhattisgarh on Sunday.He went missing after the April 2 attack. Maoists on Wednesday released a photograph of Manhas and demanded that a mediator be appointed to negotiate his release.The photograph showed Manhas sitting alone in what appeared to be a hut. According to local journalists in the region, the photo was sent on WhatsApp. “At 11.27 am, a photograph of the missing jawan was sent on a WhatsApp number by Maoist leader Vikalp,” said Sukma-based journalist Raja Rathore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-working-on-cobra-commando-manhas-s-release-from-maoists-jklg-101617862414550.html
08-04-2021||India||Bengal CM Mamata likely to skip Covid review meet with PM Modi today: Report||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee is expected to skip a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi which is scheduled to be held today to discuss the current status of the Covid-19 pandemic in the nation, news agency ANI reported on Thursday. Instead of the state chief minister, West Bengal's chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay is likely to attend the meeting, the news agency also reported.PM Modi will interact with chief ministers of all states and union territories on Thursday as the country is witnessing a sharp spike in daily Covid-19 cases. They will be discussing the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination strategy via video conferencing.Banerjee's decision to skip the Covid-19 meet with PM Modi comes in the backdrop of ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal in which her ruling Trinamool Congress party (TMC) is engaged in a fierce battle with the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP).Also Read | How India can overcome the Covid-19 surgeVoting for 294-member assembly elections is underway in West Bengal. It is taking place in eight phases and three phases have already taken place. It will conclude on April 29 and the counting will take place on May 2.Meanwhile, India is reeling under the impact of the second wave of Covid-19 during which it is seeing a spike in infection worse than the previous surge. On Thursday, the country registered 126,789 fresh cases in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed.Before this, the highest spike was on April 5 when it reported as many as 103,558 cases. On April 7, the nation saw a rise of 115,736 cases in a single day.The country’s infection tally has risen to 12,928,574, the third-highest globally, behind the United States and Brazil respectively.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-likely-to-skip-covid-19-review-meeting-with-pm-modi-today-report-101617860442962.html
08-04-2021||India||After Tripura CM tests Covid-19 positive, govt issues restrictions in offices||The Tripura government issued certain restrictions to contain the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in government offices within 24 hours of chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb testing positive. Deb tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday. The fresh guidelines restricted official meetings to 20 people with a one metre gap between chairs. Officials need to wear facemasks and sanitise their hands before and after the meeting. Mass government programmes in public halls and sports events are to be avoided. All gymnasiums, recreation centres and creches that are located in government buildings are closed till further orders.Visitors will be allowed in government offices with prior permission only. Biometric attendance in government offices is discontinued till further orders. Also Read | How India can overcome the Covid-19 surgeThe healthcare personnel engaged in treating Covid-19 patients have been asked to take required precautions and get themselves tested according to the guidelines. All the officials and staff of government offices above 45 years of age, have been asked to get vaccinated soon. High-risk employees such as pregnant and lactating mothers, as well as aged people have been asked to take extra precautions. The order further stated that a building will not be closed completely if only one or two cases of Covid-19 are detected in any workspace in the building. The places where the infected persons visited in past 48 hours will be disinfected. It is also mandated to wear facemasks in public places and workplaces, or else, a fine will be imposed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-tripura-cm-tests-covid-19-positive-govt-issues-restrictions-in-offices-101617860133076.html
08-04-2021||India||India’s vaccine tally crosses 88.3 million doses||The number of Covid-19 vaccine doses given in India crossed 88.3 million on Wednesday, while fresh cases in the country rose by over 100,000 for a third time.A total of 88,372,277 vaccine doses have been given, including 8,965,839 healthcare workers who have taken the first dose and 5,404,837 who have taken the second. Among the frontline workers to have been vaccinated, 9,740,281 have got their first dose while 4,335,473 have got their second dose as well. In the 45-59-year age group, 22,642,318 have had their first dose while 447,060 have been administered their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 35,778,684 people have had their first dose and 1,057,785 have got their second dose as well.On Wednesday alone, by 8pm, 1,314,623 vaccine doses had been given across the country out of which, 1,204,551 beneficiaries took their first dose while 110,072 received their second dose, as per the provisional report.Also Read | PM Narendra Modi to interact with CMs on current Covid-19 situation todayThe country recorded over 100,000 fresh cases on a single day for a third time with 126,789 cases detected in the last 24 hours, as per the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s dashboard on Thursday morning. Previously, India reported 103,558 and 115,736 cases on April 5 and 7 respectively.More regions have been forced to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs on movement due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease with second wave of infections continuing on a relentless march.On Wednesday, a complete lockdown was announced in Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur from April 9 till April 19, while Punjab government extended its state-wide night curfew till April 30, even as Bengaluru ordered a ban on use of swimming pools and gyms in the city. Night curfew has also been imposed in areas under Lucknow Municipal Corporation from April 8 to 16 between 9pm and 6am.These are the latest in a string of regions across the country that have again started enforcing curbs ranging from night curfews to limits on public assembly as they struggle to reel from the second wave of Covid-19 cases.India’s second wave has now surpassed the peak of first wave, which peaked at 93,617 new cases for the week ending September 16, 2020. The seven-day average of daily cases is taken as a representation for Covid-19 case curve of a region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-tally-crosses-88-3-million-doses-101617859652895.html
08-04-2021||India||Deep Sidhu was not there were farmers protest turned violent, no evidence against him, says lawyer||Punjabi actor-turned-activist Deep Sidhu is not behind the violence that erupted in the Capital on January 26, his lawyer said as Sidhu's bail plea came up at a Delhi court on Thursday. Deep Sidhu only posted a video on social media, for which he has been named in media as a main accused of the Republic Day violence, his lawyer said, as reported by news agency ANI, adding that every mistake is not a crime. The court has adjourned the matter for April 12 and asked for the transcripts of Sidhu's speeches. Claiming that he is no a member of any farmers' union, Deep Sidhu's lawyer said that the protest was called by the leaders of farmers' unions. Sidhu has not given an call to go to the Red Fort and he himself was not present when violence erupted. There is no evidence that he mobilised the crowd to breach the Red Fort, his lawyer said.On February 9, Delhi Police arrested Deep Sidhu on charges of inciting violence near the Red Fort on Republic Day.Farmers who have been protesting against the three laws passed in Parliament in September — Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020 — took out a tractor march on Republic Day, after days of route negotiation with the Delhi Police.The march will not enter the Capital, it was decided and a separate route map was prepared for the tractor march. But soon after the march began, the Capital turned into a battle field with groups of protesters clashing with police at several locations. One group of protesters clashed with police at ITO and then entered the Red Fort and unfurled religious flags from its ramparts.As soon as his name cropped up in he case, Deep Sidhu was on the run. A cash reward was also announced for any information about him. Though he was in hiding, he was uploading videos on his Facebook, denying any links with what happened at the Red Fort on January 26.At the time of his arrest, Sidhu was planning to travel to Bihar to meet his wife. As he was waiting for a car arranged by his friend near Karnal Bypass, he was arrested.Police said Deep Sidhu congratulated the men who who hoisted flags at the Red Fort and also did a Facebook live from the complex. Police said he was seen entering the Red Fort with people carrying swords, sticks and flags and delivered speeches to incite people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-was-not-there-when-farmers-protest-turned-violent-says-lawyer-101617858962024.html
08-04-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi to interact with CMs on current Covid-19 situation today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a meeting via videoconferencing at 6:30pm with chief ministers of states and Union Territories to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination drive as the country is in the middle of the most severe wave of infections yet.The meeting comes a day after Union health minister Harsh Vardhan accused Maharashtra, Delhi, and Punjab, all non-Bhartiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled states, of politicising the issue of vaccination.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state was left with 1.4 million doses, which would last only three days. He urged the Centre to prioritise shipments to the state, which is reporting close to 10 times higher number of new infections every day than the region with the next-highest numbers.Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, who is attending the meeting, on Monday wrote to Modi for permission to vaccinate all people aged above 25 amid the spike in cases. His Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, this week wrote to Modi saying the 45-year age bar be removed for vaccination. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh made similar demands earlier.In a statement on Wednesday, Vardhan hit out at what he said were attempts to “divert attention” from the slow vaccination drive. He targeted Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi. Vardhan cited figures and said the vaccinations in the three states were lower than that of several other states.The Union health ministry later sent letters to Maharashtra, Delhi, and Punjab and asked them to take “immediate corrective action” to ensure doses are delivered to health and front-line workers.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee, who is busy with the election campaign, was unlikely to attend the meeting with Modi, people aware of the matter said. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay was expected to represent the state at the meeting.Maharashtra is the worst-hit state in the country. It reported 55,469 new Covid-19 cases and 297 deaths on Wednesday-- the highest in any state in India. Maharashtra had 4,72,283 active cases on Wednesday when the death toll went up to 56,330.Thursday’s meeting will be the second such interaction for Modi in five days to assess the surge in the number of Covid-19 cases.At the last meeting, it was decided to send central teams to Maharashtra, Punjab, and Chhattisgarh. The three states continue to report a surge in the number of daily cases. Modi also instructed officials present at the meeting to ensure strict implementation of the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, and adherence to Covid-appropriate behaviour and vaccination.More regions on Wednesday were forced to reintroduce curbs on movement due to rising Covid-19 cases amid the second wave of infections.India’s daily caseload, which recorded a gradual decline after September 17, has surged over the past week with over 100,000 fresh Covid-19 cases being reported on Monday. Maharashtra remains one of the main contributors to the daily spike reported. The other badly hit states are Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, and Uttar Pradesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-to-interact-with-cms-on-current-covid-19-situation-today-101617858812871.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19 resurgence kills Goa tourism’s hope of strong end to season||Covid-19’s resurgence has killed Goa tourism industry’s hopes of a strong end to the season, forcing establishments to shut shop early, stakeholders said. The sector saw robust revival between November and January but is now hit by cancellations and fall in bookings as infections rise, especially in states feeding Goa tourism, such as Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat and Delhi. “The sector is witnessing a steep slowdown and we expect that to continue for at least another two months. One of the first victims of the rising number (of infections) is going to be optional travel with people either postponing travel themselves or being advised against travelling,” Nilesh Shah, the president of the Travel and Tourism Association of Goa, said. “The slowdown began in the month of March despite a brief spurt in arrivals on account of the Holi weekend and has continued its downward trend since then,” Shah said. Hoteliers and shack owners, too, have reported falling footfalls. “Our numbers (of footfalls) have witnessed a steep fall over the past few weeks and we don’t expect them to rise further this season. Even among the tourists that do come, we do not see anybody following protocol, which also puts us at risk,” John Lobo, a shack owner, said.Goa’s tourism season begins with the withdrawal of the monsoon in October and usually winds down towards the end of May as foreigners return home and domestic travellers choose cooler climes. This season, tourist footfalls at the main beaches in the months of November to January matched those of previous seasons, despite the pandemic. Last year, around 25-lakh tourists visited Goa up to December, a little over a quarter of normal arrivals, suggesting tourism was slowly picking up after lifting of travel restrictions following the lockdown. Prior to the pandemic, the state witnessed close to 90-lakh tourists including around 9-lakh foreigners.Goa Tourism Development Corporation conducted a statewide survey through KPMG to assess the impact of Covid-19 on Goa Tourism. As per the survey, the overall industry loss during lockdown has been estimated at ₹2,062 crore. Potential loss for the 2020-21 season has been pegged at ₹7,239 crore and the potential job cuts were to the tune of 1.22 lakh (58%).Goa’s tourism sector directly contributes 16.43% towards the state’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and also provides employment to nearly 35% of the state’s population that is dependent on the sector, according to official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-resurgence-kills-goa-tourism-s-hope-of-strong-end-to-season-101617858152931.html
08-04-2021||India||Karnataka bus strike: Southern Western Railways to run additional trains till April 14||The South Western Railways (SWR) will run additional trains from April 8 to14 in wake of the indefinite strike by the Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) demanding a hike in wages. The SWR will be running the additional trains to clear the extra rush of the upcoming Ugadi festival, on April 13, as bus services were hit in most parts of Karnataka due to the strike, news agency ANI reported SWR as saying.To soften the blow from the strike, the metro rail also increased the frequency of its services from 7am to 9pm. The state government has taken measures to ease the commute for the people by roping private transport operators, cabs and taxis, as well as by deploying more trains. However, many passengers have complained about private bus operators charging exorbitantly.Also Read | Mumbai weekend lockdown: Home delivery, maids allowed but conditions applyKarnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Wednesday appealed to workers to withdraw the strike and resume services. “I have fulfilled 8 out of 9 demands which were given by the unions in the last meeting. A salary hike of 8 per cent has also been considered. I have written to the union government for the approval, right after we get approval that will also be given,” he said.The indefinite strike was called by the workers of Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC), Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC), North Western Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NWKRTC) and North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC), under the banner of Karnataka State Road Transport Employees League on April 7, despite the chief minister warning of invoking Essential Services Maintenance Act (ESMA) against them.Passengers commuting for work, to and from distant locations have been impacted the most. Several universities have even postponed exams because of the strike.Also Read | Nasa teams up with Sia to celebrate upcoming Ingenuity test flight on Mars"Whenever you (CM) call us, we are ready for discussion. Our indefinite strike will continue tomorrow and thereafter until our demands are fulfilled... Our main demand is the Sixth Pay Commission and the government has to arrive at a decision,” honorary president of the KSRTC Employees League Kodihalli Chandrashekhar said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-bus-strike-southern-western-railways-to-run-additional-trains-till-april-14-101617856868800.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19: India sees record rise of 126,789 cases, active caseload tops 900,000||India’s tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) rose by more than 100,000 fresh infections for a third time, with a record 126,789 cases being detected across the country in the last 24 hours, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard showed on Thursday morning. The country’s infection tally has risen to 12,928,574, the third-highest globally, behind the United States and Brazil respectively.India reported 103,558 cases on April 5 and 115,736 infections on April 7.In a concerning development, the country’s active caseload crossed 900,000 mark to reach 910,319, rising by 66,846 cases, and comprises 6.59% of the national tally. Also, with 59,258 more people recovering from the viral disease in the last 24 hours, total recoveries have increased to 11,851,393, with the recovery rate standing at 92.11%. Related fatalities, meanwhile, are at 166,862, with 685 more people succumbing to the virus in this period, and constitutes 1.30% of the overall caseload.Also Read | Covid vaccination now allowed at offices. Check details about eligibility, priceAccording to the govt-run Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), India’s latest positive cases are from 1,237,781 samples tested by it on April 7, taking the total samples tested by the ICMR to 252,677,379.COVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/rp7gxuliwzThe ministry’s dashboard further showed that more than 90 million doses of vaccine against the coronavirus disease have been administered in the country thus far. Total 90,198,673 doses have been administered, the dashboard showed, amid complaints of a shortage of doses in the country. On Wednesday, several states, including the worst-hit Maharashtra, complained of a shortage, inviting a fierce rebuttal from Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan, who called this an “attempt to divert attention from slow vaccination drives.”Also Read | Centre, states face off over supply of Covid-19 vaccinesLater in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a virtual interaction with chief ministers as the country finds itself in the grip of a second wave of the pandemic, recording more daily cases than it did during last year’s first wave. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Modi also received his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine, after his first on March 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-india-sees-record-rise-of-126-789-cases-active-caseload-tops-900000-101617853981686.html
08-04-2021||India||Voting underway for Andhra Pradesh MPTC, ZPTC elections||Polling for Zilla Parishat Territorial Constituencies (ZPTC) and Mandal Parishat Territorial Constituencies (MPTC) in Andhra Pradesh are underway.Elections are being held for 515 ZPTC seats and 7220 MPTC in the state from 7 am to 5 pm.In 660 ZPTC, elections are being held for 515 ZPTC seats and 2058 candidates are in the fray. Elections are not being held for 8 seats for different reasons and elections are not being held for 11 seats as candidates of different political parties in the fray have died since March 2020 when the election notification was originally issued.In 10047 MPTC seats in the state, elections are being held for 7220 seats and as many as 18782 candidates are in the fray. Elections are not being held for 375 seats for different reasons and 2371 seats are unanimously elected. Elections are not being held for 81 seats as candidates of different political parties in the fray have died since March 2020.As many as 27751 polling stations are arranged in all 13 districts across the state. 6492 of them are identified as sensitive polling stations, 6314 are hyper-sensitive polling stations and 247 are Naxal affected polling stations.An adequate police force is deployed for the conduct of elections without any untoward incidents.Earlier, the election was postponed citing the Covid conditions as the reason.The State Election Commission (SEC) has announced that the election will be conducted on April 8 and counting would be conducted on April 10.However political parties JanaSena Party (JSP), Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Telugu Desam Party (TDP) have filed petitions in the High Court demanding fresh notification and fresh dates of the election with at least 4 weeks gap for model code of conduct.The High Court on April 6 issued interim orders staying the elections. The SEC and state government have filed the petition in the division bench of the High Court against the stay order.The High Court division bench on April 7 quashed the stay order, allowed for conduct of the election but ordered not to hold counting of votes until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/voting-underway-for-andhra-pradesh-mptc-zptc-elections-101617854250554.html
08-04-2021||India||Kashmir journalists protest top cop’s advice on covering encounters, stirs||A senior Jammu and Kashmir police officer has advised journalists not to interfere in police operations during encounters or other law and order situations and told them to stop live media coverage of anti-terrorist operations, triggering protests by the journalists. Inspector general of police (IGP) Kashmir range, Vijay Kumar, had sent out the advisory to WhatsApp groups of journalists on Tuesday.“The freedom of speech and expression is subject to reasonable restrictions that should not violate other people’s right to life guaranteed under Art 21 or putting national security in jeopardy. Do not interfere in the professional and bonafide duty of police and security forces at the encounter sites. No operational content should be carried which is likely to incite violence or contains anything against maintenance of Law and Order or which promotes anti-national sentiment,” the statement attributing to Kumar said.Earlier, Kumar had directed senior superintendents of police (SSP) to take action against journalists who violate the order.The police officer’s advisory on coverage of anti-terror operations is in line with the 2015 advisory by the central government that asked news channels not to broadcast live anti-terror operations. The 2020 norms of journalistic conduct by the Press Council of India require the media to refrain from publishing or telecasting pictures in a manner that glorifies the perpetrators in the eyes of the public.Around one dozen media organisations in Kashmir including Kashmir Press Club and Kashmir Editors Guild have criticised Vijay Kumar for his advisory, saying it appeared to be a tactic to “coerce” journalists.A joint statement released by Kashmir Press Club on Wednesday evening said the media in Kashmir was aware of the journalistic guidelines, ethics and situations such as encounters and have always upheld these principles.“It also seems to be a part of the string of measures taken by the authorities to suppress freedom of the press in the region. Summoning journalists to police stations, filing FIRs and seeking informal explanations for their work has intensified in the past two years,” reads the joint statement.“Journalists in Kashmir have worked under tremendous pressure for the past several decades and despite facing threats to life, liberty and property, they upheld the principles of journalism and reporting,” added the statement.“Covering and reporting law and order situations in the region is one of the basic requirements for most news organisations and hence an essential part of the professional role of media professionals. Barring them from covering such events would mean stopping them from delivering their professional duties,” the statement said.The statement asked for clarification on the IG’s statement and asked the police officer to set the record straight and clarify the statement attributed to him.There have been incidents where journalists in Kashmir have alleged harassment at the hands of security forces. Recently, in a widely-circulated video, a policeman was seen kicking a photojournalist in south Kashmir’s Pulwama district while clashes between security forces and stone-throwing youth were on in the area near an encounter site.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-journalists-protest-top-cop-s-advice-on-covering-encounters-stirs-101617853532479.html
08-04-2021||India||CJI Bobde refuses to cancel collegium meeting today||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde has chosen not to cancel the scheduled meeting of the collegium on Thursday for recommending names of judges for the Supreme Court even after the notification for appointment of justice NV Ramana as the next CJI has come through two days ago, people familiar with the development said. The deliberation for the names this week was agreed upon by the CJI and the four most senior judges of the collegium during their last meet on March 17. However, after the President officially appointed justice Ramana as the CJI with effect from April 24, some of the judges in the top court were of the view that the meeting of the collegium for discussing the names for appointment to the apex court may not take place, people cited above said. However, CJI Bobde, until last evening, had not called off the meeting scheduled for Thursday afternoon.Also Read | SC order today on stalling deportation of Rohingyas from JammuThere is nothing in the memorandum of procedure (MoP) that prohibits or restricts the right of an outgoing CJI to make recommendations to the Union government for appointment of judges in the Supreme Court or high courts. But as a matter of propriety and self-regulation, previous CJIs have refrained from sending names to the government for judges in the Supreme Court. At the same time, CJIs have been regularly making recommendations for appointments in high courts even after designation of the next senior most judge as the CJI. The collegium for the high courts comprises three members – CJI and the two most senior judges. Previous two CJIs, justices Ranjan Gogoi and Dipak Misra, had also made recommendations for the high courts. The incumbent CJI, justice Bobde, has not been able to make any recommendation to the government for filling up vacancies in the top court. The Supreme Court is currently short of five judges.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjibobde-refuses-to-cancel-collegium-meeting-today-101617853112450.html
08-04-2021||India||Do not fear exams, value free time: PM Modi's mantra to students ahead of board exams||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told students on Wednesday not to fear exams but to see them as a test to improve themselves, and said social and family environment at times create pressure around students that is not desirable. He also advised students to value free time as without it life will be like a "robot" and should leave tension outside the examination hall. He noted that the students may have lost a year of their lives during Covid-19 pandemic but they have learnt lots of lessons and true value of essential things.Interacting with students virtually in his annual 'Parikasha Pe Charcha' programme, he said they sometime become over conscious regarding exams and asked them to take them as a small destination in their long lives. "The fear is mainly due to the atmosphere that has made examination be all and end all of life, which makes students over conscious. Life is very long and these are just a stage of life. Parents, teachers and peers should not put pressure on students. Exams should be treated as merely a good occasion to test oneself and not be turned into a question of life and death."Parents who are involved with their children know their strength and weaknesses. but they at times make children "instruments" of fulfilling their dreams and goals. If external pressure is not created, then students will not feel pressure of exams and their confidence will also grow," he said. The interaction, which lasted for more than ninety minutes, saw students, teachers and parents seeking guidance on various issues of importance to them from the Prime Minister.While acknowledging that one cannot be good in everything, Modi also asked students to not run away from any subject even if they find it difficult, and cited his own example of taking up more complex work in morning when he feels fresh and leaving easier parts to late night. "My view on trying easy questions first in the exams is slightly different. The most difficult part should be addressed with ‘fresh mind’ and this will make easy ones feel even easier. In my work as the Prime Minister and Chief Minister earlier, I preferred to tackle difficult issues in the morning with fresh mind."It is not important to be master of all the subjects even those people are highly successful who have a firm grasp over one specific subject," he said.Modi gave example of legendary singer Lata Mangeshkar who has given her entire life to single minded pursuit of music.Finding a subject difficult is not a limitation and one should not run away from difficult subjects, he added.The Prime Minister dwelled at length on the importance of free time."Free time should be valued as without it life will be like a robot. One values free time more when it is earned. More importantly, we should be careful about avoiding things during the free time that have the danger of eating away all the time. These things will leave you exhausted instead of refreshed. Free time is the best opportunity to learn new skills. Free time should be used in the activities which bring out the uniqueness of an individual, " he said.During the interaction, Modi emphasized the need of positive reinforcement and cautioned against negative motivation by scaring the child."With the active efforts of the elders, children find the light within as they observe the exemplary behaviour of the elders. Positive motivation augers well for growth and development of youngsters. First Part of the motivation is training and a trained mind precedes motivation," he said.In February, it was announced that Modi's annual interaction with students would be held online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic."While we can say that students have lost a year of their lives due to Covid-19, but due to the pandemic, they have also learned a lot of lessons. They have learned the true value of many essential things," he said.The Prime Minister also exhorted students to contribute to ‘Vocal for Local’ campaign. He said the he wants the student to pass this test with cent percent marks and make India Aatmnirbhar.He also asked the students to get involved in Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav by collecting information about the events of Independence Struggle and write about them.The first edition of the prime minister's interaction programme with school and college students "Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0" was held at the Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.An online creative writing competition was conducted on various topics from February 17 to March 14, for children studying in classes of 9 to 12, teachers and parents.Almost 14 lakh participants have registered themselves in the contest for the fourth edition of Pariksha Pe Charcha. As many as 10.5 lakh students, 2.6 lakh teachers and 92,000 parents participated in the creative writing contest."More than 60 per cent of the students who participated are from classes 9 and 10. For the first time students from 81 foreign countries have participated in the pre-PPC creative writing contest," a senior official of the Ministry of Education said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/do-not-fear-exams-value-free-time-pm-modi-s-mantra-to-students-ahead-of-board-exams-101617852718860.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination now allowed at offices. Check details about eligibility, price||Covid-19 vaccination will be open for employees at their workplaces, both private and government, starting Sunday, the Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Wednesday, adding that the move aims at increasing the pace of the immunisation drive across the country.“Organising vaccination at Work Place will not only be convenient to the staff at Work Places but also help to avoid travel and hence reducing the risk of exposure to COVID-19 virus” the ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The Covid-19 inoculation sessions can be organised at offices that have about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries, the health ministry said in a letter to all states and Union territories and informed that vaccination can be conducted by tagging these workplaces with an existing Covid Vaccination Center (CVC).Here’s everything you need to know about Covid-19 vaccination at officesVaccination ProcessWho is eligible?Which vaccines will be administered?How much will the Covid-19 vaccine cost?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-now-allowed-at-offices-check-details-about-eligibility-price-101617850969631.html
08-04-2021||India||India-US partnership to ensure renewable energy target is achieved by 2030||The US and India are likely to collaborate on a clean technology agenda for 2030 to ensure India meets its target of 450GW renewable energy capacity.Soon after US special presidential envoy for climate John Kerry called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the PM announced on Wednesday that the two countries can collaborate on a 2030 agenda to facilitate affordable access to green technologies and requisite finance.Kerry also tweeted: “Thank you, @narendramodi, for the productive discussion. India has an ambitious 2030 climate agenda, having set a target of 450GW of renewable energy. Looking for shared solutions to drive progress faster.”On Tuesday, Kerry said in his address to the South Asia Women in Energy (SAWIE) Leadership Summit that it is already cheaper to build solar in India than anywhere else in the world. “That kind of urgency is exactly what we need to confront global climate change. We are in the decisive decade for action,” he said, adding that he sees India becoming the cleantech hub of Asia.Also Read | India ‘getting the job done’ on climate crisis, says John KerryUnder the Paris Agreement, India has three quantifiable nationally determined contributions (NDCs), which include lowering the emissions intensity of its GDP by 33-35% compared to 2005 levels by 2030; increase total cumulative electricity generation from fossil free energy sources to 40% by 2030; create additional carbon sink of 2.5 to 3 billion tons through additional forest and tree cover.In its Biennial Update Report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) submitted in February, India said it has progressively continued decoupling of economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions. India’s emission intensity of gross domestic product (GDP) has reduced by 24% between 2005 and 2016. India is therefore on track to meet its voluntary declaration to reduce the emission intensity of GDP by 20-25% from 2005 levels by 2020. It is implementing one of the largest renewable energy expansion programmes globally with a target of achieving 175GW of renewable energy capacity by 2022 and later up to 450GW. Installed capacity of solar energy in India has increased by more than 14 times from 2.63GW in March 2014 to 36.91GW in November 2020.The new partnership with US on clean technology and finance is likely to accelerate the achievement of these targets so that India can enhance its ambition and NDCs in future, sources said. The details of the 2030 deal are yet to be spelt out.There has been a lot of speculation among officials and former diplomats that US may be nudging India to also announce a net zero emissions target by 2050.Senior environment ministry officials said one of the key objectives of Kerry’s visit is to get India to join the countries that have announced a target to achieve net zero emissions by 2050. In September 2020, China announced that it will peak its GHG emissions by 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. The White House announced on January 27 that President Joe Biden will take steps to put the United States (US) on an “irreversible path” to a net zero economy by 2050. Consequently, Biden has also called for a summit of major emitting nations on April 22 in order to persuade them to commit to ambitious mitigation targets.Independent experts have cautioned that India should do a careful balancing act when it comes to a net zero emissions target, keeping in sight India’s domestic circumstances.“A net zero target has no flesh to it. It is not real. It is an aspirational target. Firstly, developed countries considering their historical emissions, should have taken on advanced deadlines. Secondly, even if 2050 is the deadline for them to achieve net zero emissions, there are no pathways to it. The US will definitely miss the 2030 targets under the Paris Agreement. Net zero emissions target is a way to kick the ball in the future. India should demand credible action now. China has announced a net zero target for 2060 and is continuing to build coal power plants,” said Sunita Narain, director general at Centre for Science and Environment.“There is a lot of pressure on India to phase out coal. India had also planned to retire old thermal power plants but with a recent notification from the environment ministry that has gone for a six. India has not just extended the time period for thermal power plants to comply with emission norms but it has made it easy for thermal power plants to keep polluting. The cost of non-compliance as per the new notification is minuscule compared to cost of compliance,” added Narain.The environment ministry had issued a notification on March 31 with staggered timelines for thermal power plants to comply with emission norms. It also specified the environmental compensation to be paid by plants that don’t comply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indiaus-partnership-to-ensure-india-achieves-renewable-energy-target-by-2030-101617852572591.html
08-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Key Delhi borders remain shut due to farmers' protest||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain closed, traffic divertedDelhi’s Singhu and Tikri borders continue to be blocked on Thursday by farmers who have been demanding the withdrawal of three contentious farm laws for last four months. Read moreMaharashtra Covid vaccine shortage: Pune, Panvel stop drive, Centre dismisses claimPanvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) in Maharashtra has issued an official notice saying the drive is being halted for the time being because of unavailability of vaccines. Read moreMaharashtra records highest single-day spike with 59,907 new Covid-19 casesThe state’s total tally stood at 3,173,261 and death toll 56,652. The number of active cases also crossed the 500,000-mark with 501,559 active infections. Read moreRahul Dravid's guide for haters to enjoy the IPLWho better to deep dive and demystify the IPL for boomers than Rahul Dravid, former captain of India and Rajasthan Royals, coach of India-A and India U19? Read moreVarun Dhawan posts new flow workout video, Aparshakti and Dia Mirza say it's aagVarun Dhawan recently posted a new fitness video of himself in which the actor can be seen doing some extremely difficult flow exercises with the utmost ease. Read moreDia Mirza celebrates birthday of stepdaughter Samaira with husband Vaibhav Rekhi and his ex-wife SunainaDia Mirza celebrated the 12th birthday of her stepdaughter Samaira recently. The birthday girl's mom Sunaina has shared a video from the love-filled bash. Read moreEAM Jaishankar, Bahraini counterpart hold 3rd High Joint Commission meetingExternal Affairs Minister S Jaishankar met his Bahraini counterpart at the Hyderabad House in New Delhi on Wednesday. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-due-to-farmers-protest-and-all-the-latest-news-101617850832531.html
08-04-2021||India||SC order today on stalling deportation of Rohingyas from Jammu||The Supreme Court will on Thursday deliver its order on a plea seeking the release of at least 150 Rohingya refugees detained in a Jammu sub-jail and stalling their deportation.The plea has sought an urgent intervention by the apex court since those detained in Jammu could at any time be deported to Myanmar from where they fled because of persecution.A bench of Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian reserved its order on the plea on March 26.The Centre on March 26 opposed the plea by Mohammad Salimullah while emphasising that India cannot become “the international capital of illegal immigrants”.The government called the Rohingya “absolutely illegal immigrants” who posed “serious threats to the national security” and also contended that the right to settle in India could not be asserted by illegal immigrants under the garb of the Constitution’s Article 21, which guarantees the right to life and liberty. Also Read | Centre yet to clear HC judges’ names pending for 20 monthsOn March 6, on the instructions of the Union ministry of home affairs, the Jammu & Kashmir administration started a verification drive of the Rohingya, and moved some of them to a holding centre, pending their potential deportation.There are close to 7,000 Rohingya refugees in Jammu & Kashmir, numbers that have increased since the late 2000s when they first arrived in the region after escaping from Myanmar, where they were facing religious persecution. India has previously deported Rohingya refugees.Appearing for the Centre, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta on March 26 submitted that a similar application to stop the deportation of Rohingya from Assam was dismissed by the top court in 2018 and that the present application must meet the same fate.He added the Centre has begun the process of deporting Rohingya after receiving a confirmation from the Myanmar government regarding their nationality, and that the apex court should steer clear of the “diplomatic issue” since it fell within the exclusive domain of the executive.Representing the Jammu & Kashmir administration, senior advocate Harish Salve also cautioned the bench against “starting a dangerous trend” by interfering with a subject related to illegal immigrants and diplomatic relations with another country.Salimullah’s lawyer, Prashant Bhushan, alluded to a January 2020 judgment of the International Court of Justice (ICJ) that highlighted the persecution faced by the Rohingya in Myanmar.The Centre’s affidavit maintained that it has to first secure the interests of its own citizens before those of illegal immigrants who, it said, were casting a burden on the already depleting natural resources of the country in addition to posing a security threat.“The Constitution makes it abundantly clear that India as a sovereign nation, has the first and foremost Constitutional obligation and duty towards its citizens and to ensure that the demographic and social structure of the country is not changed to its detriment, the resulting socio-economic problems do not occur to the prejudice of the citizens and the resources of the nation are utilised to fulfil the fundamental rights of its own citizens and are not diverted to the detriment of the citizens, due to influx of illegal migrants into the territory of India,” said the affidavit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-order-today-on-stalling-deportation-of-rohingyas-from-jammu-101617852092776.html
08-04-2021||India||New Zealand suspends entry for travellers from India over Covid-19 surge||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern on Thursday announced a temporary ban on travellers from India starting April 11 due to the massive increase in Covid-19 cases, news agency Reuters reported."I want to emphasize that while arrivals of COVID from India has prompted this measure, we are looking at how we manage high risk points of departure generally. This is not a country specific risk assessment...," Jacinda Ardern was quoted as saying by Reuters.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The suspension of entry for all travellers, including New Zealand’s own citizens, begins from 4pm local time on April 11 and will be in place until April 28, the New Zealand PM was quoted as saying by the agency. During this time the government will look at risk management measures to resume travel, she added.The temporary ban comes at a time when India has been reporting over 100,00 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) daily for the past three days. The country’s total case tally has gone up to 12.8 million, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Meanwhile, New Zealand has virtually eliminated the virus within its borders, and has not reported any community transmission locally for about 40 days, Reuters reported, adding that the country has been reviewing its border settings as more people with infections came recently, majority from India. New Zealand logged 23 new positive coronavirus cases at its border on Thursday, of which 17 were from India.Jacinda Ardern said the rolling average of positive cases has witnessed a steady rise and it hit seven cases on Wednesday, which is the nation’s highest since last October. The country also reported one new locally infected case in a worker who was employed at a coronavirus managed isolation facility on Thursday. The 24-year-old was not vaccinated against the viral disease yet.Following the massive spike in cases in India, several states have imposed restrictions on the travelling and have made it compulsory for passengers to carry a negative Covid-19 report while crossing borders. The government has speeded up the process of vaccination across the country to immunise more and more people against the virus. At present, everyone aged 45 years or above is eligible to get the Covid-19 vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/new-zealand-suspends-entry-for-travellers-from-india-over-covid-19-surge-101617851537766.html
08-04-2021||India||Maharashtra records highest single-day spike with 59,907 new Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 59,907 new Covid-19 infections, its highest single-day spike, and 322 fatalities, taking its total tally to 3,173,261 and death toll to 56,652. The number of active cases also crossed the 500,000-mark with 501,559 active infections. On Wednesday, Mumbai reported 10,442 cases and 24 deaths, taking the tally to 483,042 and toll to 11,856. Mumbai also has 83,185 active cases, the second-highest in the state, after Pune, which has 90,048 active cases and which reported 5,637 new cases on Wednesday.The high number of cases has started burdening the state’s health infrastructure. According to data from the state health department on Wednesday, 80.51% of isolation beds for Covid-19 patients across the state are occupied. It also stated that 32.77% oxygen beds and 60.94% ICU beds are also occupied across the state.Also Read | Covid-19: Night curfew in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, PrayagrajIn his address last week, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had indicated that the availability of beds will be a huge concern if cases continue to rise at the current pace -- between April 1 and 7, the state reported over 360,000 new cases.Dr Pradip Vyas, principal secretary, state health department, in a meeting chaired by Thackeray on Wednesday, said as per an estimation by the Centre, the number of active cases in the state is expected to increase to 1.2 million by the end of the month, thus showing an over 30-fold jump from February. On February 11, the state had 30,265 active cases. If compared to the first wave, there were 310,752 active cases on September 17, 2020, the state said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-highest-single-day-spike-with-59-907-new-covid-19-cases-101617851252319.html
08-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh: Night curfew in Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, Prayagraj amid Covid-19 surge||Amid the rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, the Uttar Pradesh government imposed a night curfew in many districts of the state, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur, and Prayagraj, which will be effective from Thursday night and continue till April 30. The timing of the curfew is different for every district.In Lucknow, the night curfew will be imposed from 9pm to 6am, and will continue till April 30, news agency ANI reported police commissioner of Lucknow DK Thakur as saying.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19“In Lucknow, all government, non-government or privately managed schools, colleges, and educational institutions and coaching institutes are closed, except medical, nursing and para-medical institutes, with immediate effect for the control of Covid-19 infection till April 15, 2021,” district magistrate of the capital tweeted in Hindi.“However, in recognised educational institutions, examinations/practicals will be conducted in strict compliance with the Covid-19 protocol,” the magistrate added.परन्तु मान्यता प्राप्त शैक्षणिक संस्थानों में परीक्षाएं / प्रैक्टिकल कोविड 19 प्रोटोकॉल का कठोरता से अनुपालन करते हुए आयोजित किए जा सकेंगे। https://t.co/9BRMgDuoh1The district magistrate of Kanpur said the eight-hour night curfew will come into force in the district between 10pm and 6am. "A curfew would come into force in Kanpur from 10 pm till 6 am on April 8, to continue till April 30,” ANI quoted the magistrate as saying. The number of active cases in the district currently stands at 1,811.Varanasi will observe a week-long curfew starting from 9pm. “Varanasi to observe a week-long curfew starting at 9 pm on April 8," ANI quoted Varanasi Commissioner of Police as saying.In Prayagraj, the night curfew will come into effect from 10pm and will continue till 8am.Also Read | Covid-19 in Mumbai: In second wave, kids more symptomatic“Amid a surge of Covid-19 cases, night curfew (10 pm to 8 am) will be imposed in Prayagraj from tonight till further notice. Essential services will be exempted,” the agency quoted the district magistrate as saying.The second wave of Covid-19 is having a massive impact on the country as it reported more than 115,000 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours on Wednesday. Uttar Pradesh is among the seven states that have shown a rise in daily Covid-19 new cases. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala contribute more than 80 per cent to the new infections reported on Wednesday, as per the Union health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-night-curfew-in-lucknow-varanasi-kanpur-prayagraj-amid-covid-19-surge-101617850515690.html
08-04-2021||India||BJP slams Mamata Banerjee’s ‘block CRPF’ remark, goes to election commission||As Union home minister Amit Shah, Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Trinamool Congress (TMC) chief Mamata Banerjee campaigned for the fourth of the eight-phase elections, the state chief minister drew flak from the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) for asking women voters to gherao central force personnel.Referring to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) deployed for security around polling booths, Banerjee, while addressing a rally at Cooch Behar district in north Bengal, said, “Keep an eye on CRPF personnel. Gherao them because they do not let people cast their votes. While one team will engage them in conversations the other team will cast votes. This is how everyone can exercise their franchise.”State BJP leader Shishir Bajoria lodged a complaint with the chief electoral officer (CEO) in Kolkata and demanded that Banerjee be stopped from campaigning and her party derecognized. The statement against security forces was “seditious and anti-nation,” said the letter written by the BJP leader.An official at the CEO’s office said the district magistrate of Cooch Behar has been asked to submit a report.The party also alleged that the car of its state president Dilip Ghosh, who was campaigning at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar, was stoned by TMC workers after Banerjee made the remarks.“We told the CEO that by making such statements, Banerjee may trigger untoward incidents,” said Bajoria. The BJP’s letter said the vehicle of the party’s Sitai constituency (also in Cooch Behar) candidate Dipak Kumar Roy was vandalised by TMC workers who took “a cue from her (Banerjee’s) statements.”Talking to the media in Cooch Behar, Ghosh said, “People who were returning from Mamata Banerjee’s rally first shouted provoking remarks and attacked us with sticks, bombs and brickbats. They were carrying TMC flags. We somehow managed to speed away. The windows of my car were damaged. Several other vehicles were vanalised too.” Ghosh also tweeted a photo of an injury on his left arm. He alleged policemen deployed at the spot retreated.While the TMC’s Cooch Behar district president Partha Pratim Roy dismissed the allegation, the party’s state spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said, “There is terrible infighting in the BJP in that region. It is quite possible that the alleged vandalism was fallout of that. TMC flags can be found everywhere. Anybody can pick them up. The TMC is not involved in this.”Mamata Banerjee also alleged that at Raidighi in South 24 Parganas, where polls were held in the third phase, the BJP distributed a coupon among local people promising ₹1000 for a vote for the party. The TMC also shared on social media an image of the alleged coupon which has a photograph of the Prime Minister."Do not take money from the BJP for casting votes. It is a sin," Banerjee said at a rally in north Bengal."This is absolutely baseless. Our party never distributes such coupons. The EC will find out the truth if it conducts a probe," said Bengal BJP's chief spokesperson Samik Bhattacharya.Also Read: Mamata Banerjee draws EC ire for remarks on minority votes, poll body sends noticeOn Wednesday, Amit Shah led several back to back rallies in Hooghly, Howrah and Kolkata for more than a dozen candidates, including Union minister Babul Supriyo, who is contesting from Tollygunge in south Kolkata and former TMC minister Rajib Banerjee, who is in the race at Domjur in Howrah from where he was elected twice.In Howrah district, Shah ate lunch at the residence of Sishir Sana, a rickshaw driver. He flew from one district to the next in a chopper.During the roadshows, Shah made short speeches from the vehicles that carried him and the BJP candidates. Shah said his party will win anything between 63 and 68 of the 91 assembly seats, where polls were held in the first three phases. Polls at 44 seats in five north and south Bengal districts will be held on April 10.“Do you want a government that thrives on kickbacks and serves only the nephew?” Shah told the crowd at Sankrail in Howrah without naming Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew, who, too, held roadshows in the district.Adityanath, who is on a two-day tour of Bengal, addressed rallies in the Darjeeling hill region where polls will be held in the fifth phase on April 17. The last phase of polling will be held on April 29. Results will be announced on May 2. The BJP has sworn to win more than 200 of the state’s 294 seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjp-slams-mamata-banerjee-s-block-crpf-remark-goes-to-election-commission-101617850191057.html
08-04-2021||India||Nurses from Punjab, Puducherry administer PM Modi’s second Covid-19 vaccine dose||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday received his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi. For the second dose, PM Modi was injected by sister Nisha Sharma from Punjab, while sister Niveda from Puducherry, who gave the Prime Minister his first shot on March 1, was present for the second one as well.Also Read | Modi takes second dose of Covaxin at AIIMS, says 'get your shot soon'Sister Rosamma Anil, from Kerala, accompanied Niveda for PM Modi’s first dose last month.“Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today. Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus. If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on CoWin.gov.in,” tweeted PM Modi with an image of him receiving his second jab. On Thursday, he chose an early morning slot for the vaccination, just as he did for the first dose.Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today.Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus.If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on https://t.co/hXdLpmaYSP. pic.twitter.com/XZzv6ULdanDescribing her experience, Sharma told news agency ANI, "He spoke to us. it was a memorable moment for me as I got to meet him and vaccinate him." Niveda, meanwhile, said, "Today I got another opportunity to meet him and vaccinate him. I was elated again. He spoke to us, we even clicked pictures with him."I am the vaccinator who gave the first dose of COVAXIN to PM Narendra Modi. Today I got another opportunity to meet him & vaccinate him for the second time. I was elated again. He spoke to us, we even clicked pictures with him: Sister P Niveda who vaccinated PM Modi today. pic.twitter.com/1k7PTezeqEModi was administered a shot of Bharat Biotech International Limited’s Covaxin. At the time he received the first dose, the vaccine was mired in controversy as there were allegations that it was given approval without the completion of phase 3 trials. Modi getting injected with Covaxin was seen as a message by the Prime Minister to clear doubts surrounding the vaccine, as well as a call to people to shed vaccine hesitancy.Also Read | PM Modi to interact with chief ministers over Covid-19 surge, vaccination planPrime Minister Modi, aged 71, got his first dose on a day vaccination opened for those aged 60 or above, as well for those between 45-59 years of age, but with co-morbidities. India began its vaccine drive on January 16, with healthcare workers and frontline workers in line to be vaccinated first. In the ongoing third phase of the drive, which commenced on April 1, vaccination was opened for everyone aged above 45.Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s vaccine is the other shot cleared by the Drugs Controller General of India (DCGI). The Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) is manufacturing the shot in the country as Covishield.As of Thursday morning, more than 87 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in India, the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard shows.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nurses-from-punjab-puducherry-administer-pm-modi-s-second-covid-19-vaccine-dose-101617849724980.html
08-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid vaccine shortage: Pune, Panvel stop drive, Centre dismisses claim||Covid-19 vaccination took an unexpected turn as Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said Maharashtra has repeatedly failed to control the spread of the pandemic and now to divert attention from its failure, the government is complaining of vaccine shortage, which is a "baseless allegation". Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state has 14 lakh doses of vaccines which would last only three days. Panvel Municipal Corporation issued an official notice saying the drive is being halted for the time being because of unavailability of vaccines, news agency ANI reported."Vaccination drive temporarily halted in all government and private inoculation centres in Panvel, due to the unavailability of Covid-19 vaccines. Centres will be reopened once vaccines are back in stock."Here is all you need to know about the reality of vaccine shortage claims> While the Centre says there can be no shortage of vaccination as the stock is monitored through Co-WIN, many vaccination centres in Maharashtra are being closed temporarily owing to vaccine shortage.> Even Mumbai has claimed an impending crisis as mayor Kishori Pednekar said there were 1.76 lakh doses of Covishield till Tuesday afternoon.> According to the Maharashtra government's claim, its vaccine stock will deplete by today or tomorrow.> Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said the allegations of vaccine shortage is a tactic to divert attention from the failure of the state government.> Maharashtra has increased the number of vaccine doses it is administering per day, which the government is citing as the reason behind the shortage of vaccines. > But the health ministry on Wednesday claimed that its vaccination numbers are far from impressive. According to ministry data, Maharashtra has vaccinated just only 86 per cent of health workers with first dos and 41 per cent healthcare workers with the second dose. Among frontline workers, Maharashtra has vaccinated only 73% with first dose. As far as senior citizens are concerned, Maharashtra has vaccinated just 25 per cent.> In a strongly worded statement, Harsh Vardhan on Wednesday said, "The performance of Maharashtra government in terms of vaccinating healthcare workers and frontline workers is also not great. It is shocking to see how the state Government is putting Maharashtrians in danger by letting people escape institutional quarantine mandate for the sake of their personal Vasuli. Overall, as the state has lurched from one crisis to another, it seems as if the state leadership is happily sleeping at the wheels."> Nationalist Congress Party MP Sule has claimed 109 vaccination centres in Pune district remained shut on Wednesday as they had no stock. "Several thousand people went back without being vaccinated because the vaccines stock was exhausted...Our momentum may be lost due to lack of stock," the MP tweeted.109 centers remained shut today because they had no stock of vaccines.Our momentum may be lost due to lack of stock,we remain determined to vaccinate every consenting person to save lives,to break the chain of infection and to get our economy back on its feet at the earliest..2/3> Following repeated appeals to the Centre by Maharashtra politicians, the Centre wrote a letter saying a total of 1,06,19,190 doses have been made available to the state and the total consumption, including wastage, is 90,53,523 doses.> Union minister Prakash Javadekar said while Maharashtra has 7,43,280 vaccine doses in the pipeline, the state has 23 lakh doses available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtras-panvel-stops-vaccination-citing-shortage-centre-dismisses-claim-101617848699748.html
08-04-2021||India||PM Modi to interact with chief ministers over Covid-19 surge, vaccination plan||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a virtual meeting with chief ministers of all states on Thursday to discuss the current Covid-19 situation and the vaccination strategy ahead as the country reels under the second wave of infections.The meeting comes at a time when India has logged a record over 126,200 daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday, which has compelled more regions across the country to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs to break the chain of transmission.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here PM Modi is meeting with state authorities five days after he held a high-level meeting to review the pandemic situation and the immunisation drive that is underway. During the meeting, the Prime Minister directed officials to ensure sustainable Covid-19 management and told them to make the citizens aware of the need to continue “Jan Bhagidari and Jan Andolan for COVID-19 management,” his office said in a statement.He also assured that if the five-fold strategy of testing, tracing, treatment, Covid-appropriate behaviour, and vaccination is implemented with utmost seriousness and commitment, it would be effective in curbing the spread of the pandemic.PM Modi has directed that central teams of public health specialists and clinicians be sent to Maharashtra, Punjab, and Chhattisgarh, the states reporting ‘disproportionate number of deaths’, to review the situation.Meanwhile, states and Union territories have imposed multiple measures to control the spread of the viral disease. Maharashtra has announced night curfew, weekend lockdowns and has also imposed Section 144 during the daytime. While Delhi too is observing a night curfew, Chattisgarh’s Raipur district will be under an 11-day complete lockdown, the administration said. Chattisgarh is currently India’s second-largest Covid hot spot after Maharashtra.Experts say the number of daily cases, which are rising at an alarming rate, stress the need to focus sharply on getting the disease under control by expanding the vaccination drive in urban areas, especially large cities.According to an HT analysis, almost half (48%) of all Covid-19 cases reported in India in March are from urban areas, which are home to just 14% of the population, with cities having the largest proportion of new infections since June 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-interact-with-chief-ministers-over-covid-19-surge-vaccination-plan-101617847248160.html
08-04-2021||India||PM Modi gets second dose of Covaxin at AIIMS, says 'get your shot soon'||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took the second dose ofBharat Biotech's Covaxin at AIIMS and once again urged everyone to get inoculated as vaccination is "among the few ways to defeat the virus". "If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon," PM Modi tweeted after getting inoculated urging people to get registered on cowin.gov.in for vaccination.Got my second dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS today.Vaccination is among the few ways we have, to defeat the virus.If you are eligible for the vaccine, get your shot soon. Register on https://t.co/hXdLpmaYSP. pic.twitter.com/XZzv6ULdanOn March 1, when India's vaccination drive was opened to senior citizens and people with comorbidities above the age of 45, PM Modi received the first dose of his vaccine. Puducherry's Sister P Niveda administered him the first dose. “Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19. I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India COVID-19 free!” he tweeted after receiving the first shot.Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upFollowing a gap of about 37 days, PM Modi took the second dose of the vaccine, which is supposed to be taken within four to eight weeks of the first dose. P Niveda was also present during the administration of the second dose of the vaccine along with Punjab's nurse Nisha Sharma, news agency ANI reported.Watch: PM Modi receives second dose of Covid vaccine; nurses share experienceAs India is stepping up its battle against the second wave of the pandemic, which has hit the country hard with number of daily infections rising over 1 lakh, the vaccination drive is now open to everyone above the age of 45 years.So far, India has administered 8.83 crore vaccine doses, till Wednesday 8pm, including healthcare workers, frontline workers and people above the age of 45 years — with and without morbidities.The Centre has also allowed vaccination of the priority groups at work places — both government and private, which will start from April 11.On Thursday, PM Modi will interact with the chief ministers of states and Union territories to review the pandemic situation and the vaccination progress of the country, as several states are bringing back strict restriction to contain the spread of the infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/modi-takes-second-dose-of-covaxin-at-aiims-says-get-your-shot-soon-101617846836947.html
08-04-2021||India||China capable of launching cyber attacks, disrupting systems: CDS Rawat||Owing to differences in capabilities in the cyber domain, China is capable of launching cyber attacks against India and disrupting a large number of systems, Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said on Wednesday.“We know China is capable of launching cyber attacks on us. And that he (China) can disrupt a large amount of our systems,” Rawat said in response to a question after delivering a talk on “Shaping the Armed Forces to Meet Likely Current and Future Challenges” at an event organised by the Vivekananda International Foundation.To counter this problem, Rawat added, cyber agencies in the military are working to ensure that the “downtime and effect of a cyber attack” do not last long. “We should be able to overcome cyber attacks and continue with our systems either through an alternative or preventive means through firewalls. So, while we are trying to create firewalls for cyber attacks, we are quite sure that they (China) will be able to break through the firewalls. This is one thing we are looking at and addressing in a serious manner,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/china-capable-of-launching-cyber-attacks-disrupting-systems-cds-rawat-101617845542641.html
08-04-2021||India||Navy to seek nod for expansion of nuke, diesel submarine fleet||The Indian Navy intends to approach the government for authorised force levels of nuclear-powered and diesel-electric attack submarines in addition to the ballistic missile submarines with Strategic Force Command (SFC), people familiar with the matter said on Wednesday.The navy’s new plan, inspired by a similar cabinet authorisation for 42 squadrons of the Indian Air Force, will seek approvals for six nuclear-powered attack submarines and 18 diesel attack submarines, a South Block official said.The authorisation for the diesel subs would include those with an air-independent propulsion system, or AIP, which ensures these submarines can remain under surface for a longer period and are quieter than the nuclear-powered submarine.The proposed move comes at a time the Navy is finalising plans to seek approval from the Defence Acquisition Committee to build six nuclear-powered attack submarines, or SSNs, as part of the defence establishment’s continuing focus on expanding the Navy’s capabilities to counter the rise of China’s navy in the Indian Ocean Region and beyond.Also Read| Eye on China, India’s plan for 6 nuclear-powered attack submarines back on trackIndia currently has only one Akula class SSN on lease from Russia, Akula-II nuclear-powered attack boat INS Chakra, and 15 diesel-electric submarines, including the Scorpene-class submarine INS Kalvari. While three of the Kalvari class submarines have been commissioned, the remaining three will be fitted with the AIP system that makes the submarine more lethal than SSNs because its low radar signature minimises the possibility of detection.The SSNs play a huge role in sea denial to the adversary and have the capability to remain under the sea without surfacing except for replenishing food stocks and other logistics.The Indian Strategic Forces Command, which is part of the Nuclear Command Authority and is responsible for the management of the country’s strategic nuclear weapons stockpile, has one 6,000 tonnes nuclear-powered ballistic missile submarine (SSBN) INS Arihant. The next SSBN, INS Arighat, is set to be commissioned in 2022, the 75th year of Independence and will have K-15 and K-4 nuclear-capable submarine-launched intermediate-range ballistic missiles on board. The K-15 is expected to have a range of up to 1,500 km while the K-4 is likely to have a maximum range of 3,500 km. Both missiles are being developed by the Defence Research and Development Organisation, or DRDO.The DRDO also has long-term plans to develop and test-fire the K5 missile, which will have a range of 5,000km, the same range as the Agni-5 surface-to-surface missile.The SSBN is the most potent of the nuclear triad due to its survival capabilities and forms the backbone of India’s second-strike capability due to its no-first-use (NFU) policy as spelt out in the draft nuclear doctrine.India’s strategic ally France is willing to jointly design and develop SSNs with India, a partnership that will assume importance when Prime Minister Narendra Modi goes to Paris to hold a bilateral summit with President Emmanuel Macron after the completion of the India-EU summit at Lisbon on May 8. The French SSNs are based in Toulon in southern France, and its ballistic missile submarines in the port city of Brest in northwestern France.India’s national security establishment is already in touch with its French counterparts to ensure that the Indian Navy builds up enough deterrence in the Indo-Pacific in the face of the rapidly expanding PLA Navy. The Indian Navy expects the PLA Navy to start sending carrier strike force patrols to the Indian Ocean by 2023.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/navy-to-seek-nod-for-expansion-of-nuke-diesel-submarine-fleet-101617845572473.html
08-04-2021||India||India so far contributed over USD 1 million to UN Counter terrorism fund||India has till date contributed over USD 1 million to the UN Trust fund for Counterterrorism Fund, including for Africa, the country's Permanent Representative TS Tirumurti said."India is proud to contribute USD 500,000 to the UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism. India's total contribution to the Fund so far = USD 1,050,000. Keen to continue our work with @UN_OCT (United Nations Office of Counter-Terrorism) on specific programs/projects to further our common objective to combat terrorism," the Indian Mission in New York wrote in a tweet on Wednesday.Tirumurti in a tweet said that India "continues its strong & focused commitment to help member states build capacity to prevent & counter-terrorism. More than US$ 1 million contributed to the Fund by Flag of India till date, including for Africa."Underlining that terrorism is an attack against human rights, India in March said it has been at the forefront of global counter-terrorism efforts and does not see any contradiction between countering terrorism and promotion and protection of human rights.New Delhi said that India supports capacity building and technical assistance programmes extended to the Member States by the UN Counter-Terrorism Centre: including for building their capacity to promote and support human rights while countering terrorism.The UN Trust Fund for Counter-Terrorism was established by the Secretary-General in 2009 under DPA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-so-far-contributed-over-usd-1-million-to-un-counter-terrorism-fund-101617843901396.html
08-04-2021||India||AstraZeneca serves legal notice to Serum Institute over supply delays||AstraZeneca, the developer of the coronavirus vaccine being manufactured by Serum Institute of India (SII) and sold as Covishield, has sent a legal notice to the Pune-based company for delays in deliveries, SII’s chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla told Business Standard on Tuesday.The company is a key supplier for the UN-backed Covax program that aims to distribute vaccines equitably in the world. On March 25, Covax announced a major setback in its vaccine rollout because a surge in infections in India caused the Serum Institute of India (SII) to cater to domestic demand, resulting in a delay in global shipments of up to 90 million doses.“AstraZeneca has sent us a legal notice (for delays in supplying the vaccine) and the Indian government is also aware of that. I cannot comment on the legal notice as it is confidential, but we are examining all avenues to amicably manage and resolve legal disputes over contractual obligations that Serum Institute is not able to fulfil due to its prioritisation of Indian supplies. Everyone has been very understanding so far. The government is evaluating what it can do to resolve the issue,” Poonawalla said.Also Read| ‘Outstretched’ SII chief seeks ₹3,000-crore fillip to boost supplyPoonawalla, whose company is the world’s largest vaccine maker, separately told AP that SII will be able to restart exports by June if new infections subside in India since the company has “chosen to prioritise India temporarily for two months”.He acknowledged that has put a “strain on our contractual obligations” to provide vaccines to other countries. “I’ve had to politely explain to everybody the situation,” he said, adding that most leaders understood as they were facing the same issues.If India’s surge in infections doesn’t subside, “I am scared of what ... we will have to do, and what will happen,” he said.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/astrazeneca-serves-legal-notice-to-serum-institute-over-supply-delays-101617844156970.html
08-04-2021||India||Refund passengers who cancelled flights in lockdown last year: Govt to airlines||The ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Wednesday expressed dissatisfaction over airline companies defaulting on refunds to passengers over flight tickets that were booked for travel during the lockdown last year but got cancelled.MoCA Secretary on Wednesday chaired a meeting with representatives of airlines in connection with refund of credit shells of passengers. A credit shell is a credit note created against a cancelled PNR and can be used by the passenger for a future booking."MoCA Secretary has chaired the meeting today with all the airline companies regarding credit shells refund and expressed dissatisfaction towards airline companies who did not refund the money. GoAir and IndiGo have submitted their undertaking to the ministry that they have refund all the credit shells to the passengers", an official told ANI.The Supreme Court of India had ordered MoCA to clear all the credit shells and refund the passengers after the deadline of March 31.India's low-cost airline SpiceJet wasn't able to refund credit shells to the passengers, "Refunds are governed by the order of the Supreme Court and we are adhering to those directions. SpiceJet had written to all its travel partners and agents in March 2021 to share details of pending credit shell PNRs so that the airline can immediately reverse the credit shell amount back to the agency ID," a spokesperson for SpiceJet said.National carrier Air India is also yet to refund total credit shells to the passengers. As per sources said Air India has to clear credit shells to around five lakh twenty-five thousand passengers which amount to around ₹2000 crore."Air India is committed to processing its pending refunds claims expeditiously. Dissemination of information regarding refunds is already initiated. Air India has cleared close to ₹1000 Crore from 1st April 2020 till date in India. We are also addressing queries related to refunds from passengers through our social media platforms." Air India Spokesperson said.Air Asia and Vistara is also yet clear the credit shell to the passengers. "We are thorough with all our refunds except in a very few cases where we are trying to reach out to the passengers to revert with their bank account details in which the money is to be credited." An Air Asia India official told ANI.MoCA has to file an affidavit in the Supreme Court regarding the refund of credit shells. MoCA Secretary has shown dissatisfaction in the meeting over the airline companies' response in the meeting over refund on cancelled tickets.The Supreme Court in October accepting a recommendation of the civil aviation ministry and directorate general of civil aviation (DGCA) ordered airlines to refund passengers the cost of the tickets of flights cancelled between March 25 to May 24 last year, also approved a credit shell scheme which was valid till March 31, this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/refund-passengers-who-cancelled-flights-in-lockdown-last-year-govt-to-airlines-101617842553127.html
08-04-2021||India||Centre, states face off over supply of Covid-19 vaccines||New Delhi: Several states said on Wednesday they will run out of coronavirus vaccines within days and requested the central government for replenishments, prompting a strong rebuttal from Union health minister Harsh Vardhan who accused three states – all under Opposition governments – of politicising the issue.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said the state was left with 1.4 million doses, which would last only three days, and urged the Union government to prioritise shipments to the state, which is reporting close to 10 times higher number of new infections every day than the region with the next-highest numbers.Earlier, on Monday, CM Uddhav Thackeray wrote a letter to the PM asking permission to vaccinate all above the age of 25.The Union health minister issued a statement later on Wednesday evening, hitting out at what he said was attempts to “divert attention” from the state’s slow vaccination drive, and targetting Punjab, Maharashtra, and Delhi, all of which have asked for an expansion of the criteria for vaccination, something the Union government isn’t willing to do right away. “Doesn’t it seem evident that these states are trying to divert attention from their poor vaccination efforts by just continuously shifting the goal posts? Politicising such a public health issue is a damning indictment of certain political leaders who should know better,” said Harsh Vardhan in the statement that cited vaccination figures from Maharashtra, Delhi, and Punjab, which he said were lower than that of several other states.Later, the Union health ministry sent letters to Maharashtra, Delhi and Punjab, asking them to take “immediate corrective action” to ensure doses are delivered to health and front-line workers. The letter carried the same figures as disclosed by Harsh Vardhan in his statement.The Union government on Monday asked all states to stop registering more people as health and front-line workers.This confrontation comes a day before a meeting Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called with the chief ministers of all states on Thursday. The meeting is meant to take stock of the Covid-19 situation and the vaccination drive, especially at a time when the country is going through its most severe wave of infections yet.On Tuesday, speaking about demands to open up the drive, health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said the drive was aimed at controlling fatalities, and that vaccines were being prioritised for those who “need” it, rather than those who “want” it.This week, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal, too, wrote to the PM seeking the 45 years age bar removed, while his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh made similar demands earlier in the month. Harsh Vardhan gave a break-up of vaccination data for the three states to suggest they had not delivered adequate doses to health staff, front-line workers, and senior citizens.According to figures analysed from the Co-WIN dashboard, Maharashtra has delivered the highest number of doses among all states at 7.4 million, although in per capita terms, it has delivered 60,788 doses per million people, slightly lower than the national average of 65,329.Among states with large populations, Kerala, Rajasthan, Delhi, West Bengal and Maharashtra are the top five states in terms of doses delivered per million people. Officials in five other states – Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal, Bihar, and Uttarakhand – separately told HT that doses were close to running out.Officials in some BJP-ruled states, too, said they had stocks left only for a few days. Kuldeep Singh Martoliya, Uttarakhand’s extended programme for immunisation officer (the nodal officer for Covid-19 vaccinations), said that around 130,000 doses were left, which were to last for two more days at the current rate of vaccinations. In Bihar, which has delivered the lowest number of doses per capita at a little over 24,600, some districts were asked to go slow on immunisations till the next tranche of 900,000 doses arrive.Similar concerns were raised by Odisha, where the vaccination in-charge, Bijay Panigrahi, said till Wednesday morning, the state had a total 534,000 doses left. “With the state vaccinating nearly 2 lakh (200,000) everyday, the doses would get exhausted by Friday unless Centre dispatches more vaccines,” he said. Panigrahi said due to shortage of adequate vaccines, the state was able to run only 755 vaccination sites against 1,200-odd on Wednesday.Vaccine supply concerns have also been sounded by the manufacturers. Serum Institute of India CEO Adar Poonawalla said on Tuesday that his company, which is making the Covishield vaccine (over 90% of all doses given in India till now are of this), “was very outstretched”.An analysis of production capacities show that between SII and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, India’s current capacity is around 75 million doses a month, or roughly 2.5 million a day. Over the last week, 3.1 million doses a day on average have been delivered across the country.In his statement, Harsh Vardhan singled out Maharashtra for its officials and leaders flagging possible shortage and criticised what he said was “misgovernance and utter casual approach of Maharashtra government in battling the virus”.“Today, Maharashtra not only has the highest cases and deaths in the country but also has one of the highest test positivity rates in the world! Their testing is not up to the mark and their contact tracing leaves a lot to be desired... The performance of Maharashtra government in terms of vaccinating healthcare workers and front-line workers is also not great.”“Maharashtra government needs to do a lot more to control the pandemic and the Central government will help them in all possible ways. But focusing all their energies on playing politics and spreading lies to create panic is not going to help the people of Maharashtra,” he added.Reacting to this, Balasaheb Thorat, state revenue minister and former state Congress chief, later said in a tweet: “Why was there no strategy or planning put into the logistics of the vaccine programme? Why is there both extremely high wastage & an acute shortage of vaccines? Perhaps PM (Narendra) Modi should focus more on running the country than running for elections.”The Union government separately gave a break-up of supplies and said Maharashtra has been sent 10.6 million doses, of which 9 million had been used. The government said another 743,280 were in the “pipeline”, which authorities said meant as being in transit.“The union minister Prakash Javadekar had asked us to double the vaccination numbers and had assured to provide adequate stock. We accepted it as a challenge and increased the daily vaccination to 450,000 from 300,000. However, we have started facing shortage of vaccine stock and have to shut down many centres across the state as there is no stock left there,” Tope said on Wednesday morning.Javadekar, on Wednesday, tweeted that the “central govt replenishes more vaccine than what is needed for actual use”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-states-face-off-over-supply-of-covid-19-vaccines-101617838575286.html
08-04-2021||India||95-year-old farmer urges others to get vaccinated, says ‘must protect ourselves’||Karnal resident Chaudhary Bichha Ram, 95, says that the Covid-19 vaccine has not only given him protection against the disease, it is also helping him lead a normal life. “I got to know that Covid-19 vaccines have been developed but did not expect to get it so soon,” Bichha Ram said. He was administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine on March 19 at the Banso Gate primary health centre in Karnal.The reports of some beneficiaries battling side-effects were a cause of concern for the elderly farmer as well. “But I cannot stay away from my family, especially from my grandchildren, so I decided to take the vaccine to protect myself from the virus despite rumours about side effects,” Bichha Ram said.He lives with his family of six, including his son, two daughters-in-law, and two grandsons.His son, Ritesh Arya, 50, who is a farmer and also property consultant in Karnal, took Bichha Ram for a walk-in vaccination session.“The doctors and nurses were very supportive, and explained everything. As we were talking, the medics pulled up my sleeve and inoculated me quickly,” Bichha Ram said. He was also asked for a photo with the staff, being the eldest person at the centre to get vaccinated.Recalling how his family wsa forced to stay isolated in the past one year since the pandemic struck, he said, “Nature has its own ways, and nobody can change these rules. But we should protect ourselves. I am 95, but even I don’t want to die.”Interestingly, Bichha Ram has been an advocate of Ayurveda since he suffered a stroke in 2008. He said doctors and scientists “have done a wonderful job” with Covid vaccines. “It’s nonsense to say the vaccine is not safe, people should at least show respect for those who worked day and night to save mankind.”His family said that Bichha Ram has now become an inspiration for others.“If a 95-year-old man can come forward to take the jab, why should the others fear?” asked Meenu Arya, his daughter-in-law.So far, more than 2 million people have been vaccinated across Haryana, said Rajeev Arora, the state additional chief secretary, health.Of these about 310,000 frontline and health care workers have received the first dose, and about 157,000 have received the second dose. More than 1.54 million people in the above-60 and 45-59 categories have been vaccinated, Arora said.India opened up its vaccination drive to all people above 45 last week. The previous two phases of the drive — the first was aimed at frontline workers and the second at those above 60, or above 45 with comorbidities – were dogged by slow roll-out, teething problems, vaccine hesitancy, and misinformation. But people such as Bichha Ram are a testimony to the importance of taking the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/95yearold-farmer-urges-others-to-get-vaccinated-says-must-protect-ourselves-101617837634658.html
08-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-up||The second wave of the coronavirus disease in India is seeing an alarming rise in infections coming from cities, with a majority of daily new Covid-19 cases coming from urban centres, something that was last seen at least 10 months ago, during the first wave of the pandemic.The numbers, experts say, highlight the need to focus sharply on getting the disease under control by expanding the vaccination drive in urban areas, especially large cities.Nearly half (48%) of all Covid-19 cases reported in India in March are from urban areas, which are home to just 14% of the population, with cities having the largest proportion of new infections since June 2020, according to an analysis by Hindustan Times. In the first four days of April, a majority (51.9%) of new cases were reported from these urban areas.Also Read| As India records 126,260 new Covid-19 cases, curbs in more statesThe numbers are even more worrying when disaggregated at the city level. For instance, Mumbai, Pune, Thane and Nagpur together accounted for 59% of Maharashtra’s cases in the first four days of April. Add Chennai, Bengaluru, and Delhi to the mix, and the seven cities together accounted for 42% of India’s cases in the same period.Data analysed by HT shows that urban areas reported 1.5 times the cases reported from rural regions in the country in the first four days of April. These same areas reported 1.4 times the cases in rural areas in March. This distribution is similar to trends seen at the start of the country’s first wave from March to June last year.Experts said the numbers underline the need to prioritise the government’s vaccination efforts to urban regions and, in particular, focus on cities that are currently seeing a massive surge in infections to effectively combat the latest surge of infections. They also emphasised that expanding the eligibility for vaccination to include everyone over the age of 18 would further help to cover proportions of the population that are mobile, and thus likely to spread the disease further.Dr Shahid Jameel, director of Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University, said while poor testing and reporting in rural areas could be one of the reasons behind a bigger surge in reported numbers from urban areas, the infection is likely to spread faster in urban areas because of a higher population density. The shift in the burden of cases to urban areas, he said, requires a reorientation of the vaccination strategy with a focus on areas showing a bigger surge. “Maharashtra is showing a surge, Nagaland is not. So to say that only people above 45 will be vaccinated in both places, to me it really does not address the issue based on data and based on the flexibility and nimbleness that you need to demonstrate.”The urban-rural breakup was calculated by dividing India’s districts into three large groups – urban districts (less than 40% rural population), mixed districts (40% to 60% rural population) and rural districts (more than 60% rural population). The proportion of the rural population is based on the 2011 Census (the latest data available). District-wise data on the number of cases has been sourced from How India Lives.The classification is in line with how rural and urban districts are defined in the country.Of all new Covid-19 infections reported in April, 51.9% are from urban districts, the highest this proportion has been since June 2020 (when it was 67.2%). At the other end of the spectrum, rural districts constituted 33.6% of all infections in the month of April, their lowest share since June. From August to October last year, rural areas had a higher share of new cases than urban areas. It is not only in the distribution of cases that urban areas have rapidly overtaken rural areas in the past two months. They have also done so in terms of the spread of cases within their respective populations.Another reason for the surge, Jameel said, could be the mutant strains of the virus . “The only logical thing that explains the surge at this point after India having gone through a fairly long first wave is that the behaviour of the virus has changed. And the behaviour of the virus can only change if there are mutants. And I do believe that this is the reason why urban areas are now back again showing higher percentage of cases.”Also Read| PM Modi to interact with CMs on Covid-19 situation, vaccination strategy on ThursdayTo be sure, not everyone agrees with the strategy of expanding the pool of recipients of the vaccine. The government, for one, does not, and has indicated that it will stick to its defined prioritisation protocol for vaccination. Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said that given the slow pace of immunisation it is important to focus on the more vulnerable population. “The idea of vaccination is to decrease the number of people who die and the number of people who are hospitalised. It’s more important to immunise people who are at higher risk,” he said.But easing the eligibility criteria could itself boost numbers (provided supply isn’t a constraint). Jameel said that one of the purposes of vaccination is to also control the pandemic. “Even the UK has turned the tide with vaccines. There is enough data to look at. Vaccines have to be deployed at scale. You can’t let the pandemic run wild,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/urban-hot-spots-drive-surge-in-greater-need-of-jab-scaleup-101617836285048.html
08-04-2021||India||Kumbh braces for crowds amid Covid-19 surge||Despite a raging pandemic, authorities in Haridwar are bracing for an influx of devotees to the Mahakumbh -- considered to be the largest religious congregation world over -- to participate in the Shahi Snan on April 12, officials said.Kumbh Mela officer-in-charge Deepak Rawat held a meeting on Wednesday, directing government officials to ensure all Covid-appropriate behaviour and protocols are followed during the shahi snan (holy dip in Ganga river).“As far as facilities are concerned for the pilgrims they are at par with any other fair. Owing to Covid-19 pandemic, strict implementation of Covid-19 norms is being ensured for the Kumbh. RT-PCR negative report is mandatory for all outside people entering the Kumbh Mela zone and strict checking is being done at border check post,” said Rawat.The month-long Mahakumbh began in Haridwar on April 1 amid strict Covid-19 restrictions, with chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat -- who was diagnosed with Covid-19 later -- assuring devotees that none would be “unnecessarily harassed in the name of Covid-19 restrictions”.The festival is being held despite concerns raised by experts that the month-long event, which is expected to be attended by 30-50 million people, could become a Covid-19 hotspot. The state only made a negative RT-PCR test mandatory for all those entering the state after the Uttarakhand high court stepped in.“We always make arrangements for the Kumbh in accordance with the largest estimated turnouts. So, we are well prepared to tackle any situation,” Mela IG Sanjay Gunjyal said. “But with the second wave of coronavirus infection getting stronger and the SOPs in force, we don’t expect huge crowds on the ghats on the Shahi Snan days,” Gunjyal told PTI.The ritual of shahi snan will be held on April 12, 13, 14, 21 and 27.Uttarakhand on Wednesday recorded 1,109 new Covid-19 cases, the state’s highest in 185 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kumbh-braces-for-crowds-amid-covid-19-surge-101617833920651.html
08-04-2021||India||Andhra high court clears elections to local bodies||Elections to 534 Zilla Parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) and 7,621 mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs) in Andhra Pradesh will be held as scheduled on Thursday. A division bench of the Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday dismissed the interim orders given by the single judge bench of the court on Tuesday stalling the elections to Zilla Parishad and mandal (block) parishads on the ground that the four-week period for the enforcement of model code of conduct was not being followed. Acting on a review petition filed by State Election Commissioner (SEC) Neelam Sawhney, the division bench heard the arguments of both the sides and gave the green signal to the commission to hold the elections as scheduled on Thursday. The division bench, however, ordered that the counting of votes should not be held on April 10 and results should not be declared. It referred the issue back to the single judge bench to settle the issue. Arguing on behalf of the SEC, senior advocate C V Mohan Reddy said the petitioner Varla Ramaiah of Telugu Desam Party had no locus standi to question the SEC’s decision as he was not a contestant in the elections. He also pointed out that the four-week time for implementation of model code of conduct was not made mandatory by the Supreme Court. It only gave a suggestion, while hearing the case in a particular context. If the code is implemented for four weeks, all the ongoing developmental works would come to a halt, he argued. In all, there are 660 ZPTCs and 9,984 MPTCs in Andhra Pradesh, of which as many as 126 ZPTCs and 2,363 MPTCs were elected unanimously during the beginning of the election process in March 2020.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-high-court-clears-elections-to-local-bodies-101617827070412.html
08-04-2021||India||With 2 MLAs joining TRS, Telugu Desam Party loses its presence in Telangana assembly||The Telugu Desam Party, which hitherto had a nominal presence in Telangana, lost its existence in the state assembly completely on Wednesday, with both the MLAs of the party joining the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi. The two lawmakers – Sandra Venkata Veeraiah from Sattupalli assembly constituency and Mecha Nageshwara Rao from Ashwaraopet constituency (both in Khammam district) – wrote a letter to assembly speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy on Wednesday evening, stating that they were merging the Telugu Desam Legislature Party with the TRS. Subsequently, state legislature secretary Narasimha Chary issued a bulletin, acknowledging the merger and the two TDP legislators as TRS members. In the December 2018 elections, the TDP won only two seats in the 119-member Telangana assembly. With both these members joining the TRS, the TDP has lost its identity in the state. The strength of the TRS has now gone up to 103. The Congress has six MLAs, while the MIM has seven and the BJP two. There is one vacant seat, that of Nagarjunasagar for which by-election is being held on April 17. In fact, Veeraiah has already been moving closely with the TRS for the last two years but Nageshwara Rao has been loyal to the TDP so far. Now, he, too, has moved to the TRS. “I was forced to take the decision, because I realised there is no future for the TDP in Telangana. That is why, I submitted my resignation to the TDP and joined the TRS for the sake of the people of my constituency and their development,” Nageshwara Rao said, after meeting TRS president and chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at the latter’s residence Pragati Bhavan. He hoped that he would be able to do justice for his constituency as a TRS legislator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-2-mlas-joining-trs-telugu-desam-party-loses-its-presence-in-telangana-assembly-101617826410282.html
08-04-2021||India||Local body elections get Andhra HC nod||Hyderabad The Andhra Pradesh high court on Wednesday gave the green signal to the state election commission to conduct elections to 534 zilla parishad territorial constituencies (ZPTCs) and 7,621 mandal parishad territorial constituencies (MPTCs) in the state as per schedule on Thursday (April 8). A division bench of the high court on Wednesday dismissed the interim orders given a day before by the single judge bench of the court, stalling the elections to zilla parishads and mandal (block) parishads on the ground that the four-week period for the enforcement of model code of conduct was not being followed. Acting on a review petition filed by State Election Commissioner (SEC) Neelam Sawhney, the division bench gave the green signal to the commission to hold the elections as scheduled on Thursday. The bench, however, ordered that the counting of votes and declaration of results should not be done on April 10. It referred back to the single judge bench to settle the issue. Arguing on behalf of the SEC, senior advocate C V Mohan Reddy said petitioner Varla Ramaiah of the Telugu Desam Party had no locus standi to question the SEC’s decision as he was not a contestant in the elections. He also pointed out that the four-week time for implementation of model code of conduct was not made mandatory by the Supreme Court. It only gave a suggestion, while hearing the case in a particular context. If the code is implemented for four weeks, all the ongoing developmental works would come to a halt, he argued. In all, there are 660 ZPTCs and 9,984 MPTCs in Andhra Pradesh, of which 126 ZPTCs and 2,363 MPTCs were elected unanimously during the beginning of the election process in March 2020. Elections to the remaining ZPTCs and MPTCs will be held on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/local-body-elections-get-andhra-hc-nod-101617822631068.html
08-04-2021||India||TN CM’s Edappadi constituency records third highest voter turnout||Chennai: Tamil Nadu chief minister Edappadi Palaniswami’s constituency of Edappadi registered the third highest voter turnout at 85.60 per cent during the single-phased polling to 234 assembly constituencies on Tuesday, data revealed by the state election commission revealed on Wednesday. The seat belongs to Salem district that witnessed a turnout of 79.2 per cent. While Karur registered the highest voter turnout of 83.92 per cent,, Chennai witnessed the lowest turnout of 59.05 per cent.Palaniswami enjoys strong support in his native village Siluvampalayam and was elected four times from Edappadi constituency. With sleek roads, a flyover and an arts and science college in the past 5 years, the chief minister ensured a huge infrastructure facelift for his village and constituency. Karur, which topped the districts with the highest voter turnout, is witnessing a big political battle between former minister and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader V Senthil Balaji and transport minister and sitting MLA M R Vijayabhaskar.With the lowest turnout, Chennai reaffirmed the idea that it is the urban constituencies that bring down the overall count every election. The Villivakkam assembly segment in the city reported a turnout of 55.52 per cent.A similar situation was also witnessed in Kolathur in the state capital, from where DMK president M K Stalin is seeking re-election, as 60.5 per cent of the voters turned up. The assembly constituencies of both the chief minister (85.60 percent) and the opposition leader (60.5 per cent) polled morevotes than the average registered in their respective districts of Salem (79.2 per cent) and Chennai (59.05 per cent).On Wednesday, chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo said the state had recorded an overall turnout of 72.78 per cent. The figure is slightly lower than what was recorded last year - 74.8 per cent. Experts, however, believe the state witnessed a good turnout as people visited polling stations despite the Covid-19 pandemic and surge in cases. “72% is fairly good and is marginally lower than 2016 which we can attribute to Covid-19,” says political analyst Maalan Narayanan. “The numbers indicate that this will be a neck-to-neck election and it is a waveless election. Popular leaders have also polled numbers similar to previous elections.” The election commission is yet to release the gender-wise data which would provide more insight, he said.Bodinayakanur, from where deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam is contesting his former partyman and rival DMK leader Thanga Tamilselvan, saw a turnout of 73.5 per cent. Coimbatore south saw a turnout of 60.7 per cent voters in a three-cornered fight between actor and Makkal Needhi Maiam chief Kamal Haasan, Bharatiya Janata Party’s national women’s wing president Vanathi Srinivasan and Congress’ Mayura Jayakumar. Chepauk-Thiruvallikeni, from where Stalin’s son Udhayanidhi made his electoral debut, registered a turnout of 58.41 per cent.“It seems like there isn’t any anti-incumbency, we may form the government,” an AIADMK leader said, preferring anonymity. “We are sure to win 170 seats. Even in 2014 Lok Sabha elections, we polled 72.4% so we will sweep the election again,” a DMK leader said on condition of anonymity. In 2019, the DMK won 38 out of 39 Lok Sabha seats.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncms-edappadi-constituency-records-third-highest-voter-turnout-101617822509181.html
08-04-2021||India||Tight security for Mukhtar Ansari in UP prison||Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari has been lodged inside barrack number 16 of the Banda district jail after his return from Punjab’s Rupnagar prison, officials said on Wednesday.A team of at least 100 policemen, including two deputy superintendents of police and six sub-inspectors, escorted the Bahujan Samaj Party’s Mau MLA on the over 800-km-long journey from Punjab after taking Ansari’s custody from the Punjab Police on Tuesday. The contingent comprised of GPS-enabled anti-riot vehicle Vajra and heavily armed policemen.The motorcade made only two stoppages in Agra – where drivers were changed – and then briefly in Satti in Kanpur, officials said.The transfer has come after the Supreme Court on March 26 allowed a transfer petition of the UP government seeking transfer of Ansari from Ropar jail in Punjab to Banda in UP. Ansari was initially lodged in a jail in UP as an undertrial when the Punjab Police obtained production warrant against him on a complaint of extortion and criminal intimidation and brought him to Punjab in 2019. As the Punjab government refused to shift Ansari to UP citing his medical condition -- he is reportedly suffering from hypertension, diabetes, back pain, skin allergy and depression -- the UP government moved the top court.Only the ambulance ferrying Ansari and one other vehicle were allowed to enter the heavily guarded Banda jail premises on their arrival on Wednesday morning, Banda circle officer Rakesh Singh said.Also Read| Gangster-turned-politician Mukhtar Ansari brought back to Banda jail from PunjabA statement issued by DG (prisons) headquarters said that Ansari was examined by a team of doctors from Banda medical college before being lodged in the barrack and doctors have found him medically fit. The report of Ansari’s Covid-19 test conducted at Punjab jail is still awaited and a sample was also collected at the Banda jail, the statement said.Additional security measures have been deployed in the jail premises, including round-the-clock video surveillance in the barrack, officials said.Banda jail superintendent PK Tripathi said that other inmates have been denied access to barrack number 16 where the 57-year-old MP has been lodged, and security staff in the barrack have been asked to wear body-cameras.During his earlier stay at the Banda jail, Ansari was lodged in barrack number 15 which was an isolation barrack and it did not have any CCTV cameras, a senior prison officer said.“As many as 30 PAC personnel will be deployed at the jail entrance to ensure tight security outside the gate. Apart from a jailer and two deputy jailers already posted at Banda jail, two deputy jailers have been deployed there to enhance security measures. Besides, the number of head warders and warders has been increased for internal security of the jail,” the official said, adding that a city magistrate rank officer has been made superintendent in-charge of the jail for daily review of security measures.Multiple close circuit television cameras have been installed in the barrack for 24x7 monitoring, the official statement said. Ansari’s activities could be examined from the central command centre set up at prison headquarters in Lucknow for video surveillance jails across UP.On Tuesday, Ansari’s wife, Afshan Ansari, moved the Supreme Court seeking safety for the Mau MLA while he is being shifted to Banda district jail in Uttar Pradesh from Rupnagar jail in Punjab, and also during his trial in pending cases in the state.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tight-security-for-ansari-in-up-prison-101617822269191.html
08-04-2021||India||Centre yet to clear HC judges’ names pending for 20 months||The central government is yet to clear appointment of ten judges in the high courts despite strong adjurations by the Supreme Court in the last three months, with the oldest recommendation in July 2019.On March 25, a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde criticised the government for delaying the process of appointment of judges, lamenting that it has been sitting on some recommendations for more than 20 months despite the final nod of the collegium.The bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, had then underlined that 55 names were pending with the government for more than six months, and sought a categorical reply on the timeline to notify appointments of some judges and sending the rest of the names to the collegium for further consideration.The numbers included 10 names after final recommendation by the collegium, and 45 other names proposed in the first stage of the appointment. All 55 had been pending with the government for more than six months.As the Supreme Court is set to hear this matter again on Thursday, people familiar with the development have told HT that the 10 names finally approved by the collegium were yet to be cleared by the government.As read out by justice Kaul from a chart prepared by him during the last hearing, five names for appointments in the Calcutta HC had pending with the government for 20 months, since July 25, 2019, despite the final recommendation of the SC collegium.Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir high court has been pending for 17 months and four names for the Delhi HC, for seven months. These names have neither been cleared for appointments nor have been sent back to the collegium for a reconsideration or a review based on certain objections that the government may have, people cited above said.The vacancy in the Calcutta HC has gone up to more than half of its total strength. As on April 1, Calcutta HC has a shortage of 40 judges out of its total strength of 72. Similarly, Jammu and Kashmir HC is also short of more than 50% of judges. It has a vacancy of six out of 11 judges whereas Delhi HC has a shortage of 29 out of the total strength of 60 judges.The law ministry did not respond to queries about these pending names till the time of going to press.Meanwhile, the 45 names that were at the first stage of appointment have finally been referred by the government to the collegium for consideration after much delay.As mentioned by justice Kaul in the previous hearing, two names for the Himachal Pradesh HC have been pending for 14 months; 21 names for the Rajasthan HC, for 9 months; 9 names for the Calcutta HC and two names for the Gauhati HC, for 8 months; five names for the Punjab and Haryana HC, for 7 months; and 6 names for the Madhya Pradesh HC, 6 months.Regarding these names, the collegium will now look at the reports sent by the government and will also consult the SC judges which were elevated from the same high courts before making the final recommendations to the government for their appointments as judges.The collegium for the selection of high court judges comprises the CJI and two most senior judges of the apex court.On March 25, the bench had told attorney general KK Venugopal, who appeared for the government, that there had to be a reasonable time frame within which the law ministry must respond after receiving the recommendations from the collegium.This hearing had followed another appeal made by the top court on January 27 when the bench called it a “matter of great concern” that the collegium had not heard from the government for months after sending names and that a proposal will get stuck without knowing the reason. As on April 1, 2021, the 25 high courts in the country have a staggering vacancy of 411 judges -- more than a third of the total positions. There are only 669 judges out of the total sanctioned strength of 1,080.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-yet-to-clear-hc-judges-names-pending-for-20-months-101617822209186.html
08-04-2021||India||NSS gen secy’s remarks on Sabarimala sparks fresh political row||Thiruvanthapuram Nair Service Society general secretary G Sukumaran Nair’s remarks that Sabarimala Ayyappa devotees were “still bitter” about the events in 2018 triggered a fresh political row on Wednesday after Kerala law minister A K Balan alleged that the socio-educational body leader had scripted “history” by making political remarks on the issue. Speaking to reporters on the day of polling on Tuesday, Nair said the people of Kerala wanted a change of rule in the state and that there should be a government that stood for values and faith. Launching a fresh attack on the social body leader for his remarks, Balan said on Wednesday: “He will go down in history as the one who sacrificed the organisation’s policy of (maintaining) equidistance (from politics).”The minister on Tuesday had filed a complaint against Nair with the chief electoral officer for “misusing the traditions and names of Gods in an unprecedented manner” on polling day. He added that the general secretary had deliberately tried to polarise voters and portrayed the polls as a battle between believers and non-believers. Speaking on similar lines Communist Party of India (Marxist) party secretary A Vijayaraghavan said: “He (Nair) made a political statement. It was not expected of him.” Senior party leader M A Baby and CPI secretary Kanam Rajendran also decried the statement.The NSS, however, asserted that it was not a sin to point out the agonies and reservations of the believers and that it cannot be intimidated. “I said this when newsmen asked about the temple issue. I only shared the concern of millions of believers. It is not a sin in the country to say I am a believer. Let the government go ahead with its legal move,” Nair said. The opposition Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party also rallied behind the social body over the temple row that has been one of the major poll planks during campaigns against the ruling party.“CPI(M) leaders are attacking the NSS blatantly. Every organisation has the right to air its opinion. It has every right to point out the concern of believers. The NSS has always fought for them and it has remained consistent in its position since the temple case began,” former chief minister Oommen Chandy said, adding that the ruling party was turning intolerant as it was expecting a humiliating defeat.Echoing similar sentiments, BJP state president K Surendran said: “Fearing a defeat, the CPI(M) has trained its gun on the NSS.” A body founded by freedom fighter and social reformer Mannath Padmanabhan in 1947, the NSS holds enough influence among upper caste Nairs and roughly constitute 13 to 14 per cent of the Hindu population in the state. The body’s stance on Sabarimala has been constant right from the beginning when the Indian Young Lawyers’ Association filed a public interest litigation in Supreme Court in 2006, challenging the temple’s practice of denying entry to women of child-bearing age, saying it was discriminatory and against gender justice. “We have been fighting for the temple customs for many years. It is wrong to mix it (customs) with gender equality. Different temples have different customs,” Nair said. During the temple agitation in 2018, the body had taken a proactive stand against the Supreme Court order that removed restrictions on women belonging to the 10-50 age group. Review petitions are pending before a nine-member bench of the apex court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nssgen-secy-s-remarks-on-sabarimala-sparks-fresh-political-row-101617822089228.html
08-04-2021||India||Former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze blames top Maharashtra ministers for extortion||Suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze alleged on Wednesday that top Maharashtra ministers asked him to extort money from businessmen and establishments, echoing similar charges by former Mumbai commissioner Param Bir Singh that are being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI). The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government denied the allegations. Vaze, who is currently being probed by National Investigation Agency (NIA) for allegedly planting explosives in a car outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s house in February and murdering Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran in March, made the allegations in a letter he intended to submit before the special NIA court hearing his case.Transport minister Anil Parab debunked Vaze’s allegations saying he was not involved in any extortion case and it was the BJP’s conspiracy to defame the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government. “In order to defame the Chief Minister (Uddhav Thackeray), it was necessary to vilify someone close to the Chief Minister and this is a part of agenda being pursued by the BJP,” said Parab told reporters.“I am ready for inquiry by any agency whether NIA, RAW or anyone. I am even ready for narco test,” he added. He said if he was found guilty, his chief Uddhav Thackeray would hang him to death. He said he would fight this case legally.He said it was clear as state BJP chief Chandrakant Patil had claimed that the third minister will soon be in the dock showed he knew of this letter beforehand.Also Read| Sachin Vaze was reinstated at Param Bir Singh’s behest: Mumbai PoliceIn his four-page letter, Vaze alleged that former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh and sitting transport minister Anil Parab asked him to collect money, but he refused. He also said that he was approached for money by a man claiming to be close to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar.Deshmukh and Pawar belong to the Nationalist Congress Party, while Parab is a member of the Shiv Sena. The Congress is the third partner in the state’s coalition government.On March 25, Vaze requested the court to allow him to say something in connection with the case. The court asked him to put his submission in writing. When he brought the letter on Wednesday, the court refused to accept it.“We submitted the letter to the court, but the court refused to accept it and asked us to follow the correct procedure. The procedure here would be either give a confession statement or give a statement under section 164 of Criminal Procedure code (statement before the magistrate) which we are not willing to,” said Vaze’s lawyer Raunak Naik.NCP chief Sharad Pawar was not available for comment. Former home minister Anil Deshmukh did not respond to calls and text messages.“I am ready for inquiry by any agency whether NIA, RAW or anyone. I am even ready for narco test,” Parab said. He said he would fight this case legally.NCP said that the party was not happy with Vaze’s reinstatement which is a fact but the rest of his claims are completely baseless. Vaze made this attempt to save himself from the wrongdoing done in the past just like Param Bir Singh, it said.“There was displeasure in the NCP as far as Vaze’s reinstatement was concerned but claims about convincing Pawarsaheb is not true. The allegations are baseless and are the same as what Param Bir Singh has already said. Both Singh and Vaze were two-man army operating from the Mumbai police commissionerate working hand in gloves and everyone knows about it. Both are now trying to save themselves by making false allegations,” said Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and state minority affairs minister||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-cop-vaze-blames-top-maha-ministers-for-extortion-101617822030429.html
08-04-2021||India||Andhra: 4 die after drinking contaminated water, several hospitalised||Hyderabad Four persons, including two women, died while several others have been hospitalised in the last 24 hours due to severe gastroenteritis caused by contaminated drinking water in Andhra Pradesh’s Kurnool district, officials said on Wednesday. While three persons from Nandyal died at different hospitals on Tuesday evening, a 50-year-old woman died in Adoni town on Wednesday morning. The three persons from Nandyal, however, were also suffering from other health complications, officials said.“A 35-year-old man was chronic alcoholic and was being treated at a private hospital following symptoms of diarrhoea. Another 56-year-old man, suffering from kidney-related ailment, was referred to a government general hospital at Kurnool where he breathed his last. Another 80-year-old woman, who also showed symptoms of diarrhoea, died due to age-related issues,” Kurnool district medical and health officer (DMHO) Dr Rama Giddaiah said. According to the DMHO, as many as 15 people from Aruna Jyoti Nagar in Adoni town were admitted to the local area hospital on Tuesday evening due to gastroenteritis. “Of them, eight are below 10 years of age and the remaining are adults. A 50-year-old woman died at around 8.20 am on Wednesday while she was being referred to a private nursing home. The condition of all the others is stable,” he said. The district authorities, who inquired into the source of water contamination, found that the victims had consumed water at Maremma Durgamma Devara, a folk festival at Gorakallu in Panyam block. “We have set up a health camp at Gorakallu where 35 cases of diarrhoea have been reported. A team of doctors treated 30 cases and referred the remaining five to Nandyal government hospital,” the official said. District collector G Veerapandian, who called on the affected people in the hospitals, directed authorities to stop the supply of drinking water from Gorakallu where the contamination took place. He also called for supply of clean and safe drinking water to the affected areas and adequate sewage management and sanitation. Following directions from the collector, authorities collected water samples from the affected area and sent them for testing. “The ASHA health workers are conducting a door-to-door survey and are supplying oral rehydration solution sachets to the people in the area,” Giddaiah said. A probe into the incident is underway and officials are likely to initiate action against the guilty once it is completed.Adoni MLA Y Sai Prasad Reddy said municipal authorities must clean water tanks regularly. “I have been closely monitoring the situation and have ensured best possible treatment to the patients,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-4-die-after-drinking-contaminated-water-several-hospitalised-101617821909708.html
08-04-2021||India||Italy gave families of two fishermen killed by marines ₹10 crore in damages||The central government on Wednesday informed the Supreme Court that the families of two Indian fishermen killed by Italian marines off the coast of Kerala in 2012 have been “adequately” compensated as it sought expeditious closure of proceedings before the top court and a criminal trial pending before a special court in Delhi. The Supreme Court agreed to hear the matter on April 9.According to the Centre’s compliance affidavit dated January 5, which HT has seen and reviewed, the Italian government offered to pay a total of ₹10 crore in damages. The families of the two deceased fishermen have agreed to a compensation of ₹4 crore each in addition to the ₹2 crore already paid by the Italian government. The injured owner of the boat had also consented to receiving damages of ₹2 crore.As per the affidavit, the Kerala government also accepted this proposal from the Italian government and the consent letters from the legal heirs of the deceased and the boat owner were sent to the foreign secretary in the ministry of external affairs. On Wednesday, solicitor general Tushar Mehta informed the bench headed by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde that the victims’ families have been paid the compensation, as ruled by an international tribunal in May 2020.“The victims’ families are also here, as asked by the bench on the last date of hearing. This is a short matter and only requires to be disposed of on the next date,” the law officer told the bench, which also included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian.Mehta requested the bench to take up the matter for hearing on Friday saying “there is some urgency since it is between the Indian and Italian government” and the bench agreed.CJI Bobde retires on April 23. The government has sought an urgent hearing so that the matter could be disposed of by the same bench before the CJI demits office.During the last hearing in August 2020, this bench had said that it will close the proceedings only after the families of the victims are heard and given “adequate” compensation, after it noted that the victims’ families were not parties to the case before the Supreme Court.The case pending before the Supreme Court is an appeal filed by the two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held that Kerala had jurisdiction to try them. The high court ruled that the marines enjoyed no state immunity since their act of shooting at the fishermen was in defence of neither the vessel nor the state.The marines and the Italian government moved an appeal before the top court, which shifted the trial to a special court Delhi in 2013 where it went on till the Supreme Court stayed it in 2015 after taking note of proceedings pending before the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at the Hague, Netherlands. In the meantime, the marines were allowed to go back home on a personal undertaking by the Italian ambassador that they would come back as and when required.The arbitral proceedings before the PCA were instituted under the United Nations Convention on Law of Seas (UNCLOS) on June 26, 2015 after Italy served a notice on India under the UNCLOS.The UNCLOS is an international agreement that defines the rights and responsibilities of nations with regard to their conduct and use of world seas and oceans and management of natural marine resources.In May 2020, the international tribunal ruled that the marines enjoyed immunity since they were exercising official functions in their capacity as Italian state officials when the incident occurred. It, therefore, ordered India to stop criminal proceedings against them.At the same time, the tribunal also held that Italy had violated India’s right to navigation by firing at the fishing boat and said that the country would have to compensate India for loss of life and damage to property.On July 3, 2020 the Centre moved the top court, saying it had accepted the PCA’s ruling and wanted the proceedings to be closed.“The Republic of India has taken a decision to accept and abide by the award passed by the (arbitral) tribunal which would have the bearing on the continuance of present proceedings before the Supreme Court. The applicant (central government) is, therefore, placing the award on record with a prayer that the proceedings with regard to the incident dated February 15, 2012 be disposed of in conformity with the Award passed by the tribunal”, its application before the Supreme Court said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/italy-gave-families-of-two-fishermen-killed-by-marines-10cr-in-damages-101617821849203.html
08-04-2021||India||Apex court to hear Deshmukh’s plea against CBI probe into graft charges today||The Supreme Court will on Thursday take up petitions by the Maharashtra government and its former home minister Anil Deshmukh against the Bombay high court order on a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into allegations of extortion against Deshmukh, who resigned soon after that verdict.A bench of justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta will examine the petitions that have challenged the HC order citing “federal structure” and “misuse of central agencies” such as CBI.Senior advocates Kapil Sibal and Abhishek Manu Singhvi are expected to appear for Deshmukh and the state government respectively. Former attorney general and senior counsel Mukul Rohatgi will represent former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh, whose allegations prompted the high court to order the CBI probe on Monday, although the order itself was in response to a related public interest litigation filed by a lawyer.Singh alleged that Deshmukh asked policemen, including suspended officer Sachin Vaze, to extort ₹100 crore from bars, restaurants, and other establishments. The allegations followed drama over police investigations into the discovery of an explosives-laden vehicle outside the residence of billionaire Mukesh Ambani, and the alleged murder of businessman, Mansukh Hiran, linked to the vehicle. Vaze was arrested and has been named the main accused in both cases; Singh was transferred out for his handling of the case; soon after, Singh wrote to the chief minister airing his allegations and then approached the court.Also Read| Former Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze blames top Maharashtra ministers for extortionOn Tuesday night, CBI issued a statement saying the agency has registered a PE (preliminary enquiry) to investigate allegations against Deshmukh, as ordered by the Bombay high court.In his petition, Deshmukh contended that the CBI probe against him “impacts the federal structure”, and could lead to a “biased investigation”, apart from destabilising the state government.Nationalist Congress Party leader Deshmukh emphasised that the high court, relying on certain unsubstantiated allegations by Singh, entrusted the probe to an agency “which the state government has the least confidence in”. He also pointed out that the high court did not give him an opportunity to be heard before it passed the impugned order.Deshmukh resigned on Monday, hours after the order by the high court asking CBI to conclude a preliminary inquiry within 15 days, making him the most high-profile casualty so far in the twists and turns over the discovery of the explosives and the death of Hiran.Meanwhile, the Maharashtra government, in its separate petition, has complained that the CBI investigation was ordered without any fact or formal pleadings and that the central agency was brought in without letting the state agencies first conduct their investigation.It also argued out that the state, for valid reasons, has already withdrawn its general consent to CBI to carry out investigations in Maharashtra, and that the high court should have remained mindful of this aspect before ordering the probe.The state further highlighted that Maharashtra has already ordered a judicial probe into the allegations on March 30 by retired Bombay HC judge KU Chandiwal and that the high court could not have straightaway passed the order on a CBI probe without examining the formal pleadings and submissions of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/apex-court-to-hear-deshmukh-s-plea-against-cbi-probe-into-graft-charges-today-101617821669153.html
08-04-2021||India||Sachin Vaze was reinstated at Param Bir Singh’s behest: Mumbai Police||Mumbai Suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze was directly reporting to then police commissioner Param Bir Singh before his (the former’s) arrest on March 13, said Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale in an official report on Wednesday. Assistant police inspectors do not usually report directly to the chiefs.The report, submitted to the Maharashtra home department, added that Vaze was given executive posting in the crime intelligence unit (CIU) at the insistence of Singh despite resistance from then joint commissioner (crime), Santosh Rastogi. Vaze was suspended from the force in March 2004 for his involvement in a custodial killing case; he was reinstated in the force in June 2005 by a committee headed by Singh.Singh did not respond to calls and messages seeking comment.Vaze was arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in connection with an explosives-laden car found outside billionaire Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia on February 25, and the subsequent death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran (in whose possession the car was) on March 5. The agency on Wednesday summoned Singh for interrogation in connection with the two cases.According to officials from the home department, the report was asked for immediately after Vaze’s arrest.In his report, Nagrale , who replaced Singh on March 17 , said all critical decision related to arrests, raids, remand applications, anticipatory bails were taken under Vaze’s directions. The report also said Vaze neither reported to his immediate bosses in the crime branch nor let his subordinates do so.“Vaze used to accompany Param Bir Singh during the briefing to the minister, home, on critical cases including TRP scam, Antilia explosive scare, Dilip Chhabria’s arrest. Vaze never obeyed the hierarchy of ranks to report over the cases under investigation,” the report said, referring to some high profile cases the Mumbai Police has investigated over the past few months -- allegations of manipulations of television ratings and celebrity car designer Chhabria’s involvement in a car financing fraud.Singh was transferred by the state government after the NIA and the state anti terrorism squad began investigation in the Antilia explosives and Mansukh Hiran case.The two connected cases have roiled the state government and the Mumbai Police. On February 25, a SUV with explosives was found outside Antilla with a threat letter addressed to the billionaire businessman and his wife. The vehicle has been reported stolen by Hiran, an auto parts dealer, on February 17. Vaze was initially put in charge of the case but removed when questions rose about his relationship with Hiran. It later emerged that the two did know ach other and Vaze had even borrowed the same Scorpio and used it for months before returning it in early February. Hiran’s body was recovered from a creek in Mumbai on March 5. NIA, which is investigating the two cases, and the state ATS, which was investigating the Hiran death before it was taken over by the federal agency, have both identified Vaze as the main accused in the case.Singh was transferred out on March 17, and soon after wrote a letter to the chief minister accusing the state home minister Anil Deshmukh of directly briefing Vaze to extort up to ₹100 crore a month from restaurants and bars. He approached the Supreme Court with a plea built around his letter, alleging that his transfer was motivated, and seeking a Central Bureau of Investigation probe into the allegations he raised.On April 5, the Mumbai High court said CBI should conduct a preliminary enquiry in the case. Shortly after, Deshmukh resigned.Nagrale’s letter also claims that Vaze’s appointment in CIU in June 2020 was strongly opposed by the then joint commisioner (crime) Santosh Rastogi.“The decision about the reinstatement of Vaze was taken in a suspension review committee meeting on June 5, 2020, chaired by Singh, joint police commissioner (administration) and other two senior officers. Vaze was reinstated on June 9 and was given posting in CIU, after initial appointnement in Armed unit,” the report stated.The report also said that though the CIU was earlier headed by an officer of the rank of inspector, Vaze was appointed on Singh’s direction.Maharashtra Congress spokesperson Sachin Sawant said, “We have been demanding the interrogation of Singh by NIA because of his close proximity with arrested API Vaze. It has been now established that Singh is as responsible as Vaze in these two cases. The DVR which has been misplaced from the Mumbai Commisioner office will certainly throw more light on this entire link, if retrieved.”The Congress, NCP, and Shiv Sena are partners in the state’s MVA government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaze-was-reinstated-at-param-bir-s-behest-mumbai-police-101617821309120.html
08-04-2021||India||Coronavirus: In Maharashtra, mutation raises infectivity concerns||One of the two mutations feared to have spread rapidly in Maharashtra may have the ability to make the Sars-Cov-2 more adept at infecting humans, improve its ability to multiply within a host and possibly escape a more complex part of the human immune response, a new study awaiting peer review suggests.The findings, if established, could explain the surge of cases in the western state, not just in capital Mumbai , but in other cities such as Pune and Nagpur as well.The findings relate to the mutation known as L452R, which is one of the two “double mutations” the Indian government said was detected in large numbers in parts of Maharashtra. The state is by far the worst-hit region in India, with an exponential rise in infections that has forced authorities to bring back lockdown-like curbs.Till now, little has been known about this mutation in particular, although it is part of the variant that has triggered a similarly serious wave of infections in California.Now, a team led by researchers from Japan has found the L452R mutation can “potentially increase viral infectivity” and escape from what is known as HLA-A24-restricted immunity, which refers to action by adaptive immunity in the human body.Also Read| Covid-19 in Mumbai: In second wave, kids more symptomatic“Frankly speaking, these two findings mean the L452R can be more dangerous than prototype (the predominant Sars-Cov-2 variant), particularly for people harbouring HLA-A24 type,” said Kei Sato, one of the authors and professor, Institute of Medical Science, University of Tokyo, in an e-mail exchange.HLA-A24 refers to a particular gene that some people carry, and the authors note that it is most commonly found in populations in East and Southeast Asian countries. It tends to influence how cellular immunity works in some people, which in this case appears to be hindered in the context of a Sars-Cov-2 infection.The study, based on laboratory experiments, showed L452R conferred multiple properties: it appeared to make the S protein (which the virus uses to latch on to human cells) more stable, it enhanced affinity to ACE2 (the receptor or doorway the virus uses to enter cells), and it seemed to enhance how the virus multiplied.Immune response to a pathogen such as Sars-Cov-2 typically has multiple levels, including antibodies that bind to the virus and stop it from infecting people and killer T cells that destroy infected cells.The HLA-restricted immunity influences the mechanism of killer T cells, which may be crucial since research has separately established a link between the timing and nature of immune response with how severe the disease becomes for someone: often, those with serious or fatal Covid-19 have a delayed immune response.“Therefore, it is conceivable to assume that the HLA-restricted CTLs (cytotoxic T cells, or killer T cells) play crucial roles in controlling SARS-CoV-2 infections and Covid-19 disorders,” the authors note in their study.Also Read| Maharashtra facing shortage of vaccine stock, many centres shut: Rajesh TopeThis is not the first time a particular Sars-Cov-2 mutation is shown to be evading some component of the cellular immunity, but it is the first time a widely spreading mutation has been shown to demonstrate that characteristic.Sato said the team will next evaluate how this mutation could influence immunity conferred by vaccines.To be sure, how the variant in Maharashtra behaves will require tests and epidemiological analysis involving that variant itself. A variant also includes multiple mutation, and these can combine to add or remove particular characteristics to the Sars-Cov-2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-maharashtra-mutation-raises-infectivity-concerns-101617821249685.html
08-04-2021||India||Students lost a year due to Covid-19, but learnt many lessons, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday interacted with 1.3 million students, teachers and parents from over 90 countries in the fourth edition of his Pariksha pe Charcha, saying that students “lost a year of their lives” due to the Covid-19 pandemic.In an hour-long virtual interaction, the PM also said that universities should study the impact of the pandemic on families.“As far as Covid is concerned, I believe that you have faced trials for a mistake that you did not make. This is a lesson that many times in life, events occur that are beyond your control. Students have lost a year of their lives and it will not be easy to make up for that,” the PM said in his annual interaction with students.While he highlighted the importance of the classroom set up, Modi also said that living indoors with families has made people realize “the importance of people in our lives”.“During the Covid-19 times if we have lost much, we have also gained. The biggest learning is that we have come to realise the importance of people in our live. We have learnt we can’t take anything for granted. The pandemic has also increased the bonding between families. I would want our universities to study the impact of Covid-19 on families,” he said.The Prime Minister also stressed on the need for positive motivation for students ahead of exams and creating a conducive environment for holistic growth.“The first step to motivating children is training. There are many ways to do this, through books, stories and experiences. If you want your child to wake up early, don’t force them to do it. Instead, introduce them to books and discuss with them the benefits doing the same,” the PM said.He said that by creating an environment of fear, children will work in a restricted ambit. “Negative motivation does not work. The fear will eventually fade, and child will return to old habits. The mantra for everyone should be positive motivation, which has a long-lasting impact,” Modi said.The PM even offered a “memory ki jadibooti (herbs)” and urged the students to “involve, associate and internalize.“When you listen to the national anthem, visualise yourself traveling through the entire country. If you get involved in the information, if you understand it, then you will not forget,” he said.Addressing the fear of exams, the PM said, “Exams aren’t a question of life and death. Parents tend to pressurise children, which causes them to fear exams. We should avoid that. Their confidence will increase only if we eliminate external pressure.”Abhishek Singh, CEO of Mygov, citizen engagement platform, said that the participation for the fourth edition increased exponentially. “For the first time, there has been international participation. There were participants from nearly 94 countries. Over 13 lakh people registered for the session.”In February, it was announced that Modi’s annual interaction with students would be held online this year in view of the Covid-19 pandemic.The first edition of the PM’s interaction with school and college students “Pariksha Pe Charcha 1.0” was held at the Talkatora Stadium on February 16, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/students-lost-a-year-due-to-covid-but-learnt-many-lessons-says-pm-101617821249167.html
08-04-2021||India||IIT-Roorkee emerges as the latest hot spot after 80 students test +ve for Covid||In the latest case of an institute of higher education turning into a Covid-19 hotspot, the Haridwar district administration on Wednesday declared five hostels at the Indian Institute of Technology, Roorkee, as containment zones after 80 students tested positive for the viral disease.The IIT Roorkee administration has directed students to isolate themselves in their rooms and has turned one of its hostels into a Covid care centre, the institute’s media cell in-charge Sonika Srivastava said.While 60 tested positive till Tuesday, 20 more tested positive in the RT-PCR tests conducted by Haridwar district health department in the institute on Wednesday.“After the 80 students tested positive in the institute, five hostels named Cautley, Kasturba, Sarojini, Govind Bhavan and Vigyan Kunj have been sealed and declared containment zones by the Haridwar district health department. The institute has about 3000 students of which about 1200 are in these five hostels,” added Srivastava.“The institute has turned its Ganga Bhavan hostel as the Covid care centre under the supervision of district health department where the infected students are being treated. Apart from this, one guest house and another establishment have been turned into quarantine centres for the first contacts of the infected students,” she said.Haridwar chief medical officer Dr SK Jha said on Wednesday, “We had taken RT-PCR samples of about 2000 students and staffers from the institute after detection of infections. Till Tuesday, 60 tested positive and on Wednesday 20 more came out positive. However, many of them are asymptomatic and are undergoing treatment in the Covid care centre there under our supervision,” he said, adding that the health department is monitoring the situation.”Meanwhile, students attending online classes from homes have been asked not to return to the campus, Srivastava said.On Wednesday, the country recorded 126,260 new cases, taking the tally to 12,926,024.On Tuesday, as many as 40 doctors tested positive for Covid-19 at the King George’s Medical University (KGMU) in Uttar Pradesh’s Lucknow, the university’s spokesperson Sandeep Tiwari said. Those infected have been admitted in the isolation ward of the medical college hospital, he added.The new cases have been reported days after the Ahmedabad campus of the Indian Institute of Management and the IIT Jodhpur campus were sealed after recording several cases.On Monday, the Jodhpur campus of IIT reported 70 cases, including 54 students, prompting district health authorities to seal the premises after declaring it a containment zone.Of the 54 students, 51 are under treatment at a isolation facility of a hospital on the campus, said Amardeep Sharma, the joint registrar of IIT-Jodhpur.Sharma said that the other infected people included housekeeping and security staff. “IIT-Jodhpur allowed post-graduate and PhD students to return to the campus for their thesis and project work. Some UG and first year PG students returned to the campus and they are being sent directly to the designated isolation wards. All students in isolation wards are getting tested for Covid-19 on the fifth day of their arrival. Only after obtaining a negative RT-PCR report, they are allotted rooms in regular hostels,” Sharma said.Late last month, IIM-Ahmedabad reported 191 Covid-19 cases, of which at least 86 were students residing in the hostels on campus. A statement from the institute released on Monday said that the Covid-19 spread was under control and all protocols were being followed.Meanwhile, the management at Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay, has reiterated the need for following Covid-19 norms on the campus.The director of the institute, Prof Subhasis Chaudhuri said that at least 19 people, including staff and students, have tested positive for Covid-19 over the last two weeks and are currently undergoing treatment at the campus hospital.While the institute has restricted residents on the campus from venturing out, it has also intensified contact tracing. “We conduct reverse as well as forward contact tracing to try to identify what restrictions to place to avoid the spread. Based on this, we decided to maintain 10 day quarantine for students returning [from home]. We have not allowed any indoor eateries [other than hostel messes],” said Prof S Sudarshan, the deputy director of academic and infrastructural affairs at IIT-B.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitroorkee-emerges-as-the-latest-hot-spot-after-80-students-test-ve-101617821129116.html
08-04-2021||India||Centre allows vaccination at workplaces||The Union health ministry has allowed vaccination drives at workplaces in a move, aimed at speeding up the pace of Covid-19 vaccinations even as the second wave of the viral pandemic rages through the country. The ministry has written to the states asking them that this be allowed from Sunday, April 11, provided there is an availability of at least 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries.“…in order to increase the access of vaccines to these populations, Covid-19 vaccination sessions may be organized at work places (both public and private) which are having about 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries by tagging these work places with an existing Covid vaccination centre (CVC). .. initiate due consultations with public and private sector employers and management to prepare for launch of work place vaccination. Such work place vaccination centres may be launched across states and UTs from April 11, 2021,” wrote Union health sectary, Rajesh Bhushan, to all state chief secretaries and principal secretary (health).While the move will help to some extent, especially in the cities, it is unlikely to address the two key issues slowing the vaccine drive -- supplies and a tight eligibility criteria. To be sure, much of India’s workforce (at least 80% according to the International Labour Organization) is in the informal sector.The vaccinations at the workplace will be a paid service, and the price is capped at ₹250 per dose.Also Read| Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upThe idea behind the move is to rapidly cover eligible beneficiaries . It will also ensure that people do not need to travel to get vaccinated, therefore, avoiding the risk of contracting the viral infection.“A substantial proportion of population aged 45 years and above are in the organised sector of the economy, and is involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private)…” Bhushan wrote in the letter.The threshold of 100 minimum eligible beneficiaries has been set to have optimal vaccine utilisation, and to avoid wastage as far as possible. It would, however, restrict the provision to companies with very large offices at a single location.The health ministry’s guidelines said it will be the responsibility of the district task force, chaired by district magistrate, and urban task force, chaired by municipal commissioner, to identify government and private workplaces after due deliberation with relevant employers and head of offices.Workplaces have been asked to designate an employee as a nodal officer to oversee and facilitate all aspects of the vaccination process.Experts welcomed the move.“This is a welcome step. Having more sites and involving more health workers is a prerequisite for enhancing coverage, including expanding to other age groups. Covering persons in workplaces can speed up the pace of vaccination. This approval is aligned with the requests made by some state governments. The next step should be to have outreach sessions, wherein front-line health workers can take vaccines to people,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.Dr Ramanan Laxminarayan, founder and director, Centre for Disease Dynamics, Economics and Policy, said, “Covering the 45-plus population that is at highest risk should be the priority at this time, but I am not sure that most of them are working in the organised sector.”Also Read| As India records 126,260 new Covid-19 cases, curbs in more statesThe ministry has warned against outsiders, non-employees or family members of employees, taking the jab during these sessions.According to the guidelines, beneficiaries will still need to register on the Co-WIN portal prior to vaccination. The facility of on-the spot registration will also be available to employees.To manage adverse events following immunisation (AEFI), all workplace vaccination centres will be attached to a hospital and have a medical officer as supervisor, an anaphylaxis kit, and a basic life support ambulance for shifting beneficiaries to the hospital, if required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-allows-vaccination-at-workplaces-101617821069017.html
08-04-2021||India||As India records 126,260 new Covid-19 cases, curbs in more states||More regions on Wednesday were forced to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs on social movement due to rising cases of the coronavirus disease with second wave of infections continuing on a relentless march as India, for the second day in a row, set a new record for daily surge in infections with 126,260 new infections.On Tuesday, a complete lockdown was announced in Chhattisgarh’s capital Raipur from April 9 till April 19, while the Punjab government extended its state-wide night curfew till April 30, even as Bengaluru ordered a ban on use of swimming pools and gyms in the city.These are the latest in a string of regions across the country that have again started enforcing a wide range of curbs ranging from night curfews to limits on public assembly as they struggled to reel under the second wave of Covid-19 cases.Pushed by Wednesday’s new infections, the seven-day average of daily cases touched 100,761 new cases a day on average, which means that India’s second wave has now surpassed the peak of the first wave, which peaked at 93,617 new cases for the week ending September 16, 2020. The seven-day average of daily cases is taken as a representation for the Covid-19 case curve of a region.Also Read| Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upOn Tuesday, Delhi had clamped a night curfew on movement and assembly of people between 10pm and 5am every day until April 30, joining the growing list of major cities such as Mumbai, Chandigarh that have been forced to reintroduce curbs on social movement. In Maharashtra, which is contributing roughly half of all cases in India, authorities have imposed a night and weekend curfew, ordered non-essentials businesses to shut down, and asked most offices to switch to remote working.Night curfews are among the most common non-pharmaceutical interventions used by governments to check the pandemic in Punjab, Rajasthan, Gujarat and Maharashtra.In Chhattisgarh, which is currently India’s second-largest Covid hot spot after Maharashtra, the administration in Raipur district imposed an 11-day complete lockdown. In an order, Raipur collector, said entire district, including the capital, has been declared as containment zone and restricted several activities from 6 pm on April 9 till 6am on April 19. Raipur had reported 76,427 Covid-19 cases, including 1,001 deaths till Tuesday. In the last six days, the district witnessed 10,755 cases and 93 deaths.“During the lockdown period, the border of the district will be completely sealed and shops, including liquor, and commercial establishments will remain closed except medical stores,” the order stated adding that essential services such as hospitals, ATMs etc have been kept out of purview of restriction.On Wednesday, the state recorded 10,310 cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of infection in March last year.In Punjab, chief minister Amarinder Singh on Wednesday ordered a ban on political gatherings and extended a night curfew to the whole state while capping numbers at indoor funerals and weddings to 50 guests and 100 for outdoors. He said those violating the ban on political gatherings, including leaders, will be booked under the Disaster Management Act and the Epidemics Diseases Act.Also Read| PM Modi to interact with CMs on Covid-19 situation, vaccination strategy on ThursdayThese restrictions, coupled with the ones imposed earlier, which include closure of schools and educational institutions, shall remain effective till April 30. However, there was some respite for shop owners in malls, as the chief minister allowed entry of 10 people per shop at any given time, as against the earlier order of not allowing more than 100 people in the entire mall at a given time, according to the order. On Wednesday, Punjab recorded 2,963 new cases.In light of the rising number of cases in Karnataka, the Bengaluru Police has ordered a ban on the use of swimming pools and gyms within the city limits and imposed Section 144 of the CrPC in the city, banning gatherings at party halls, apartment and residential complexes. Of the 6,976 new cases reported in Karnataka on Wednesday, 4,991 were from Bengaluru Urban.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-india-records-126k-new-cases-curbs-in-more-states-101617821009127.html
08-04-2021||India||Book civic chiefs for manual scavenging deaths: Madras high court||Chennai The Madras high court on Wednesday said that civic heads of corporations and municipalities must be booked if any more deaths occur due to manual scavenging “irrespective of whether engaged by them or (a) contractor”.The bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy made the observations while dealing with a batch of pending petitions filed against manual scavenging with one of the petitioners being the pan-Indian non-governmental organisation Safai Karamchari Andolan.The chief justice even contemplated if civic heads should be booked on charges of culpable homicide. "The court noted its earlier direction dated 16th March that the Government should make it clear to all heads of municipal corporations and municipalities in the state that any manual scavenging death within the jurisdiction of the relevant municipality or corporation will result in the commissioner or such authority being made to face criminal charges, and today further observed that unless the heads of local bodies were themselves made liable under Sec 304A of the Indian Penal Code, the menace would not be rooted out," said Srinath Sridevan, counsel appearing for Safai Karamchari Andolan.Manual scavenging has been banned since 1993 in India but it continues unabated with several deaths reported due to asphyxiation. By February 2021, Tamil Nadu had registered six deaths due to manual scavenging.The court stated that it was inclined to find a permanent solution for which it asked the state government to procure equipment tailor-made for cleaning the sewage system or overhaul the current method.The counsel for the state government, Jayaprakash Narayan informed the court that a circular has been issued that work orders of contractors will be cancelled and they will be blacklisted if they engage manual scavengers. He added that the state is mobilising funds to procure machinery for cleaning sewerage.The matter was adjourned for two weeks as the petitioner Safai Karamchari Andolan sought more time to respond to replies filed by the state government and the Greater Chennai Corporation on the issue. The NGO’s counsel told the court that there had been no deaths due to manual scavenging since the court’s last order on the issue on March 16. The court asked the state as well as the NGO to give inputs so that it could issue guidelines to “put this nonsense to a complete end”.In its previous order, the court said it was “high time” that heads of corporations and municipalities were held “personally liable” for deaths due to manual scavenging within their jurisdiction and face immediate arrest on criminal charges.The Madras high court’s order was long overdue, said Safai Karamchari Andolan activists.“We are very happy with the order passed today,” said its national co-convener Deepthi Sukumar.“Whenever there is a death, the government blames the contractor. The order fixes accountability and is an important measure in preventing deaths inside sewers.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/book-civic-chiefs-for-manual-scavenging-deaths-hc-101617820768959.html
08-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi to begin ‘active’ campaign for Bengal soon, says functionary||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi will “actively” campaign in West Bengal for the ongoing assembly elections but only towards the last few phases to focus on the party’s strongholds, key functionaries said on Wednesday.Polling in the state, which is being held in eight phases, began on March 27 and will continue till April 29.The former Congress president has so far campaigned in the remaining three poll-bound states of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Assam, and in the Union territory of Puducherry where the stakes remain high for the Grand Old Party.Gandhi is likely to visit Bengal only after the fifth phase.The Congress strongholds in Bengal are in a few districts such as Malda, Murshidabad, North Dinajpur and parts of north Bengal.Polling in these seats will take place in the last three phases.“He is definitely going. He will do a good campaign and the plans (for the same) are underway,” a key member of his team said, preferring anonymity.Former Bengal Congress unit chief Pradip Bhattacharya said: “For us, the main battle starts after the fifth phase. We have already finished primary talks with Rahul’s team about his campaign.”In Bengal, the Congress is fighting in 92 of the 294 seats in agreement with the Communist Party of India CPI(M)-led Left Front. In 2016, the Congress had bagged 44 seats while the Left had secured 26 seats.The two parties, however, have emerged as main rivals in Kerala. This has also added to speculations whether Gandhi will hold any joint campaign with the Left in Bengal.“The unwritten understanding is we will talk about the Bengal plan only after the Kerala elections are over. Even now, it’s psychologically too close to discuss Bengal with the top Congress leadership,” a senior CPI(M) leader said, preferring anonymity.While Abbas Siddiqui’s Indian Secular Front (ISF) is also a part of the front and has got 38 seats from the Left, the Congress has tried to keep itself aloof from the new party.Congress leaders insist that Gandhi too will not share the dais with the ISF during his poll campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-to-begin-active-campaign-for-bengal-soon-says-functionary-101617820648975.html
08-04-2021||India||In state elections, decoding the PM’s campaign and his key messages||By addressing over two dozen rallies spread across four states — West Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu and Kerala — and the Union territory of Puducherry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi gave an impetus to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)’s election campaign and showed yet again why he remains the party’s most important political campaigner, irrespective of the nature of the polls.Since the elections were announced, spread over eight phases in West Bengal, three in Assam and a single phase in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry — only five phases in Bengal remain while the rest concluded on April 6 — the PM addressed 25 rallies as per the data collated by his office. Out of this, the PM has addressed 11 rallies in Bengal, seven in Assam; and three each in Tamil Nadu and Kerala and one in Puducherry.But it was not just the number of rallies: in each speech, the PM made significant pointers which revealed both his political worldview, the party’s strategy, governance achievements, and an attack on political rivals. Here is the main thrust of his messages.West Bengal - 11 ralliesThe PM’s first official election rally in the state, where the BJP is locked in a tight contest with the ruling Trinamool Congress (TMC), was in Kolkata’s Brigade Ground on March 7. This was followed by public addresses on March 18 in Purulia; on March 20 in Kharagpur; and on March 2 in Bankura. On March 24, the PM’s schedule included a rally in Kanthi followed by two more addresses in Uluberia and Jayanagar; on April 3, the PM addressed two meetings in Tarkeshwar and Sonarpur. On April 6, he was back in Cooch Behar and Howrah.His speeches have focused largely on the lack of development in the state, political violence and corruption. In sharp, calibrated attacks, the PM has kept the focus on corruption and the leakages in the public distribution system. “Where there is a scheme, there’s a scam,” — with statements such as these, the PM has not only lashed out at the TMC, but also posited the BJP as the alternative that has promised a sonar bangla or golden Bengal.“Asol Parivartan” or the real change has also been the PM’s key promise to the people of Bengal. On Tuesday, for instance, while speaking at a rally in Cooch Behar, PM Modi who has been calling for a poriborton or change, coined another slogan Chalo Paltai (let us bring about the change) to target CM Mamata Banerjee.Also Read | BJP internal assessment: Nandigram a contestWith the Opposition accusing the BJP of stoking communal polarisation in the state and turning the Jai Shri Ram slogan into a war cry, the PM retorted that had the BJP, like Banerjee, appealed for votes on the basis of religion, then it would have to face the music from the election commission as well as the media. At the same time, his speeches have been laced with critical references to “appeasement”, which is code for what the BJP alleges to be the pro-Muslim tilt of Mamata Banerjee’s government.In his speeches, the PM has also targeted the CM for not allowing the benefits of Central schemes such as the PM KIsan Nidhi from reaching beneficiaries. In multiple speeches, he has alleged that women, backward classes, farmers and tea garden workers have been deprived of social welfare schemes.The Opposition has dismissed the PM’s campaign.“I don’t think there will be much impact of his campaigning . People were curious about the PM and came to see him initially. But yesterday, he addressed a meeting in a rural area and it wasn’t packed. He is trying his best to polarise. But I feel it is having diminishing returns,’’said TMC MP Saugata RoyTamil Nadu -3 ralliesIn Tamil Nadu, where the BJP is contesting the election as an ally of the ruling All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (AIADMK), the Prime Minister addressed three rallies — on March 30 in Dharapuram and on April 2 in Madurai and Kanyakumari — with an aim of both showing the BJP’s respect for Tamil Nadu’s distinct culture and traditions and highlighting governance achievements.The PM largely spoke about how Central government schemes were beneficial for the people of Tamil Nadu. He also, repeatedly, invoked former chief ministers MG Ramachandran and J Jayalalitha, and accused the Congress of disrespecting democracy. The BJP in Tamil Nadu used the Vetrivel Yatra, designed to cover the six abodes of Lord Murugan in the state, as an attempt to cultivate its image as that of a party trying to revive Tamil pride, and the PM, while referring to the Central schemes and their benefits, said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) is inspired by the great Andal and Avvaiyar. It was, once again, in line with the deference shown to local culture and tradition that the PM brought up the United Progressive Alliance government’s stance on banning Jallikattu and how it was the NDA that cleared the ordinance brought by AIADMK, allowing Jallikattu to take place again.Also Read | TN polls: Clad in PPE kit, Covid-19 positive Kanimozhi cast vote in ChennaiAttacks against dynastic politics, as represented by both the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) and the Congress, were part of the PM’s speeches. “NDA agenda is development agenda while Congress and DMK have only dynasty agenda. They only demean others and spread lies,” he said. Economic revival and an impetus to production, especially in the MSME sector, was also a highlight of the speeches.The Opposition, however, has accused the PM of being anti-Tamil.“It has become comical that every time Modi comes to Tamil Nadu, he starts quoting (Tamil saint) Thiruvalluvar and Avvaiyar but he’s against Tamils and the party is imposing Hindi on us,” says DMK MP and party spokesperson TKS Elangovan. “In Dharapuram, Modi made false statements that DMK treats women badly and he didn’t speak a word about the sex scandal in Pollachi (where two AIADMK functionaries were arrested and expelled from the party). Modi gives false information and his promise to make Tamil Nadu into Uttar Pradesh is dangerous and nobody will like that.”Kerala -3 ralliesIn Kerala where the BJP has a lone legislator in the assembly, the party has been trying to establish its footprint. Here, the PM addressed three rallies — in Palakkad on March 30, followed by two more in Thiruvananthapuram and Pathanamthitta on April 2.The PM sharply criticised both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the Congress-led United Democratic Front, referring to them as twins in “misgovernance, corruption, casteism and nepotism” and accused them of committing “seven deadly sins”, which included “false sense of pride and arrogance, greed for money, wrath towards people, jealousy towards each other, lust for power, dynasty politics and laziness in work”.Also Read | Post-poll violence rocks Kerala, Muslim League worker stabbed to death in KannurThe Sabarimala issue that has emerged as a key poll issue found a mention in the PM’s speeches. In Konni, the epicentre of the Sabarimala agitation, he hit out at the LDF government for taking action against Ayyappa devotees during the agitation to prevent women of all age groups from visiting the sanctum sanctorum of the temple.The issues of disaster management and water availability in Kerala and economic revival were also part of the speeches where the election concluded on Tuesday. He listed some of the key projects that the Centre has sanctioned for Kerala in the recent Budget, including ₹65,000 crore for roads and highways as part of the Mumbai-Kanyakumari economic corridor, the second phase of the Kochi Metro and a plan for a fishing harbour in Kochi.The Opposition was critical.“The PM thinks about Sabarimala and Lord Ayyappa when he is in Kerala. During the last parliament election, he said that the Union government will protect interests of devotees. Two years have passed and nothing has been done. He is raking it up again eyeing votes. But devotees can’t be taken for a ride”, said Congress leader Ramesh Chennithala, also the state Opposition leader.Assam -7 ralliesIn Assam, where the BJP is pitted against the coalition of 10 parties including the Congress and the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF), the issue of illegal immigrants and protection of Assamese traditions and culture has been high on the party’s agenda.Here, the PM addressed three rallies starting with Karimganj on March 18 followed by Chabua and Bokakhat on March 20 and 21. Bihpuria and Sipajhar were the next destinations for his rallies on March 23 and 24 and these were followed by a rally each in Kokjrajhar and Tamulpur on April 1 and 3.The PM’s speeches targeted the Mahajot or the Opposition’s alliance and referred to it as “Mahajhoot” or grand lies. Making a reference to the Assamese identity, he said people would not tolerate those who insult Assam’s pride and identity. The BJP alleges that the AIUDF is sympathetic towards illegal immigrants.Also Read | BJP to retain Assam, high voting signals pro-incumbency: Jitendra SinghWhile the BJP faced a lot of criticism following discrepancies in the National Register of Citizens and following the passage of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the PM chose to stress on the party’s inclusive politics. In the state with a 30% Muslim population, the PM said it is the country’s misfortune that working for a particular section is called secularism while working for everyone gets you called communal.He attacked the Congress for failing to curb the culture of violence, bombs, and gun in the state during its rule and said the NDA government is moving forward on the path of peace and prosperity with every partner of Assam.The Opposition attacked the PM.“We have seen how low politics has stooped low in this election in Assam. The kind of statements made by the Prime Minister and Union home minister during their campaign goes against Assam’s history, identity and culture. They have done a negative campaign and there was nothing positive for Assam in their campaign,” said Congress in-charge for Assam, Jitendra Singh.Puducherry - 1 rallyThe PM held a rally on March 30 in Puducherry, where the Congress government fell a few weeks before the election was announced. In his address, the PM attacked the Congress for failing to provide governance, ensure the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes, and curbing corruption.Also Read | Puducherry records 81.70% turnout in assembly pollsHe also took potshots at the former chief minister V Narayanasamy who was not given a ticket to contest the polls. “The situation in Puducherry is unique… It reflects the condition of the Congress. He was denied a ticket despite being a loyalist for so many years” the PM said. The denial of ticket to the former CM was attributed as an example of the failure to govern. The PM assured voters of infrastructure development, job creation and a fillip to tourism if the BJP is elected.(With inputs by Umar Sofi)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-state-elections-decoding-the-pm-s-campaign-and-his-key-messages-101617802587591.html
08-04-2021||India||As Maoist violence returns, decoding the rise of ultra left insurgency||The killing of 22 security personnel belonging to the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), District Police Guard and a Special Task Force in one of the deadliest attacks by Peoples Liberation Guerilla Army of Communist Party of India (Maoist) at Jonaguda village in Chhattisgarh’s Bijapur district has raised questions about claims that left-wing extremism in the country is on the wane.The manner in which the 400-strong Maoist battalion No. 1 led by Madvi Hidma, chief of the Maoist party’s Central Military Commission, reportedly lured security forces into a trap and directly encountered them with assault rifles, rocket-launchers and fusillade of grenades, showed that the Maoists have not only grown in strength in some respects, but also gained the technical knowledge to fight a direct battle with the security forces, according to experts who have followed the trajectory of left-wing extremism.“The Maoists may have suffered heavy losses over a period of time, but have bounced back every time with the support of the Adivasis in the forests of Chhattisgarh,” said Ginugu Narasimha Reddy alias Jampanna, a former central committee member of Maoist party and head of its military commission in Chhattisgarh, before he surrendered to the Telangana police in December 2017. He said the fact that the Maoists could vacate the villages around the encounter spot within 20-30 minutes before the attack on the security forces,which would not have been possible without the support of the local people. “They have developed a strong information network,” Jampanna said.But how have the Maoists continued to retain their strength — if not wholly, then substantially — despite setbacks and a strong government offensive, especially in the south Chhattisgarh belt? The answer lies in returning to the past and tracing the evolution of the rebellion both in Chhattisgarh and its neighbouring regions.The Andhra experience Before 2005, the Nallamala forests encompassing Telangana and Andhra districts was an impregnable fortress of Maoists (who were earlier known as People’s War Group). This was more or less similar to the present Abujhmad region of Chhattisgarh, with police forces hardly having any access to the area. The killing of security forces and Maoists in exchange of fire was a routine affair.Also Read | Maoists cross a red line, again | HT EditorialAfter the lifting of the ban on Maoists and talks between the rebels and the then YS Rajasekhar Reddy government in combined Andhra Pradesh in October 2004, things changed in favour of the security forces. Talks failed despite initiatives of civil society groups, but it gave an opportunity to the security forces to access the Nallamala forests to help gain complete control over the region.After the failure of talks, the Greyhounds, a specialised force, and other security forces launched an all-out attack on Maoists, based on pointed intelligence, and inflicted heavy casualties. Top Maoist leaders, including Akkiraju Haragopal alias Ramakrishna and Sudhakar, who took part in the talks, fled to Chhattisgarh and Andhra-Odisha borders. Many other top leaders such as Madhav, Shyam, Mahesh, Murali, Chandramouli, Prasad, Patel Sudhakar Reddy and Sakhamuri Appa Rao were killed in encounters. And some other central committee members such as Kobad Ghandy and Malla Raji Reddy were arrested from different parts of the country.“Between 2004 and 2009, nearly 400 Maoists, including top leaders and state secretaries were killed in encounters. The Nallamala forests were liberated from Maoists,” a senior police official, who played an active role in the talks with the Maoists in 2004, said.The implementation of a socio-economic agenda, coupled with effective police action and field level intelligence, led to the decline in Maoist activity in the then unified Andhra Pradesh after 2005. The setting up of tribal welfare residential schools even in the remotest areas, setting up of health care centres in every panchayat, development of road infrastructure to interior villages, various other programmes through Integrated Tribal Development Agencies (ITDA) and implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme also helped lead to the decline in Maoist activities in Telangana and Andhra districts, bordering Chhattisgarh and Odisha.“Young people are not inclined towards Maoists anymore and have become career-oriented. They are looking towards towns and cities, rather than jungles,” observed S Venkatesh, an NGO activist in Bhadrachalam.Renewed focus on Chhattisgarh After facing reverses in erstwhile Andhra Pradesh, the Maoists began consolidating their position in Chhattisgarh. Although they entered in Chhattisgarh in early 1980s, the region was initially used only as a buffer zone, but since the 1990s, the rebels stepped up their offensive against security forces.“Geographically, the Maoists have found Chhattisgarh forests very convenient to gain hold, compared to Telangana and Andhra. They could easily gain the support of the local Adivasis, who were agitated over the plundering of mineral wealth by the big companies with the support of the governments,” Jampanna, the former Maoist leader, said.Also Read | Maoists issue statement, say their fight not against security forcesThere were other factors that enabled the rise of Maoists in the region.According to senior police officials, the development strategy adopted by the combined Andhra government (and later Telangana government) did not work out in Bastar district due to a vacuum in administration and poor penetration of developmental agencies. “The massive corruption in the lower-rung revenue and forest officials also led to alienation of tribals,” a police official said.Chhattisgarh was also a newly formed state (it was carved out of Madhya Pradesh in 2000) and had limited police strength — there were just about 1,000 policemen in undivided Bastar district. Unlike the Greyhounds of Andhra, the police personnel in Bastar were initially not trained adequately to fight the guerrilla warfare of Maoists.And then there was the Salwa Judum experiment, which, by all independent accounts, only deepened alienation among tribal communities in the region and led to human rights violations, providing a fertile ground to the Maoists to recruit and spread their ideology. The Salwa Judum was essentially a counter-insurgency group formed from within Adivasis to take on the Maoists. It was supposed to be a peace mission, and was launched by Mahendra Karma, a former Communist-turned-Congress leader in June 2005.The failed Judum experiment Projected as spontaneous uprising of tribals against the violence unleashed by Maoists, the Judum comprised mostly local Koya or Dorla tribes, who are believed to be semi-urban, compared to Muriya or Gothikoya tribes, who live deep inside the forests. While the Gothikoyas had become supporters of Maoists, the Koyas were exploited by the security forces in the name of Salwa Judum.Between 2005 and 2010, 644 tribal villages were evacuated and 100,000 brought into the Salwa Judum camps and provided with arms by the police to counter the Maoists. This led to massive armed conflicts between Salwa Judum tribals and Maoists, leading to countless deaths. The Salwa Judum experiment failed subsequently and it had to be wound up following a direction from the Supreme Court in July 2011. Its founder Mahendra Karma was brutally killed by Maoists on May 25, 2013.Also Read | Maoists release photograph of missing CoBRA commandoAfter the failure of Salwa Judum experiment, the Maoists stepped up their recruitment drive. Top Maoists leaders, mostly from Telangana, mingled with the local tribals and assimilated their distinct culture and tradition.The Maoists also started taking care of the needs of the tribals in the deep forests by setting up Janatana Sarkars (people’s governments) in the tribal hamlets, which are essentially local self-governments – they set up schools and banks run by local tribals, created irrigation facilities by constructing check dams on local streams, introduced collective farming and run revenue administration.“For the tribals, the Maoists are the real government, since they have not seen any other official coming to them so far. Naturally, they are prepared to lay down their lives for Maoists and fight with the police forces,” a teacher in a Bastar village, who did not want to be named, said.The absence of roads and bridges on rivers like Indrawati and its tributaries like Chintavagu and Sabri also helped Maoists isolate villagers for over six months in a year, thus giving them opportunity to “brainwash” the tribals.At the same time, the Chhattisgarh Police did not have a specialised anti-Naxal force like the greyhound of Telangana, while Maoists were able to create a specialised army in the form of PLGA with batallions, companies and platoons. Its approach of winning over tribals was coupled with coercion, which took the form of direct attacks on security forces and political leaders, as well as a reign of coercion over people in areas they controlled.The most significant Maoist attack on security forces was when they killed 76 CRPF personnel near Chintalnar village in Dantewada on April 6, 2010. A month later, they killed 36 persons, including 12 special police officers in an attack on a bus at Dantewada and 26 more CRPF jawans at Narayanpur on June 29, 2010.Earlier, they had killed 55 armed Salwa Judum forces and policemen at Rani Bodli in Bijapur on March 15, 2007 and 30 policemen, including Rajnandagaon superintendent of police, at Madanwada on July 12, 2009.In 2013, in one of their most audacious attacks, the Maoists wiped out almost the entire top leadership of the Congress in the state in an attack in Jiram Ghati, killing senior Congress leaders such as Nand Kumar Patel, Mahendra Karma, Dinesh Patel and VC Shukla.In the meantime, Operation Green Hunt, which was believed to have launched in November 2009 by the Central government simultaneously in five states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal — but was never officially confirmed, played a role in containing the Maoist movement to a large extent, but it did not completely weaken the left-wing extremism as these attacks showed.The response from RaipurOfficials believe that the Raman Singh government was more aggressive in tackling Maoists, with a higher number of anti-Naxal operations planned by the police and Central forces during the Bharatiya Janata Party’s rule. But this, civil liberties activists claim, was accompanied by greater human rights violations.In 2014, a controversial Inspector General SRP Kalluri was posted in Bastar. While human rights activists alleged that the violation of human rights was at its peak during Kalluri’s tenure, his supporters lauded him as a superhero in containing Maoist activity — and spoke of his strategy of forcing the surrender of Maoists and enhancing the state’s penetration in rural areas. He was subsequently removed from Bastar in 2017.The Congress government, led by Bhupesh Baghel, which succeeded the Raman Singh government in December 2018, has claimed that the Maoist violence in the state has gone down. There are two views on this decline.On one hand are officials in the field who believe that the decrease in violence in 2019 and 2020 because of the reduced engagement of security forces in core areas with Maoists and “defensive strategy” of forces in the last two years.On the other side of the debate are senior police officials who claim this decline is because of a set of measures — including “offensive and intelligence-based operations” by state police and other paramilitary forces; the opening up of new operational base camps in the affected areas which has helped the police regain control over more than 8,000sqkm area in Bastar Range; and policies and programmes to provide employment to tribals of Bastar.The dip in Maoist strength According to official figures tabled in the Chhattisgarh state assembly during the recent budget session, there has been a decline in the encounters in the state – from 211 in 2016 to 198 in 2017, 166 in 2018, 121 in 2019 and 84 in 2020. The Maoists have made a tactical retreat due to stepping up of combing operations.“The Maoists were also short of funds due to lockdown and demonetisation, and thus wanted road construction and other activities to continue in lieu of levy, so there is a marked decrease in arson,” said an IPS officer posted in Bastar.A section of intelligence officials believe that the death of key Maoist leaders like Ramanna due to medical illness and poor health of other ageing top Maoists working in the state have decreased their mobility, thus leading to a vacuum, especially at the level of strategists. Top leaders are not able to move freely as in the past.However, despite the widespread sense that the Maoist forces have weakened, the PLGA remains strong. “They still have more than 1,000 automatic weapons looted from policemen,” a senior police official said.In the last two years, two serious incidents — the Minpa attack in 2020 and Tarrem in 2021 — occurred when forces were in operations. The PLGA forces rehearsed their ambush plans many times, and when forces arrived, they rearranged themselves in very short time, thus surprising security forces.“Although Maoists are now not in a position to attack police camps and police stations as they did in past, they still possess the capability to ambush security forces in their core areas due to their terrain knowledge, village support, civil recce teams leaking all movements of security forces and their fearless lightening attacks,” the police official said.Is there a way out? After Saturday’s encounter at Bijapur, Union home minister Amit Shah who called on the injured CRPF jawans at Jagdalur and Raipur declared that the Centre would decisively crush the Maoist movement.Experts offer different prescriptions.Ramesh Kanneganti, a Hyderabad-based internal security expert and executive director of Centre for Human Security Studies, said, “There is an urgent need to work on more robust state-level and Central-level multi-agency coordination to achieve greater operational and strategic alignment to weed out Maoists. National security and human security approaches should be blended to liquidate the menace with more emphasis on technology and human intelligence merger.”Professor G Hara Gopal, rights activist and former professor of Hyderabad Central University, who played a major role in the AP government-Maoist talks in 2004, said the whole problem lies in the Central government dealing with the issue as a “law-and-order problem, instead of socio-economic problem.”“As long as the government follows this path, the problem is going continue for a long and there is going to be loss of human life on both sides. This is very unfortunate. There is a need to engage Maoists in dialogue and the government should try to resolve the fundamental issues being raised by them,” he said. He added that there was also a need for a vibrant civil society which should take the initiative in bringing about a dialogue between the government and the Maoists. “Before the 2004 talks, there was a big exercise by such civil society groups, including former IAS officer S R Sankaran. Now, there is no such atmosphere in Chhattisgarh,” he regretted.Irrespective of what approach the government adopts, or the mix of strategies it weaves together, the battle against Maoists is entering a new phase in India. The past offers lessons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-maoist-violence-returns-decoding-the-rise-of-ultra-left-insurgency-101617789625729.html
08-04-2021||India||What is driving India’s second Covid-19 wave?||We have seen miracles, and we have seen disasters. In September 2020, India came close to 100,000 Covid-19 cases a day, and it seemed an inexorable rise. And then magically, the cases started to dip, and with a few blips here and there in specific cities, by January, we were seeing fewer than 10,000 new cases a day. In February, the numbers starting heading up again, and we have now breached 100,000 new cases per day, the second country in the world to do so.Why did this happen now? Why did the numbers escalate beyond what India had at its peak the first time? For the Sars-CoV-2, it does not take a lot of virus to infect another person. When people mingle, speak, shout and sing, they unknowingly spew out infectious virus. This clear mode of transmission is what makes masks, distancing and ventilation so effective. In September, we cared about prevention, and emerging from severe restrictions, were willing to do what it took to keep spread down. From then on, week by week, we have been slipping, first in some regions, then others, with some activities and then others. Crowding on public transport, in markets, at festivals, at family celebrations and during elections are back to being acceptable. The communication from the government and of experts seem to go unheard.Also Read | India surpasses US to become fastest Covid-19 vaccinating country, says CentreAlso Watch | How India could have avoided second Covid wave & why next 45 days is crucialThis lack of appropriate behaviour that could prevent the virus’ spread has increased, and potentially been amplified, because of viruses that are more transmissible than the ancestral version of the virus that we had last year. We are still not clear about the proportion of B.1.1.7 or the United Kingdom variant, which spreads more easily and may cause more severe disease, and which has badly affected Punjab, and possibly other states.The new Indian so-called “double mutant” variant is now the global lineage B1.617. But is this virus more transmissible? Does it cause more severe disease? Will vaccines work? These are questions that we will be able to answer if we can interrogate our health data and back it up with standardised laboratory investigations as in other parts of the world.We have two vaccines that work well against Sars-CoV-2. Covishield had the advantage of large-scale clinical trials being conducted elsewhere that generated efficacy data quickly, requiring small scale studies in India. But it also has a disadvantage — the initial messy data about doses, intervals and age groups and miscommunication by AstraZeneca have led to confused messaging about how to use the vaccine. Covaxin has the advantage of tremendous support from the government of India but the disadvantage of needing to do large-scale clinical trials in India, never an easy task, given the lack of clinical research experience at many sites.But the roll-out of vaccines, despite the fast-tracking of approvals, prioritisation frameworks, central procurement, efforts at preparedness for vaccination sites and sessions, establishment of process and development of the CoWin app, has been slow. The government originally planned to immunise 300 million people by June-July (later July-August), and this appears very unlikely if the pace of vaccination does not increase several-fold.Are we in the same position that we were in during the rapid increase of the first peak in India? If not, what makes it different? From the serological surveys, between a quarter and one-third of the population has been infected but this is not evenly distributed by place and stratum of society; so those who had the ability to isolate last year and are not yet vaccinated, are more likely to get infected. But given that vaccines work much better than expected, it is not unreasonable to suppose that our immune systems are capable of handling this virus well. This means that previously infected people should expect some protection against severe disease for several months.Additionally available vaccines provide some, not complete, measure of protection against most viral variants. If one-third of the population is already protected at least against severe disease, and we can ramp up vaccination quickly while continuing the measures that we know restrict the spread of the virus, then control is feasible, even with the new variants.We know what works, but to use the tools we have most effectively, we need more detailed data. We are not in the same situation today that we were in last year, so control measures cannot be one-size-fits-all.We need to know more about the people who are getting infected. Where are they from? Age? Gender? Vaccinated? Previously infected? Disease severity? If we have this information and can tie it together, we can achieve more tailored strategies for control instead of strategies that have an uncertain effect. What does a night curfew prevent and how effective is it? We don’t really have the data.Yet, on the other hand, we are bombarded by news that affects vaccine uptake, for instance, “Doctors infected after vaccination”, “Healthcare worker in XX dies two days after vaccination”. Conveying both truth and uncertainty is important, as is explaining with facts that vaccines are not perfect, that care continues to be required when there are high numbers of cases in our communities, that we have a surveillance system for picking up vaccine side-effects, but it may not be always able to assess the relationship with the vaccines.This is a challenging time, but we have the science to help us get through this pandemic and future ones. We need to use it, together.Gagandeep Kang is professor, Christian Medical College, Vellore The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19battling-india-s-second-wave-101617783024598.html
08-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh ambush: Maoists release image of missing commando||A photograph of a commando from the Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF)’s elite CoBRA unit -- missing after a deadly April 2 ambush by Maoist ultras in Chhattisgarh’s Sukma-Bijapur region -- was released on Wednesday by Maoists, who have demanded that a mediator be appointed by the government to negotiate his release.This photograph, which was circulating on social media, surfaced on a day the soldier’s family protested in Jammu, demanding that the government facilitate his swift return.The photograph showed Rakeshwar Singh Manhas, 35, a commando with the 210th CoBRA battalion, sitting alone in what appeared to be a hut. According to local journalists in the region, the photo was sent on WhatsApp. “At 11.27am, a photograph of the missing jawan was sent on a WhatsApp number by Maoist leader Vikalp,” said Sukma-based journalist Raja Rathore.When asked about Manhas’s photograph, inspector general of police (Bastar range), Sundarraj P, said the situation was being closely monitored.“All best possible efforts are being made to secure the safe return of the jawan,” he was quoted as saying by PTI.On Tuesday evening, the banned Communist Party of India (Maoist) issued a press release, signed by its spokesperson Vikalp, asking the government to decide on a mediator to discuss Manhas’s release. The note, issued by the Maoist Dandakaranya Special Zonal Committee said: “The state government should appoint interlocutor, we will then handover the jawan to them. Until then, the jawan will be safe in the custody of Jantana Sarkar.”Though no interlocutor has been named, tribal activist Soni Sori left for the encounter site on Wednesday to appeal to Maoists to release the abducted jawan. “The government should have taken steps to secure the release of the jawan. I just want that the jawan be freed safely, for which I am going to the incident site,” Sori told reporters.Meanwhile, in Manhas’s home town in Jammu, hundreds of protesters, including the commando’s family, staged a sit-in at Barnai Chowk on Wednesday, and demanded that the government show the same urgency to facilitate his release that was shown in bringing back wing commander Abhinandan Varthaman, who was taken hostage by Pakistan after the 2019 Balakot strike.Manhas’s wife, Meenu, who learnt of his abduction from a local reporter in Chhattisgarh on the day of the ambush, said: “It’s been four days since my husband was abducted by Maoists but the government is doing nothing to ensure his release from captivity... If a jawan is late to report to duty by just one day after leave, action is taken against him, but here, he is missing since Saturday and nobody is bothered.”She added that the family has not heard either from the government or the CRPF, and whatever information they had was through the media. Manhas is the family’s sole breadwinner, and has a five-year-old daughter.Twenty-two soldiers from the CRPF’s CoBRA unit, District Reserve Guard, and the Special Task Force lost their lives in a five-hour-long clash with Maoists. This was the deadliest Maoist attack in the region in the last four years, and prompted Union home minister Amit Shah to describe it as a “decisive turn” in the fight against Maoist ultras. Shah also said this week that the issue would reach its “logical end”.Officials said that several Maoists -- HT reported that officials estimated the number to be between 12 and 20 -- were also killed in the gunfight. The Maoists, however, claimed in a statement on Tuesday that only four of their cadre were killed.“The Maoists are showing definite interest for talks in each of their press notes after this sad incident. Possible negotiation to release the CRPF jawan can be a very good beginning in an otherwise very grim situation if followed through creatively,” Shubhranshu Chaudhary, a peace activist working in Bastar, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maoists-release-photograph-of-missing-cobra-commando-101617780384486.html
08-04-2021||India||From Munger to NCR, an inside account of how Delhi’s criminals source their arms||Till a decade ago, the illegal arms factories of Munger in Bihar almost always found a way in the confessions of criminals caught with guns in Delhi. Today, Munger, about 1,200km from Delhi, is no longer a source of concern for the police in the national capital, for the trend of Delhi’s criminals sourcing weapons from Bihar’s infamous factories has dissipated, according to key police officials.But that’s where the good news ends. The police have a bigger worry. In Delhi, when, on an average, there are at least two incidents involving the use of firearms in crimes every day, factories have now mushroomed in the vicinity of the capital itself. Those who ran the small arms factories in Munger have now joined hands and trained people in western Uttar Pradesh. HT spoke to many police officers, both retired and serving, to understand the market of illegal gun trade in Delhi.The last time Munger’s illegal firearm factories were in the headlines was in March 2020, when a 7.65 bore countrymade pistol was seized from the house of Shahrukh Pathan, the north east Delhi resident whose video of pointing the gun at a policeman during Delhi riots went viral on the internet — the pistol was manufactured in Munger. A year later, the Delhi Police have not been able to arrest the person from whom Pathan had purchased the gun or locate the factory in Munger where it was manufactured, despite multiple visits to the district.“This is because illegal gun factories in Munger have got crippled in the last five-six years and those skilled in the trade have shifted themselves to other states. They are now adopting newer strategies to earn their livelihood. In fact, the skilled labourers of those factories are now being hired by gun runners who are operating from Delhi’s neighbourhood such as Meerut and Aligarh,” said a crime branch officer.From Munger to west UPBetween 2012 and 2015, the Delhi Police’s special cell and crime branch teams would make at least two visits every month to Munger to bust owners of illegal gun factories, arrest gunrunners and people involved in the trafficking chain, following any recovery of illicit firearms in Delhi. These days, the teams hardly visit the district once a year.But the use of illicit arms in street crimes such as robbery and dacoity in the national capital, or the numbers of seizure of such guns, has not gone down. What has happened is that manufacturing units have come closer to clients, police officers working on gunrunning rackets said.Also Read | Man wanted in 39 criminal cases arrested after brief exchange of fire with policeEarlier, illegal gun factories of Munger catered to 60% to 70% of total supply of illicit guns in Delhi and its neighbouring states while Madhya Pradesh’s Khargone, Khandwa, Burhanpur and Dhar were the secondary suppliers. But in the last two-three years, the trend has changed. Gunrunners based in Meerut, Aligarh and a few other places in western Uttar Pradesh are now catering to a majority of the demands of illicit firearms by criminals in Delhi-NCR.This is also evident from the fact that Delhi Police and UP Police have been taking action against illegal gun factories and gunrunners in recent times in this area.On March 27, the UP Police seized 133 illicit firearms after busting four illegal gun factories and arresting eight gunrunners in Meerut.A week before that, Delhi Police arrested five men with three countrymade pistols, which, the men revealed, they had procured from one Aamir Saifi, a gunrunner based in Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut. Just five days before their arrest, the same team had seized 10 guns from six arrested persons, including a trafficker of illicit firearms — it was during their questioning that the name of Aamir Saifi as a key supplier of the weapons surfaced.Similarly, in June last year, an illegal mini-arms factory with 516 firearm barrels, 10 manufactured pistols, and lots of manufacturing parts, was busted in Aligarh following a joint raid by Delhi’s special cell and Aligarh police.Decoding the shift There are various reasons behind the shifting of illegal gun factories from Munger to Delhi’s outskirts. But the primary among them were the non-stop raids, seizures and arrests in Munger by the Bihar police as well as police from other states, and the proximity between the suppliers and the clients, experts as well as police officers from Bihar and Delhi said.“The last prominent raid in Munger was carried out last year, when the Delhi Police teams camped in the district for several days to arrest the gunrunner through whom Shahrukh Pathan (mentioned above) had purchased the pistol that he had pointed at a policeman during the Delhi riots. Since then, no state police have carried out any operation in Munger. These days, mostly notices are received from other state police following the arrest of Munger’s illegal gun manufacturers in their states,” said Manavjit Singh Dhillon, superintendent of police (Munger).Also Read | 5 hitmen, part of Lawrence Bishnoi gang, arrested in north DelhiRetired Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Ashok Chand said that the Delhi Police’s crackdown on gun factories in Munger started in 2012 following a murder case wherein a man allegedly killed his wife and in-laws using a countrymade pistol that was found to be manufactured in Munger.With that information and the fact that a majority of the illegal firearms seized during that period had Munger links, the then police chief Neeraj Kumar directed the special cell and crime branch teams to neutralise the entire nexus, said Chand.“For the next three-four years, Delhi and Munger police carried out incessant drives against illegal gun factories, forcing criminals involved in the unlawful trade to shift their bases and adopt newer strategies to run their business,” said Chand.Between 2017 and 2018, at least 125 AK-47s, fabricated from parts of weapons presumably phased out or condemned by the army and dumped in its stores in Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh, reached Bihar’s Munger and then found their way into the hands of Maoists and gangsters. The recovery of many such guns and arrests of some key players grabbed the government’s attention and the national investigation agency (NIA) was roped in to investigate the matter.“The crackdown that followed nearly wiped out the deadly arms factories from the district and a majority of the skilled labourers shifted,” said another Delhi Police’s crime branch officer.The new operational manual Even as the illegal gun trade from Munger has declined, it has led to dislocation rather — with people involved in the manufacturing, supply and sale of firearms now hiring skilled workers from Munger, and shifting them to places around Delhi, thereby creating newer fabrication hubs, smaller in scale and more dispersed.As most of the firearms were caught during their transit, the gunrunners adopted the strategy of looking for safe zones around Delhi. The gunrunners look for low income group neighbourhoods, take houses on rent for three-four months, set up their machines and begin assembling firearms, said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav.“Many of the gunrunners we have arrested and interrogated in the last two-three years revealed that they hire blacksmiths from Munger skilled in manufacturing sophisticated guns, procure raw materials such as springs, butt and barrels from different places and assemble the guns in their temporary gun factories,” said Yadav.Unlike earlier, when gunrunners used to transit bigger consignments from Munger or Madhya Pradesh, suppliers have now become careful and take many precautions while adopting newer ways to smuggle illegal weapons into Delhi. They mostly procure raw materials from their older hubs, and the assemble guns at rented places around Delhi. Deals between clients and supplies are no longer happening in open telephone calls but encrypted mobile applications to avoid police attention and stay away from their radar.Analysis of confessional statements reveal that traffickers of illegal firearms avoid taking the border routes which are under close police watch. When railways are used, the operators prefer not to land at the stations located in Delhi but get down at stoppages just before Delhi and from there, use local public transport to enter the city.In many cases, women accompany the male carriers and they pose as couples to avoid police attention while travelling in private vehicles or in public transport. Police have also found that hiding the illegal firearms in special cavities created in a car doors or boot is another way of smuggling such weapons.The costingAssembling a pistol takes just a day or two and the total investment is between ₹2,000 and ₹3,000. The gun is finally sold at prices ranging between ₹20,000 and ₹30,000, depending on its quality.The high profit margin has made this illegal business lucrative, attracting people who want to become rich overnight, said Chand, who last served in Delhi Police’s crime branch.Over a decade ago, the demands of firearms in Delhi and other north Indian states were fulfilled not only by the gunrunners based in Munger or Madhya Pradesh—supplies also came from Pakistan. Earlier, foreign-made firearms, mostly Chinese guns, were in high demand among gangsters and criminals because their quality was seen to be better than the crude pistols manufactured in India’s illegal factories.“And it was the reason that even Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorists had involved themselves in the illegal trade. One illegal firearm manufacturing factory that was set up by IM’s co-founder Yasin Bhatkal was busted by the Delhi Police in 2011. I was on the force then and many such operations were carried out across the country,” said Chand.But as the smuggled foreign-made guns were costly and risky to traffick across borders, the gunrunners in India started using good metal and materials to manufacture guns of better quality.“Unlike the previous crudely made pistols, the barrels of these sophisticated pistols do not burst after one or two shots or cause injuries to the users,” explained Chand.The impact on Delhi’s crime scene Even as the Delhi Police data shows that the use of firearms in crimes in the city has decreased over the past three-four years, on an average, two crimes, in which firearms were used, were reported everyday in this period.Police data shows that firearms were used in 672 crimes in 2020 while in 2019 this number was 736. Similarly, there were 897 cases of use of firearms in crimes in 2017 and the number came down to 810 the following year (2018).In March 2021 alone, there have been at least 20 cases wherein firearms were used for street crimes such as robbery and snatching or heinous crimes like murder and attempt to murder. On March 25, a group of seven-eight assailants opened fire at a police team at GTB Hospital in their bid to release a jailed gangster.On March 23, in a suspected gang rivalry case, four motorcycle-borne assailants fired nearly two dozen bullets in south Delhi’s Dakshinpuri to kill a 31-year-old meat shop owner. Around a week ago, a 45-year-old chartered accountant was shot dead at his under construction building in Adarsh Nagar during a robbery bid. On March 12, two armed men who were out for snatching fired and injured a policeman after he tried to stop their motorcycle and overpower them in Defence Colony area.These incidents show that criminals carrying firearms become violent even during snatching a gold chain or a mobile phone. They do not hesitate in firing on the police as well.Be it crude or refined, guns continue to be the favourite weapon of criminals, as they are the ultimate display of power for them. There is no better way of defining the stature of a criminal than by mentioning what kind of weapons he posses or uses, says deputy commissioner of police (crime) Chinmoy Biswal, who is also Delhi Police’s spokesperson.But Biswal also said that police have launched a massive crackdown on illegal guns and the number of weapons every year is proof of that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/from-munger-to-ncr-an-inside-account-of-how-delhi-s-criminals-source-their-arms-101617774684313.html
08-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Brazil reports first case of South African Covid-19 variant||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) case tally in the country currently stands at over 12.68 million with the active caseload at more than 788,000, as per the Union health ministry. The country is witnessing a worrying trend of rising Covid-19 cases that led many states to impose stricter curbs to control the spread of the virus. The toll has reached over 165,000 as India reported 446 deaths in the last 24 hours on Tuesday, according to the health ministry.On Tuesday, the 81st day of the vaccination, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossed 8.40 crore.Globally, more than 132 million people have been affected by the disease that was declared a pandemic last year and over 2.8 million people have lost their lives due to Covid-19, as per the John Hopkins University tracker. Cofepris, Mexico’s health regulator has authorised the emergency use of the Covid-19 vaccine developed by India, Covaxin, Reuters quoted its foreign minister Marcelo Ebard as saying. South Korea witnessed the biggest jump in the number of daily Covid-19 cases in three months as it reported 668 new cases and US President Joe Biden wants all adults to be eligible for the vaccine by April 19, reported Bloomberg.Follow all the updates here:Brazil reports first case of South African Covid-19 variantBrazil on Wednesday recorded the first case of the South African variant of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) as the country is already witnessing the highest deaths across the world due to the local variant. Lucknow to be under night curfew from April 8 between 9 pm to 6 amUttar Pradesh's capital Lucknow will be placed under night curfew restrictions from April 8 between 9 pm to 6 am, Police Commissioner DK Thakur told news agency ANI. Jharkhand reports 1,312 new Covid-19 cases, 7 deathsJharkhand reports 1,312 new #COVID19 cases, 277 recoveries and 7 deathsTotal positive cases: 1,30,908Total recoveries: 1,21,885Death toll: 1,151Active cases: 7,872 pic.twitter.com/cdDOfmMByAJharkhand reports 1,312 new Covid-19 cases and seven deaths, taking the state's tally to 130,908 cases and the death toll reached 1,151, reports ANI.Pune district reports 10,907 new Covid-19 cases, 62 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Pune district reported 10,907 new COVID19 cases, 62 deaths and 7,832 recoveries in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,04,037Total recoveries: 5,09,278Active cases: 84,526Death toll: 10,402With 10,907 new Covid-19 cases and 62 deaths in the last 24 hours, Pune's Covid-19 tally reached 604,037 cases and death toll climbed to 10,402, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports 59,907 new Covid-19 cases, 322 deaths in 24 hoursWith 59,907 new Covid-19 cases and 322 deaths, Maharashtra's Covid-19 tally reached 3,173,261 cases and death toll climbed to 59,907.Mumbai city reported 10,442 new cases and 24 related deaths which took the city's tally to 483,042 cases and 11,856 deaths.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive completes administering over 88 million doses#LargestVaccineDrive More than 8.83 Cr #COVID19 #Vaccine doses administered cumulatively with 13.14 lakh beneficiaries given the vaccine till 8 pm today. https://t.co/zE4jmhQn9k pic.twitter.com/sRIvMzpvdoMore than 88 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered in the country, according to the Union health ministry.Union health ministry asks Delhi, Maharashtra, Punjab to improve Covid-19 vaccination driveManohar Agnani, Additional Secretary, Union Health Ministry writes to Principal Secretaries of Health & Family Welfare of Punjab, Delhi & Maharashtra, asking them to undertake necessary corrective actions immediately for improving the #COVID19 vaccination drives in their state/UTAddition secretary to the Union health ministry Manohar Agnani asked the Principal health secretaries of Delhi, Maharashtra and Punjab to undertake corrective actions for improving the Covid-19 vaccination drive, reports ANI.Punjab reports 2,997 new Covid-19 cases, 63 deathsPunjab reports 2,997 fresh COVID-19 cases, 2,959 discharges, and 63 deathsTotal cases: 2,60,020Total cured cases: 226887Active cases: 25,855Death toll: 7,278 pic.twitter.com/kdZzhOlWZlWith 2,997 new Covid-19 cases and 63 new deaths, Punjab's tally reached 260,020 and death toll climbed to 7,278, according to a bulletin from the state government.Karnataka reports close to 7,000 new Covid-19 cases, 35 deathsKarnataka reports 6,976 new #COVID19 cases, 2,794 recoveries and 35 deathsTotal cases: 10,33,560Total recoveries: 9,71,556Death toll: 12,731Active cases: 49,254 pic.twitter.com/OvhDDbvUxvKarnataka's Covid-19 tally reached 1,033,560 cases and death toll climbed to 12,731 as the state reported 6,976 new cases and 35 fatalities, according to a bulletin from the state government.Union health minister says states trying to divert attention from failure after complains of Covid-19 vaccine shortages surfaceDeplorable attempts by some state governments to distract attention from their failures and spread panic among the people: Dr Harsh Vardhan, Union Health Minister #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/DkC8mCnJpXUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan says that some states are trying divert attentions from their failure to contain the Covid-19 infection spread, after some state governments complained of vaccine shortage, reports ANI.Watch | ‘Mumbai facing Covid vaccine shortage, stock may exhaust in 2-3 days’: MayorMumbai Mayor said that there is a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine doses in the city. Kishori Pednekar added that vaccine supplies in Mumbai will be over in three days.Chhattisgarh home minister announces separate centres for Covid-19 patients requiring ventilator, oxygenPeople are advised not to delay treatment for #COVID19. Separate centers will be made for patients coming for check-up, requiring a ventilator, oxygen: Chhattisgarh Home Minister Tamradhwaj Sahu pic.twitter.com/Zb9akNHQQTChhattisgarh home minister Tamradhwaj Sahu has announced that separate centres would be made for Covid-19 patients coming for check-up, requiring ventilator, oxygen. He also urged patients to not delay Covid-19 treatment, reports ANI.Nagpur reports 5,338 new Covid-19 cases, 66 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Nagpur district reported 5,338 new #COVID19 cases, 3,868 recoveries and 66 deaths, in the last 24 hours, as per Civil Surgeon, Nagpur.  Total cases: 2,54,221Total recoveries: 2,05,784Active cases: 42,933Death toll: 5504With 5,338 new Covid-19 cases and 66 deaths in the last 24 hours, Nagpur's Covid-19 tally reached 254,221 cases and death toll climbed to 5,504, reports ANI.Covid-19: 10,619,190 vaccine doses supplied to Maharashtra so far, says government sourcesSupply of #COVID19 vaccines to Maharashtra - total supplied 1,06,19,190, in-pipeline 7,43,280, consumption 90,53,523: Government sourcesGovernment sources say that so far, 10,619,190 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been supplied to Maharashtra and another 743,280 doses are in pipeline, report ANI.Click here to read Maharashtra health minister's commentsCovid-19: Raipur district to be declared a containment zone, borders to be sealed from April 9 to 19Keeping in mind the #COVID19 situation, Raipur district is being declared a containment zone from 6 pm on 9th April till 6 am on 19th April. All the borders of the district will remain sealed during this period: Raipur district collector S Bharathi Dasan#Chhattisgarh pic.twitter.com/7Q0aoXz8BDRaipur district collector S Bharathi Dasan has said that the district will be declared a containment zone and its borders will remain sealed between 6pm on April 9 and 6am on April 19, reports ANI.Chandigarh: Night curfew between 10.30pm and 5am to bar all non-essential activitiesProhibition on movement of individuals for all non-essential activities b/w 10:30 pm-5 am in Chandigarh. Order to come into effect from tonight till further orders. Hospitals, chemist shops & ATMs to remain open 24/7. No curbs on inter-state & intra-state of goods: Chandigarh DM pic.twitter.com/fORcNSqj0fNew restrictions in Chandigarh has prohibited all non-essential movement in the state between 10,30pm and 5am due to rising Covid-19 cases. However, hospitals, chemist shops and ATMs and inter-state, intra-state movement of goods are exempted, reports ANI.Karnataka imposes restrictions under Sec 144 in Bengaluru city limits as Covid-19 infections surgeDue to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases in Bengaluru, the Karnataka government on Wednesday ordered that restrictions under Section 144 of CrPC will be implemented in the city limits to contain the gathering of crowds.Click here to read more‘Covid second wave mostly infecting young adults and children’: LNJP MDAmid surge in Covid cases in the national capital, Medical Director of Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan Hospital, Dr Suresh Kumar informed that mostly young adults, pregnant women and children are getting infected this time.CM Amarinder Singh lists out new Covid-19 restrictions imposed in PunjabDue to increasing spread of #Covid19, we will be implementing stricter restrictions across Punjab to control the pandemic. Strongly urge everyone to observe full precautions & all those eligible to get their vaccination done. Vaccination is necessary to build immunity. pic.twitter.com/wNrRUDbfHWPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh shared a list of new rules imposed in the state due to the increase in the number of Covid-19 cases.Gujarat police collect ₹2.66 crores as fine people violating Covid-19 normsGujarat police collected fines worth ₹2.66 crore in four days from people not found wearing masks and those spitting in public places amid #COVID19 pandemic: OfficialGujarat police collected fines worth ₹2.66 crores in four days from people who were found without masks and those spitting in public places, reports PTI.Punjab imposes statewide night curfew from 9pm to 5amPunjab Government imposes night curfew from 9pm-5am across the entire state till April 30, also bans political gatherings in the state.2000 more beds added in hospitals, says Satyendar Jain as Covid-19 rise in DelhiDelhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday informed that the number of beds in hospitals has been increased by more than 2,000 in the past 3 days in the wake of rising coronavirus cases in the national capital, reported ANI.Odisha reports 791 new Covid-19 casesOdisha reported 791 new Covid-19 cases, 266 recoveries and 1 death on April 6, reported ANI.Omar Abdullah receives first dose of Covid-19 vaccineNational Conference (NC) leader Omar Abdullah on Wednesday took the first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at Sher-I-Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) in Srinagar, reported ANI.Arunachal Pradesh logs two new Covid-19 casesTwo more people tested positive for Covid-19 in Arunachal Pradesh, raising the caseload to 16,853, a senior health department official said on Wednesday, reported PTI.Mizoram reports 8 new Covid-19 casesAt least eight more people, including two children, tested positive for novel coronavirus in Mizoram, pushing the tally to 4,508, an official said on Wednesday, reported PTI.PM Modi urges people to take all precautions against Covid-19On the occasion of the World Health Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday urged people to focus on fighting Covid-19 by taking all precautions, including wearing a mask, regularly washing hands and following other protocols, reported PTI.India reports 115,736 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursThe number of new Covid-19 infections in India crosses 100,000 mark again as the country reported 115,736 new cases and 630 deaths in last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry data.Over 251 million Covid-19 tests conducted so far25,14,39,598 samples tested for Covid-19, up to April 6. Of these, 12,08,329 samples were tested yesterday, said Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).North Korea continues to claim no Covid-19 caseNorth Korea continues to claim a perfect record in keeping out the coronavirus in its latest report to the World Health Organization, reported AP.Cambodian PM orders home treatments for Covid-19 patients as hospitals near capacityCambodian Prime Minister Hun Sen ordered health officials on Tuesday to prepare to treat coronavirus patients at home, as the country's biggest Covid-19 outbreak so far tests the capacity of its fragile healthcare system, reported Reuters.China reports 12 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 12 new Covid-19 cases in the mainland for April 6, down from 24 a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Wednesday, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-china-reports-12-new-covid-19-cases-101617759255397.html
08-04-2021||Today's||Covid to polls: The chaos that is India||It was the best of times, it was the worst of times, it was the age of wisdom, it was the age of foolishness”: Charles Dickens in A Tale of Two Cities. The author’s reflections on France and Britain in the mid-19th century now echo in 21st-century India, trapped as we are in our Dickensian moment. If 2020 was the year of doom and gloom, 2021 is where hope alternates with despair in surreal discomfort. Early year optimism that the worst was over has descended into deepening concerns over a second Covid-19 wave.Covid-19 cases have climbed to more than 100,000 a day, but if you are covering the state elections, you wouldn’t know that a pandemic was on. The masks are off as thousands gather at rallies. Lockdown rules and severe penalties are in place for the ordinary citizen, but devotees are in a celebratory mood at the Haridwar Maha Kumbh while cricket’s annual mela, the Indian Premier League, is set to kick off in Mumbai. Not more than 50 people can be invited to a wedding, but no Covid-19 protocols seem to apply to political rallies and religious gatherings. Crazy but true. Maharashtra is the worst-affected Covid-19 state, but is also racked by political instability with the coalition government in Mumbai on a monthly ventilator. Its “Big Boss”, Sharad Pawar, was admitted to hospital for a surgery, barely days after reports surfaced of a clandestine dinner meeting between him and Union home minister Amit Shah in the backdrop of extortion charges made by a former Mumbai police commissioner against the state home minister who has finally stepped down. It gets worse. The Union health ministry and the Maharashtra government are in an ugly face-off over vaccines. The claim that the state isn’t getting enough vaccines is a product of bureaucratic red tape, but so great is the trust deficit between Delhi and Mumbai that the fracas is hardly surprising. Caught in the middle are anxious citizens queuing up at vaccination centres. Many netas, by virtue of age or other health conditions, have got their vaccinations; the lesser mortals must wait their turn.Amid the wrangling, surely, one big lesson of 2020 is the need for the political leadership to focus on better Covid-19 management and get the economy back on track. Sadly, it’s a lesson unlearnt. An important budget session of Parliament was cut short because netas had to hit the campaign trail. Most Union ministers aren’t in their offices, but instead have been assigned specific districts in Bengal to handle. Such is the obsessive desire of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to win Bengal that the central government is playing second fiddle to the party’s ambitions; it’s almost as if governance and crucial policy decisions can wait till Kolkata is conquered.In television studios, we are told that a V-shaped recovery is on its way, but, on the ground, as one travels from Kerala to Assam, the one unifying factor is visible economic distress, especially among those in the unorganised sector. Jobs have been lost, incomes have shrunk, fuel prices have risen, but the dominant narrative on the campaign trail is once again about religion and the Hindu-Muslim divide. In Assam, the “pro-migrant” Badruddin Ajmal is the “enemy” figure, while in Kerala the rhetoric of “love jihad”, Sabarimala, Hindu traditions, Muslim appeasement and Church assertion now threatens decades of harmony. In Bengal, the religious polarisation has become so acute that chief minister Mamata Banerjee revealed her gotra and recited the Chandi Path. The one state relatively free of the religion card is Tamil Nadu but that’s perhaps because the number of Muslims is not significant enough here to make a difference at election time.And in the midst of the spiralling poll insanity around us, the Election Commission’s role is coming under the scanner. The body is supposed to be a neutral umpire but there are allegations that it is increasingly looking like a 12th man for the ruling party at the Centre — ready to show a red card to the Opposition but hesitant to blow the whistle when the BJP plays foul. These allegations are fuelled by its own actions: Even when it did act against BJP strongman Himanta Biswa Sarma, the penalty was quickly diluted.Meanwhile, farmers are still agitating and demanding that the farm laws be withdrawn. Their agitation has been on for at least four months now. Surprisingly, we don’t hear of rising Covid-19 cases in the farm community — though experts warn of its potential to be a super-spreader event, especially given the rising cases in Punjab — even as those in Mumbai’s high-rises bear the brunt. Is the battle-hardened kisan more immune to the virus than the sharp-suited Indian? May be, may be not: in the India of 2021, kuch bhi ho sakta hai (anything can happen). Post-script: Whether India’s farmers are Covid-19 proof or not, netas sure think they are. On the campaign trail in Assam, Sarma, who is also the state’s health minister, has refused to wear a mask. When asked why, he brazened it out: “There is no corona in Assam.” Another neta offers us an even better one-liner when we ask him why he doesn’t wear a mask on a roadshow. “Please, understand, people have gathered here to see me, not you. How can they see me properly if I wear a mask?”Rajdeep Sardesai is a senior journalist and author The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid-to-polls-the-chaos-that-is-india-101617886370485.html
08-04-2021||Today's||Despite divergences, build on strategic ties with Russia||All eyes were on the visit of Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov to India to meet his counterpart S Jaishankar earlier this week. In the past year, the pandemic led to the postponement of the 2020 India-Russia annual bilateral summit, and differences over the Indo-Pacific escalated amid heightened bipolar rivalry between the United States (US) and China. But Russia’s role in meeting India’s defence requirements during the stand-off with China, and the two visits of defence minister Rajnath Singh to Moscow were seen as positive developments. Carrying forward the discussion, the Lavrov-Jaishankar meeting covered a wide range of bilateral, regional and global issues, with preparations now underway for the Narendra Modi-Vladimir Putin annual summit later this year.The high-level engagement is particularly important in the India-Russia relationship as it remains driven by top-level interaction. Amid a changing world order, the need to strengthen and diversify bilateral ties makes the 2021 summit critical in determining the future direction of the partnership. As Jaishankar noted, the “context” of his talks with Lavrov was that of “global political changes” characterised by the “rebalanced nature of international relations”. A feature of this rebalancing has been Russia’s return as an influential power in world affairs, its turn to the east, and China emerging as its key external partner. This has also been evident in Lavrov’s visits in the first three months of 2021 alone, where he has been to the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, China, South Korea and Tajikistan (for the Heart of Asia conference), with a trip to Iran scheduled for mid-April. The India visit, where the minister was accompanied by special envoy on Afghanistan, Zamir Kabulov, was followed by one to Pakistan amid the push towards an Afghan peace agreement.Each of the geographies covered during these visits remain critical areas of interest for India, underscoring the need for engagement with the former superpower on issues of mutual strategic interest. Moscow might not always be the most powerful player, but it retains significant capacity to act both as a spoiler and a facilitator in Eurasia, and has seen a resurgence of influence in West Asia.An acknowledgement of this was evident in the detailed discussion on regional and global issues between the two foreign ministers. While both India and Russia will continue to pursue their respective trajectories in world affairs, coordination on mutually beneficial issues will be vital in this period of flux in the global system. In this regard, India shared its views on the Indo-Pacific, where Russia has significant reservations. While differences persist, a frank discussion offers the opportunity to avoid misinterpretation of intentions and allows for exploration of potential areas of cooperation. India insists that the former superpower is an important partner in its Act East policy, also because a more balanced Russia-China relationship is in its interests.Another area of focus was Afghanistan. Worried about the impact of an unstable Afghanistan on its security, India needs sustained engagement with the major powers engaged in peace efforts. In this regard, the decision to have Kabulov stay in regular contact with India is a positive development, even as Moscow improves in engagement with Pakistan with an eye on Afghanistan. Given Russia’s assurance to India about no military hardware supply to Pakistan, New Delhi would expect that the offer of military equipment for counter-terrorism to Islamabad does not upset the strategic balance. Looking at the broader context of Russian foreign policy and pragmatically assessing the bilateral ties offers India a chance to focus on promoting mutual interests. While there is no denying divergences in the relationship, both sides still have significant areas of cooperation — in the bilateral, regional and global arenas — which must be harnessed. Thus, taking a long-term view of the situation, as India develops ties with other like-minded powers to deal with the rise of China, it must also strengthen its special, privileged strategic partnership with Russia.Nivedita Kapoor is junior fellow, Observer Research Foundation The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/despite-divergences-build-on-strategic-ties-with-russia-101617885885708.html
08-04-2021||Editorials||Don’t declare a net-zero goal||John Kerry, the United States (US) president’s special envoy on climate, was in India this week for discussions on the climate crisis. During his meeting with Mr Kerry, Prime Minister Narendra Modi reiterated India’s commitment to meeting its nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement, and pointed out that it is among the few countries on track to meet these commitments. Mr Kerry noted that the US would support India’s climate plans by facilitating affordable access to green technologies and finance.After taking charge, US president Joe Biden announced his country’s return to the Paris climate accord, and is likely to announce a net-zero emission target — the new buzzword in climate diplomacy — for 2050. Achieving net-zero emission implies that all remaining human-caused greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are balanced by removing GHGs from the atmosphere. Though diplomatic pressure is building up (58 countries have announced net-zero emission targets), and the US is pushing India to make a similar announcement, New Delhi must resist the pressure, while being constructive. Some believe that such a bold pledge will help India emerge as a climate leader. But this view ignores the fact that under the principle of “common but differentiated responsibility”, richer countries must lead in paying for their historically high emissions. It also ignores the shift in the Indian mindset on the issue, particularly under this government. India is the only G-20 country whose actions are compliant with the Paris Agreement goal of keeping global temperatures from rising beyond 2°C. And do note, the global pact does not have any provision of a net-zero emission target. Instead, India’s plan, as climate scholar Navroz Dubash wrote in these pages, should be based on near-term actions, institutional strengthening, and a combination of mid- and long-term targets. India must do more to balance climate and development, shore up adaption strategies, firm up climate action plans at all administrative levels, and invest more in green tech. But limiting itself to a net-zero timeline is not prudent, given India’s developmental requirements and the finances involved in the transition. The US should recognise India’s self-driven progress on the issue, improve its own dismal record of providing green finance and technology, and stop pressuring countries, which are bearing the burden of the historical mistakes of the developed world. That is the way forward in the realm of climate collaboration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/dont-declare-a-net-zero-goal-101617885588378.html
08-04-2021||Editorials||The importance of the first quarter||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) kept its growth 2021-22 estimate unchanged at 10.5%, even as it warned of the risks of a second wave of Covid-19. Its projection across quarters for the financial year 2021-22 is 26.2%, 8.3%, 5.4% and 6.2% respec-tively. The first number, 26.2%, shouldn’t be a sur-prise. The economy contracted by 24.4% in the April-June quarter of 2020-21, the direct impact of the 68-day lockdown. With cases declining to less than 10,000 by February, it looked like India would dodge the second wave. The launch of India’s vaccine drive, with the original aim of vaccinating 300 million people by June, made economic prospects for 2021-22 look good. But the second wave has gathered momentum since. India’s daily case count has crossed the peaks seen in the first wave. And HT’s analysis shows that deaths, with a two-week lag behind cases, are following the same trajectory they have done since October. States seeing a surge, including Maharashtra, have instituted restrictions.This is understandable. All governments have to maintain the balance between lives and livelihoods, especially after the experience of the first lockdown — it may have been required to scale-up health infra, but it caused economic distress, making a repeat inadvisable. But even a partial lockdown will hurt, as will any restrictions on activities — which is why the second wave threatens the sanctity of RBI’s proje-ctions. The most important thing now is the economy. If the first quarter projection pans out, the economy is on the right path; if it doesn’t, 2021-22 is off to a rocky start. There’s no more pressing argument for Covid-19-safe behaviour and the acceleration and expansion of the vaccine drive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-importance-of-the-first-quarter-101617885229259.html
08-04-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: Five questions about vaccination||Facile comments about making the Covid-19 vaccine available to those who need it, rather than those who want it, hide the fact that India’s vaccine strategy needs an urgent reboot, one that requires honest answers to five questions. But first, it is important to accept one universal truth — everyone needs the vaccine, even though some may not want it.Question one — is India staring at a vaccine supply crunch? The simple answer is yes, provided it doesn’t approve any more vaccines, and provided the makers of the two currently authorised vaccines do not increase their capacity, for which they have sought government funds. The crunch could mean that the country currently has access to just about 50-60% of the five million doses it hopes to administer every day.Question two — why, if there was going to be an imminent supply crunch, did the government engage in vaccine diplomacy? Truth be told, only 10.5 million vaccines were given as grants, with 35 million being exported commercially and another 18 million exported under World Health Organization (WHO)’s COVAX facility, but that question will keep being raised till domestic vaccination gets a further boost.Question three — why are other vaccines not being approved? As sound as the need for a bridging study is for vaccines approved in other geographies, it is hard to ignore the fact that India’s drug regulator had no problems approving Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin largely on faith (the data wasn’t available when it was approved). Approving some of the other vaccines, including Sputnik, could mean a boost in supply. Russia’s sovereign wealth fund has already struck deals with Indian manufacturers to make 700 million doses of the highly effective vaccine.Question four — is an age-based criteria the best way to determine priority for vaccination? After all, the burden of Covid has been, and continues to be, disproportionate in urban areas, and everyone may gain if vaccination were opened up to all in hotspots.And question five (which should have actually been the first question) — how serious is India’s political leadership about the Covid-safety protocol? They have participated in high-intensity poll campaigning (and will continue to do so in West Bengal, where five stages of polling remain), even though there has been little social distancing in their rallies and road shows.Only when the government honestly addresses each of these questions responsibly will India be able to battle the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-five-questions-about-vaccination-101617797727622.html
