10-04-2021||Lucknow||Finally, Covid patient living on pavement in Lucknow admitted to hospital||A 32-year-old car washer was left abandoned on the pavement outside a petrol pump in the Hazratganj area for nearly three days after he developed Covid-19 symptoms. He was tested positive for Covid-19 on April 9. Finally, on Saturday, the health department team sent an ambulance and took him to an isolation centre.A team of KGMU officials took his sample on April 7 and his RT-PCR report came positive on April 9.After his video went viral on social media, on Saturday, the health department team sent an ambulance and took him to an isolation centre for quarantine.According to passersby, as he was moving freely, the cops asked him to stay inside a designated covered area and fenced the place with a rope, while the petrol pump workers provided him with water and food.With Covid-19 numbers increasing in the district, there is a shortage of beds and ambulances to fetch patients.Uttar Pradesh, on Saturday, reported 12,787 fresh Covid cases; the highest in one day since the pandemic began, taking the state’s caseload to 676739 while the death toll reached 9085 with 48 fresh fatalities.The Covid case count in Lucknow crossed one lakh mark on Saturday as 4059 new cases were reported along with 23 fresh fatalities in 24-hours, said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/finally-covid-patient-living-on-pavement-in-lucknow-admitted-to-hospital-101618079306115.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad municipal corporation proposes 15% hike in house tax||Ghaziabad: Officials of the Ghaziabad municipal corporation have proposed a hike of 15% in the house tax for the current financial year. The officials said that the decision was taken as there had been no hike in the past two years. At present, the civic body has about 368,000 properties under its jurisdiction. The officials said the proposal follows an earlier decision by the corporation’s board in which it was decided that house tax would be increased by 10% every two years or 5% can be hiked for a year. “For the past two years, there has been no hike in the tax and 5% hike is related to the current financial year (2021-22). So, we have an overall hike of 15%. The proposal will be taken to the next board meeting. If the board decides that the tax hike be waived in the wake of the pandemic, then we will abide by the decision,” said MS Tanwar, municipal commissioner. Councillors said that the schedule of the next board meeting has not been fixed due to a surge in the Covid-19 cases. “The proposal is as per an earlier decision taken up by the board to increase revenue in order to take up civic infrastructure projects. However, we will oppose the move in which the corporation has proposed a new tax structure which will bring in a steep hike in house tax,” said Rajendra Tyagi, a councillor from Raj Nagar. Under a new proposed structure of taxation, localities in about 100 residential wards will be categorised under three heads based on rental values, which are proposed to be linked to the circle rates set by the district magistrate’s office each year. While category ‘A’ comprises prime localities with the highest rental value, category ‘B’ is for lower rental value while category ‘C’ will comprise localities which are least developed. Categories of properties based on their location on roads of varying width – less than 12 metres; between 12 metres and 24 metres; and over 24 metres – will have a proportional impact on the tax. The officials estimate that the new tax structure under process will hike tax by about 25% on an average. “The objections to the new tax structure have been invited and a process is on to decide the objections. This process is likely to get complete by the end of this month. Then, we will put this proposal before the board. The next board meeting is likely to be held in May,” Tanwar said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-municipal-corporation-proposes-15-hike-in-house-tax-101618078825929.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Indirapuram: Women residents demand repair of Mall Road||Ghaziabad: Many flats in high-rises at Ahimsa Khand II in Indirapuram have put up banners bearing slogans demanding repair and resurrection of the Mall Road, which connects one point of the residential pocket to the other spanning over 600-700 metres. The Mall Road in Ahimsa Khand II is in an abominable state with potholes and dust affecting commuters. Residents said the road was repaired a couple of times but dumpers and heavy vehicles plying on the stretch and construction activities taken up by authorities have contributed to the dilapidated condition of the road. Since Friday, many banners have been put up outside the flats facing the Mall Road with slogans reading, “No Road, No Vote,” “Tooti Sadak Ki Maar, band karo ye atyachaar,” “Thak Gaye Karke Prayas, Kiska Sath Kiska Vikas” and “12 Saal ka Intzaar, Ahimsa Khand 2 me sadko ka bura haal.” The protest has been launched by a group of women from Princess Park high-rise. “The banners depict the anger of the residents. The condition of the road is this bad for about 10 years now. A decade ago, we took out a ‘Gutter Yatra’ to highlight the drainage issue. This time, we are protesting silently and putting up banners to draw the attention towards the dilapidated condition of the road,” said Dr Bharti Garg, a resident of Princess Park high-rise. She, along with about 60-65 other women residents, are leading the protest and other high-rises are also following suit. “The road is damaging our vehicles. Even the air pollution levels here are quite high due to the presence of fine dust particles. Many residents have to inhale steam for relief and children have become allergic to dust. We hardly find any difference between our road and that of a road in a nearby village. Residents have to keep windows shut and clean their houses several times due to the dusty road,” said Nupur Sahay, another resident of Princess Park. “We have heard many times that tenders have been floated for road repairs. This time, we need the road in better shape and are not concerned about how long the process is going to be to achieve that. The road is in such a bad condition that many families hesitate to call guests home,” added Sahay. Members of the apartment owners’ association (AOA) of the Princess Park high-rise said banners have been put up at about 65 flats. “The AOA is in full support of the initiative launched by the women residents. Ever since the banners came up on flats of our high-rise, other nearby high-rises are also responding,” said Vaibhav Garg, general secretary of the AOA, Princess Park. The Ahimsa Khand II area is home to about 22 high-rises and has an estimated population of about 35,000 to 40,000. The Mall Road is also an extension of the CISF-Road, which connects residents to Ahimsa Khand II and national highway-9. A major portion of the Mall Road near the connecting point of CISF Road collapsed and caved-in on August 7, 2019, following heavy rain. It was repaired after a fortnight. One side of the CISF Road is also dug up due to a pipeline laying project being undertaken by the UP Jal Nigam. The project was initiated under the Centre’s Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (Amrut ) scheme. Officials of UP Jal Nigam HT spoke to said the work of relaying the CISF Road will be completed by end of May or June. “The Ahimsa Khand II area is badly affected due to the bad condition of the CISF Road and Mall Road. We support the protest initiated by the women residents. We are also approaching high-rises adjacent to the CISF Road to come forward and demand repair of the road,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of the federation of association of apartment owners, and resident of Arihant Harmony high-rise in Ahimsa Khand II. Officials of the Ghaziabad development authority said tenders for the repairs of Mall Road have been floated. “We have come to know about the protest launched by the residents in Ahimsa Khand II. The issue has been discussed with the vice chairperson also. A file has been sanctioned and is in the tender process. The issue of the CISF Road is also taken up regularly with the Jal Nigam officials,” said V N Singh, chief engineer of Ghaziabad development authority. “We have initiated the process of road repair and the work will be taken up soon. It may take three months for the work to get completed,” said Krishna Karunesh, vice chairperson of Ghaziabad development authority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/indirapuram-women-residents-demand-repair-of-mall-road-101618078765951.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai civic body permits home delivery of liquor||Mumbai (Maharashtra) [India], April 10 (ANI): The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has permitted wine shops to sell liquor as per the license issued to concerned shops.The BMC allowed the concerned shops to sell liquor only through home delivery service between 7.00 am to 8.00 pm and delivery executives must follow COVID-19 protocols.It also permitted citizens who are eligible to get vaccinated, to travel only to the centre and back during lockdown, on health or medical grounds.However, the city received 99,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine. As per the BMC, the doses will be distributed to civic and government-run vaccine centres.The shortage of COVID vaccine doses in Mumbai led to the temporary halting of the vaccination drive across 75 vaccination centres in the city on Friday.This comes amid allegations by Chief Ministers of several states across the country that the stock of vaccine is available only for the next few days.Mumbai is currently under a weekend lockdown till 7 am on Monday in an effort to curb the spread of the COVID-19 infection. The city reported 9,200 COVID19 cases and 35 deaths on Friday. There are currently 90,333 active cases in the city.Earlier, Maharashtra Cabinet Minister Aslam Shaikh had said that Maharashtra received the least number of vaccines and a majority of vaccination centres were facing closure due to a shortage of doses.Earlier in the day, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray called an all-party meeting via video conference to review the current COVID-19 situation in the state.Maharashtra yesterday recorded 58,993 new COVID-19 cases, 45,391 recoveries, and 301 deaths.The Maharashtra government has also imposed a strict weekend lockdown from Friday night till 7 am on Monday. The home delivery of food and essential supplies and movement of students taking various exams are allowed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-civic-body-permits-home-delivery-of-liquor-101618078211998.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Police link power outage at station to action against UPPCL staffer||Noida: The power supply to Rabupura police station and nearby residential complex for police personnel was cut for over four hours on Friday night, with police alleging that Uttar Pradesh Power Corporation Limited (UPPCL) officials took the action in retaliation against a challan issued to one of their contract staff for not wearing a mask on the road. UPPCL officials, however, dismissed the police allegations and said the action was taken since the police station was using power without a valid meter.Police said the power cut -- from 8:30pm on Friday to 1am on Saturday -- hampered office work and communication.Dinesh Singh, SHO of Rabupura police station, linked the power cut to a face mask enforcement drive conducted by a police team in the neighbourhood on Friday. “Sub-inspector Sanjeev Rathi and his team issued a challan to a power department contractual worker for not wearing a face mask. It appears he got upset over the issue and, in connivance with his seniors, disconnected the power supply to the police station and the residential complex,” he said.The SHO said that all works of the police station stopped due to the outage, which was restored only after senior police officers talked to officials in the administration late in the night.Meanwhile, UPPCL executive engineer P K Singh said that the police station was using power without a valid meter connection. “There was significant power consumption in the police station and also in the residential complex. Once the power meter also caught fire and it was damaged. The police station was directly using power from the neighbouring pole. The power department had disconnected the supply, and later fixed it with a meter,” he said.The UPPCL official further said that the police department also has dues to clear.The SHO, however, said disconnecting power supply was illogical. “The issue of dues should be discussed and cleared at higher level.The outage had created problems for the police personnel and also their family members,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/police-link-power-outage-at-station-to-action-against-uppclstaffer-101618078706591.html
10-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj gets 80K Covid doses, vaccination drive at all centres to resume today||The district health department of Prayagraj would observe the ‘Covid-19 vaccination festival’ for the next four days with effect from Sunday (April 11 to April 14). Under the fest, vaccination against coronavirus would restart at all 97 vaccination centres spread across the rural and urban belt alike. This would be possible after the district that was running extremely low on stock of Covid-19 vaccine, would receive fresh stock of 80,000 doses by late Saturday night.Nodal officer of Covid-19 vaccines in the district Dr Tirath Lal said, “The fresh stock of the vaccine had landed at Varanasi airport on Saturday afternoon from where it was dispatched for different neighbouring districts including Prayagraj. The vehicle carrying 80,000 doses of Covishield started for Prayagraj from Varanasi at around 6.15pm and would be arriving at the district by night. The ‘festival’ would commence in the district from Sunday at all 97 vaccination centres.” Earlier in the day, the health department had conducted vaccination at five centres of the city including MLN Medical College, Kamla Nehru (Colvin) Divisional hospital, Tej Bahadur Sapru (Beli) Hospital, Duffrin hospital and Railway hospital of the city. The count of vaccination centres was cut down from the original 97 centres and the recent 34 centres owing to the shortage of vaccines in the district.In a bid to control the use of available stock, vaccination was stopped at many rural-based primary health centres of the district and was being done only at Community health centres (CHC) for the past two days. To effectively take on the Covid-19 outbreak, vaccination was started at 61 PHCs of the district in March. However, on Wednesday, vaccinations by these centres were stopped till further notice and just the 20 CHCs were administering the vaccines. On Saturday, the vaccination process was held only at five centres of the city and all these centres witnessed a heavy rush of denizens who had turned up at the centres to get themselves vaccinated. Because of the heavy rush, the stock of vaccines was over by noon at many centres, a few of which continued with the second dose of the vaccine only. Because of this, many persons had to return disappointed. At a few centres, people were seen arguing with the on-duty staff. At one of the centres, 75-year-old Rajkumari Devi of Alopibagh looked disheartened at not getting vaccinated. She shared that she had somehow climbed down three floors of her house to get vaccinated. “Now, I am told there is no vaccine and I need to come again tomorrow. However, I will not be coming again as it has been exhausting for me,” she said.Like her, Girdharlal, Sohan, Raju and Kajal were also annoyed at not being able to get vaccinated. They were complaining that the government should have made proper arrangements for the vaccine as the government is fully aware of the prevailing Covid-19 vaccine situation. The district nodal officer of the vaccination said, “We have done micro-level preparations for starting the vaccination festival from Sunday and it would be our effort to see to it that more and more eligible people are vaccinated during these four days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-gets-80k-covid-doses-vaccination-drive-at-all-centres-to-resume-today-101618078705976.html
10-04-2021||Noida||With vaccine in stock, Noida, Ghaziabad to launch ‘tika utsav’||Noida/Ghaziabad: Just a day or two before the Gautam Budh Nagar district was expected to run out of the Covid-19 vaccines, a consignment of 80,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine was dispatched from the central vaccine depot located in Agra on Saturday, officials said. District magistrate Suhas LY said: “As scheduled, we have received the doses. The district now has an adequate stock for a comprehensive vaccination drive. These doses will not only make the four-day special vaccination festival (vishesh tika utsav), from April 11, successful, but also ensure adequate inoculation at all centres at least for a week,” he said. He added that despite the critical stock, the vaccination drive in the district was ahead of the target for April. “The district has a target of inoculating 1.62 lakh people in April, but our progress so far is much ahead. In only 10 days of this month, we have vaccinated as many as 73,582 persons, which is 45.42% of the target set for the whole month,” he said.Chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that state medical education minister Suresh Kumar Khanna visited the district’s integrated Covid-19 control room in Sector 59 Saturday. “He expressed satisfaction with the systematic approach and follow-up methods of our staff there. He also took the details of all 513 home isolated persons and spoke with a few of them,” he said. Additional CMO, Dr Lalit Kumar, nodal officer of the home isolation cell, said the cell has 21 operators, four doctors and a nodal officer. “They are keeping a close tab on the persons, who have recently travelled to foreign countries in the recent past,” he said.GHAZIABAD TO GET 80,000 DOSESMeanwhile, the Ghaziabad district will get a fresh supply of 80,000 doses on Sunday morning from Lucknow. Sources in the state health department said that both Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar have been given a target of vaccinating 18,000 beneficiaries each on April 11 and 35,000 each on April 12 and 13 during the tika utsav announced by the state government. The vehicles were dispatched Saturday to the vaccine depots at Lucknow and Agra. Ghaziabad officials said they are borrowing 25,000 doses from GB Nagar till the vaccines arrive. “Doses from GB Nagar will be supplied to 63 of our government vaccination centres by Sunday morning. Our vehicle from Lucknow will arrive late in the morning. Once it comes, we will reimburse GB Nagar with 25,000 doses and the remaining stock will be supplied to private CVCs as well. At private CVCs, the vaccination is likely to begin by Sunday afternoon,” said an official from the district health department, requesting anonymity. “The daily target is also given to us for the tika utsav and it will be taken up by private and government CVCs. As per target, we have to vaccinate 88,000 beneficiaries during the first three days of this drive,” the official added. “We are getting 80,000 doses of vaccine and we have planned that on Sunday, we will vaccinate 20,000 beneficiaries against the target of 18,000 given to us. The vaccine which we get from GB Nagar will be returned to them once our stock arrives. It is an internal arrangement so that vaccination process is not hampered,” said Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey.He had claimed on Thursday and Friday that there was no shortage of vaccines in the district. “We will be getting 80,000 doses by Sunday morning and this will help us take up vaccination drive during the tika utsav and in the meantime, some stock will also be taken from GB Nagar,” said Dr NK Gupta, CMO, Ghaziabad.CASES ON THE RISEWith 221 new cases detected on Saturday, GB Nagar has crossed the 1,000-case mark of active cases in the district, with the figure at 1,121. The last time active cases in the district were above this mark was December 6, 2020.The overall tally of Covid-19 cases in GB Nagar district was 27,267 so far. The death toll remained at 93 as no fresh fatality was reported in the last 24 hours.Ghaziabad reported 159 new cases, with its tally now at 28,039. No new death was reported and the active cases are at 695.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/with-vaccine-in-stock-noida-ghaziabad-to-launch-tika-utsav-101618078645830.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal only leader with vision for nation, schemes now seen in other states: Sisodia||Pushing Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal as the “only leader with a vision for the nation”, deputy chief minister and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Manish Sisodia on Saturday said the proof for this could be seen in other states that have adopted several of his government’s schemes.“Recently, when Union home minister Amit Shah was campaigning in West Bengal, he promised free electricity up to 200 units to the people there if the BJP is voted to power. In Kerala, the BJP promised free public transport for women, and in Tamil Nadu, the party said that they’ll bring in a model of governance that’s similar to what is seen in Delhi,” Sisodia said at a press conference.He said Congress’s Priyanka Gandhi promised free electricity in Assam and Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had announced free bus rides for women. All these schemes were first introduced in Delhi, he said.“The BJP and the Congress are fighting elections across the country on the foundation of the Kejriwal model of governance. This proves that Kejriwal is the only leader with a vision for the nation. He understands the pulse of the people, and knows what is required to push people, and the nation ahead. He is the only leader with the administrative will to walk the talk,” Sisodia said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s, during a recent interaction with all chief ministers, emphasised on home isolation as a strong response to Covid-19, he said.“Last year, the Delhi government was the first to advise home isolation for asymptomatic cases... However, Union home minister Amit Shah — who wanted a compulsory five-day institutional quarantine — had objected, and it was only after a tough fight that this was then seamlessly implemented across Delhi. We’re pleased that the Prime Minister agrees with this,” he said. Even Modi’s suggestion of micro containment zones was the AAP government’s idea last year to contain Covid-19, while the BJP wanted entire zones to be cordoned off, the deputy chief minister said.BJP did not comment on the matter. Delhi Congress vice-president Abhishek Dutt said Sisoida has been trying to gradually project Kejriwal as an alternative to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “But the truth is that Kejriwal is only a bad replica of Modi and not an alternative. He never spoke a word against the BJP-ruled Centre during the Shaheen Bagh [anti-CAA] protests or the northeast Delhi riots (in February 2020). Also, in every election, Kejriwal and his number two Sisodia have the habit of saying anything and everything about political parties and their leaders. Once the elections are over, the two apologise in the court to the same leaders from the BJP. Kejriwal is the B-team of the BJP,” said Dutt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-only-leader-with-vision-for-nation-schemes-now-seen-in-other-states-sisodia-101618078405722.html
10-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka deputy CM says no summer holidays, exams to be held as scheduled||There will be no summer holidays in the academic year 2021-22 in Karnataka in light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, said Deputy Chief Minister CN Ashwatha Narayana on Saturday, adding that no examination or academic activity will be stopped on account of the pandemic."The examinations at the university level including degree, post-graduation, engineering, diploma and all other courses which come under the department of higher education will be conducted as per the scheduled timetable and there will be no changes," said Narayana, who also holds the higher education portfolio.The decision has been taken as academic activities for the year 2021-22 are already delayed and there should not be further delay in this process due to COVID-19. "If this gets delayed, the cycle of the course, tests, results, employments, and further studies will be affected."Narayana further said that measures are being taken to ensure that the academic activities are not affected, and after the completion of the ongoing examinations, there will be no summer holidays."Functioning of the classes will begin immediately and there will be both offline and online classes. Online classes will be started quite early. It will be mandatory for students either to attend online or offline classes," he added.All standard operating procedures (SoPs) will be strictly followed and sanitisation of classrooms, maintenance of hygiene, COVID test, maintenance of physical distance, and wearing of masks will be compulsory.He further informed that the Integrated Learning Management System (LMS) has already been implemented in view of COVID-19. "Students are facilitated to learn from the locations wherever they are and 2.70 lakh Tablet PCs (1.60 lakh this year and 1.10 lakh in the previous year) have been distributed. Classrooms are being converted as studios and they are made to become smart classrooms."Responding to a query with regard to LMS, he said, the glitch in the upload of content will be resolved soon. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-deputy-cm-says-no-summer-holidays-exams-to-be-held-as-scheduled-101618076281269.html
10-04-2021||Other||Gangster wanted in four states arrested in Ludhiana, arms seized||Wanted in eight cases of robbery, snatching and illegal weapons in various states, notorious gangster Jugraj Singh was arrested in Ludhiana on Friday, police said.On the run after jumping parole, the 26-year-old was arrested from the national highway in Doraha, along with his associate, Harmanpreet Singh, 21, of Rampur, Uttar Pradesh.Three .315-bore pistols and 13 bullets were recovered from their possession.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said Jugraj was a close associate of dreaded gangster Balwinder Singh, alias Chacha, of Haridwar.Currently living in Uttarakhand’s Mohanpur village, Jugraj was headed to his ancestral village, Ajnala, in Amritsar to stay in hiding on the directions of Balwinder. But he was arrested near Doraha on Friday following secret information, the SSP said.The history-sheeter is wanted by the police in Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand. He was lodged in Tihar Jail in Delhi and had been on the run after jumping parole.The police official said recently, Jugraj and Balwinder had robbed ₹1.4 lakh in Puranpur, Uttar Pradesh, and were planning to rob banks in Chandigarh and Delhi as well.“The duo conducted recce of a bank in Chandigarh in March, but did not execute their plan. They were now planning to target a bank in Delhi. For this, Balwinder gave Jugraj illegal weapons and asked him to stay in hiding at Amritsar until further orders,” the SSP added.A case under Sections 25, 54 and 59 of the Arms Act has been lodged against the accused at the Doraha police station.They were produced in court on Saturday and sent to one-day police remand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gangster-wanted-in-four-states-arrested-in-ludhiana-arms-seized-101618077986477.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fee row: Parents protest outside Chandigarh school||With students continuing with online classes in the wake of surge in Covid cases, parents staged a protest outside KB DAV, Sector 7, on Saturday for the second time this week and demanded that they only be charged for tuition. They had last staged a protest against paying for utilities and facilities not being used by students on April 3. At the time, the school had asked them to wait for a few days before paying the fee. However, another notice was circulated by the school asking them to deposit the fee in its entirety. “Why are we being charged medical and media fee when students are not attending physical classes?” a parent, who did not wish to be named, asked. School asks admn for clarification The school has asked the administration to clarify whether fee is to be charged on last year’s pattern, where only tuition fee was charged, or in its entirety. Principal Pooja Prakash said, “With the start of the new academic session, we have asked the parents to pay the fee. Should the administration modify the fee rule later, we have assured parents that the sum will be adjusted in the next payment.” “We have already accepted parents’ previous demand for monthly fee payments instead of quarterly payments,” she said She added that the school had already accepted their earlier demand and had allowed them to make monthly fee payments instead of quarterly payments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fee-row-parents-protest-outside-chandigarh-school-101618077446330.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement resumes in Ambala as arhtiyas call off strike||A day after commission agents called off their two-day strike against direct benefit transfer to farmers, wheat procurement that had halted in the intervening days resumed on Saturday. The procurement drive garnered a good response as farmers reached the grain market in their tractor-trolleys and qued up to get their mandatory gate passes. Ambala New Grain Market Commission Agents’ Association president Duni Chand said the strike had been called off after a meeting with the state government. “Officials of the concerned department told us that they had already written to and discussed the issue with the Union government, which will take a final call. In the interest of farmers, the strike was called off last night,” he said. A farmer from Bhanoukheri village, who had come to the mandi with his crop, said he had been waiting on tenterhooks for the strike to end and came to the market after consulting his commission agent: “The process is going smoothly. Most farmers are in favour of optional payment as our agents are always available to get funds in emergencies,” he said. On April 9, a group of farmers affiliated with the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU, Charuni) led by Jai Singh Jalbera had protested outside the commission agent association presidents’ office demanding that procurement of the crop that had already reached the mandi be initiated. A farmer in the group had said that the strike had only been called by commission agents and had nothing to do with farmers. However, Chand denied the allegations and the Union’s district president Malkit Singh, too, dismissed them as ‘personal rivalry’. Only 54 metric tons of wheat was procured at purchase centres in Ambala due to the strike on April 9.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-procurement-resumes-in-ambala-as-arhtiyas-call-off-strike-101618077206621.html
10-04-2021||Other||Burglars burn down ₹19.5 lakh in attempt to break into ATM at Khanna||Cash amounting to ₹19.5 lakh was reduced to ashes after a gang of burglars set an SBI ATM on fire while trying to break into it at Khanna in the wee hours of Saturday. Even though night curfew is imposed in the district, with police claiming to be on the watch through the night to check violators, they came to know about the incident only after the bank staff informed them later.Three burglars and the incident were captured in the CCTV cameras installed near the ATM, located in the branch of State Bank of India at Ikolaha village, Khanna. A gas cutter, left behind by the miscreants, was recovered from the kiosk.Police said the CCTV footage showed three men turning up at the bank in a car around 2am. They entered the ATM kiosk after breaking open the locks of the shutter. No security guard was present.As they tried to break into the machine using a gas cutter, it suddenly caught fire.Alarmed by the flames, which engulfed the entire kiosk, the burglars fled from the spot. Locals informed the bank officials on noticing the fire, following which the police were informed. A fire tender was rushed to the spot and the flames were doused in around an hour.Bank manager Rubal said the ₹19.5 lakh in cash, loaded in the machine just a day ago, was completely gutted in the incident.Khanna senior superintendent of police (SSP) Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the police were trying to identify the accused through the CCTV footage. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP, Khanna) Rajanparminder Singh has been asked to speed up the investigation and arrest them soon.This is the second such incident in the past four months.On December 15, 2020, burglars trying to steal money from an unmanned ATM on Ferozepur Road had burnt ₹5.32 lakh in cash. The Punjab and Sind Bank ATM is situated opposite Verka Milk plant, but no police team noticed the fire. The incident came to light only after bank officials informed the police the next morning.Earlier on December 2, three masked men stole ₹26.37 lakh after cutting open an HDFC ATM in Lall Kalan village of Samrala. This ATM also had no security guard. Both cases remain unsolved.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/burglars-burn-down-19-5-lakh-in-attempt-to-break-into-atm-at-khanna-101618077086265.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Farmers block EPE in Ghaziabad for 24 hours, traffic diverted||Ghaziabad: Farmers protesting against the Centre’s three farm laws at the UP Gate on Saturday morning took to Dasna interchange of the Eastern Peripheral Expressway (EPE) and announced its blockade for the next 24 hours. Police officials said that traffic police personnel were deployed at interchanges on EPE in Ghaziabad to minimise the hardships faced by commuters.Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that all the seven interchanges of EPE remained non-operational due to the farmers’ protests. The protesters said that the blockade will continue till 8am on Sunday. “The blockade will continue for 24 hours, and will be lifted on Sunday morning. It is because we needed to remind the government of our demands as they are not talking to us. The protesters will stay at EPE on Saturday night and have made arrangement for beds and foods,” said Jagtar Singh Bajwa, a farmer leader from Uttarakhand and member of the UP Gate farmers’ committee. The NHAI officials expressed helplessness over the state of affairs as one carriageway of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway is also blocked by protesters since December 3 last year. “All the seven interchanges on the 135km EPE remained blocked, and this also resulted in loss of toll. The commuters also suffered. We have conveyed the issue to the administration,” said Mudit Garg, project director, NHAI. On several occasions, farmers have blocked the Delhi-Meerut Expressway and EPE as part of their protests and have been successful in their blockades. “As the farmers blocked the EPE, we ensured that commuters were diverted to other routes without any problems. Regarding the blockade, we will hold meeting and discuss the future course of action,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The traffic police said that they deployed personnel to prevent traffic jams on the EPE. “Our personnel remained deployed at interchanges in Ghaziabad and ensured that traffic was diverted through other surface roads. Commuters faced issues but we tried our best to divert them to the best available alternate route. The traffic on the Delhi-Meerut Expressway was not affected due to the blockade,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic). According to official estimates, the EPE has a movement of about 40,000-50,000 passenger car units per day. The EPE is also linked now to the recently opened Delhi-Meerut Expressway through an interchange near Dasna.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/farmers-block-epe-in-ghaziabad-for-24-hours-traffic-diverted-101618076726308.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Woman, her friend arrested for killing husband over affair||Noida: A 22-year-old woman and her male friend were arrested on Saturday for allegedly strangulating her husband to death at Barola village in Sector 49 on Friday. According to police, the suspects, identified as Sapna and Ankit, 24, were in a relationship. The deceased, Mukesh Kumar, was a native of Badaun. Mukesh lived in a rented accommodation with his wife, and their two daughters aged one and two years, police officials said, adding that Ankit and Mukesh both worked as daily wagers.Sudhir Kumar, station house office (SHO) of Sector 49 police station, said that police on Friday received information about a suspicious death in Barola village. “The police questioned Sapna but her statement was not coherent. She initially said that she does not know how he died,” he said. Police sent the body for post-mortem and a report revealed he was strangled to death, the SHO said.Police revisited the crime spot and interrogated Mukesh’s wife again about the incident. “We also received information that the woman was in a relationship with a person named Ankit, who lived in the neighbourhood. During questioning, she admitted that she killed her husband with the help of Ankit,” the SHO said.According to police, the woman offered her husband drinks on Friday night and when he lost consciousness, she called Ankit and they strangled him to death with a piece of cloth. Police also recovered the cloth used in the crime. A case has been registered against the suspects under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code. “The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody. The children have been handed over to their relatives,” said the SHO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/woman-her-friend-arrested-for-killing-husband-over-affair-101618076665684.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Home guard in Luksar jail booked for facilitating inmates’ phone calls||Greater Noida: A 25-year-old woman home guard in the Luksar jail has been booked for allegedly facilitating unauthorised phone contact between the inmates and their family. A mobile phone was recovered from the woman home guard on duty in the women’s cell, jail officials said, adding that the device is not allowed inside the jail. However, the home guard, Sadhna, claimed that an inmate had given her the mobile phone, the officials said. An FIR was registered against her at Ecotech-1 police station.According to Luksar jail superintendent Bhim Sen Mukund, the jail administration had received information that someone was using a phone to facilitate unauthorised contact between inmates and their family members. “On Friday, we conducted an intensive search of the inmates and then staff members,” he said. Mukund said that the officials did not find any mobile phone or any suspicious object from the inmates. “The woman jail warden checked the staff and recovered a mobile phone from a home guard, Sadhna,” Luksar jailer A K Singh said in a police complaint. A mobile phone charger was also found from her possession. Mukund said the home guard is pregnant and it appears she got access to the premises without strict checking due to her health condition. “We have also written to the commandant, home guard, to take action against her,” he said. It is not clear if the home guard charged inmates for facilitating phone calls, the jail officials said. Rameshwar Kumar, SHO of Ecotech I police station, said a case has been registered against Sadhna under Section 42 of the Prisons Act. “We are investigating the case,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/home-guard-in-luksar-jail-booked-for-facilitating-inmates-phone-calls-101618076605617.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: A fairy tail come true||Aryaman Jain, a budding 12-year-old bird photographer, was out with his dad at the Cactus garden, Panchkula, when an ethereal avian darted into view from amid the leafy boughs. The child’s imagination was tickled to the core at the flash of a black and white bird with long ribbons trailing and twirling behind it.“I told my dad that something was stuck to the bird’s body. I could never imagine that a bird could have such a long and unusual tail. Within a few seconds, the bird disappeared in the trees before momentarily reappearing.The bird looked like a winged white mouse to me because it was playing hide and seek. Dad (Anuj) chuckled and told me that it was a male Indian paradise flycatcher and that its tail was for real. I was wonderstruck; the bird was like a fairy in its movements and appearance. With great difficulty, I captured a photograph of the furtive bird with dad’s old camera and posted it on my chat group. My friends thought the ‘pic’ was real cool, ‘awsum’, and wanted to know this amazing bird’s name,” Aryaman told this writer.The reactions of Aryaman, a resident of Sector-18 and a Class-7 student at St Kabir Public School, to the flycatcher typify the compulsive charm the bird’s aerobatics and elegance exert on all, irrespective of age. The flycatcher is a favoured model and has graced jacket covers of innumerable bird books. A tryst with the flycatcher can sow the seeds for lifelong interest in our winged friends.Rings of passageRings embedded in a tree trunk mark the passage of time. The earth’s orbit around the sun is again a measure of time. The rings of Saturn circling the giant planet comprise ice and rock. So, what did the rings on an enigmatic river pebble lying dormant in the parched seasonal rivulet draining into Siswan dam in the Shivalik foothills embody? The answer is: the river’s passage. Were the rivulet to go dry permanently, ringed pebbles would be rendered relics left in time’s wake and aesthetically evidence its erstwhile flow. “Random abrasion of the pebble as it transits in the river system results in smoothing and rounding off its sharp corners and edges. Transport of pebbles in rivers and streams leads them to collide and rub against one another and the stream bed. These pebble rings are formed due to fluctuation of water levels of the river and groundwater during different time periods. Rounding of grains provides clues to the amount of time sediment has been in the transportation cycle,” Panjab University geology associate professor Ashu Khosla told this writer upon examining the fascinating pebble.Professor RS Chaudhri, former chairperson and director of Geology (PU), elucidated further: “Were we to take recourse to a layman’s analogy, one could imagine a stack of papers and cardboards. The papers will degenerate faster, but the cardboard is more resilient. That would leave the cardboards prominent in the stack and that is what the rings are in the pebble. In this river pebble, there were once layers of coarse and fine materials. The coarse material (mainly sands) projects out as rings whereas fine-layered material (silt and clay) gets eroded as sand is comparatively harder and more resilient. This is the peculiar character of sandstones of the Middle and Upper Shivalik formations.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-a-fairy-tail-come-true-101618076546919.html
10-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh extends lockdowns in several cities, ramps up oxygen supply||Madhya Pradesh on Saturday announced a slew of measures, including lockdowns in several districts, to contain the surging cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), officials said. A senior official said the lockdown will be in place till April 19 in some areas and in others, it has been extended till April 22.The lockdown was extended till April 22 in Jabalpur city and Balaghat, Narsinghpur and Seoni districts. Madhya Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Rajora said that collectors in these districts will soon issue orders related to the lockdown. “The lockdown will be in force in Indore city, Rau, Mhow, Shajapur city and some districts like Ujjain, Barwani, Rajgarh and Vidisha till 6am on April 19. Lockdown will be in force from April 12 till the morning of April 22 in Balaghat, Narsinghpur and Seoni districts as well as Jabalpur city, and orders under section 144 of CrPC will be issued by respective collectors soon,” Rajora was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Madhya Pradesh on Saturday recorded 4986 cases of Covid-19, the state’s highest single-day surge since the beginning of the pandemic, which took the tally to 332,206. Madhya Pradesh also reported 24 fatalities, which have pushed its death toll to 4160. The state currently has 32,707 active cases of Covid-19. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday expressed concern that the number of Covid-19 cases in Madhya Pradesh may reach 100,000 by the end of April due to the spike in the number of infections.Along with the imposition of lockdown in several districts, the Madhya Pradesh government ramped up its oxygen supplies to treat Covid-19 cases in the state. Indore MP Shankar Lalwani said that lockdown measures in the city have now been extended to weekdays. Indore was already under the 60-hour weekend lockdown ordered by the chief minister on Thursday. Lalwani said that measures are being taken to increase the number of beds in the hospitals.“We have extended the lockdown in Indore from Monday to Friday. A 24x7 Covid control room will provide virus-related information to the public. We are working on increasing the number of normal and ICU beds in hospitals,” Lalwani was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. Lalwani pointed out that the oxygen demand rose by 60% on Saturday. The chief minister on Friday also highlighted that the supply of oxygen needed to treat Covid-19 patients in the state has risen from 60 metric tonnes to 180 metric tonnes.The state government also opened Covid-19 care centres to tackle the rising Covid-19 cases. The chief minister said that a team is identifying buildings where facilities can be set up to treat Covid-19 patients. Chouhan also said the state is planning to buy Remdesivir injections to ensure there is no shortage.Madhya Pradesh high court on Saturday also asked members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) and MP Nursing Home Association to refrain from exploiting the Covid-19 surge and not overcharge affected people seeking treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-extends-lockdowns-in-several-cities-ramps-up-oxygen-supply-101618075717500.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikhism: Evolved living or organised religion||The Hindus claim that Sikhs are a warrior sect of theirs while the Western world mistakes them for an offshoot of Islam given their looks. The Sikhs, however, insist upon their separate ethnic identity. The evolved concept of life enunciated by the Gurus, transcending the bigotry of an organised religion, remains largely obscured behind superficial symbolism. Born out of an interface of Hinduism with Islam, Sikhism is a confluence of these two mighty faiths, harvesting the essence of both. A disciple who is ever ready to learn and for whom the quest for knowledge never ceases is what defines a Sikh. A Guru for this seeker is someone next only to God in reverence. His gurdwara is not just a temple or final destination, it is the door to his spiritual journey. He believes in one Divine Creator, the only omnipresent truth and the only omniscient reality. For him, this supreme power is so indefinable and all pervasive that no symbol or idol can possibly represent it. He bows only before the Hukam (Divine Order) and what ever this order ordains for him is auspicious and what does not come to pass is surely not for his good. He believes in the humility of being just a pawn of cosmic chess. He discharges all duties and obligations towards his family and society avoiding the path of renunciation or ascetic austerities. He is supposed to be a sannyasin and a householder wrapped in one body. He values the concept of miri-piri, which defines the co-existence of worldly and spiritual authority. For him kirt karo naam japo wand schako (honest earnings, meditation upon the creator and sharing of earnings) are prerequisites for his journey. He denounces the hierarchy of caste system and recites the hymns of Bhagat Kabir: Awwal Allah noor uppaya, kudrat ke sab bandey, ek noor tey sabh jag upjayaa, kaun bhaley ko mandhey (God created light of which all beings were born and from this light the universe; so who is good and who is bad). His diligent community service and sense of camaraderie insulate him from all manmade fissures of society. Recognisable in a multitude, the Khalsa (pure one) in him seeks the divine blessings to never shirk from doing good (deh Shiva bar mohey eha, shubh karman te kabhoon na taroon). To uphold his dharma he is ever ready to sacrifice his life and does not hesitate to pick up the sword when all other means of justice have failed. “At places I see Islam everywhere but Muslims nowhere while at some places I see Muslims everywhere but Islam nowhere.” These words of a Muslim scholar apply to all others faiths as well. Unfortunately, Guru Nanak’s message too has been viewed through the narrow prism of organised religion with set boundaries. To be born into a Sikh household and call yourself a Sikh is no great happening but to choose Guru Nanak and enjoy the spiritual fruits of his message is certainly a great revolutionary act. If this is grasped, one has understood the quest of the East. The writer is a Mohali-based freelance contributor. Views expressed are personal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-sikhism-evolved-living-or-organised-religion-101618075886183.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi imposes new Covid-19 curbs. What allowed, what's not||Witnessing a spike in Covid-19 cases and battling the fourth wave of the pandemic, authorities in Delhi on Saturday imposed new restrictions on several activities and movement of people. The fresh curbs come on the day Delhi reported 7897 cases of the coronavirus disease, pushing the Capital’s cumulative tally to 714,423, according to a health bulletin. The fatalities also rose sharply in the last 24 hours after 39 new deaths were recorded, the bulletin added. A total of 11,235 people have succumbed to the deadly viral infection since the pandemic began last year.The national capital reported 8521 cases of coronavirus disease on Friday and there were 7437 infections on Thursday. On the preceding two days, the case count had stood above 5000. Delhi witnessed the highest single-day spike to date of 8593 cases on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the national capital had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count so far.Here are the restrictions imposed by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority:WHAT'S NOT ALLOWEDWHAT'S ALLOWED WITH RESTRICTIONS||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-imposes-new-covid-19-curbs-what-allowed-what-s-not-101618073879111.html
10-04-2021||Other||Devotees’ entry to sanctum sanctorum of Kashi Vishwanath Temple banned, darshan timing rescheduled||Kashi Vishwanath Temple administration has banned the entry of devotees to the sanctum santorum of the temple and also changed darshan timing in view of rising corona cases, said a senior temple official on Saturday. Devotees will be able to do darshan from 6am to 9pm, said chief executive officer of the temple Sunil Verma adding that with immediate effect Jhanki Darshan (viewing from outside) arrangement has been started. He said devotees will be able to offer Gangajal and do darshan of Baba from outside the sanctum sanctorum. Temple’s public relation officer Piyush Tiwari said Baba Kashi Vishwanath’s Mangala arti and Shayan Arti, which take place in the temple during wee hours and night respectively daily, will be performed as usually albeit without any public participation. Only priests will perform the arti. Mangala Arti takes place at 2.30am and night arti at 9pm daily. With conclusion of Mangala arti at 4am devotees start doing darshan. But now devotees will be able to do darshan from 6am daily. “No one will be given entry to the temple without mask,” he added.Sankatmocham Temple management has also taken certain measures in this regard.Temple chief priest Prof Vishwambharnath Mishra said only people of temple will participate in the morning and evening arti at the temple.Charnamrit (sacred water) will not be given to devotees. Also, devotees will have to put garlands and flowers in a big basket in the temple which will later be offered to the deity every four hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/devotees-entry-to-sanctum-sanctorum-of-kashi-vishwanath-temple-banned-darshan-timing-rescheduled-101618075645604.html
10-04-2021||Lucknow||Four research institutes in Lucknow to restart Covid testing at their labs||Amidst steep rise in Covid-19 cases in Uttar Pradesh, four prominent Lucknow-based research institutes are set to restart corona testing at their labs as an effort to join the fight against the global pandemic. The four institutes-- National Botanical Research Institute (NBRI), Central Drug Research Institute (CDRI), Birbal Sahani Institute of Paleosciences (BSIP) and Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR) --had also conducted mass testing last year when the pandemic was on the rise. However, they stalled the testing when the number of Covid-19 cases plummeted. “We are planning to begin Covid-19 testing again as the number of cases are rising. Testing is one of the major aspects of controlling the spread of Covid-19 infection in which we want to assist the health infrastructure of the government,” said NBRI director Dr SK Barik.The administration of all the four institutes are planning to begin the testing from next week.The move came in line of the state government’s decision to boost testing following the recent spike in Covid-19 cases. The state recorded more than 12,787 cases on Saturday. Of these 4059 cases were reported from state capital itself.Currently, majority of the testing is being done by King George Medical University (KGMU) and Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (SGPGI) in Lucknow, besides some private labs. If research institutes begin testing, Lucknow can test an additional of 1200 to 1500 Covid-19 samples each day.“Our staff is well equipped with handling Covid-19 testing as we had conducted large space testing last year. We are planning to follow a similar model and begin Covid-19 testing at our institute,” said director of CDRI Dr Tapas Kundu.Last year, all four institutes allocated designated labs within their campus which were used to test Covid-19 samples. Scientists and research scholars at the institutes worked in shifts to conduct the tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/four-research-institutes-in-lucknow-to-restart-covid-testing-at-their-labs-101618075406449.html
10-04-2021||Other||Random Forays: Surrender is often the best option||Those who tend to analyse every issue being faced by mankind and attempt to find a solution to each one of them are usually right-thinking people. Even if public service or governance is not strictly in the purview of their functioning, they tend to discuss threadbare with anyone who is willing to listen, their theories and ideas on the subject.The currently raging pandemic is obviously one mega pain-in-the-neck (or wherever), which has impacted one and all, and it is but natural for human beings to find out as much as they can about such a foe, even if they cannot vanquish it. Thus, each one of us has spent hours, weeks, even months frantically scanning the news, views and hues of the pandemic and its developing ‘worm’ across the graph of time versus number of people afflicted. However, since mankind at large is still groping in the dark to discover and execute a viable and sustainable plan of action against the dreaded virus, there is little point in clouding our minds with the tendency to over-theorise. Those at the forefront of the battle against the pandemic, whether medical researchers or valiant medicos, are obviously doing their very best to come up trumps against the enemy. Political and administrative bigwigs can also be relied upon to at least not take such a gloomy spectre lightly, even if they appear as clueless as the rest of us.The tendency to remain in command and to be able to control most of the forces influencing our lives, is ingrained especially in those who have seen even a modicum of power in their halcyon days. The urge to grasp the bull by the horns and just order it to buzz off, is pretty much evident in retired CEOs and government officers, for instance. The trouble is that the figurative bulls which come charging at humankind from time to time, just do not know how to follow such orders.Thus, at times, even in the face of issues much less grave, it is best to simply let go. In fact, the simplest of quotes, “Let Go, Let God!” has been one of my favourites. Very difficult to execute, but truly worth practising whenever feasible.I myself learnt the art of surrendering just a couple of years ago. And it takes some amount of gumption for me to admit this, but here goes. My wife and I were holidaying at a beach resort and she insisted on trying out the parasailing ride. She is full of bravado at most times, you see. Undaunted by the prospect of being propelled to a height of 150 metres into the thin air with nothing but a nylon rope to clutch upon, and a tiny cushion to plant oneself on, she virtually pulled me into the experience. The trepidation with which I seated myself alongside her, once we had donned the requisite gear, was no laughing business. And my worst fears were confirmed once we were a speck in the blue sky with the sea at its very bluest, in the distance below us. Far from enjoying the view, which she gaily managed to do, I held on for dear life. It was there, up in the skies, with the gusty breeze threatening to topple us, that I realized that I have no control over the situation and might as well relish it. Something clicked in that moment and I surrendered to the Almighty, even managing a smile or two during the second half of the ride.Surrender to God is not like child’s play to those of us who have never let our egos relax. It requires grit and will power. Being able to admit a fault or being humble enough to concede defeat are similar acts of mental surrender.Paramahansa Yogananda suggested the following inspirational prayer: “O Divine Sculptor, chisel Thou my life to Thy design!”The simplest of human beings, those who are perhaps unlettered, their minds uncluttered by vestiges of any powerful hats donned in the past, find it easier to relax and accept their fates. By not over thinking and by letting go of those worrying tendencies, we actually live superior lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/random-forays-surrender-is-often-the-best-option-101618075226753.html
10-04-2021||Other||One of the litigants in KV-Gyanvapi case receives life threat||Harihar Pandey, one of the three litigants, who had filed a case in the civil court in 1991, seeking permission to offer prayers in the Gyanvapi compound, received a life threat on Thursday evening after which he had been provided security, police said on Saturday. The threat call comes days after a Varanasi court on Thursday ordered an archaeological survey of a centuries-old mosque complex abutting the famous Kashi Vishwanath temple, saying the exercise was required to decide on pleas that allege the mosque was built by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine. Pandey along with Sonmantha Vyas and Rangnath Sharma are the petitioners in the case. They had filed the case on behalf of Swayambhu Lord Vishweshwar in the court. Pandey said on Thursday he received the call from an unknown number wherein a person threatened him saying that even though he had won the case, he will not be able to get survey done by ASI. He will face serious consequences. Pandey said he filed a complaint with police in this regard on Friday. Assistant commissioner of police, Dashshwamedh, Awadhesh Pandey said a probe was being conducted and two cops have been deployed in security of Pandey. The mobile number from which the call was made was also being probed. Earlier, civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari had ordered a five-member committee -- comprising two Hindu, two Muslim members and an archaeological expert -- to oversee the “comprehensive physical survey”. A court-appointed observer will chair the panel. The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) will conduct the exercise at its expense without any media briefings, the judge had ordered. The court had fixed May 31 as the next date of hearing. “This court finds that survey by ASI alone can bring out the truth before this court. Irrespective of what surfaces, the survey by ASI may go on to help not only to the plaintiffs, but also to the defendants, if their version is indeed true,” the order read. Muslim parties had opposed the decision and said they will approach the Allahabad high court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-of-the-litigants-in-kv-gyanvapi-case-receives-life-threat-101618075225453.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram Sector 9 gets community-based water purification plant||The Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) has installed a community water system (CWS) at Ambedkar Park in Sector 9, to provide filtered water to the residents at affordable rates, according to a release issued by the civic body on Saturday.A litre of filtered water is for 50 paise.It is the fourth such facility to be opened in the city; the other three facilities are in Sector 34, Civil Lines and Sheetla Colony.Mayor Madhu Azad, who inaugurated the facility, said in her speech that 75 more such facilities will be set up across the city in the next two to three years.The MCG, in collaboration with the Water Health India Private Limited (WHIPL) and the Jaldhaara Foundation (JF), has established the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model facility. The civic body is providing land, a source of water, and electricity connection in this venture. The WHIPL and the JF will look after the maintenance and daily operations of the facility.“In such a type of facility, the water is passed through a six-stage purification process — which includes various stages of conventional filtration, membrane-based purification, and ultraviolet disinfection to ensure that the water quality meets the World Health Organization (WHO) and the ISI standards,” said Azad, adding that it is vital to drink clean water for a healthy body. She attributed the reason behind most of the diseases to impure or unfit drinking water.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-sector-9-gets-community-based-water-purification-plant-101618074867521.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Man, friend held for assaulting pregnant partner, causing stillbirth||Two persons were booked and arrested on Sunday after a woman alleged that the duo, including her live-in partner, assaulted her when she was five months pregnant leading to stillbirth. The duo destroyed the foetus and threatened the woman’s life, the police said.The complainant, a 24-year-old woman from Tamil Nadu, works as a domestic help in Saraswati Vihar of Chakkarpur. Over the last year, she got acquainted with a native of Allahabad in Uttar Pradesh, who works as a driver, and started living with him.According to the police, the woman, upon getting pregnant, insisted that the man marry her while he wanted her to abort the foetus. On April 8, the man, along with a friend, is alleged to have assaulted the woman after she refused to undergo an abortion and the argument escalated.Due to the injuries, the woman gave birth prematurely, leading to stillbirth, and the accused destroyed the foetus. They admitted her to Civil Hospital on April 9 as her condition deteriorated, where she informed the doctors about her ordeal. The hospital staff subsequently informed the police and a case was registered.“The accused forced me into a physical relationship and made me pregnant. He killed my child,” said the woman in her complaint filed with the police, alleging that the accused kept promising to marry her to stop her from filing a complaint against him.On the basis of her complaint, a case was registered under sections 201 (destruction of evidence), 313 (abortion without consent of woman), 323 (causing hurt), 34 (common intention), 376(2) (repeated rape of woman by known person) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sector 29 police station on Sunday. “Both the accused were arrested and sent to jail,” said KK Rao, the commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-friend-held-for-assaulting-pregnant-partner-causing-stillbirth-101618074866888.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Land allotted for fire station in Sector 92||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday approved the transfer of 2.5 acres to the Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) for constructing a fire station in Sector 92, during a meeting of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA).Officials of the fire department said it is imperative to set up a fire station in Sector 92 as the closest fire stations on either side, at IMT Manesar and Sector 37, are located at least seven kilometres away and it takes them 25-30 minutes to reach the sector during peak traffic hours, due to congestion at the Kherki Daula toll and on National Highway-48.“The decision to build a fire station in Sector 92 is important as in the advent of a fire incident, it takes us over 30 minutes to reach there. We desperately needed to reduce the response time and distance, especially given that newer sectors (58-115) are still developing and will expand further,” said IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO).Several high-rises and residential societies, such as DLF New Town Heights, Orchard Avenue Signature Global, Spaze Privy, DLF Regal Gardens, Sare Homes and Ansal Heights, are located close to Sector 92.Kashyap said that as per the Haryana Fire Service Act, the ideal response time in urban areas should be around five minutes. However, he said that due to the size, traffic volume and population of Gurugram and Manesar, in comparison to other cities in Haryana, this is impossible to achieve and as a practice, the fire department aims to at least ensure a response within 15 minutes.Officials said the entire process, including construction, would take around two years.“Drawings for the project first need to be prepared and subsequently, approved. In the next stage, the estimates for the projects need to be prepared. In the final stage, the tendering process needs to be completed for finalising a contractor for the project and only then can construction commence. Keeping all formalities in mind, we estimate at least two years for the fire station can become operational,” said Kashyap.“When the Sector 92 fire station is built, along with the fire stations in Pataudi and Hailey Mandi, our coverage will extent from Gurugram till Rewari. Three fire stations in relatively close proximity to the one in IMT Manesar will ensure that the maximum response time for any major fire in any of these areas is less than 20 minutes,” said Kashyap.The Haryana fire department comes under the ambit of the respective municipal corporations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/land-allotted-for-fire-station-in-sector-92-101618074866272.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||864 Covid-19 cases take active case count past 5,000||The district witnessed its highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases on Saturday, reporting 864 cases and one death, according to the health department data, taking the tally of active cases to 5,013. The positivity rate in Gurugram was at 8%, with 8,071 tests conducted.Health department officials said that the numbers are likely to increase on a daily basis, with 703 cases reported on Friday. The number of total cases in the district reached 69,057 on Saturday.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer for Gurugram, said that the highest number of Covid-19 infections reported on Saturday were concentrated in condominiums falling in the jurisdiction of Badshahpur, Bhangrola and Fazilpur, besides a few high-rises along the Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). “Residents of gated communities are more affected in this wave, as it seems that Covid discipline is not being followed strictly. Last year, people in gated communities were more disciplined, but this year, due to social gatherings, reopening of malls and restaurants, the virus is spreading in these areas,” said Yadav. Covid-19 cases were showing a downward spiral from January onwards, but the infection rates have surged after March 15, forcing the health authorities to intensify testing and expand the vaccine outreach. Over 300,000 people have been vaccinated in the district, which accounts for almost 40% of the prioritised groups. On Saturday, 4,763 people received the vaccines in the district. Officials said the turnout was lower than usual as it was a weekend.To check the spread of the infection, the containment zones in the city were also increased from 35 to 61 on Wednesday, with a majority of them being notified in condominiums, said officials. Yadav also said that while the healthcare system in the city is geared to up meet the Covid-19 situation, the cases are likely to increase over the next few days. “I appeal to the people in the city to avoid going to crowded places. The Covid safeguards should be followed strictly,” he said. According to the health department data, 441 patients recovered from the infection on Saturday, bringing the total number of recoveries to 63,657 patients.As of Saturday, of the 5,013 active cases, 4,642 patients were in home isolation, while the rest were undergoing treatment at hospitals and Covid care centres.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/864-covid-19-cases-take-active-case-count-past-5000-101618074865331.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||MP to take up Metro expansion with Centre||Lok Sabha member and union minister of state Rao Inderjit Singh said he will take up the issue of Metro expansion in the city with the union ministry of urban development and expedite approvals for the same.Singh said that this matter was discussed in detail at a meeting of the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) meeting held on Friday. Singh said that the issue of extending the Metro line to the older parts of the city was discussed in detail during the GMDA meeting. “The DPR [detailed project report] for the project was finally sent to the Central government in February this year. I asked the chief minister that decisions on metro and similar projects should be timebound to avoid delays. I have now decided to take up this matter with union urban development ministry so that the Metro project can be expedited,” said Singh.The extension of the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation’s (DMRC) Yellow line in the city has remained stuck for the last three years, as the Haryana government remained unable to finalise the alignment and changed it multiple times. As per the current plans sent to the union urban development ministry, the Metro expansion will extend the Metro line from the Huda City Centre station to Old Gurugram and Udyog Vihar through a loop. The project cost is pegged at ₹6,821 crore. The Gurgaon MP said, “Earlier, I had taken up the issue of road infrastructure in Gurugram with union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and the response was very good. The city needs a Metro on priority and I will take up this issue with the ministry.” He said that it was due to intervention of Gadkari that several flyovers and road projects were launched in the district.Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, who was interacting with media persons at the PWD guest house in Gurugram on Friday said that the plans changed thrice but now, a final report has been sent to the Central government for approval. “All efforts are made to ensure that Metro project gets required approval at the earliest,” he said. Singh also said that the decision of directly transferring external development charges to GMDA will help it in infrastructure development and maintenance. “The GMDA needs resources for development and this decision will bring it revenue,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mp-to-take-up-metro-expansion-with-centre-101618074806417.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Schools, anganwadis and crèches to remain closed till April 30: Haryana govt||The Haryana government on Saturday directed the closure of all government and private schools up to class 8 till April 30, to curb the spread of coronavirus in the state.As per the order issued by the Haryana State Disaster Management Authority (HSDMA), anganwadis and crèches under the Women and Child Development Department will also remain closed during this period.According to the order issued by Sanjiv Kaushal, financial commissioner, revenue and additional chief secretary, Haryana, ”The state government has decided to declare a vacation for all government and private schools from class 1 to 8 till 30/04/21.”As per the order, government officials of the departments concerned will operate as per the conditions imposed during the lockdown in 2020 and ensure that the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) Scheme, including distribution of supplementary nutrition programme, be made available at the doorsteps of the beneficiaries. It also said that the beneficiaries be called to anganwadis, for immunisation, with strict Covid-19 safeguards, adding that no centre will allow a gathering of more than 20 persons.Kaushal said that joint inspection teams will be constituted for the enforcement of Covid-19 protocols. Action will be taken against those not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms, as per the order.The directions to close schools came a day after chief minister (CM) Khattar said that strict measures will be taken in view of the sharp spike in daily Covid-19 infections in the state. The CM, however, discounted the possibility of a lockdown or a night curfew, saying that there was “no need to create panic, and normal life should continue with safety measures.”Although the schools will remain closed, teachers will have to be present for administrative work, including evaluation of papers and admission processes.A district administration spokesperson said that residents’ welfare associations (RWAs), managements of shopping malls and banquet halls were also directed to implement Covid-19 safeguards. “Action will be taken against the violators under various IPC sections, and the State Disaster Management Act, 2005,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/schools-anganwadis-and-cr-ches-to-remain-closed-till-april-30-haryana-govt-101618074807047.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Sharpshooter of Kaushal gang arrested from Sector 10||A wanted man who is a part of the Kaushal gang and carried a reward of ₹5,000 for information on his whereabouts was arrested on Thursday night from Sector 10, the police said.According to the police, the suspect, identified as Deepak alias Deepu of Kadipur, is a sharpshooter of the Kaushal gang and was involved in murder, attempt to murder, kidnapping, robbery, assault and extortion cases.On February 22, a person identified as Manish (28) was shot dead by two unidentified assailants in Feroz Gandhi colony of Sector 9 in Gurugram. According to the police, the assailants fired 18 bullets, of which 15 hit the man, killing him on the spot.Virender Vij, the superintendent of police, special task force (STF) headquarters, Gururgam, said that on March 30, police had arrested two suspects involved in the murder, identified as Yogender (24) and Sanjay Panchal (31). “The suspect had planned to kill Shivjeet Chauhan alias Babu and they had shown his house to two sharpshooters to kill him but in the meantime, Manish had some work and came to pick Chauhan’s car. The shooters mistook him for Chauhan and shot at him, killing him on the spot,” he said.The police said that Deepu was associated with the duo. He met Panchal on Sohna Road before the incident and went to Feroz Gandhi colony to identify Chauhan’s house, the police said.Deepu, during questioning, revealed that the duo went to kill Chauhan out of rivalry as Panchal wanted to have a monopoly of auto-rickshaws in Old Gurugram and Chauhan had a hold over the market, due to which he was unable to set up his transport business.Vij said Deepu was the main culprit in the case and planned the murder. “There were no key witnesses in the case, despite several people being present at the spot. We scanned CCTV footage and identified Deepu, following which he was arrested,” he said.Police said Manish did not have a criminal record, but Chauhan was booked in several cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/sharpshooter-of-kaushal-gang-arrested-from-sector-10-101618074805487.html
10-04-2021||Other||Bihar cop lynched in West Bengal, three arrested||KISHANGANJA police officer of Bihar’s Kishanganj district was lynched by a mob at a village in Islampur of West Bengal early Saturday morning when he was leading a police team in pursuit of an accused in a motorcycle theft case. Later in the day, the police arrested three suspects and Kishanganj’s superintendent of police Kumar Ashish suspended eight policemen who were part of the raiding team but escaped, leaving the officer at the mercy of the murderous mob.The slain police officer, inspector Ashwani Kumar (50), a native of Purnea, was posted at Kishanganj police station as its station house officer (SHO) and had gone to Pantapara, a border village in West Bengal around five kilometres away, with a police team to conduct a raid in connection with motorcycle loot when a mob allegedly attacked and beat him to death. Other members of the police team managed to escape.“The SHO died on the spot. A joint team of Bihar and West Bengal police is carrying out raids to nab the culprits,” Inspector general (Purnia range) Suresh Choudhary said.Kishanganj police have alleged there was no cooperation from the West Bengal police. “We continued to call local police but they didn’t respond to our calls. The SHO had talked to the local Goalpokhar police station of West Bengal before conducting the raid, but they didn’t assist us,” said a policeman, not wishing to be quoted. Another policeman said the West Bengal police were registering a case of unnatural death but finally lodged a case of murder only after pressure from Bihar Police.After the autopsy at a West Bengal hospital, Kumar’s body was brought to the Kishanganj police lines, where his colleagues paid their last respects.Meanwhile, three suspects were arrested in a joint by the police of the two states later in the day. “Two brothers and their mother have been arrested and raids are on to nab the other,” said a police officer.Those arrested were idenfied as Firoz Alam and Abuzar Alam, and their mother Shahinoor Khatun.SP Kumar Ashish said service revolver of the slain SHO was not still missing. “Two mobile phones of the SHO have been recovered.” “A murder case has been registered at Goalpokhar police station of West Bengal,” he said.West Bengal is in the middle of Assembly polls and Islampur constituency goes to vote on April 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-cop-lynched-in-west-bengal-three-arrested-101618074565209.html
10-04-2021||Other||46 students in XLRI infected||As many as 46 students of premier business school XLRI-Xavier School of Management and six of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGMMC) in Jamshedpur tested positive for Covid-19, officials said on Saturday.“All the infected students have been isolated and quarantined in different hostels and are under round-the-clock observation of our campus doctor. All necessary steps such as contact tracing are being taken to prevent further spread of infection. Mandatory RT-PCR testing is being done for all the students and professors on campus. The online classes will continue, however, regular classes have been stopped,” Prof Sunil Verghese, XLRI spokesperson, said.As per available information, all the infected business students are first year students, while all second year students left the campus a fortnight ago after completing their course. It may be noted here that the 65th annual convocation of XLRI-Jamshedour was scheduled to be held on April 24. However, following the development, it will beheld online.Meanwhile, MGMMCH principal Dr GS Baraik said the oral exam scheduled on Saturday for MBBS students was cancelled after six students tested positive. “The exam has been cancelled till further orders. Random testing of 50 students was done in which six tested positive,” said Dr Baraik.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/46-students-in-xlri-infected-101618074505287.html
10-04-2021||Ranchi||State reports highest single day spike this year, active cases breach 10k-mark||Jharkhand on Friday reported the highest single day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities so far this year after discovering 1,925 cases and registering 17 deaths, according to the health department’s Covid-19 bulletin released on Saturday.With the detection of these cases, the tally of active cases in the state climbed to 10,604.According to the Saturday morning bulletin, as many as 25,718 samples were tested on Friday, out of which 1,925 were found infected, logging a positivity rate of 7.48%. This indicated that out of every 100 samples tested, atleast seven were found infected.The state’s tally of total positive cases now rose up to 134,715, including 122,936 recoveries, 10,604 active cases and 1,175 deaths.Besides, the growth of cases in state capital Ranchi continued unabated, as nearly 40% of the state’s total cases discovered on Friday came from the district alone.Ranchi on Friday detected 754 positive cases after testing 3,921 samples, recording a positivity rate as high as 19.22%. It showed that out of every five samples tested, one returned positive.With detection of these cases, the district’s case tally crossed the 40,000-mark, and active cases breached the 5,000-mark. Ranchi logged 40,407 cases so far, including 34,900 recoveries, 5,217 active cases and 290 deaths.East Singhbhum district, with its headquarters in Jamshedpur, stood second after Ranchi with respect to case tally. The district reported 256 cases after testing 2,267 samples on Friday, recording a positivity rate of 11.29%.Out of 17 deaths reported from across the state, eight occurred in Ranchi and three in East Singhbhum district.Meanwhile, the state was facing shortage of testing machines and trained manpower, causing delay in generation of test reports. Even private testing centres were generating reports atleast three to four days after sample collection.According to the Covid-19 bulletin, as many as 37,745 untested samples were piled up across the state in different laboratories.Taking serious exception to the fact that reports of samples collected from court staff on April 5 were yet to be generated, the Jharkhand high court on Friday pulled up the Ranchi district civil surgeon.The court observed that inordinate delay in testing can pose serious trouble for the patient as well as the community as a whole. “By the time the report comes, the patient may die or he or she may spread infection to many others,” the court said.It asked the Ranchi civil surgeon to inform the court every day about the district’s testing status. Advocate general assured the court that he will discuss the matter with authorities concerned and will soon apprise the court about the developments.Besides, Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) microbiology department official informed the court that it required two more RT-PCR machines and additional manpower to clear the backlog of untested samples. A RIMS official informed that more than 1,200 samples were being tested everyday at present with the three existing RT-PCR machines at the hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-reports-highest-single-day-spike-this-year-active-cases-breach-10kmark-101618074385277.html
10-04-2021||Other||Muslim religious leaders oppose closure of places of worship||PATNAMuslim religious leaders have opposed the state government’s decision to close the religious places for people due to a surge in Covid-19 cases and plan to meet the chief minister soon to hand over a memorandum in this regard. The state government, which had announced on Friday various restrictions, had also decided to close religious places for people till April 30. A group of Muslim leaders held an online meeting on Saturday to discuss the issue. “The holy month of Ramjan, during which people offer special prayers, is about to begin. The closure of mosque will create problem for people,” said one of them.Ramjan begins on April 14. “The government, with certain restrictions, has allowed functioning of parks, cinema halls, government and private offices and conduct of examinations. Even marriages and functions related to last rites have been allowed with limited numbers. But surprisingly, temples, mosques, churches and gurdwaras have been closed,” said another.The meeting was attended by vice-president of Imarat Shariah, Maulana Samshad Rahmani, Maulana Shamiuddin Ahmed Manuami, and general secretary of Jamait Ulema Hind (Bihar) Alhaj Husn Ahmed Qadari, among others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/muslim-religious-leaders-oppose-closure-of-places-of-worship-101618074265373.html
10-04-2021||Other||Bihar Governor calls all-party meeting on April 17||PATNAin view of rapidly growing graph of Covid-19 spread in Bihar, Governor Phagu Chouhan has called an all-party virtual meeting at the Raj Bhawan at 11 am on April 17 at the request of an alarmed Nitish Kumar government.The decision was taken after deputy chief minister Tarjkishore Prasad and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary met the Governor during the day. Principal secretary (health) Prataya Amrit was also present at the meeting to apprise him of the latest situation.The Raj Bhawan secretariat will establish contact with the participants.On Friday, after a high-level review meeting with top brass of the state administration on Covid-19 situation, chief minister Nitish Kumar had said the government would soon contact the Governor to request him to call an all-party meeting, as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an interaction with chief ministers. The government placed its request before the Governor within a day.Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has been attacking the government for not setting up an all-party committee to monitor Covid-19 situation in the state despite agreement on it in the Bihar Assembly during the one-day session amid pandemic last year. Nitish Kumar had proposed a committee till the end of the tenure of his previous government.According to sources in the government, the rapidly rising Covid-19 graph, especially since the return of migrants during Holi and worsening situation in Maharashtra and some other states, requires greater caution and awareness among the masses and the political parties could play a big role in reaching out to the people with the right message, especially regarding the basic dos and don’t.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-governor-calls-all-party-meeting-on-april-17-101618074205248.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi announces fresh Covid curbs; restaurants, buses to operate at 50% capacity||The Delhi government on Sunday announced fresh restrictions, banning most public gatherings and setting limits for attendance at restaurants, theatres, on public transport and functions like weddings and funerals, to tackle rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). An order issued by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) said the new rules, along with the night curfew already in effect, will stay in place till April 30. The authority has banned all social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious gatherings in Delhi.Also Read: Maharashtra lockdown?: CM Uddhav Thackeray to decide soonThe new order said restaurants, cinema halls and buses will operate with a 50% capacity. Swimming pools will remain shut, except for sportsperson who are training for national and international events, and stadiums will be without spectators, it added. All government staff lower than Grade-I will mostly work from home on a rotation basis and private offices also advised to stagger work hours and follow work from home rules.According to the order, all air travellers from Maharashtra will have to get an RT-PCR report not older than 72 hours. If found without an RT-PCR report, such passengers will have to remain in mandatory quarantine for 14 days. However, government functionaries have been exempted if they are asymptomatic.The Delhi government’s new restrictions come as the city is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases. Delhi on Saturday recorded 7897 cases of the coronavirus disease, which took the tally in the Capital to 714,423, according to the government's health bulletin. The city reported the highest number of daily cases on Friday when it reported 8,521 cases.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal earlier on Saturday said that strict restrictions will be imposed as lockdown is not an option in the Capital, which he pointed out was witnessing the fourth wave of the pandemic. "The last few days have seen a rise in the number of coronavirus cases in the entire country, including Delhi. We need to simultaneously spearhead an aggressive vaccination campaign and also put in place measures that can effectively contain the spread of the virus along with making the hospital management equally effective," Kejriwal was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-announces-fresh-covid-19-curbs-occupancy-reduced-to-50-in-metros-restau-101618072882417.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai reports 9327 new Covid-19 cases, active cases go past 91,000 mark||Mumbai on Saturday reported 9327 new infections of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 50 related fatalities, according to a bulletin from the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). The fresh cases and fatalities have taken the city’s tally to 510,225 and the death toll climbed to 11,959. The daily Covid-19 cases and deaths have both increased marginally from the 9200 infections and 35 fatalities reported on the previous day.The active caseload too witnessed an increase by 775 cases and currently stands at 91,108 from the 90,333 reported previously. Meanwhile, 8474 patients recovered from the coronavirus disease on the day as overall recoveries so far reached 406,087 in the financial hub. The overall recovery rate in Mumbai stands at 79.5 per centAs many as 48,749 samples were tested on the day and 4,558,630 tests have been conducted in the city so far, data from the bulletin showed. The bulletin also showed that the current doubling rate in the city is 34 days and the growth rate of cases in the seven-day period between April 3 and 9 is 1.97 per cent.Also read | With 55,411 Covid-19 cases, 309 deaths, Maharashtra’s tally at 33,43,951Along with Mumbai, Pune with 638,996 confirmed cases followed by Thane with 400,982, Nagpur with 277,467 and Nashik with 217,109 cases remain the worst affected places in Maharashtra, according to the latest data released by the state government. The Union health ministry too red-flagged the five districts, saying they contribute the maximum to the state’s active caseload.Covid-19 vaccination was stopped in private centres in Mumbai for three days beginning April 10 due to the non-availability of vaccine stock, BMC announced on Friday. Also, the private centres have been asked to cancel their scheduled vaccination sessions for three days. While many vaccination centres across the city remained shut on Friday due to the shortage of supplies, the BMC received 99,000 doses of the Covishield vaccine on the day, news agency ANI reported.Watch how Mumbai looks amid weekend lockdownAmid the increase in the number of daily new infections, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray in an all-party meeting on Saturday said that the government will soon arrive at a decision on a state-wide lockdown. Currently, weekend restrictions and night curfews have been imposed to curb the spread of coronavirus infections in the state. Uddhav Thackeray said that the decision would be announced after a meeting with the state Covid-19 task force on Sunday and other stakeholders in the next two days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-reports-9327-new-covid-19-cases-active-cases-go-past-91-000-mark-101618071482206.html
10-04-2021||Other||80 acre wheat crop gutted in two Sangrur villages||Ripe and ready-to-harvest wheat crop over 80 acre was reduced to ashes in two villages of Sangrur near Lehragaga on Saturday afternoon. Even the residual part of the crop has been burnt in Dhindsa and Jhaloor villages. Locals claim they doused the flames before the arrival of fire tenders, even as the cause remains unknown. Police and officials from the district administration reached the spot and inspected the sites. Lehra station house officer (SHO) Vijay Pal said over 80 acre of crop had caught fire and the residents of nearby villages doused it. Officials said farmers will be compensated after the patwaris submitted a report on the incident. The money will be paid to owners or farmers who cultivated the land on lease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/80-acre-wheat-crop-gutted-in-two-sangrur-villages-101618071325769.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Over 90 per cent SPPU students appear for online exam||On Saturday, 90.14 percent students appeared for the proctored online examination conducted by Savitribai Phule Pune University (SPPU). Of the 28,131 total students, 25,356 were present for the online examination. According to SPPU officials, students appeared for a total of 74 subjects on Saturday. In the first half and hour, some students of Bachelor of Computer Application (BCA) faced problems. However, these problems were resolved in half an hour, and students could resume the examination immediately. A war room was set up by SPPU to address various queries posed by students. Students could call on the helpline number or access a chatbox with their questions regarding any technical difficulty. Mahesh Kakade, controller of examination at SPPU said that the war room officials kept a track of students and checked if they were involved in any malpractices. “Many students contacted the helpline with their queries. Some of them had not seen the timetable properly, and hence thought that their paper was on Saturday, others had some technical difficulties which were resolved,” said Kakade. SPPU set up a helpline number, 020– 71530202 to help and assist students with any technical glitches. Many students contacted the helpline with their queries. War room officials said that as many students did not see the timetable for the exam correctly, they thought that their exam was today. Hence, they called on the helpline number on Saturday. Officials at the war room of SPPU said that around 3,500 students contacted the helpline number with their queries on the first day of examination whereas, 1,500 students used the chatbox to resolve their issues about the examination. SPPU war room officials also added that students who did not appear for the mock test faced difficulty in setting up their camera.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-90-per-cent-sppu-students-appear-for-online-exam-101618071144980.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Police arrest four for selling Remdesivir at higher price||The Pimpri-Chinchwad police arrested four persons including two siblings - one from Aundh-based private hospital and another from Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run Covid Care Centre (CCC) at Baner for the black marketing of Remdesivir injections which are used in the treatment of Covid-19, the police said on Saturday. The accused, police said had been selling the drugs at higher rates to patients in need. While the market price of Remdesivir is ₹5,400. The accused were planning to sell the injections for ₹11,000. This is the first case in Pune where police have acted against the black marketing of Remdesivir amid shortage of life saving injection in the city. The suspects have been identified as Ajay Gurudev Morale (staff at Medipoint hospital, Aundh), Murlidhar Subhash Marutkar (working at Baner Covid Centre), Pratap Sunil Jadhavrao (resident of Talegaon dabhade) and Aditya Maidargi. Police seized three injections, cash worth ₹10,400, one TVS bike and four mobile phones. Kirshna Prakash, Pimpri-Chinchwad police commissioner said, “Police set a trap to bust the nexus of black marketing with decoy approached the accused called Aditya Maidargi and demanded two injections. Aditya asked customers to come to Katepuram chowk at Sangvi to collect the injection and asked for a rate of ₹11,000 per injection. When Aditya came to deliver the injection, police arrested him.” According to Prakash, Aditya revealed the name of Prathap Jadhavrao. After that, police arrested Pratap Jadhavrao and seized one injection. “Pratap told police that he purchased two injections from Medipoint hospital’s Ajay Morale. When police nabbed Morale, he admitted that he took three injections from Murlidhar Marutkar of Baner Covid-19 Centre,” he added. One of the PMC officials said, “Marutkar is working at the Baner Covid Centre which has allotted a contract to a private firm to run the centre. We have given instruction to all Covid-19 centres and issued an alert.” The accused have been charged under the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), the drugs (prices control) order 2013, the essential commodities Act, 1955 and the drugs and cosmetics Act 1940, illegal purchase of injection without doctor’s prescription and selling above the prices. From the past one week, city is facing a shortage of Remdesivir injections with people rushing to distributors to purchase the drug. The shortage has also led to a panic situation in the city. According to Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) officials, the demand has raised five times more as compared to normal. On this background, the Pimpri-Chinchwad police have carried out an action and arrested four suspects. On the tip off, PCMC police, social security department and FDA officials jointly carried out action at Aundh. Dinesh Khivasara, assistant commissioner, FDA said, “It is not black marketing. People are selling stolen injections from hospitals at higher prices.” Normalcy after April 20 He further said, “The district collector has issued an order to provide injection to hospitals directly and not to distributors. Shortage will continue until April 20. At present, we are trying to correct the supply and demand ratio. However, the demand is more as compared to the supply. Every doctor is prescribing it for patients who are with mild symptoms therefore the demand has been increased five times more in the city. The drug needs at least 15 days to manufacture.” “There are five manufacturers in the country. One is in Maharashtra, they need raw material which comes from foreign countries, he added. He said, “The MRP of injection is ₹5,400. We appeal to distributors to sell injection 10 per cent above the purchase rate. Retailers and distributors were selling it. However, due to manhandling of distributors and the shortage, most of them decide not to sell below MRP.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/police-arrest-four-for-selling-remdesivir-at-higher-price-101618071084962.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Ajit Pawar instructs officials to meet traders||Maharashtra deputy chief minister and Pune guardian minister Ajit Pawar has instructed Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao, Pune municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar and the police to hold meetings with various traders’ associations in the city to discuss lockdown measures and the current Covid crisis. Pawar’s instructions came after the traders have announced that they will open shops on Monday and violate the guidelines issued by the state government. Pawar said, “It is true that there is anger among traders and many other elements in the society but the Covid situation in the state is in bad shape. Usually, it is my experience that if the facts get put in front of any organisation and people, they agree to the state government’s decision.” Pune traders’ association president Fattechand Ranka said, “If the state government would announce a complete lock down, we would support it and follow all instructions. However, instead of the complete lock down, state government announced half open, and half shut lockdown, we would open our shops on Monday. We got the message from the district administration for Sunday’s meeting.” Ranka said, “Half lockdown create more confusion, we spoke with the Maharashtra traders’ association. They also took the same stand that if there would be a strict lockdown and everything would be closed, we would support it but if it continues to be a half lockdown, shops would open on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/ajit-pawar-instructs-officials-to-meet-traders-101618071024810.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Men use monkeys to steal money in Delhi, arrested||Two men who roamed the Indian capital using monkeys to rob unsuspecting victims have been arrested, New Delhi police said Saturday.The pair were apprehended after one victim complained to officers that three men carrying monkeys had surrounded and robbed him of ₹6,000, a local police official told AFP.Authorities across India have been grappling with the menace posed by monkeys in Delhi and other populated cities, where they often enter homes in search of food.But it is illegal for Indians to capture them under a 1972 law."When the victim was sitting in an autorickshaw, the men also entered (the vehicle) and asked one monkey to sit on the front seat and another at the back," the official said."They took the money the lawyer had in his wallet and fled with the monkeys."Police suspected the gang were behind other similar thefts and officers set up a dedicated team to track down the culprits, who were arrested Thursday at a bus stop along with their animal accomplices.The third thief is still at large while the monkeys have been sent to an animal rescue centre.Monkeys are often trained as street performers in India and incidences of the hairy simians attacking residents are not uncommon.Last year a troop of monkeys attacked a medical official and snatched blood samples of patients who had tested positive for coronavirus in Meerut city in northern India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/men-use-monkeys-to-steal-money-in-delhi-arrested-101618063517359.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Hospitals to provide Remdesivir injections to patients, says Pune dist collector Rajesh Deshmukh||PUNE As the panic over the shortage of Remdesivir injections continued, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh has issued an order stating hospitals to provide the injection to the patients and not ask family or relatives to buy the drug.Remdesivir is a crucial drug that is used to treat patients infected with the Sars-Cov-2 virus which causes the Covid infection.“The order has been issued to prohibit the black marketing and stocking of Remdesivir. To ensure the smooth supply for sale, purchase and distribution this order has been given to the concerned establishments,” the order stated.“There is more demand for Remdesivir from private hospitals and so it has created artificial scarcity. No person will get Remdesivir from any retailer. If a patient requires the injection, it will be made available by the hospital. We are starting a helpline for complaints regarding Remdesivir. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) joint commissioner has been appointed as a nodal officer,” said Saurabh Rao, divisional commissioner of Pune.In the last few days, acute scarcity of Remdesivir has been experienced in Pune. The patient’s kin have been crowding the chemists’ shops where the injection is available. The administration also had received complaints regarding overcharging for a vial. In the light of all these events, the district collector has issued specific instructions for the hospitals to provide the injection to the patients.Hospitals are asked to place the order of Remdesivir to the supplier keeping the requirement for three days in mind. Suppliers will have to provide the daily sale report of the drug including hospital name, associated chemists name, bills, total sale to Pune Food and Drug Administration (FDA).The hospitals which do not have associated medical stores can place orders to wholesale suppliers or ‘C and F agents’. Hospitals will have to provide Remdesivir with government-approved rates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/hospitals-to-provide-remdesivir-injections-to-patients-says-pune-dist-collector-rajesh-deshmukh-101618070784756.html
10-04-2021||Other||{Illegal colonies} Patiala Development Authority wants FIRs against 7 colonisers||The Patiala Development Authority (PDA) has written to the district police to register First Information Reports (FIRs) against seven colonisers, who have indulged in illegal construction. These colonisers have also failed to respond to a notice sent to them to explain such action. Of 750 illegal colonies on PDA’s record spread across Patiala, Sangrur, Fatehgarh Sahib and Barnala, only 129 have applied under the state government’s regularisation scheme notified two years ago. Only three of these have been regularised to date. “On the basis of complaints received, we carried out a survey and issued notices to 13 colonies under the Punjab Regional Town Planning and Development Act, so as to initiate action under the state’s regularisation policy,” Surabhi Malik, chief administrator, PDA.She added that of 13 colonies, developers of five such units submitted their explanation, while one colony falls under the jurisdiction of the Patiala municipal corporation. “Seven developers failed to respond within stipulated time. We have written to the police to register FIRs against them,” Surbhi added. The FIRs will be registered under the Punjab Apartment and Property Regulation Act (PAPRA), 1995.On the whole, authorities have failed to take action against colonisers who have not applied for regularisation of their properties under the policy. According to the new regularisation policy notified in October 2019, colonies developed before March 2018 were to be regularised and action was to be taken against those who failed to follow the law. A coloniser, whose project has been regularised, said laxity on the part of the state government in initiating action against the defaulters was not a positive sign. “The state government had come up with regularisation policies in 2013, 2015, 2016 and 2018. Yet, no action has been taken against the defaulters,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/illegal-colonies-patiala-development-authority-wants-firs-against-7-colonisers-101618070487722.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Vaccination resumes as Pune gets 1 lakh doses||PUNE The inoculation drive resumed at most of the Covid centres in the Pune district, which were shut on Friday due to a shortage of vaccines.As of Saturday morning, Pune saw over 1.76 lakh vaccines in stock out of which one lakh arrived on Friday late night. The district also hopes to get another 1.10 lakh doses by Sunday, said officials.With enough doses, Pune district ensured 79,220 vaccinations in a day, a step towards the one lakh vaccination target set by the administration earlier.During the review meeting on Saturday, Union minister Prakash Javadekar along with deputy chief minister and Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar, Javadekar said that by ensuring that the existing vaccine stock is distributed effectively the drive could continue as planned.While interacting with the media after a review meeting, Javadekar said, “There are only three states in the country Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Gujrat that have got over one crore doses till now. Out of the 1.10 crores doses supplied to Maharashtra, 95 lakh have been administered as of Friday night and still, 15.63 lakh are pending.”“Currently, this stock needs to be distributed properly so that there is a shortage of stock at any centre,” he said.Pawar said, “The pending stock is not in one place. There are multiple session sites in each district and the local administration, health authorities and medical education authorities should ensure that the vaccines are distributed appropriately.”“The Center has promised to ensure that all necessary equipment and machinery is provided as required,” he said.As of the latest report by the district office, Pune district has 1.73 lakh doses including the one lakh doses which the district received on Friday night. The district is also likely to get 1.10 lakh more doses by Sunday. A total of 12.73 lakh citizens have been vaccinated and the wastage percentage of vaccines has gone up to 3.5 per cent.Under ‘Mission 100 days’ while the administration had planned to vaccinate one lakh, people, daily, however, due to a short supply of stock the administration could not achieve its target. About 43 per cent of the citizens aged above 45 years have been vaccinated in the district as of Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccination-resumes-as-pune-gets-1-lakh-doses-101618069524637.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||With 55,411 Covid-19 cases, 309 deaths, Maharashtra’s tally at 33,43,951||Maharashtra recorded 55,411 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and 309 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, the state’s health department said on Saturday, pushing its tally to 3,343,951 and death toll to 57,638. The new Covid-19 cases come after the worst-hit state reported 58,993 infections and 301 deaths on Friday. The Maharashtra government is mulling on the possibility of a complete lockdown amid the mounting cases of the coronavirus disease. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will meet officials of the state task force on Covid-19 on Sunday and is expected to meet other stakeholders in the next couple of days to take a decision over imposing a lockdown.Thackeray made the comments during an all-party meeting, people familiar with the developments said. The consensus was built over the complete lockdown in the meeting, they added.Also read | Allocate Covid-19 vaccines based on population, active cases: MaharashtraThe state government has already imposed a strict weekend lockdown from Friday night till 7am on Monday. The home delivery of food and essential supplies and movement of students taking various exams are allowed during the curfew.Maharashtra, which is witnessing the second wave of the pandemic, reported 56,286 new Covid-19 cases and 376 deaths on Thursday. There were 59,907 cases in the western state on Wednesday, its highest daily spike since the beginning of the pandemic.Photos: Weekend lockdown in Maharashtra as Covid-19 cases surgeMumbai reported 9330 Covid-19 cases and 28 related deaths and now the city’s tally stands at 510,512 and the death toll at 11,944. Mumbai's tally of the coronavirus disease crossed the 500,000-mark on Friday.Maharashtra, witnessing the rise in Covid-19 cases, has said it is facing vaccine shortage and has sought more vaccine supplies from the Centre amid a war of words over the issue. During a meeting with Congress chief Sonia Gandhi over the coronavirus pandemic, health minister Rajesh Tope said the state has demanded 40 million doses every week from the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/with-55-411-covid-19-cases-309-deaths-maharashtra-s-tally-at-3343951-101618067161755.html
10-04-2021||Pune||PMC to start Covid care centres at educational institutes, auditoriums, sports complex||PUNE Amid the surge in Covid cases in the city, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to convert various educational institutes, hostels and auditoriums into Covid care centres.A statement issued by PMC read: “Covid beds are available at Agricultural College, Balewadi sports complex, SNDT College on Karve road and Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar hostel Ghole road. The total bed capacity here is 1,900 beds and medical officers are recruited at these locations.”Vikram Kumar, municipal commissioner, said, “New Covid care centres are coming up at Sinhagad Institute, Vadgaon; Trinity College, Kondhwa; College of Engineering Hostel Pune, IIT Shivajinagar, Aundh ITI, Fergusson College, Shivajinagar, Nikmar Institute, Balewadi; Nandan Acura, Baner; Ganesh Kala Krida Manch, Swargate; and Savitribai Phule Pune University.”“These new Covid care centres would have a capacity of 4,700 beds,” he said.PMC had already started Covid care centres at Rakshaknagar Sports complex, Kharadi; Bankar School, Hadapsar; Sant Dnyaneshwar Hostel, Yerawada and Gangadham Fire Brigade, Bibvewadi. The total bed capacity of these centres is 1,250 and already 589 patients are taking treatment here.During the first wave last year, PMC had started these Covid care centres to isolate those infected with the virus. Now, PMC will provide medical officers at these centres, along with oxygen beds at some places.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-to-start-covid-care-centres-at-educational-institutes-auditoriums-sports-complex-101618065864251.html
10-04-2021||Other||Will move SC in 2015 Behbal Kalan firing case: HSGMC chief Daduwal||Haryana Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (HSGMC) president Baljit Singh Daduwal on Saturday said it will soon move the Supreme Court to demand justice in 2015 Behbal Kalan firing case. In a press conference, Daduwal, a radical Sikh preacher, claimed that the Capt Amarinder Singh-led Punjab government had failed to make any headway in cases of sacrilege of Sikh religious scriptures and the death of two persons in police firing in October 2015.“The Sikh sangat has no faith left in the Congress government and it will have an adverse electoral impact on the party in assembly polls scheduled next year,” Daduwal claimed, adding that Punjab government should approach the Supreme Court to challenge the Punjab and Haryana high court that quashes probe reports that the state police’s special investigation team (SIT) had submitted in connection with the 2015 Kotkapura firing. Daduwal alleged that Amarinder has a hidden pact with the Badal family and the government was working to protect them. “In the run-up to 2017 assembly polls, Amarinder announced that arresting those behind incidents of sacrilege and subsequent deaths of two persons in the police firing will be his priority. Four years on, there has been no progress in any case. Now, the HSGMC will ensure that families affected by police firing get legal support,” Daduwal claimed. He also questioned jathedar Dhian Singh Mand for withdrawing Insaf Morcha in December 2018. “Mand was leading the anti-sacrilege agitation, that lasted for 192 days, when it was ended suddenly on the promises made by Congress government. Victims’ families have told me that they have not got justice, so Mand should start a dharna outside the residence of the CM. Sikh sangat is still waiting for promises he made to be fulfilled,” said the Sikh preacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-move-sc-in-2015-behbal-kalan-firing-case-hsgmc-chief-daduwal-101618065804956.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra govt may impose lockdown to stop Covid-19 surge; decision on duration to be decided soon||The Maharashtra government is keen on imposing a lockdown as the state struggles to contain the surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray at an all-party meeting on Saturday said that the decision on the lockdown will be announced soon but a consensus has been reached regarding the imposition of lockdown, people familiar with the developments said. Thackeray is scheduled to hold a meeting with the state task force on Sunday and will meet other stakeholders over the next two days following which a decision on the duration of the lockdown may be announced.The state has already announced weekend lockdown—from 8pm on Friday till 7am on Monday, in a bid to curb the spread of Covid-19. The Maharashtra government earlier warned that a strict Covid-19 lockdown is needed to arrest the Covid-19 spike in the state. Health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said that if the state cannot contain the spread of Covid-19 then a lockdown cannot be averted. “We would need a complete lockdown for 15 days to three weeks even though I am not in favour of that. If hospitals are overwhelmed, if there is a shortage of medicines and if the government is unable to cope with the growing number of patients then such a step could be taken,” the health minister said, according to a report by PTI.The state recorded more than 50,000 over the past few days. It recorded the highest single-day surge since the beginning of the pandemic on Wednesday with 59,907 cases and recorded more than 58,000 cases on Friday as well. Maharashtra is the highest contributor to the daily Covid-19 caseload as well as the active caseload and also has the most number of districts that are reporting daily surges in Covid-19 numbers, according to data released by the Union health ministry. Among the 10 districts pointed out by the health ministry, which account for more than 45% of the total active cases, six are from Maharashtra. Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Nashik and Aurangabad have reported a large spike in daily Covid-19 cases as well the number of active Covid-19 cases.The state government was involved in a war of words over the allotment of vaccines with the Centre on Friday when health minister Tope claimed that the state has not received adequate amounts of doses. The claim was refuted by the Centre as Union health minister Harsh Vardhan accused the Maharashtra government of using vaccine dose deficit as an excuse for the recent spike in cases and also held the state government responsible for holding the nation back in its fight against the pandemic.The financial capital on Friday also reported a crunch in the shortage of vaccines which led to a temporary halt in the vaccination drive. The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation on Friday also announced that private vaccination centres will have to stop vaccinating people until April 12 due to a shortage of vaccines and centres run by the civic body and government will administer vaccines on Saturday and Sunday. BMC also received 99,000 vaccine doses earlier on Saturday which it distributed to vaccination centres run by the government and the municipality.India recorded 145,384 new coronavirus cases on Saturday setting a new record while recording 794 fresh fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 13.21 million. The country has reported the highest number of cases in the past week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-govt-may-impose-lockdown-to-stop-covid-19-surge-101618064588237.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Evening showers offer respite from scorching heat in Pune||Katraj, Fursungi, Sinhagad road, Vishrantwadi, Kothrud, Pashan, Aundh, Hadapsar, Lohegaon and other parts of Pune reported traces of rainfall on Saturday, offering a welcome respite from heat. The city continued to experience cloudy weather throughout the day. Pune reported 37.6 degrees Celsius on Saturday which was 0.4 degrees warmer than normal temperature. Lohegaon reported the day temperature at 37.9 degrees Celsius and a night temperature at 23.4 degrees Celsius with traces of rainfall. The night temperature in Pune city was 22.1 degrees Celsius which was 3.4 degrees warmer than normal. As per the predictions made by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the weather is likely to be cloudy until April 15. The cloudy weather is attributed to the various weather systems active over Maharashtra including a north-south trough from Vidarbha to south interior Tamil Nadu and wind confluence at lower level over south peninsular India, said IMD officials. Anupam Kashyapi, head of weather forecasting department, IMD Pune said that the trough line from Vidarbha and wind discontinuity is creating instability through the central part of Maharashtra. “As a result of this, there will be thundery activity with lightning. For Pune city, very little to light rain is likely until April 13. The maximum temperature will be around 38 to 40 degrees Celsius, and the minimum temperature will be around 20 degrees Celsius,” said Kashyapi Parts of Maharashtra will also witness thundery activity along with lightning and strong winds from April 13. On Saturday, Mahabaleshwar reported 1 millimetre rainfall. “From April 11, there will be gusty winds in Central Maharashtra and Vidarbha. In Vidarbha, chances of hailstorm exist in the next two days. In Marathwada, there may be gusty winds from April 11 onwards and chances of rainfall exist,” said Kashyapi. Until March 14, Vidarbha, Marathwada, Central Maharashtra, Konkan and Goa may experience thunderstorms with lightning along with light rainfall. On Saturday across Maharashtra, the highest maximum temperature reported was at 41.9 degrees Celsius at Akola. The day’s temperature was 1.7 degrees warmer than normal, and the lowest minimum temperature reported at 19.4 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/evening-showers-offer-respite-from-scorching-heat-in-pune-101618064544121.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi records 7,897 fresh Covid-19 cases, positivity rate shoots up||Delhi on Saturday recorded 7897 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the Capital’s cumulative tally to 714,423, according to a health bulletin. The fatalities also rose sharply in the last 24 hours after 39 new deaths were recorded, the bulletin added. A total of 11,235 people have succumbed to the deadly viral infection since the pandemic began last year.The national capital reported 8521 cases of the coronavirus disease on Friday and there were 7437 infections on Thursday. On the preceding two days, the cases count had stood above 5000. Delhi witnessed the highest single-day spike to date of 8593 cases on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the national capital had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count so far.The Covid-19 cases in Delhi fell below the 8000-mark on Saturday as testing dipped, which means fewer people were tested as opposed to those a day before. A total of 77,374 tests were carried out on Saturday, out of which 43,473 were RT-PCR and 33,901 were rapid antigen tests.Despite the fewer number of tests conducted, the positivity rate in the national capital shot up to 10.21% from 7.79% recorded a day earlier, which means more people carry the viral contagion in the bracket of people tested.Also read: 10 states face severe Covid-19 vaccine shortage. Here's a listIn the last wave of infections mid-November last year, which was the deadliest of the four waves Delhi has seen so far, the positivity rate stood above 15 per cent.On Thursday, the city recorded 7437 cases. On the preceding two days, the cases count had stood above 5000. Delhi witnessed the highest single-day spike to date of 8593 cases on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the national capital had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count so far.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has confirmed that the city-state is witnessing the fourth wave of infections, even as the rest of the country is reeling from the second wave. Kejriwal also said that a lockdown to curb the spread of the disease was not an option but warned of stricter restrictions.More and more people continue to get affected as reflective in the containment zones which rose sharply to 5,236 in the last 24 hours. A day earlier, the containment zones stood at 4,768, according to the health bulletin.Also read: Punjab, Rajasthan join list of states facing vaccine shortageThe number of people under home isolation increased to 15,266 from 13,188 on Friday, while the number of containment zones mounted to 5,236 on Saturday from 4,768 a day before, the bulletin said.Warning about the virulency of the disease, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that the new cases "could cross" the last single-day spike record registered in November, given the pace of the spread of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-records-7-897-fresh-covid-19-cases-positivity-rate-shoots-up-101618061476378.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Amidst lockdown talks, board firm on offline exams for 10th and 12th||The Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education (MSBSHSE) officials have ruled out online board exams for Classes 10 and 12 saying that such an exercise is not feasible.The examinations for Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) and Secondary School Certificate (SSC) are scheduled to be conducted offline from April end. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with all party leaders on Saturday, calling for stricter restrictions to contain the spread of Covid-19. After a surge in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad issued an order promoting all students from Class 1 to Class 8 without conducting exams recently. This week, Gaikwad also issued an order to promote students of Classes 9 and 11 without an examination. However, the decision regarding Classes 10 and 12 is still pending. Dinkar Patil, chairman of MSBSHSE said that the board has issued hall tickets to all students of Class 10 and Class 12. “The hall tickets have been issued. There is an increase in Covid cases, however, we are continuing with the preparations for the upcoming examination. But online examination is not an option for the board,” said Patil. He added that the board does not have enough infrastructures to conduct online examinations. Harishchandra Gaikwad, president, Pune district Mukhyadhyapak Sangh said that the board does not have the infrastructure needed to conduct online exams. “If students have to visit the centre and give the online test, then how is an offline examination a bad option? We have to understand that taking online examinations in remote parts of the state are a challenge, and in the given condition it is not a feasible one. The education department will take a relevant decision in this regard soon,” said Gaikwad. He further added that many teachers who are above the age of 45 years have already taken the vaccination to stay safe ahead of the scheduled exam dates. “Moreover, there can be other arrangements which can ensure students’ safety like carrying sanitizers and wearing masks. These are already made compulsory by the board,” said Gaikwad. On the condition of anonymity, another official from the education department said that since the department cannot conduct the examination and risk the lives of students, the exams should be postponed. “It is only fit to take this decision. A lot of other states are yet to conduct their board exams. Without exponential rise in cases of Covid in Maharashtra, the decision to postpone seems fit. However, it might affect the morale of students,” said the officials. On Friday, Varsha Gaikwad shared a video on social media stating that the health and welfare of students is the topmost priority of the government. Gaikwad urged students to stay safe and not stress about the increase in cases and the scheduled examination.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/amidst-lockdown-talks-board-firm-on-offline-exams-for-10th-and-12th-101618064003896.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Congress' Prithviraj Chavan accuses Centre of bias in Covid-19 help||Senior Maharashtra Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan on Saturday accused the Centre of "discrimination on the basis of politics" in the distribution of critical medical equipment such as PPE kits, N95 masks and ventilators to various states.In a statement issued here, the former chief minister said information from the Centre itself confirmed this politically biased distribution, adding that Maharashtra, despite having the highest Covid-19 caseload, was facing step-motherly treatment.The Centre's reply to a starred question in the Lok Sabha on February 12 on distribution of medical equipments revealed a shocking picture, Chavan said."Gujarat got 9,623 numbers of N95 masks per thousand Covid-19 patients as compared to Maharashtra, which got 1,560 masks per thousand patients. Even UP got 3,916 N95 masks, more than twice that of Maharashtra. In PPE kits, Gujarat got 4,951 kits per thousand, and UP got 2,446 kits while Maharashtra got just 223 kits," he said quoting the Centre's reply in the Lok Sabha.Gujarat was given 13 ventilators per 1000 patients, UP got seven while Maharashtra got only two ventilators per thousand Covid-19 patients, with Kerala getting even less than Maharashtra on a per thousand patient basis, he said."As per the Lok Sabha reply, in all categories, Gujarat was given the lion's share of supply of medical equipment, which is disproportionate to the caseload. What is this if not discrimination based on politics," he alleged.Chavan said Narendra Modi was forgetting that he was the prime minister of the entire country and not just Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and some BJP-ruled states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-congress-prithviraj-chavan-accuses-centre-of-bias-in-covid-19-help-101618063357086.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Startup mantra: Artificial intelligence in medical space||PUNE AI-enabled radiology platform DeepTek is playing an important role in precise diagnosis of diseases like TB and Covid-19. The Pune-based startup has received strategic investment from a clutch of investors so far, and is eying another VC round in next six months. Ajit Patil and Amit Kharat co-founded DeepTek in 2017. Patil completed his schooling from SSPMS school and engineering from COEP in 1992. He has a Master’s degree from IIT-Kharagpur in Industrial Engineering and Operations Research. Amit Kharat, with a DNB and PhD in Radiology, has been engaged in the radiology space for the last 17 years. Ajit Patil’s family hails from Sangli district and his father Surgonda Patil used to work with Kirloskar’s as an engineer. Patil’s father had started a manufacturing workshop which he ran after his office hours. Says Patil, “My father used to return around 6 pm from office and pick up his bag and go to the workshop. He was a role model for me to become an entrepreneur. I was a very shy person and wasn’t sure whether I was geared to be a good entrepreneur.”“Most students from COEP at the time were planning to study or work in the US, but I wanted to do business in India. I worked for one year in Telco under the sandwich programme, but then I realised and decided that I am not going to do a job anymore. I appeared for the GATE exam and went to IIT Kharagpur in 1992. During one of the breaks, I had come to Pune and met a friend from COEP. He had done his mechanical engineering, but was working at a software company called Fujitsu. I was surprised. When I went back to IIT, I was doing an industrial management programme and was asked to analyse the opportunities for the software industry in India. That time, in 1994, I realised that the software industry is a huge wave coming and can transform India. So, I also joined Fujitsu to gain some experience in the software industry. One fine day I decided to stop and go back to India. I met my father and told him I want to do something in software. My father was in mechanical engineering, but he encouraged me. That gave me the confidence. I started the company Vertex Software, a Japan-focused software services firm which had strategic equity investment from Mitsui and exited to NTT DATA. “We were one of the largest Indian companies working on the Japanese market, with over 700 employees, of which 200 spoke Japanese.”What is radiology AIArtificial Intelligence (AI) is very powerful on image analytics and radiology is all about images from MRI, CT scans and X-rays. Analysing these images and identifying the pathology or disease, to what extent it has infected or progressed, is radiology AI. Each machine and its settings are different and the human body is also different. An AI solution which works across these machines and body types is not a trivial problem. Besides, there is a lack of radiologists in almost all countries. India has only 8,000 radiologists who do CT scans, MRIs and another 8,000 do sonography, due to some regulatory issues. Considering the population of India, these are small numbers. Similarly, UK, Japan, Singapore and Australia also have radiologists in few numbers.How DeepTek was born In 2013, Ajit Patil stepped out of Vertex and decided to something else as an entrepreneur. Patil recalled, “In 2017, I was talking to Tsyoshi Kitani, then CTO of NTT Data. He mentioned that they were interested in radiology AI. They had a product in the US which was used in 1,000 hospitals there. In AI, data is the oil and without data you cannot do AI. Kitani said they had the data and wanted to explore something in this space and if I could do something, they will look at it. I started researching. I met almost 30 to 40 people including industry experts, educational experts, AI experts, and radiologists.”“I met Dr Amit Kharat and offered him co-founder of the start-up. Aniruddha Pant, who is a data scientist and also an alumnus of COEP, also came along with us at that time. We had gone to US to visit an exhibition related to radiology, organised by the Radiology Society of America. We were there for four-five days. We talked to lot of companies doing AI and tried to understand what they were doing. We learnt that none of the companies – including a few which were funded – had any commercial adoption. We were on the way back to Newark airport and almost decided that we will not pursue this idea. After a while, we realised that this idea would work only if we take radiology experts on board. We should not just depend on AI, but ask the experts to take ownership. This “expert in loop” model clicked and we all were energised. We thought this is where we can create and deliver value to the hospital,” Patil explained.Team buildingSays Patil, “In 2017, we started working on the model. We did a few things initially and then we approached NTT DATA again. NTT DATA took an immediate interest and decided to invest in our company in 2018. One of the earlier investors, Mitsui also expressed their interest and their group company Nobori, Japan’s largest Cloud PACS provider, came on board as a strategic investor. Aniruddha Pant helped us develop the data science experts’ team. We have a total team of 70 people, including 20 radiologists and 40 data science and technology experts, along with a strong leadership team. This combination is a unique thing we have created so far.” Commercial adoption strategyElaborating on their strategy, Patil said, “Since radiology AI is a large opportunity, there are many start-ups in US, Israel and Japan working in this sector. Although in 2017 we were late, what we learned was that these start-ups were finding it difficult to commercially deploy their solutions in the market.”“Commercial adoption of radiology AI workflow is not happening even now. First intervention in any hospital is an X-ray, but most of them go unreported. DeepTek’s solution is very powerful on X-rays as it can automatically identify 20 pathologies. DeepTek believes in augmenting the radiologists and not replacing them,” he stated.Says Patil, “With the “expert in the loop model” we managed to get 120 hospitals and imaging centres as our paying customers. These are mostly small and medium establishments situated in Maharashtra. Amit Kharat’s teleradiology customers became our first customers. We migrated those customers on our AI platform and now we are adding 10 customers every month. Last year, due to Covid and the consequent lockdown, we explored the overseas opportunities and got customers in Japan. We are conducting pilots in Indonesia, Phillipines and Africa also. NTT DATA and Nobori helped us with relationships and connections in getting the international customers. Apart from NTT DATA and Nobori, Gurugram-based Indo-Japanese Venture Accelerator GHV and Pune-based Pentathlon Ventures has invested in DeepTek.”TB screening solutionDeepTek has partnered with the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to provide artificial intelligence-enabled solution for screening and triage of tuberculosis from digital chest X-rays. DeepTek has screened 100,000 people using its AI-first population screening platform, GENKI (Japanese word for healthy) since 2019. This ongoing partnership has now been extended to screen 1,50,000 patients by 2022.Effective detection tool for Covid-19A CT scan has evolved as a sensitive and effective tool for detecting the Covid-19 infection. Explaining about this solution, Patil said, “There are certain kind of patches in the CT scan images which are indicative of Covid infection. CT scan has become one of the primary techniques for segregation of Covid patients in the hospitals. A lot of research has been done globally in Japan, China, Singapore, regarding this. DeepTek has also conducted research in collaboration with Nanavati hospital and Ruby Hall Clinic (RHC). We have done a ‘proof of concept’ with Nanavati hospital and we are in the process of publishing papers related to the research conducted with RHC.”“I am pleased to see the increasing maturity of AI technology and medical imaging services at DeepTek since the beginning of its business in 2018. The technology and service helps to solve society issues as we witness in the Chennai TB elimination project. NTT DATA Intellilink will continue working with DeepTek in developing emerging technology and contributing to society,” said Tsyoshi Kitani, president and CEO, NTT DATA INTELLILINK Corporation||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/startup-mantra-artificial-intelligence-in-medical-space-101618062626229.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Pimpri-Chinchwad’s vaccination drive back on track after one day break||PUNE After a gap of one day, the vaccination drive resumed at all the centres in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Saturday.Pimpri-Chinchwad received 20,000 doses of Covishield for Saturday and there are a total of 87 inoculation centres within the civic limits.“We had 350 doses today and all of them were utilised. No doses were wasted and people are cooperating with us,” said Ranjana Nalawade, coordinator nurse at the primary health centre, Maan, Hinjewadi.“The vaccination drive at the primary health centre, Maan went smoothly. On Friday night when it was confirmed that vaccine doses will be available then they (health staff) circulated messages on WhatsApp. Since it has started there have been no complaints from people at Hinjewadi,” Anshul Gupta, member of Hinjewadi IT Park Residents Welfare Association.Meanwhile, people had doubts whether they can get the jabs amid the weekend lockdown restrictions.“When we started calling on Friday night for giving updates on vaccination starting on Saturday, many people questioned about lockdown restriction and we told them there is no restriction for taking jabs. Turnout was good at our hospitals, ” said Dr Mulshankar Sharma, Premlok Park, Chinchwad.A resident from Sangvi who came to take a jab at PCMC-run primary school in Sangvi said, “Hospital staff had informed us about the vaccination centre closure on Friday. Yesterday as well, we got the message at night regarding vaccination. I am the third member of my family to get vaccinated.”Vaccination centres will continue to remain functional on Sunday as well, said civic officials.“The vaccination will continue on Sunday from 9am to 5pm. We are getting enough doses from PCMC,” said Dr Kedar Kulkarni, Talera Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pimprichinchwads-vaccination-drive-back-on-track-after-one-day-break-101618061243669.html
10-04-2021||City||Love jihad not as big a problem in U'khand as in other states: CM Rawat||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat has said ‘love jihad’ is not as big a "problem" in Uttarakhand as in other states, but asserted he would certainly take steps to stop it.Speaking at a meeting of the Vishwa Hindu Parishad's Margdarshak Mandal here Friday, Rawat said he had recently held a meeting with officials to find out how prevalent the practice is in the hill state."The problem is not as big here as in some other states. But it is certain that I will take steps to stop it," Rawat saidThe issue of love jihad figured prominently at the meeting with seers demanding stringent laws to put an end to the practice, sources said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/love-jihad-not-as-big-a-problem-in-u-khand-as-in-other-states-cm-rawat-101618058534054.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjabi actor Satish Kaul dies of Covid in Ludhiana||Veteran Punjabi actor Satish Kaul, 75, who acted in Punjabi and Hindi films besides playing the role of Lord Indra in the TV show Mahabharat, died of Covid-19 in Ludhiana on Saturday. Satya Devi, who was looking after the actor, said Kaul was battling coronavirus infection for the past fortnight. She said his condition deteriorated and he passed away at 2pm. Also read: Punjab has only five days of Covid vaccine left: CMIn 2019, she had highlighted Kaul’s plight away from the limelight and sought the state government’s help after which chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh directed his staff to provide all possible assistance to the actor. Kaul had sold his apartment in Mumbai in 2011 and opened an acting school in Ludhiana but the project failed and drove him into financial losses. He was forced to shift to an old-age home at Doraha. In 2014, Punjabi University, Patiala, offered him a job at its acting school where he was offered a monthly pension of ₹11,000 for three years. Kaul got an accommodation on the campus where in July 2015, he fell and suffered hip fracture. After coming out of hospital, Kaul shifted to the Red Cross’s old age home in Ludhiana and later to the Swami Vivekananda Ashram. In November 2018, Satya Devi, who was his fan, spotted him and brought him to her house. Ever since, she had taken care of him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjabi-actor-satish-kaul-dies-of-covid-in-ludhiana-101618059024075.html
10-04-2021||Lucknow||10 people killed, 20 injured as truck carrying devotees overturns near UP’s Etawah||At least 10 people were killed and 30 injured on Saturday as a truck carrying devotees overturned and fell into a 30-feet deep gorge near Badhepura in Uttar Pradesh's Etawah district, police said.The devotees, who belong to the Pinahata village, were returning from Agra in the truck after visiting the Lakhna Devi temple. The truck, which was carrying at least 100 people, flipped after the driver lost control vehicle returning to Pinahata. The dead are yet to be identified, according to officials. Several women and children, who were inside the truck, were injured in the accident.Police personnel along with local residents pulled out the injured using ropes tied to vehicles as ambulances gathered to take them to hospitals. The injured have been taken to Etawah District Hospital and Saifi Institute for treatment. They also pulled bodies from the gorge where the truck fell.Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath expressed his condolences. In a statement, Adityanath also announced ₹200,000 ex-gratia for the kin of the deceased. The chief minister also instructed state government officials to ensure that the injured receive the best possible medical treatment.Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also extended his condolences to the families of the victims. "Pained by the loss of lives in a tragic accident in Etawah Uttar Pradesh. My heartfelt condolences to the bereaved families. May they remain strong in this difficult time. Prayers for speedy recovery of those injured," Gehlot said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/10-people-killed-20-injured-as-truck-carrying-devotees-overturns-near-etawah-101618058082617.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||After shutting vaccination centres, BMC receives 99,000 doses of Covishield||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) said on Saturday it has received 99,000 doses of Covishield, the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), and that it will distribute them to civic and government-run inoculation centres. Vaccine shortage in Mumbai led to the temporary halting of vaccination across 75 vaccination centres in the city on Friday. The Bandra Kurla Complex, which has a mega vaccination centre set up, stopped operations on Friday morning due to a shortage of vaccines.The civic body announced on Friday evening that Covid-19 vaccination will be halted at all private centres till April 12 because of the shortage of vaccines and centres run by the government and the municipality will administer the shots to people on April 10 and April 11.“The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received 99,000 doses of Covishield Covid-19 vaccine which will now be distributed to civic and government-run vaccine centres,” the civic body said.The Maharashtra government and the Centre blamed each other over vaccine allotment over the past week. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope claimed that the state has been allotted fewer vaccines than it needs and demanded more doses from the Centre. Union health minister Harsh Vardhan refuted the allegations and accused the state government of dragging its heels over Covid-19 vaccination and also claimed that the government is trying to shift the blame to vaccine allotment to hide its failure to contain the surge.Mumbai's mayor Kishori Pednekar warned on Friday that vaccine shortage could hit the city’s vaccination drive. “There are several vaccination centres that have no vaccines now and vaccination drive has come to a halt in those centres. I have come to know that around 76,000 to 100,000 doses are about to reach Mumbai by today but I don't have any official info on this,” Pednekar was quoted as saying by news agency PTI on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/after-shutting-vaccination-centres-bmc-receives-99-000-doses-of-covishield-101618055947168.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Procurement kicks off in Punjab after arhtiyas call off strike||Wheat procurement began in Punjab on Saturday with arhtiyas (commission agents) calling off their proposed strike after chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh ordered steps to ensure their continued involvement in the process and the immediate release of their pending payments of ₹131 crore without waiting for dues to come from the Food Corporation of India.On the chief minister’s directives, the state food department amended the procurement software so that the arhtiyas continue to be involved in the process of release of payments to farmers, albeit in a modified manner, while farmers get their payments in their bank accounts within 48 hours, as mandated by the state government.Captain Amarinder Singh said that despite the Government of India’s directive to exclude them from minimum support price (MSP) payments, “the arhtiyas shall always be associated with procurement. Till I am there, you will part of the system, and your role will always remain.” He said he will ensure that the arhtiya commission and other charges permitted under the APMC Act shall continue.Fought hard on DBT but Centre adamant: CMOn the Centre’s refusal to accept the state’s request for deferring the direct benefit transfer (DBT) system, the chief minister said, “We fought hard, but the Centre was adamant, and even went to the extent of threatening not to procure from Punjab if we did not implement the DBT.”The chief minister ordered the finance department to release ₹131 crore due to the arhtiyas without waiting for it from the Food Corporation of India (FCI), which had withheld payments after some commission agents failed to upload details. He assured the arhtiyas that his government will take up with the Centre the issue of 30% deduction in labour payments made by the FCI.He thanked Vijay Kalra, the president of the Federation of Arhtiya Association of Punjab, for heeding to the government’s plea to withdraw the strike and lift the grain as the farmers would otherwise have suffered. He appealed to the arhtiyas to take care of Covid norms. The government had to delay procurement this year till April 10 (from the previously scheduled April 1) on account of the second surge of Covid.Passes to be issued to reduce congestion at mandisThe chief minister said like last year, farmers will be issued passes this year to reduce congestion at the mandis (grain markets) in view of the pandemic. He assured farmer passes will be issued at the district level in consultation with arhtiyas, who know which farmer has harvested his crop and is ready to come to the mandi. He said arhtiyas are not middlemen but service providers.Announcing the withdrawal of the strike in the interest of the state and farmers, Kalra thanked the chief minister and said the Centre is penalising Punjab for the farmers’ agitation. State food, civil supplies and consumer affairs minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu told the chief minister the arhtiyas simply wanted protection for their business and livelihood.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/procurement-kicks-off-in-punjab-after-arhtiyas-call-off-strike-101618055603842.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Dr RK Naidu’s legacy lives on at Naidu hospital||During any pandemic or infectious disease outbreak, the Naidu Hospital is at the centre of the state’s response to the crisis. As the Covid-19 pandemic completed one year in March, HT, in a series of articles, covered Naidu hospital and tried to get information about who the hospital is named after. After reading the article, relatives of Dr Naidu contacted this reporter and provided information about Dr Naidu and his achievements. The plan is to draw up a proper profile and hand it to over to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), along with a photograph of Dr Naidu to be put up in the hospital.Dr Naidu’s full name is Ramchandra Krishnaswami Naidu. He was an eye specialist and did excellent work during the plague that affected Pune and Mumbai during the British rule. He was also a member of the Pune Municipal Council and an active member of Lokmanya Tilak’s Swaraj party. During plague, he built a mandap on the premises of what is today Naidu hospital to treat patients. Dr Naidu was actively supported by the British in his endeavour. Dr Naidu too got affected by the plague, but after recovering, he once again started to serve the patients.Dr Ramchandra Krishnaswami Naidu was born on July 1, 1885. He was from South India, but settled in Pune. Earlier, he worked in Solapur as a compounder, but later took a medical degree from Mumbai and worked with Sassoon Hospital.Dr Naidu’s relative, Sharmila Nandula, who resides in Hyderabad, provided details of his living grandchildren, some of whom are living in Pune. She said, “Dr Naidu did excellent work, but the new generation is not aware about it. When Prime Minister Narendra Modi contacted the nurse from the Naidu hospital, we all felt very proud. Even we are trying to compile Dr Naidu’s profile and will hand it over to the PMC.”Dr Naidu’s grandson, Vivek Naidu, said, “Dr Naidu’s residential address was 473-74 Somwar peth near Daruwala Bridge. Later it was sold. Our family has all his medals and certificates with us. Our wish is to bring his achievements in front of a new generation and even appeal to the PMC to put up his photo in the Naidu Hospital.”Naidu added, “After Dr R K Naidu’s demise, Pune’s first mayor Baburao Sanas suggested Dr Naidu’s name for Dr Naidu Hospital.”Who was Dr R K Naidu- 1915-24 – passes out of BJ Medical college- 1929-1941- Mumbai University senate1944 - Maharashtra and Karnataka Medical council president1922-1946 - Indian Medical Association, Pune chapter president1922-1939- Pune Municipal Council member1928,1929 and 1932- Pune Council presidentHe was associated with following institutes in Pune:Founder - Raja Dhanraj Giri High SchoolCamp Education society presidentModern Education Society and Wadia CollegeSound Indian Saraswati VidyalayaProgressive Education Society||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dr-rk-naidu-s-legacy-lives-on-at-naidu-hospital-101618054103789.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi riots: HC grants bail to two men in murder, conspiracy case||The Delhi High Court has granted bail to two persons, facing prosecution in a case of murder and criminal conspiracy relating to last year's northeast Delhi riots.Justice Suresh Kumar Kait noted that the accused Pradeep Rai and Aman Kashyap are in judicial custody and the trial shall take substantial time.However, without commenting on the merit of the case, the court said it was of the opinion that the two men deserve bail.The high court directed that the two accused be released on bail on furnishing a personal bond of ₹20,000 each with one surety of like amount.It directed them not to directly or indirectly influence any prosecution witnesses.The two men are accused in an FIR lodged at Dayalpur police station in northeast Delhi for offences of murder, rioting and criminal conspiracy under the IPC.The counsel of the accused submitted that one of the eyewitnesses in the case is an eyewitness in multiple FIRs lodged at Dayalpur police station relating to the riots incident that took place on February 25, last year.He said the incidents took place in Gali no. 10 and 3 and there is a distance of around 500-700 metres between them and therefore, he seemed to be a planted witness.The high court had directed the prosecution to verify as to how the concerned witness had witnessed the incidents which took place in different lanes.After verification, the prosecution filed a report stating that the distance between Gali no.10 and Gali no.3 is about 350 metres.To this, the high court said, “In the prima facie opinion of this court, it is possible that the eye witness, who in the present case is resident of Gali no.8, might have seen the incident taking place in Gali No.10, which is close to his place, but how he could see the present incident which has taken place in Gali No.3, and away from Gali no.10 and Gali no.8, is doubtful.”Earlier, the trial court had dismissed the bail pleas of the two men saying the eye witness' statements cannot be thrown into the dustbin merely on the bleak allegations that they are “planted witnesses”.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year after clashes between citizenship law supporters and protestors spiralled out of control leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-riots-hc-grants-bail-to-two-men-in-murder-conspiracy-case-101618053375639.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||New restrictions to be announced soon, says Delhi CM Kejriwal as Covid-19 surge||Amid escalating cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said lockdown is "not an option" but some restrictions will be put in place in the national capital which is reeling under the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic.The chief minister said this during an interaction with reporters after visiting the LNJP Hospital -- the mainstay of Delhi's fight against Covid-19 -- to review its preparedness."Lockdown is not an option, however, we will be putting some restrictions in place to contain the spread of the virus. We will release the restrictions in the coming few days. Covid centres are being rebuilt and some have already started functioning," he was quoted as saying in a statement issued by the chief minister's office.Kejriwal said the administration and hospitals are working to contain the fourth wave of the pandemic in the city."We are currently in a comfortable position with reference to beds and ventilators. We will ensure that the people of Delhi stay safe, to the best of our abilities," he added.Coronavirus cases in Delhi have mounted at a very rapid rate in the last few days, and the number of deaths too have risen.Delhi recorded 8,521 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Friday, the highest single-day surge since November 11 last year, while 39 more people died due to the coronavirus infection, taking the death toll to 11,196.The highest single-day spike in Delhi till date -- 8,593 cases -- was reported on November 11 in 2020, while on November 19, the city had recorded 131 Covid-19 deaths, the highest single-day fatality count till date."Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital on Saturday, to review its preparation in the face of the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic that has hit Delhi. He took stock of the situation and the facilities provided to the patients in the hospital," the statement said.At present, 1,500 beds out of 2,000 are reserved for Covid-19 patients, and the number might be increased according to requirements in the future, Kejriwal said."The last few days have seen a rise in the number of corona cases in the entire country, including Delhi. We need to simultaneously spearhead an aggressive vaccination campaign and also put in place measures that can effectively contain the spread of the virus along with making the hospital management equally effective," he said.This is the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi. The last wave was in November after which the new cases had become so few in Delhi that "health system and agencies began to lax", he was quoted as saying in the statement.It is imperative that they gain their momentum again and begin to function in the same efficient manner that they did, which helped contain the spread of the virus, the chief minister said. "The Delhi government and hospitals of Delhi are working in earnest to revert to their November level of preparation that helped contain the virus," he said.The Delhi government-run LNJP Hospital has 2000 beds. During the last wave, all 2000 were declared as Covid beds.Right now, we have declared 1,500 of those as Covid beds, 500 are still non-Covid. Slowly, the outpatient department will also be shut at the hospital and if the situation demands, all 2,000 will be made available for Covid patients, the chief minister said."Whatever is required by the hospitals from our end, will be provided. We sincerely hope and pray to God that no one falls prey to the disease but in the scenario that they do, we will ensure that the hospitals are ready for the challenge and the people of Delhi face no obstacles in recovery," he said.Asked about the vaccination campaign and preparation of the government in the face of rising cases, Kejriwal said, "I have written a letter to the prime minister (Narendra Modi), in which I have said that if adequate doses of the vaccination are made available to us; if we are given permission to increase the number of vaccination centres and if the age limit is removed then within 2-3 months we can vaccinate the entire state"."I cannot talk about the rest of the country, but according to Delhi government's level of preparation, if these three pre-conditions are met, we can assure you that all residents of Delhi will be vaccinated within 2-3 months," Kejriwal asserted.Once everyone is vaccinated, it will greatly aid in containing and ending the severity of the virus, he said."At the moment, we have vaccination for 7-10 days and the conditions for administering them, particularly the age limit, are very rigid. According to me, there is an impending need to remove these obstacles that are coming in the way of the vaccination campaign," the statement said.During his visit to the hospital, Kejriwal also spoke to a patient admitted in the Covid-19 ward through a video call facility and enquired about his condition.With the help of the video call facility at LNJP, patients can directly talk to their family members, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/new-restrictions-to-be-announced-soon-says-delhi-cm-kejriwal-as-covid-19-surge-101618052809147.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Allocate Covid-19 vaccines based on population, active cases: Maharashtra to Centre||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Saturday asked the Centre to fix criteria to allocate states vaccines against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) keeping in mind the number of people and the active caseload they have. Tope once again alleged that many states, which have a lesser population than Maharashtra, have received more doses of the vaccine from the Centre. “The criteria should be decided in terms of the size of the population and the number of active cases,” Tope was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Maharashtra has claimed there is a shortage of Covid-19 vaccine in the state, setting it on a collision course with the Centre. Several senior Union ministers, including health minister Harsh Vardhan, have dismissed the claim made by the western state, which is the worst-hit region in the country, saying they were attempts to hide their incompetence.Also read | Maharashtra Covid-19: Uddhav Thackeray calls all-party meet, more curbs likelyThe Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader also said that the Centre had earmarked only 700,000 doses to Maharashtra of the latest dispatch of 3.5 crore. Another 1 million doses were allotted for the state only after “much persuasion,” Tope said according to PTI.He also said that the vaccine is the only way to develop immunity against the coronavirus disease. “We have scaled up the daily vaccination up to 6 lakh people. Weekly we are able to vaccinate 40 lakh people and monthly around 1.60 crore... We need vaccine accordingly. Where there are more cases, it is necessary that we develop immunity and vaccine is the only answer,” Tope said.Expressing concerns over the transport of vaccine doses to the many vaccination centres in the state, Tope said “Today we have 8 lakh doses available and we have been told we will get four lakh doses in a day. If the supply of doses is on a daily basis, how will the vaccines be transported to other parts of the state on time?” He also alleged that the central government was not addressing such concerns seriously.The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) announced on Friday night that for three days beginning April 10, vaccination would be done only at government and municipal hospitals and not at private centres, citing non-availability of stock. Also, as many as 75 out of the 120 vaccination centres across the city were shut due to a shortage of vaccine doses, PTI reported.Also read | Punjab, Rajasthan join list of states facing vaccine shortageWhile the Centre has denied any shortage in vaccine supplies, few other states have followed Maharashtra’s suit and have asked for more stock. Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday, saying that the state has stock only for two more days and needed 30 lakh more doses immediately. On Saturday, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh during a meeting with Congress chief Sonia Gandhi said that the supplies in Punjab would last for three more days if 2lakh beneficiaries were vaccinated a day, news agency ANI reported.Meanwhile, the Union health ministry’s data on Saturday morning showed that 98,075,160 people have been vaccinated in the country as of 7am.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/allocate-covid-19-vaccines-based-on-population-active-cases-maharashtra-to-centre-101618052553144.html
10-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka gears up for night curfew from Apr 10 to 20, essential services spared||The 11-day 'corona curfew' will come into effect in some districts of Karnataka, including the state capital, from Saturday night to contain the spread of coronavirus and only essential services, patients and passengers would be allowed to ply. The state government had announced night curfew between 10 pm and 5 am every day from April 10 to 20 in Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru, Udupi-Manipal cities. This apart, the curfew will be in place in other prominent towns and district headquarters, the government said. The police have made elaborate arrangements to ensure compliance of the rules at night. In Bengaluru, Police Commissioner Kamal Pant told reporters that vehicles providing essential services, patients and their relatives will be allowed to travel at night. Besides, home delivery, e-commerce and the transportation of essential goods such as vegetables and food commodities for sale in the morning will be allowed in the night. "Passengers coming to and going from Bengaluru are also allowed to travel. They must carry with them travel documents," Pant said. Companies that operate at night can continue to function, but their employees have to report to work before 10 pm. "We will shut the city in the night," Pant said. Asked about issuing special passes for vehicular movement, the Commissioner said there is no question of issuing passes. He warned that those violating the norms will be booked under the Epidemic Act. The decision to impose night curfew was taken due to surging coronavirus cases in the state at an alarming proportion. The state reported 7,955 fresh Covid cases and 46 fatalities on Friday alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-gears-up-for-night-curfew-from-apr-10-to-20-essential-services-spared-101618051608994.html
10-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka transport body strike enters Day 4, commuters continue to suffer||Commuters are faced with fluctuating travel fares in private buses of Karnataka on Thursday as the indefinite strike of Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) employees entered fourth day. The strike is mainly over demand for revision of salaries.Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) employees are also in support of the strike. Private players are operating buses both in Bengaluru city and also to outstations.A commuter told ANI, "I came from Shivamogga and reached Bangalore today morning, I faced problems with the bus rates in the private buses. It has fluctuating rates, some have ₹700, some of the buses have ₹500, finally, I ended up travelling in the bus with ₹500 ticket fare."A private bus operator said, "We are operating the bus within the city limits, Per day we might get a collection of ₹10,000, but a major share of it, ₹8000 goes to diesel."On the other hand, few of the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) workers continued with their work.A bus conductor (BMTC) said, "Government have to look into the matter very seriously. Today also we are doing our part of duty. We have been given security with 2 policemen and we do 10 trips as per schedule."Karnataka Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa on Friday appealed to the KSRTC and BMTC employees to end the strike and get back to work.KSRTC employees have given a call for a strike with the following demands: salary hike, permanent job, wages and shifts. The employees are working as contract workers in the department. The KSRTC had issued temporary permits to private buses for the convenience of passengers.South Western Railway (SWR) informed that it will run additional trains from April 8 to 14 in view of the KSRTC strike.Earlier in the day, the Karnataka Transport Department has said that they can take action against KSRTC and BMTC employees and two other organisations who are supporting a strike by using Essential Services Management Act (ESMA) power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-transport-body-strike-enters-day-4-commuters-continue-to-suffer-101618050130887.html
10-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand reports 1,925 new Covid-19 cases, 17 fresh fatalities||Jharkhand's Covid-19 tally soared to 1,34,715 on Saturday as 1,925 more people tested positive for the infection, while 17 fresh fatalities pushed the state's coronavirus death toll to 1,175, a health bulletin said.Ranchi district reported the highest number of new cases at 754, followed by East Singhbhum (256) and Dhanbad (94), it said.Ranchi reported the highest number of coronavirus fatalities at eight, followed by three in East Singhbhum, two in Dhanbad and one each in Gumla, Chatra, Palamu and Sahibganj districts.The state now has 10,604 active cases, while 1,22,936 people have recovered from the disease to date, it said.Jharkhand tested 25,718 samples for Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, the bulletin added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-reports-1-925-new-covid-19-cases-17-fresh-fatalities-101618048871167.html
10-04-2021||Other||Andhra CM’s sister announces launch of party in Telangana, vows to get rid of KCR’s rule||Announcing the launch of a new regional party in Telangana, YS Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Friday vowed to help the people of the state get rid of the feudal regime of K Chandrasekhar Rao and bring back “Rajanna Rajyam” (the rule of her father YS Rajasekhar Reddy).Addressing an impressive rally held at Khammam amidst the scare of intensifying the Covid-19 outbreak, Sharmila said it was on this day (April 8) in 2003 when YSR launched his 1600-kilometre-long historic padayatra (foot march) from the Telangana town of Chevella. “After 18 years, I have taken my first step in the direction of heralding a welfare state to fulfil the dreams of my father and I strive to re-establish his golden rule,” she said.Sharmila announced she would declare the name of her political party on July 8, coinciding with the birth anniversary of YSR. She will also unveil the flag and the agenda of her party on the same day.She said she was compelled to launch a political party to fight for the aspirations of the people of Telangana, which remained unfulfilled even seven years after the formation of the state. Sharmila said all the existing opposition parties had miserably failed to question the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) which betrayed the people.Paying rich tributes to hundreds of youth of Telangana who laid down their lives for separate Telangana state, Sharmila said it was unfortunate that farmers and unemployed youth were dying by suicide even in the new state.“KCR (Telangana chief minister) has failed to fulfil many of his promises. There have been no pensions, no land for Dalits, no funds for corporations and no jobs for the youth. He is ruling the state like a feudal lord. He is perhaps the only chief minister who hasn’t entered the Secretariat. And he demolished the existing one to construct a new complex which he never enters,” she said.Sharmila said the self-respect of four crore people of Telangana was being crushed under the feet of the chief minister. “Those who remained loyal to him were given high positions and those who questioned him were discarded,” she said.Stating that there was a need for strong opposition to question the ruling party, Sharmila said there was no party that could question the high-handed rule of KCR. She claimed that she was the real daughter of Telangana and had every right to fight for the state. “Let the people decide whether I am justified in fighting for them or not,” she said.YSR’s widow and Sharmila’s mother YS Vijayalakshmi, who attended the meeting, became emotional while recalling the regime of her husband. She said she was happy that her daughter had come forward to realise the dreams of YSR, who left an indelible mark in the hearts of the people of Telangana.“When he died in a helicopter crash in September 2009, most of those who died of grief were from Telangana. We are deeply indebted to the people of the state,” she said and wished her daughter all the success.Earlier on Friday, Sharmila left for Khammam from her Lotus Pond residence in Hyderabad in a convoy of hundreds of vehicles. She waved at the cheering crowds at every town during the 200-kilometre-long journey.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/andhra-cm-s-sister-announces-launch-of-party-in-telangana-vows-to-get-rid-of-kcr-s-rule-101618048943433.html
10-04-2021||Other||National Conference wishes speedy recovery to Covid-19 positive Omar Abdullah||Provincial president of the National Conference, Devender Singh Rana, and senior party leaders on Friday wished a speedy recovery to party vice president and former Jammu and Kashmir chief minister Omar Abdullah who tested positive for Covid-19. “Our prayers are with our beloved leader and we wish him a quick recovery,” senior National Conference leaders said in a joint statement. They also prayed for Abdullah’s good health, hoping that he will continue to guide the party and lead the people of Jammu and Kashmir with renewed vigour. Twitter-savvy Omar Abdullah took to the social site and expressed his gratitude to those who reached out to him with their good wishes. “I am very grateful to everyone reaching out to me here on Twitter to wish me well. I apologise for not replying individually. For the next few days I’m focusing on beating this virus & will be back here after the battle is won,” Omar Abdullah tweeted. Earlier, he posted, “For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it’s finally caught up with me. I tested positive for #COVIDー19 this afternoon. I’m completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I’m self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc”. Farooq Abdullah already tested positive for Covid-19 and was recently discharged from the hospital following his recovery. Prime Minister Narendra Modi was among those who wished Farooq Abdullah a speedy recovery||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/national-conference-wishes-speedy-recovery-to-covid-19-positive-omar-abdullah-101618048403689.html
10-04-2021||Bhopal||MP's active Covid-19 case count may reach 1 lakh by April end: Shivraj||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday said the number of active Covid-19 cases in the state might reach one lakh by the end of this month given the spike in infection count.He made the statement while speaking to reporters here."The way there is a spike in coronavirus infection cases, the number of active cases in Madhya Pradesh may reach one lakh by the end of this month. We will try to stop this in the middle as we have started adopting some measures, including lockdown," he said.Till Friday night, the number of active cases in Madhya Pradesh was 30,486, while its caseload reached 3,27,220.The state government has decided to open Covid Care Centres in all the districts due to the rise in cases, Chouhan said, adding that in Bhopal and Indore, a team under Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Rajesh Rajora is looking for buildings, where such facilities could be set up.The supply of oxygen for medical purposes has been maintained in the state, he added."Till three days back, 60 metric tonnes of oxygen was supplied everyday. On Friday, 180 MT of oxygen was supplied in the state. We mainly get the supply of oxygen from Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and a small amount from Maharashtra. We have also started getting it from Bhilai (Chhattisgarh) steel plant," Chouhan said.Oxygen should be used judiciously and as per requirement, the chief minister added.Recently, several cities in the state had reported shortage of remdesivir injection that is used in the treatment of coronavirus patients.Talking about that, Chouhan said, "We have got 2,000 injections (remdesivir) day before yesterday. The state government has decided to purchase one lakh injections and it has started getting them."According to Chouhan, the state government is also making arrangements for the ventilators."We will soon get 350 ventilators from the Centre," he said.Chouhan appealed to the people to stay at home and avoid venturing out unnecessarily to help curb the spread of the virus."We should adopt appropriate behaviour to protect ourselves from the pandemic...People should help by keeping themselves protected," he said.The CM said he is scheduled to hold a virtual meeting on Saturday with the district crisis management committees to discuss the pandemic situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mps-active-covid-19-case-count-may-reach-1-lakh-by-april-end-shivraj-101618047747060.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Private firm proprietor granted bail in GST invoice fraud case||A Delhi Court on Saturday granted bail to a proprietor of a private company in connection with a case dealing with Central Goods and Services Tax (CGST) for generating fake bills of over ₹50 crores.Chief Metropolitan Magistrate Pankaj Sharma granted bail to the accused on furnishing of personal bond and surety bond of ₹5 lakhs.Accused was in jail since February 27 after he was arrested by the CGST department in connection with a fake input tax credit matter of more than ₹50 crores. He was arrested under the provisions of CGST Act 2017 under the charges dealing with allegedly issuing any invoice or bill without supply of goods or services and allegedly availing input tax credit using fake invoice or bill.The accused was represented by advocates Rinku Garg and Anubhav Gupta.The court said that the accused release will not interdict with the fair investigation in any manner after taking note of his conduct.The court also imposed various conditions including that the accused shall join the investigation when directed by the investigating agency and not to tamper with the evidence or influence witnesses.It further directed him not to leave the country without permission and appear before the court on each and every date fixed for hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/private-firm-proprietor-granted-bail-in-gst-invoice-fraud-case-101618045907398.html
10-04-2021||Jaipur||Petrol pumps closed in Rajasthan as dealers demand rollback of VAT on fuel||People faced difficulty across the state due to a one-day strike called by Rajasthan Petroleum Dealers Association of fuel stations on Saturday with the demand of a rollback in VAT on fuel in the state.Around 7,000 petrol pumps remained closed in the state due to the strike.However, fuel pumps that are company owned and company operated were open for the public.Association president Suneet Bagai said diesel and petrol sales remained closed on the day.“The state government increased VAT during the coronavirus pandemic and generated extra revenue. The sales volume in the state has declined by 34 per cent because the fuel prices are comparatively low in neighbouring states,” he said.The association has already submitted a memorandum of demands and we would go on an indefinite strike from April 25 if there is no positive decision by the government, Bagai said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/petrol-pumps-closed-in-rajasthan-as-dealers-demand-rollback-of-vat-on-fuel-101618045560057.html
10-04-2021||Other||1-kg illegally imported gold recovered in Jammu, 2 detained||Jammu Police on Friday recovered one kilogram of gold bars worth nearly ₹50 lakhs at Jammu airport. As per the officials, the gold was imported illegally from abroad. Two people have been detained in the matter. “Information was received at Satwari police station that two persons, who were coming from Delhi in a flight at Jammu Airport, were concealing their identity,” said a police spokesman.A special police team, led by Satwari station house officer, inspector Nishant Gupta, reached the spot and nabbed the two men. The duo was taken to the police station. During questioning, the suspects disclosed their identities as Jai Veer of Jhajjar in Haryana and Mohammad Tariq of Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh. “Four bars of gold valuing approximately ₹50 lakhs were recovered from them. They disclosed that the gold was illegally imported from abroad,’ the spokesman said.“We informed the Directorate Revenue Intelligence, Jammu, which has taken the cognizance of the matter,” he added.The gold and the accused have been handed over to the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence, Jammu, for further investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1kg-illegally-imported-gold-recovered-in-jammu-2-detained-101618045164846.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab has only five days of Covid vaccine left: CM||Punjab’s Covid-19 vaccine stock will last another five days, chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh said on Saturday as he urged the Centre to share the schedule of supply of the vaccines. The state has been inoculating 85,000-90,000 beneficiaries in a day, and at this rate, Punjab’s present stock of 5.7 lakh vaccine doses will run out in five days, he said. Also read: Govt exported Covid-19 vaccine and allowed shortage in India: Sonia GandhiPinning hopes on fresh batches of vaccines from the Centre, Singh said that if Punjab was able to meet its target of administering two lakh shots a day, then its supplies will last only three days. Amarinder writes to Modi, Harsh Vardhan In an official statement in Chandigarh, he said he had written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to give confirmed supply schedules for the next quarter. Despite being a slow-starter in vaccination, Punjab has inoculated more than 16 lakh people, at an average of 85,000-90,000 a day, the chief minister said at a virtual meeting convened by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the party-ruled states. The meeting was attended by chief ministers of Congress-ruled states and senior party leaders, including Rahul Gandhi. Capt Amarinder Singh said people in Punjab were still not coming out in large numbers for vaccination due to the massive anger against the Government of India on the issue of farm laws. Since Punjab has a majority population of the agriculture community, even the common man is affected by the farmers’ agitation, he said. “This anger is impacting the vaccination drive,” he said. The chief minister said his government was undertaking an extensive media campaign to address misinformation around Covid-19 and vaccination hesitancy. Curve has flattened over fortnight but case fatality rate a concern Ranked 18th in the country at present in terms of daily cases reported, Punjab is showing a positivity rate of around 8%, with an average of nearly 3,000 new cases a day for over two weeks now, Capt Singh told Sonia Gandhi. The number of daily cases is slightly stable, he pointed out, adding, “This shows that the steps taken in the last three weeks are in the right direction.” Even in the graphs put up by the health ministry in the Prime Minister’s review meeting, the “curve appears to have flattened over the past fortnight,” Singh said. He said the state has 27,200 active cases at present and a recovery rate of 87.1%. The number of daily fatalities is a concern for Punjab as it is reporting around 50-60 deaths in a day, with a case fatality rate (CFR) just under 2% in the second wave. Overall, the CFR is 2.77% for all reported cases since March 2020, he said. High positivity among youngsters Pointing out that on April 9, a total of 3,459 people tested positive in Punjab and 56 deaths were reported, the chief minister said the high death rate is due to late reporting to hospitals and high comorbidities (non-communicable diseases). According to reports from the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), high positivity is being seen in the younger population. More than 80% samples have been found to be positive for the more contagious and virulent UK variant of the disease, the CM said as he spoke about measures taken by his government to combat the spread. He apprised Sonia Gandhi of his communication with the Centre to seek flexibility for states to devise their local vaccination strategies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-has-only-five-days-of-covid-vaccine-left-cm-101618045163184.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Man arrested by Delhi police for deceiving people with fake online job ads||A 48-year-old man was arrested from Kolkata for allegedly duping people by posting fake job advertisements online for work abroad, Delhi police said on Saturday.The accused, identified as Samir Arvind Parekh, a resident of Guwahati in Assam, confessed to have cheated over 25 persons with the promise of securing jobs abroad, they said.The police said the accused and his associate contacted victims online and promised to provide them employment abroad. On this assurance, the accused and his associate got the victims to deposit money on the pretext of a registration fee, medical examination and interview.The matter came to notice after one of the victims approached her with a complaint.In her complaint, the woman alleged that she runs a home food delivery service from Chattarpur in collaboration with her business partner. During the first week of March, she saw an advertisement posted online for a chef's job abroad and contacted the person concerned, who offered her USD 2,000 salary to work as a chef at a restaurant in USA.She and her business partner deposited ₹36,000 each as registration fee for the same. Later, when they tried contacting the same person, the phone number was found to be switched off.Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said, “A case was registered and during the probe, we found that all the contact numbers were taken on fake addresses. Bank statements of the beneficiary accounts were obtained and analysed, which revealed many other victims were also cheated by the fraudster for jobs in USA and Canada.”With the help of technical details, the accused was identified and a police team was sent to Kasba area of Kolkata where Parekh was arrested on April 7 after several raids, he said.The accused has been involved in various cases of job fraud. He works as a labour contractor and got ideas to cheat people on the pretext of providing them jobs abroad, the DCP said.Four ATM debit cards, a forged Aadhar card, PAN card and a smartphone were recovered from the accused, police said, adding further investigation is underway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-arrested-by-delhi-police-for-deceiving-people-with-fake-online-job-ads-101618043924091.html
10-04-2021||Kolkata||B K Hariprasad to be AICC in-charge for West Bengal polls||B K Hariprasad, the Congress' senior observer overseeing campaign management in West Bengal, will shoulder the responsibilities during the polls of AICC in-charge of the state Jitin Prasada, who tested positive for COVID-19 recently.Prasada, who was engaged in aggressively campaigning for the Assembly polls, had tested positive for COVID-19 earlier this week and was in quarantine as advised by doctors."Mr Jitin Prasada is the AICC in-charge, but since he is down with COVID-19, I would be filling in for him during the campaign," B K Hariprasad told PTI over phone from Kolkata."We have a formidable alliance with the Left and the Indian Secular Front....I think we will be in a position to form the government," he said on the Congress-Left-ISF alliance's chances in the polls.Asked if the Congress would be willing to support the TMC after the polls if a situation arises that the two parties need to come together to stop the BJP from coming to power, Hariprasad said it is for the party president to decide on such issues.Earlier in January, Hariprasad and Alamgir Alam besides Punjab Minister Vijay Inder Singla were appointed as senior observers to oversee the party's election campaign management for the West Bengal Assembly polls.Elections for 294 Assembly seats in West Bengal are being held in eight phases. The votes will be counted on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/b-k-hariprasad-to-be-aicc-in-charge-for-west-bengal-polls-101618043714094.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19 spike spoils city’s eating out scene||The news of eateries reopening in August, last year, came as a big relief, not only to restaurateurs but also for diners, who were thrilled to step out, albeit with all the necessary safety precautions. However, with Covid-19 cases on the rise once again in the Capital, are denizens now wary of eating out? Himanshu Pahuja, an entrepreneur and a regular diner at popular restaurants in the city, says, “I was surprised to see nearly vacant restaurants in the evening last week, near Qutab Institutional Area, Mehrauli... A lot of my friends have shifted to get-togethers at home, due to the sudden surge in cases, for safety purposes.” Kritika Seth, another Delhiite, also had a similar experience. “I get free from work by 5pm and try to catch up with friends at some or the other restaurant, as they have happy hour offers. It’s baffling to see the crowd going down at places I used to visit regularly,” says this HR professional. Restaurateurs say with the spike in Covid-19 cases over the last couple of weeks, they have noticed a dip in sales as well as diners. And the recently-announced night curfew has come an added setback. “The restaurant industry was just getting back on its feet. People have become very cautious because of the second wave, and since the vaccination is only accessible to those above the age of 45, youngsters are still at risk. Since restaurants usually target the younger crowd, things have gone slow for us again,” rues Udit Bagga, co-owner of OTB Courtyard, adding that restaurants did notice an increase in the footfall when there was a dip in cases. While some eatery owners are disappointed with a drop in the number of patrons, others reveal that diners are even hesitant to attend live performances and comedy shows. Sharad and Naresh Madan, co-directors of Imperfecto, observe that patrons feel reluctant in attending day-to-day events, too. And the case isn’t very different on Sundays either, which are usually packed during lunch hours. “Businesses have gone down drastically since the last two weekends. Sunday is very promising, as food joints see better sales, but the trend is going downwards,” says Saurabh Khanijo, managing director, Kylin Experience, who is also worried as the rent and salaries of staff have been restored to pre-Covid times. He, however, points out that delivery has picked up by around 20%.To this, Rohit Aggarwal, director, Lite Bite Foods, adds, “Request for our private dining rooms has also picked up.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-spike-spoils-city-s-eating-out-scene-101618040250302.html
10-04-2021||Other||Bihar police officer lynched in West Bengal||A mob lynched a 50-year-old Bihar police officer while he was in neighbouring West Bengal on Saturday conducting raids in connection with a loot. Ashwini Kumar, who was posted as Kishanganj’s station house officer and was a resident of Purnia district, was known for his strict policing and crackdown on liquor smugglers. Inspector general (Purnia range) Suresh Choudhary said Kumar was in West Bengal’s Panjipara area when the mob attacked the police team he was leading. He added Kumar was killed on the spot. “We along with Islampur (West Bengal) police counterparts have started carrying out raids to nab those who took the law into their hands,” Choudhary. “The post-mortem of… [Kumar] is being conducted.” The service revolver of Kumar was also missing, and the police have started searching for it. Police officers, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said that liquor smugglers active in West Bengal had been threatening Kumar and may have been involved in his murder. Other members of Kumar’s team managed to escape after the mob attacked them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-police-officer-lynched-in-west-bengal-101618039342977.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||No lockdown but new restrictions in Delhi will be announced soon, says Kejriwal||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said there is a need to remove age criteria and scale up the Covid-19 vaccination process, adding that there will be no lockdown in the national capital."If we have enough doses and age bar is removed, we can vaccinate people within 2-3 months in Delhi. Currently, we have vaccine for 7-10 days. We need to remove age criteria and scale up vaccination. There will be no lockdown. New restrictions will be imposed soon," Kejriwal said.Kejriwal on Friday announced shutting of all schools and colleges in Delhi given the huge rise in coronavirus cases in the capital, along with other parts of the country. "Due to increasing cases of Covid-19, all schools, government and private, in Delhi are being closed for all classes till further orders," Kejriwal tweeted.Several states and Union territories including Delhi have announced new restrictions such as night curfews amid a new wave of Covid-19 that has pushed infection numbers to record highs. In order to further curb the spread of the pandemic, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government on April 6 imposed a night curfew in Delhi between 10pm and 5am till April 30.Delhi reported 8,521 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, making it the highest single-day spike in this year. Friday was also the fourth consecutive day when Delhi reported more than 5,000 Covid-19 cases.Its active case tally has increased to 26,631. As per the Delhi health department's Covid-19 bulletin, Delhi also reported 39 coronavirus-related deaths in the last 24 hours. With this, its overall death toll now stands at 11,196, while the total infection tally has reached 7,06,526 cases.Delhi recorded its highest single-day spike on November 11 last year when it reported 8,593 cases. The highest daily toll (131 deaths) was recorded on November 19 last year.In a meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal held on Friday, the health department was advised to scale up vaccination efforts so as to enhance coverage and also to undertake an appropriate awareness campaign to sensitise people towards vaccination and critical need for strictly adhering to Covid-appropriate behaviour.“The hospitals were asked to ensure enhanced capacity and dedicated resources for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The district officials were directed to ensure optimum utilisation of existing Covid care centres,” Baijal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-lockdown-but-new-restrictions-in-delhi-will-be-announced-soon-says-kejriwal-101618037032388.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||KMP eway protest leads to traffic jam on Chandigarh-Delhi highway||Commuters were stranded in Sonepat district on National Highway 44 between Chandigarh and Delhi after protesters blocked the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) Expressway for 24 hours from 8am on Saturday, The blockade in response to a call by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha to intensify their protest against the three farm laws led to a traffic jam between Ganaur and Murthal towns in Sonepat district. The farmers blocked the KMP and KGP for three kilometres from zero point on both sides.Inderjit Singh, a leader of the Morcha, said only emergency vehicles were being allowed on the expressway. Farmers from Sonepat brought their tractor-trollies and parked them in the middle of the six-lane highway, also known as the Western Periphery. The protesters, including women and children, carried black flags and raised slogans against the BJP-led central government for not accepting their demand to revoke the laws. Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted by the Delhi Police in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade, arrived at Kundli but did not reached the KMP toll, where farmers were protesting. Few farm leaders also announced that Sidhana will address the gathering and challenged the police to arrest him. The farm leaders said that they can extend the blockade on KMP if their senior leaders give directions in this regard. Police divert traffic in Sonepat, Rohtak and Jhajjar Commuters in scores of vehicles, including trucks and cars, remained stranded at Ganaur and Murthal, while two-wheeler riders were seen taking a detour through village roads. Heavy police force was deployed in Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts on Saturday and the police made traffic diversions for commuters. On Friday, Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said though traffic diversions have been made, people should avoid travelling unless required. “Heavy vehicles coming from Ambala and Chandigarh on NH-44 may go towards North/East Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal-Shamli-Baghpat-Khekra or from Panipat-Sanauli-Baghpat-Khekra to Ghaziabad and Noida. Similarly, vehicles going towards Gurugram can take NH-71A via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari,” the SP said. Light vehicles coming from Ambala and Chandigarh can travel to North/East Delhi and Noida/Ghaziabad via Baghpat, Khekra, Loni border from Bahalgarh, using NH-44. “It is advised that commuters in light vehicles from Ambala to South/West Delhi and Gurugram take a diversion from Bahalgarh to Sonepat-Barota-Narela or Bahalgarh-Sonepat City-Barota-Lampur-Bawana,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kmp-eway-protest-leads-to-traffic-jam-on-chandigarh-delhi-highway-101618036642607.html
10-04-2021||Patna||Covid-19 surge hampers jewellery sales during wedding season in Patna||As the Covid-19 cases continue to surge, the jewellery sales in Patna have dipped resulting in the loss of several small businesses in this wedding season.Speaking to ANI, a jeweller said, "Jewellery sales are not up to our expectations because weddings are being rescheduled or cancelled due to rising Covid cases."Another jeweller, Saket Gautam told ANI, "Last year was very bad for us. But this year too, business prospects are not good for us, especially for small jewellers catering to middle-class families because they are struggling with an extreme cash crunch. This has affected our business."The 'wedding business' is impacted in Delhi as well. The night curfew imposed in the national capital amid the resurgence of Covid-19 has adversely affected the businesses of several wedding halls.Many couples have minimized the "grandeur wedding jingles" and thereby opted for rescheduling of events and a reduction in the number of attendees at the wedding events.Small businesses are impacted not only in Bihar but other states as well. In the past few days, several migrant workers opted to travel back to their hometowns from Delhi's Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and Mumbai's Lok Manya Terminus to avoid chaos like the previous year's lockdown, which, they (migrants) believe is very likely.On April 6, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar held a review meeting over the Covid-19 situation in the state via video conferencing. "Amid the rising Covid cases in other states, there's a possibility that people hailing from Bihar might return here. We must prepare a quarantine centre for them," said the Chief Minister.Meanwhile, India saw 1.31 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Friday, the third consecutive day of the highest spike in cases in the country while 780 more deaths were reported due to the disease in the last 24 hours.According to Union Health Ministry, the country recorded 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours and the total count of cases has gone up to 1,30,60,542.The death toll has gone up to 1,67,642. The country has 9,79,608 active cases.A total of 61,899 people recovered or were discharged on Thursday taking the total number of recoveries to 1,19,13,292.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-surge-hampers-jewellery-sales-during-wedding-season-in-patna-101618032007113.html
10-04-2021||Jaipur||‘It’s clear there is shortage of vaccines in many states’: Gehlot||Countering the Central government’s claim of no shortage of Covid-19 vaccine in the country, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Friday issued a statement and demanded that the Centre clarify the status of vaccine dosages in public.“In many states, the unavailability of the vaccine across vaccination centres has been reported. In such a situation, the central government should clearly state the lack of vaccine in public. No politics is being done in the work of vaccination but it is clear from the facts that there is a shortage of vaccines in many states. The central government should clarify the status of vaccine dosages in public,” the chief minister stated. Gehlot said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has called for celebrating ‘Teeka Utsav’ from Jyotiba Phule Jayanti on April 11 to Ambedkar Jayanti on April 14 but the vaccine is not available in the states. Gehlot said that Union ministers Amit Shah and Ravi Shankar Prasad have made factually false claims by saying there is no shortage of vaccines. The BJP was quick to react with spokesperson and MLA Ram Lal Sharma saying that the statements by Shah and Ravi Shankar Prasad are based on facts. “The GoI has never denied providing vaccination to states, rather has been the first to ask and fulfil requirements,” Sharma stated. Also read: Curfew to check Covid-19 spread extended in RajasthanIn the statement, Gehlot said Rajasthan has been a pioneer in Covid-19 management and vaccination from the beginning and that the state leads among all states in the vaccination of people above 60 years of age. “The central government has proposed the next consignment of 3.83 lakh doses of vaccine on April 12. Due to this, vaccination work will have to be stopped in many districts in Rajasthan tomorrow. The 3.83 lakh dosages stock will not last more than one day,” the CM said.Rajasthan received 1,07,40,860 Covid-19 vaccine doses from the Central government till April 6. Of these, 2,15,180 vaccines have been made available to the Army; 91,55,370 dosages have been used for the vaccination drive till April 8. About 4,34,888 dosages were damaged, which is less than half of the 10% limit allowed by the central government. On April 8, around 4.65 lakh people were vaccinated, which was 5.81 lakh on April 7; 4.8 lakh on April 6; and 5.4 lakh vaccine doses were placed on April 5. On the morning of April 9, there were about 9.70 lakh vaccine dosages left in the state - an average of 5.18 lakh vaccines are being administered daily in Rajasthan, as per the official state data. After the completion of today’s vaccination, there are only about 5 lakh vaccine doses left in the state which are insufficient for further vaccination, Gehlot added. As per a media report published on April 8, Andhra Pradesh currently has 1.2 days of doses are left. Bihar has 1.6 days of doses left, Uttar Pradesh has stock that can run till about 2.5 days, 2.9 days of vaccine stock is left in Uttarakhand while 3.2 days of vaccine supply remains in Odisha, 3.5 days in Madhya Pradesh and 3.8 days in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/its-clear-that-there-is-shortage-of-vaccines-in-many-states-gehlot-101618032082957.html
10-04-2021||Jaipur||Curfew to check Covid-19 spread extended in Rajasthan||Rajasthan has extended the curfew imposed in nine urban centres, including Jaipur, Kota, Jodhpur and Ajmer, to check a spike in Covid-19 cases by two hours from 8 pm to 6 am and until April 30. Earlier, the curfew was imposed from 10 pm to 6 am till April 19. Rajasthan on Friday reported 3,970 Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths. Officials said the other places where the curfew has been extended are Alwar, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, and Abu Road. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed officials to ensure zero mobility in micro-containment created to contain the spread of coronavirus.He chaired a Covid-19 review meeting and issued directions for increasing testing and contact tracing of the infected people. Gehlot asked the officials to identify micro-containment zones in all districts.Gehlot has separately urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide the state with 30 million Covid-19 vaccine doses as the state’s stock was likely to finish in two days.Several states have warned that they would run out of vaccines. This has prompted Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reiterate that there was no shortage.To be sure, the problem seems to be more a result of the last-mile allocation of vaccines within states.The Rajasthan government has also issued directions for setting up a state-level “Corona war room” and district-level control rooms.Health secretary Siddharth Mahajan said that Covid-19 sampling has been increased to 55,000 daily and the target was to increase it to 10,00,00 by the end of this month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/curfew-to-check-covid-19-spread-extended-in-rajasthan-101618030942280.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Protesting farmers block KMP expressway in Haryana||Intensifying their protest against the three farm laws, farmers blocked the Kundli–Manesar–Palwal expressway at some places in Haryana on Saturday.The blockade started at 8 am and would last 24 hours.The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture-related legislations, on Friday gave a call for a 24-hour blockade of the KMP expressway.The 136-km-long expressway is also known as the Western Peripheral Expressway.Protesting farmers, however, said emergency vehicles will be allowed to ply.Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh Lakhowal said the blockade would be for 24 hours.Haryana Police in the meanwhile issued a traffic advisory, asking travellers to avoid the KMP expressway.Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Navdeep Singh Virk on Friday said elaborate arrangements were in place to maintain peace and order, prevent any kind of violence and facilitate traffic movement and public transport on the expressway.Traffic diversions have been planned by affected districts especially Sonipat, Jhajjar, Panipat, Rohtak, Palwal, Faridabad, Gurgaon and Nuh, Virk said.Passengers coming from Ambala/Chandigarh side on National Highway-44 may go towards UP's Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal to Shamli and from Panipat to Sanauli.Vehicles going towards Gurgaon and Jaipur can take National Highway-71A from Panipat and travel via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari.Hundreds of farmers, mostly from Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, have been camping at three border points of Delhi -- Singhu, Tikri (along Haryana), and Ghazipur -- demanding a repeal of the three farm laws enacted by the Centre in September last year.The Centre says the new farm laws will free farmers from middlemen, giving them more options to sell their crops.The protesting farmers, however, say the laws will weaken the minimum support price (MSP) system and leave them at the mercy of big corporates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/protesting-farmers-block-kmp-expressway-in-haryana-101618028372370.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Small scale industries to remain functional during two-day lockdown||Small scale industries in Bhosari will continue operations over the weekend after an approval from the Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) municipal commissioner.All workers who will be commuting for work will have to carry company identity cards, according to the fresh directives. “We had a discussion with the PCMC commissioner, and he has allowed small scale industries to operate,” said Abhay Bhor, president, Forum of Small Scale Industries Association. Employees working in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC), Bhosari, have already suffered due to inconvenient public transport. “Many workers are still not able to come as there is no frequent bus transport facility available. If we keep companies closed, then it will be a big blow as most of the companies in Bhosari don’t have holidays on Sunday,” added Bhor. “If we keep our company closed for two days then the workflow gets disturbed as we have an off on Thursday,” said Pankaj Rao, who works at MIDC Bhosari.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/small-scale-industries-to-remain-functional-during-two-day-lockdown-101618028361521.html
10-04-2021||Other||A day before district council poll results, Tripura royal scion attacked||Tripura royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma on Friday faced an attack by some miscreants at Mohanpur sub-divisional magistrate office in West Tripura district. This comes just 24 hours before the counting of votes polled for the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC). “Let us fight politically without physically attacking me. Let’s see who has the support of the people,” said Kishore in an oblique reference to the ruling party legislators. However, he also appealed to his activists and supporters to restrain from resorting to violence. Kishore later told the reporters that some miscreants came to the SDM office and attacked the TIPRA activists by pelting stones at them. He also added that chief minister Biplab Kumar Deb and director general of police VS Yadav have called him up to know about his condition and also gave assurances of speedy action against those behind the attack. A police official said that the situation is under control and Pradyot Kishore reached home safely. No other administrative and police officials were available for comment. State ruling party’s, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharya said the opposition was behind the attack. “The opposition CPM is behind creating the trouble through a backdoor. People have rejected them already,” Bhattacharya said. Kishore resigned from Congress in 2019 after which he floated his political party the Tipraha Indigenous People’s Regional Alliance (TIPRA) this year and contested the 30-seated in the district council polls that were held on April 06.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/a-day-before-district-council-poll-results-tripura-royal-scion-attacked-101618027942704.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||PM Modi 'saddened' by Nagpur hospital fire that left 4 dead||Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed grief over the fire that broke out at a hospital in Nagpur and killed four people on Friday night. "Saddened by the hospital fire in Nagpur. My thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives, Praying that the injured recover at the earliest," PM Modi tweeted.Union Home Minister Amit Shah also expressed his condolences and tweeted, "I am deeply saddened by the news of a fire in a hospital in Nagpur. In this hour of grief, I express my deepest condolences to the relatives of the dead and pray to the Gods to get well soon for the injured." Also Read: 4 dead in massive blaze at Nagpur's Covid-19 hospitalThe fire may have started from an AC unit of the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) on the first floor of the hospital. "The fire reportedly started from an AC unit of the ICU. The blaze remained confined to the floor and did not spread further," Nagpur Municipal Corporation's (NMC) chief fire officer Rajendra Uchke said.The Well Treat Hospital, located in Wadi area of West Nagpur, was treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). After the incident, around 27 patients were shifted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College in a critical condition.Watch: Four Covid patients die in Nagpur hospital fire, PM Modi expresses griefWhile the fire was contained to the first floor, the smoke further spread to the second floor where 10 patients were inside the ICU. The hospital staff managed to rescue six of the patients and the remaining four died of asphyxiation. The deceased have not yet been identified.“We can’t comment on the health condition of others now as we are busy shifting the patients to other hospitals,” Nagpur Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar said.Four fire tenders were present on the spot and it took them around an hour to douse the fire. According to the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA from the area, Samir Meghe, the cause of fire is yet to be ascertained. “Prima facie it appears that a short circuit could have triggered the fire,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pm-modi-saddened-by-nagpur-hospital-fire-that-left-4-dead-101618021589418.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||AAP attacks Centre over vaccine exports, BJP hits back||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Friday criticised the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-ruled central government for exporting 64.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines to 84 countries, even as several states across the country claimed they were short of jabs.Addressing a press conference, senior AAP leader and national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “As many as 109 vaccination centres in Pune were shut down due to deficiency of doses. In Mumbai, 26 vaccination centres were locked... In Odisha, more than 700 such centres were shut down... The amount of Covid vaccine doses exported or gifted to other countries by India is more than the number of people inoculated in our own nation.” He did not specify the number of doses available in Delhi. State health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said Delhi has vaccines for the next four to five days.Chadha said at a time when Covid-19 cases are on a steep rise, the Centre’s focus should be to get everyone inoculated. For this, CM Arvind Kejriwal has appealed to the Centre to open vaccination for all adult citizens.“Once the entire Indian population has been successfully vaccinated, it is then that we should export it to other nations...,” he said.Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday reiterated that there was no shortage and the country has more than 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline.The Delhi BJP also hit back, saying that the AAP is trying to spread ‘misinformation’.“Today...Chadha quoted figures of stock availability of different states, but kept mum on Delhi’s vaccination stock because there is no such shortage in Delhi. In the AAP’s bid to be seen on a national platform, it is trying to create confusion on vaccine stock,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.‘PM backs Delhi model’In another press conference, senior AAP spokesperson Atishi said that in a meeting with the chief ministers, PM Narendra Modi on Thursday made suggestions to tackle Covid-19 which were part of the Kejriwal model. “The PM has asked states to implement home isolation, aggressive testing and micro-containment zones -- models that the Kejriwal government put in place -- to tackle Covid-19 across the country. It is the same model that the Union home minister [Amit Shah] rejected last year when Delhi government first introduced home isolation for asymptomatic and mild Covid-19 patients. Today, while 13 lakh Covid-19 tests are being conducted in the whole country, one lakh tests are being conducted in Delhi itself,” she said.The Delhi BJP said AAP and Atishi “cleverly ignored” Shah’s intervention in controlling the first wave of Covid-19 in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aapattacks-centre-over-vaccine-exports-bjp-hits-back-101618020293449.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||After months of ambiguity, campaigning for Panjab University senate polls picks up pace||With the announcement of schedule for the senate election starting April 26, campaigning is back on track at Panjab University after months of uncertainty.Over 100 candidates are in fray from eight constituencies for the election of 47 members to the 91-member PU senate. Due to pandemic, the campaigning has shifted mostly to social media. Instead of physical meetings, candidates are approaching the voters on social media platforms and phone calls.Candidates avoiding physical contactFormer senator Inderpal Singh Sidhu, who is contesting from teachers’ constituency of affiliated arts colleges, said, “I am contacting the voters through an electronic medium in a bid to avoid any physical contact. Even on the day of polling, all precautionary measures will be followed to contain the spread of Covid-19.”Although the campaigning has witnessed a low-key start due to pandemic, it is expected to pick up pace in coming days.“The campaigning will gather momentum in the coming days as candidates were not expecting that the election schedule will be announced just a few days after the HC order,” said Professor Rajat Sandhir, who is contesting from the constituency of professors’ of university teaching departments.The senate is a 91-member apex governing body of the university. While 36 are nominated by the university chancellor, two are nominated from the Punjab assembly, six are ex-officio members and the remaining 47 are elected.The four-year term of the previous senate had ended on October 31, 2020. While the elections were scheduled in August last year, these were postponed twice by V-C Raj Kumar due to the pandemic.Two cornered contest expectedPU senate polls are set to witness a two-cornered contest between the alliance of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) group and DAV group against the alliance of Navdeep Goyal and Ashok Goyal. The members of the Goyal group had moved the high court on December 22 seeking directions to PU to hold the senate polls. Goyal group had a majority in the previous senate and syndicate as well. Both Ashok and Navdeep are contesting from faculties, which will contribute six members to the senate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-months-of-ambiguity-campaigning-for-panjab-university-senate-polls-picks-up-pace-101618001488196.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC fumes as only 437 of 793 pilgrims get Pak visa on Baisakhi||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Friday took a strong exception to granting of visas to only 437 of a total of 793 pilgrims for visiting Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi (Khalsa foundation day) in the historic gurdwaras of the neighbouring country.SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh said, “We had sent 793 names for issuing of visas of which 356 were rejected. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) and the Pakistan embassy in New Delhi should approve maximum number of names sent by the SGPC as it is the apex body of the Sikh community. The names of a large number of pilgrims have been removed, causing a lot of resentment among pilgrims.”The jatha going to Pakistan will leave the SGPC office in Amritsar on April 12 and it will return on April 22, he added.Also, the SGPC along with the health department organised a two-day camp at its office to conduct Covid-19 test of the pilgrims going to Pakistan. As per the health department guidelines, a person should get Covid-19 test done not before visiting another country. The special camp started on Friday. The tests are free for the pilgrims going to Pakistan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-fumes-as-only-437-of-793-pilgrims-get-pak-visa-on-baisakhi-101618001237588.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||6th sero survey in Delhi to start on Monday||Authorities in Delhi will conduct the sixth serological survey in the city from Monday to determine the extent of the spread of the coronavirus disease, said health department officials. Since the Covid-19 inoculation drive was opened up after the fifth survey, officials will also ask participants for their vaccination history.The survey will measure the rate of exposure to the Sars-Cov-2 virus, which causes Covid-19, between January and April.The protocol followed for the current round of the survey will be the same as the previous round – just over 100 samples will be collected at random from each of the 272 municipal wards in the city. The total sample size will be 28,000.The fifth serological survey in Delhi, conducted between January 15 and January 23, to detect Covid-19 antibodies showed that 56.13% of the 28,000 people sampled tested positive, the government said in February.The questionnaire will ask for a history of vaccination and previous infection in people whose blood samples are collected to test for the presence of antibodies against Sars-CoV-2 virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/6th-sero-survey-in-delhi-to-start-on-monday-101618000898543.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Reddy, Kamboj new presidents of Dera Bassi, Banur municipal councils||Ranjit Singh Reddy, 42, a close aide of Congress leader Deepinder Singh Dhillon, was elected as the president of the Dera Bassi municipal council for a period of five years on Friday.In Banur, Jagtar Singh Kamboj, 55, a second-time Congress councillor, was picked to lead the civic body.Jagdish Chand Kala was chosen as vice-president of Banur MC, while elections for the posts of senior vice-president and vice-president of the Dera Bassi MC will be held in the next meeting.Following the elections, the councillors of both municipalities took the oath.Snatching victory from the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) after 10 years, the Congress in February had won 13 of the 19 seats in Dera Bassi, while the former could manage only three. Two seats had gone to Independents and another to the BJP, while AAP could not open its account. In the last term, all 19 seats were won by the SAD-BJP alliance. Similarly, the Congress had claimed 12 of the 13 seats in Banur, which was once the stronghold of SAD under late Captain Kanwaljit Singh, restricting SAD to one. In the last term, the Congress had six members in the House, SAD four, three were Independents and one member was from the BJP.Reddy assured equal development of all wards in Dera Bassi in coordination with the councillors. Similarly, Kamboj said he will work towards changing the face of Banur and assured to provide all basic amenities in the town.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/reddy-kamboj-new-presidents-of-dera-bassi-banur-municipal-councils-101618000938833.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to approach HC to review stay on twin-bin garbage collection||The municipal corporation has decided to move the Punjab and Haryana high court to vacate its stay order on collection of segregated garbage through twin-bin vehicles. In the meantime, the corporation will continue to collect waste through its vehicles and also allow cart-based collectors to pick garbage through door-to-door visits. “Following legal advice from senior standing counsel (SSC) of the Chandigarh administration, we have decided to approach the high court for vacation of the stay order,” said KK Yadav, MC commissioner.Stating that MC will keep running its parallel system of garbage collection, Yadav said, “It is the primary responsibility of the MC to ensure sanitation in the city and that garbage is collected from all localities. So, MC vehicles will continue to collect garbage. At the same time, we will not stop any cart-based door-to-door collector, who will have to pick up waste in segregated manner.”He added that most of the garbage collectors were already on board with MC’s takeover of door-to-door garbage collection. “Of the 1,286 informal garbage collectors, 1,035 have signed memorandum of understanding (MoU) to work with MC,” Yadav said. No user charges in AprilOn the issue of user charges to be imposed in this scenario, Yadav said, “At present, proper garbage collection is our priority, so there will be no user charges in April. Sanitation has become all the more important amid the Covid-19 pandemic.”On April 7, the high court had put a stay on the operation and effect of the Solid Waste Management Bylaws 2018 and a December 2019 resolution by the MC through which it had purchased motorised vehicles for garbage collection.The 390 vehicles were bought at a cost of over ₹30 crore in the wake of directions by the National Green Tribunal to streamline solid waste management.The first phase of garbage collection through MC vehicles was started in December last year in Sectors 1 to 30. In April, most of the city was brought under the MC drive. It was contended in court that the bylaws and the resolution were contrary to the letter and spirit of the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, issued by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change, which contemplated the need to empower the garbage collectors and help ensure their employment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-approach-hc-to-review-stay-on-twin-bin-garbage-collection-101618000877649.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Red Fort violence accused Lakha Sidhana leads march to Delhi border||Gangster-turned-activist Lakha Sidhana, who is wanted by the Delhi Police in the Red Fort violence incident, on Friday led a march of farmers protesting against the Centre’s three agriculture laws to the Delhi border from Gurdwara Mastuana Sahib in Sangrur district. Earlier, addressing a gathering at the gurdwara, Sidhana said he was not scared of being arrested and the farmers’ agitation was a battle of survival for Punjab. “The farmers are united and thousands of youths are marching to Delhi again. It is important how we win the struggle,” he said. “We will block the KMP (Kundli-Manesar-Palwal) Expressway in Delhi on Saturday and a protest march will be taken out to Parliament next month. We will follow the instructions of farmer unions. The Delhi Police have even arrested my cousin Gurdeep Singh and his friend Gurpreet from Patiala yesterday,” added Sidhana while addressing the gathering from a truck.Samyukt Kisan Morcha (SKM) leaders Surjit Singh Phool, Manjit Singh Rai and Baldev Singh Sirsa besides Sikh preacher Harjinder Singh Majhi were also present at the gurdwara.The procession was organised by Sidhana’s youth supporters after the Samyukt Kisan Morcha allowed him to address the protesting farmers from the stage at Singhu recently. On Sidhana’s address at the rally, Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Vivek Sheel Soni said, “We are looking into the matter.”Skips address at Shambu border The gangster-turned-activist skipped his scheduled address to the protesting farmers at Shambu barrier on the Punjab-Haryana border. Navdeep Singh, a youth farmer leader, said the decision to skip the address was taken due to security reasons.The farmer leaders who addressed the gathering from a truck slammed the Delhi Police for framing Sidhana by invoking “false charges”. No office-bearer of the Bhartiya Kisan Union (Charuni) was seen in the procession. (Inputs from Ambala)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/red-fort-violence-accused-lakha-sidhana-leads-march-to-delhi-border-101618000819287.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement: Punjab arhtiyas call strike from today over DBT row||A day after the Punjab government agreed to implement the Centre’s direct benefit transfer (DBT) scheme for farmers, arhtiyas (commission agents) announced to go on strike in the state from Saturday and stop the mandi operations to press for an immediate rollback of the move. Wheat procurement in Punjab starts on Saturday. Punjab Arhtiya Association president Vijay Kalra said the decision was taken after a meeting with chief minister Amarinder Singh even as he assured them that his government was making efforts to find a way out to accommodate them while implementing the DBT scheme. The CM also asked the officials to make sure that arhtiyas were not ignored while implementing the new system. His assurance, however, failed to satisfy the arhtiyas who are apprehensive that DBT will end their role in the procurement process. “The state government has asked us to wait till some solution is found. But are going to shut our operations from tomorrow,” Kalra said. Punjab has nearly 33,000 arhtiyas who deal with 10.93 lakh farmers. They also provide logistical support by cleaning, weighing, packing and loading grain in vehicles in lieu of ‘incidental’. The arhtiyas were paid 2% of the minimum support price (MSP) as commission. Now, the Centre has proposed to give them fixed ₹48 per quintal for running the mandi operations but the commission agents are up in arms against it. The state has set a target to procure 130 lakh tonne wheat this season. State food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu, who also along with his cabinet colleagues attended the meeting with Union minister Piyush Goyal, said his department will make efforts to start the procurement from Saturday itself. “We are also working on a mechanism to bring changes in the public finance management system (PFMS) so that money goes directly into farmers’ accounts but the arhtiyas will have a say in clearing the payment,” he added. CM Amarinder is expected to make a formal announcement about the changes in a day or two. So far, payments for procurement of foodgrains for the public distribution system (PDS) were made to the farmers through arhtiyas. Though the Centre has been pushing for direct payment to farmers for several years, the state government has been opposed to DBT, saying arhtiyas are integral to the procurement system. A five-member team of the Punjab government led by finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal met Union food and public distribution minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday to seek more time to implement the new system, but the latter refused to budge. Punjab procures wheat and rice at MSP on behalf of the central government under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). Currently, MSP to farmers in Punjab is paid through arthiyas unlike directly to farmers’ bank accounts in other states. A senior mandi board official said, “Procurement will take place whether arhtiyas go on strike or not.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-procurement-punjab-arhtiyas-call-strike-from-today-over-dbt-row-101618000761698.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Freehold commercial properties may soon become reality in Chandigarh||Paving the way to allow leasehold-to-freehold conversion of commercial and industrial properties, the UT administration has decided to seek approval from the central government for a policy in this regard. Nearly 70% commercial and industrial plots in the city are leasehold, allowing occupation for a limited period, mostly 99 years. Ownership rights in this case are with the government agencies like the UT Estate Office, municipal corporation and Chandigarh Housing Board. On the other hand, freehold status gives the owner complete rights of the property.More than 5,000 lessees stand to get ownership rights if the administration’s decision is approved by the central government. A policy for residential properties is already in place in the city since the conversion rates were fixed in 2017. Confirming UT’s decision, adviser Manoj Parida said, “We will be seeking in-principle approval of the Union ministry of home affairs for allowing leasehold-to- freehold conversion of commercial properties. Once the approval is granted, we will be formulating a policy detailing the rates of conversion and other conditions.” The UT administrator’s approval is awaited before the proposal letter is sent to the ministry. Long-standing demand The city’s business and industrial community has been for long demanding the right to own properties to facilitate expansion and loans. The Chandigarh Industrial Policy has also promised allowing conversion of industrial plots from leasehold to freehold to promote ease of doing business in the city. The demand had recently got fresh impetus with the Administration’s Advisory Council favouring the conversion of leasehold properties, an idea repeatedly supported by MP Kirron Kher. Earlier in February, the council’s Standing Committee on Urban Infrastructure had also favoured the proposal. “The demand for a conversion policy has also found strong support in the municipal corporation, where the General House has already passed a resolution demanding a policy for its properties. Similar demands have been made by the UT Estate Office and CHB,” said a UT official, privy to development. Stagnating realty marketIn the absence of the conversion policy, MC, UT and CHB have been losing out on revenue, as there are few takers for leasehold properties.For instance, in 2019, CHB and the Estate Office failed to auction even a single leasehold property. While the freehold plots generated sizable revenue through auction, commercial properties on lease didn’t attract any bidder. Similarly, MC has failed to sell any of its properties despite multiple auctions. “Chandigarh trails behind Mohali and Panchkula on this account. While the satellite towns have freehold properties aplenty, a lot of properties in Chandigarh are stuck due to leasehold status. Lack of ownership rights has also created artificial stagnation in the market and impinged on business growth in the city,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/freehold-commercial-properties-may-soon-become-reality-in-chandigarh-101618000397389.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||After Covid-19 surge, all schools in Delhi closed||In the wake of a sharp spike in Covid-19 cases in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday announced the closure of all schools and colleges in the city, suspending all in-person academic activities until further orders.It was, however, not immediately clear if the order will affect the CBSE board examinations for Class 10 and 12 students that are scheduled to be held next month. While the board’s controller of examinations could not be reached for comment, a senior CBSE official who asked not to be named said it was too early to comment on any potential changes to the examination schedule. “We have said before that schools must comply with state guidelines and Covid-19 protocols. If the Delhi government has asked for the closure of schools, the orders should be followed. The decision on practicals and other matters [including board exams] can be taken later.”The central board has so far maintained that it will not conduct exams online. On Thursday, it announced that it will increase the number of examination centres by 2,500 this year to ensure social distancing and other Covid-protocol during the board exams.“Due to increasing Covid cases, all schools (including government and private) in Delhi are being closed for all classes till further orders,” Kejriwal tweeted on Friday when the Capital recorded its second highest ever single-day increase in cases at 8,521. The government order came after a Covid-19 review meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA).In a directive issued on Friday evening, director of education Udit Prakash Rai said, “In view of the sudden surge in the cases of Covid-19 in Delhi, all the heads of government, government-aided and unaided recognised schools are hereby informed that conduct of all academic and examination activities through physical mode shall remain suspended with immediate effect till further orders.”“They are further directed to ensure that no student of classes 9 to 12 is called to school in person for any kind of academic or examination activity like practice of practicals, mid-term and annual examination related work i.e., practical, project submission, assessments, etc. till further orders,” the order read.On April 1, the Delhi government announced that all academic activities for the new academic session beginning in April will continue online across classes in private and public schools. However, students of classes 9 and 11 of the previous academic session (2020-21) were allowed to visit schools for their internal exams, and students of the outgoing classes 10 and 12 could visit schools for board practicals and pre-board exams.Awadesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini Sector 8, said, “This was a necessary step. We had parents requesting us to cancel or postpone internal exams, fearing for the safety of their children amid rising Covid-19 cases. Though school authorities are able to enforce Covid protocols inside the premises, overcrowding outside schools could have put children at risk.”Most of Delhi’s 2,168 schools are affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), which had announced last year that it will conduct practical exams from March till the last theory paper in June. Theory exams for both Class 10 and 12 students are slated to begin in May. While private schools are mostly done with their Class 9 and 11 internal exams, government schools were currently busy in finishing the mid-terms of these classes with the finals scheduled in May.Mary Jyotsna Minj, principal of Government Girls Senior Secondary School in New Kondli, said schools will now have to wait for clarity on promotion and assessment for Class 9 and 11 students. “Of the 17 subjects in Class 12 which had a practical component, we have conducted exams for only a handful as we were waiting for our mid-terms of classes 9 and 11 to get over by mid-April. Since we had time, we were planning to conduct the rest of the practicals after that. Now with cases rising again, we don’t know what to do and have to wait for further instructions.”While Minj suggested that CBSE might consider forming a revised assessment policy like last year for the board students as they had little practice for the practical exams, Jha said even an extension could work.“CBSE has said that they can conduct practical exam till the end of theory papers which will be around mid-June. If they could extend the dates further till the end of June, we could conduct the remaining practical tests in around two weeks,” said Jha.Private schools also endorsed the government’s decision, especially after reports of some students testing positive for Covid-19 after attending offline classes. Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said, “We have conducted all practicals except one. It will be disturbing for students who have not appeared for the practicals, so schools have to counsel them and tell them that their safety is of prime importance. The current strain is affecting youngsters, so we have to take all precautions. As far as holding theory exams are concerned, it is almost a month away and it is early to comment on them.”A senior education department official said the Directorate of Education will take a decision on the suspended academic activities when the schools reopen. “Exams and syllabus become trivial issues when compared to health and safety of children. As of now, all offline academic activities stand postponed and we will make the decision on how to proceed later when the Covid-19 situation is better.”Twisha Kacker, a Class 12 student at The Indian School, said her three practicals are pending due to the closure of schools. “While some of my friends are happy to get some time to prepare for the practicals, many just want to get it over with. I personally wanted to focus on my theory papers after finishing practicals which help us score more,” she said.Parents welcomed the government’s order which comes a day after Delhi Parents’ Association writing to the government demanding closure of schools. “Though some practicals are pending, we believe authorities can figure out alternate ways to conduct practicals or viva using smartphones or through voice calls with students of both government and private schools,” said association president Aprajita Gautam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/after-covid-19-surge-all-schools-in-delhi-closed-101617999921152.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh schools, colleges closed till April 30; PGI suspends walk-in OPDs||UT education secretary SS Gill on Friday extended the closure of schools and colleges in the city till April 30. In an order issued on Friday, the official said that while the schools will remain closed, exams for Classes 9 and 11 will still be held, and teachers will continue to report to work. “Leftover exams for Classes 9 and 11 will start on April 12. Strict Covid protocols will be followed and not more than 15 students will be allowed per classroom. Schools will have till April 23 to wrap up the exams,” an official in the education department said.Private schools, having pending board or practical exams, can also finish them by April 30. The instructions to close all educational institutions of the city till March 31 were first issued on March 23, and later extended till April 10. Only teleconsultation services at PGIMER for nowIn view of the surging Covid-19 cases in and around the city, the PGIMER administration has decided to suspend physical examination of patients at the institute’s OPDs from April 12.“We have decided to suspend walk-in patients at the OPDs, fearing transmission of the contagious virus to the patients, who are already immuno-compromised, and their attendants,” said Dr Jagat Ram, the hospital director.“Teleconsultation services will continue as per earlier schedule and lines will be added to accommodate more patients. The emergency services will function as usual,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-schools-colleges-closed-till-april-30-pgi-suspends-walk-in-opds-101618000097141.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha Class 12 students worried about competitive exams||Along with the confusion over the status and mode of board exams, Class 12 students are also worried about the status of all-India competitive exams. While the National Testing Agency (NTA) has already announced that the third session of Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains will take place in the last week of April, there is no clarity if the exam will be delayed in Maharashtra owing to lockdown restrictions implemented until the end of April in several states. “Neither the state nor NTA is providing any clarity. Students and parents are more anxious than ever. Many Class 12 students are preparing for JEE Mains or the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) and at the same time also preparing for their Class 12 exam,” said Sudha Shenoy, parent and activist. The state education department is still deciding on the board exams scheduled in April in the offline mode. “We’ve heard of numerous cases from other states where students and staff in schools and colleges have contracted the virus during offline exams. This is worrying,” said Anuradha Singh, mother of a Class 12 student. Recently, NTA extended dates for registrations for the April JEE Mains session, but as yet, there has been no clarity on whether exams will be conducted as per schedule. “We are in talks with several officials across various states to determine the on-ground situation and accordingly a decision will be taken soon,” said an official from NTA.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-class-12-students-worried-about-competitive-exams-101617999497595.html
10-04-2021||Other||2 yrs on, 80-yr-old mother of Vir Chakra awardee awaits relief from GMADA||Two years on, Surjit Kaur, an 80-year-old mother of a Vir Chakra awardee, is yet to get compensation of ₹60,000 along with 12% interest on principal amount from the Greater Mohali Area Development Authority (GMADA). The relief was awarded by the Punjab state consumer disputes redressal commission in 2019 in a case pertaining to a flat in Purab Apartments in Sector 88. Bedi, in her complaint to the prime minister, had stated that GMADA officials did not obey the judgment and kept her in the dark by stating they will appeal to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission, Delhi. However, no case has been registered by the GMADA in Delhi in the past two years, she said. It is pertinent to mention here that Bedi was allotted a flat in Purab Apartments under the reserved category of gallantry award winners after a draw and was issued letter of intent (LOI) in May 2012. GMADA promised possession in May 2015, failing which she had the right to withdraw from the scheme after sending an application to the estate officer. Despite being paid ₹63.3 lakh, GMADA failed to deliver the apartment to Bedi, following which she moved the Punjab consumer disputes redressal commission. The commission in its order on February 4, 2019, had awarded ₹60,000 as compensation for not getting delivery of a GMADA apartment. The commission had ordered to repay the 10% deducted from the apartment cost (as part of the builder-buyer agreement) by GMADA with 8% interest compounded annually over the refunded amount of ₹55.7 lakh. The commissioner further observed, “Since GMADA has not delivered the possession to the complaint within three years under clause 3 (ii) of the LOI, hence they are deficient in service, thereby entitling the complainant to seek the refund of the amount. Bedi has already been refunded ₹55,7 lakh by GMADA out of the ₹63.3 lakh she paid, but the 10% deduction was unjustified, unauthorised and uncalled for.” Bedi said that she had again approached the state consumer court by filing execution of not obeying the judgment of February 2019 by GMADA in January this year. She said even the national consumer court executive had helped her by suggesting that there was no case registered by GMADA for an appeal to their commission. She said this was a sheer case of delay and harassment of a senior citizen and a mother of a braveheart who laid his life and gave the supreme sacrifice for the nation. Bedi’s son second Lt Amardeep Singh Bedi was awarded the Vir Chakra posthumously on January 26, 1990, for exemplary action in confining militants to a jungle strip on January 18. 1989, thwarting their escape and killing one. Unfortunately, he died after being injured in firing by another militant group. GMADA chief administrator Pradeep Aggarwal said, “I am not aware of the case, but will definitely look into it and get it resolved as per the norms.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-yrs-on-80-yr-old-mother-of-vir-chakra-awardee-awaits-relief-from-gmada-101617999497144.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||State defers MPSC exam||In view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government on Friday decided to postpone the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examination scheduled on April 11. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray. The new dates will be declared soon, the officials said. Initially, the exam was scheduled in April 2020. There were demands from many sections of society, including students and parents, to defer the exams owing to the risk of getting infected with the virus. A few days ago Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray too made the demand. “In the backdrop of sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and considering safety and health of students and demands from various sections including students it has been decided to postpone the MPSC examinations,” chief minister said in the meeting attended by home minister Dilip Walse Patil, revenue minister Balasaheb Thorat, relief and minister rehabilitation Vijay Wadettiwar, leader of opposition in legislative Pravin Darekar, Raj Thackeray and senior officials. The new dates will be determined based on the situation in the state. The chief minister also assured students they won’t be affected with the age bar limit owing to the deferment of the exams.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/state-defers-mpsc-exam-101617999377034.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha teachers worried about multiple RT-PCR tests||Teachers and non-teaching staff in schools and junior colleges across the state are worried about having to undergo the RT-PCR test for Covid-19 multiple times during the board exams that commence late this month. As per the Standard Operating Procedures issued for the conduct of board exams last month, the entire staff which is on duty for the conduct of board exams has to undergo a test to ascertain that they are not positive for Covid-19. The test report is valid only for 48 hours from the time it is released. The board exams will last for nearly a month. “We will need staff for conduct of board exams and this year the strength required will be more as there will be more classrooms and centres. Having to undergo the test repeatedly is stressful. Teachers and other staff will have to go to a government facility for the same and scheduling appointments will add to the already existing stress,” said the principal of a school in the city. Officials from the state education department did not respond to calls and messages. “We have to keep a lot of backup options in case a teacher is unable to do the test or the report is awaited. This means a lot more people will have to be assigned duties than usual,” said a teacher. While the HSC (Class 12) exams will be held between April 23 and May 21, SSC (Class 10) exams will be conducted between April 29 and May 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-teachers-worried-about-multiple-rt-pcr-tests-101617999376469.html
10-04-2021||Other||Chandigarh tricity area clocks 1,280 Covid cases in new high||The Chandigarh tricity area hit a new daily Covid-19 record on Friday with 1,280 cases – a 26% spike from the 1,009 infections on Thursday.Also trumping its previous all-time high of 501 cases on April 5, Mohali reported 630 infections, while the cases in Chandigarh breached the 400 mark for the first time this year.As many as 422 people tested positive in the UT, just 27 short of its highest daily count of 449 during the pandemic’s peak in September last year.Panchkula continued to report 200+ cases for the second day in a row, though the daily tally came down from Thursday’s 239 to 228 on Friday.As many as eight people also succumbed to the virus – four in Chandigarh, and two each in Mohali and Panchkula.Cases cross 30,000 mark in MohaliWith the latest spike, Mohali’s cases climbed to 30,604, of which 4,645 people are still recuperating. Dhakoli accounted for the majority of infections at 223, followed by Mohali city with 163, Kharar 131, Gharuan 38, Dera Bassi 36, Kurali 27, Boothgarh six, Lalru five and Banur one. The district has 25,490 recoveries so far, while 469 people have died, including two on Friday.Noticing the surge in cases in Dhakoli and Mohali city, civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur has constituted teams for extensive sampling.“Eligible people are requested to come forward for vaccination, and those with even mild symptoms should get tested. The transmission rate of the UK variant of the virus is quite high and is spreading fast among youngsters,” she said, while emphasising the need for the younger population to exercise precautions like wearing masks, maintaining distance and keeping hands sanitised.Within nine days of April, the district has recorded 3,911 cases and 36 deaths, as compared to 6,315 cases and 48 deaths in March. UT’s active cases reach highest-ever numberIn Chandigarh, the cumulative cases reached 29,943, while the active cases, at 3,213, surpassed the previous high of 3,171 on September 1. The UT has reported 3,210 cases and 14 deaths in April so far.The four fatalities on Friday were a 65-year-old woman from Sector 23, a 54-year-old man from Sector 20, a 44-year-old woman from Burail and a 28-year-old man from Manimajra.“Cases are surging at a much faster pace in the second wave, which is worrisome. The spike reinforces the need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research.Panchkula’s toll reached 158 with the two fatalities on Friday.The deceased were an 86-year-old man from Sector 4, who was suffering from asthma and other comorbidities, and a 74-year-old woman from Sector 17. The 228 cases took the district’s tally to 14,520, of which 1,196 patients are still infected and 13,166 have recovered. April alone accounts for 1,491 cases and four deaths in Panchkula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/chandigarh-tricity-area-clocks-1-280-covid-cases-in-new-high-101617999318396.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha sees vaccine shortage, centres shut||Amid shortage of Covid vaccines, scores of vaccination centres were shut across Maharashtra on Friday, leading to panic among citizens. A day after the state-Centre spat over supply, the state got 459,310 more doses on Friday, which are expected to last for three more days. Considering the time required for the transportation of the new stock, many centres are expected to face the problem on Saturday. Friday’s stock has brought the total number of doses received by the state to 11.08 million. The state vaccinated 267,687 beneficiaries till 7pm on Friday, against the daily average of 350,000-400,000, taking the number of inoculated beneficiaries to 8,698,426 with 9,628,138 doses. Considering the wastage, the state has about 1,150,000 doses left for vaccination, said state health officials. The state had inoculated 479,215 citizens on April 5, which dropped to 354,101 on April 8 and 267,687 on April 9. The number of centres was 4,938 on Friday, against 3,647 on Thursday. “Many centres operated for the first few hours till the stock lasted. The stock received from the Centre is being transported to the respective districts and may take a day. This will result in shortage at some centres even on Saturday and Sunday,” said an official from the health department. The official said the state was expecting 1.56million more doses to be delivered in the next few days. “Considering the state’s wastage rate, which is around 3%, around 300,000 doses have been wasted, leaving around 1,150,000 doses available for vaccination. We fear that even with the promised stock by the Centre, we would not be able to maintain our targeted pace of inoculating more than 400,000 people a day. After vaccinating more than 400,000 beneficiaries early this week, our rate has dropped owing to the shortage,” said the official. State health minister Rajesh Tope said the promised stock of the jab was not sufficient. “We are targeting vaccination of more than 600,000 beneficiaries a day, for which a supply of 4 million doses a week is necessary.” In Beed, a centre at a rural hospital in Ambejogai was shut down after inoculating 100 beneficiaries. Centres in Panvel in Navi Mumbai ran out of stock resulting in closure of centres after inoculating 4,000 beneficiaries against the daily average of more than 8,000 people. The number of beneficiaries in Chandrapur fell to 567 (till 7pm) on Friday, against 5,117 on Thursday and 8,467 a day before. In Sangli, only 716 beneficiaries were inoculated (till 7pm), against 4,495 on Thursday and 12,422 on Wednesday. In Satara, 2,160 people were inoculated against its daily capacity of more than 22,000. In Thane, 22,973 were inoculated till 7pm against the inoculation of 28, 593 on Thursday and 32,829 a day before. Maharashtra has targeted inoculating 33.8mn people above 45 years. Besides vaccines, Maharashtra also faced acute shortage of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and the oxygen while treating Covid-19 patients. Food and drugs administration minister Rajendra Shingne announced the state would procure oxygen from other neighbouring states and banned the use of oxygen for industrial purposes. “Our consumption of oxygen for Covid-19 patients on Thursday was 923metric tonnes against the production of 1,287 tonnes. The demand for patients is expected to go up as the number of the positive patients is expected to go up in the next few days. It is clear that our domestic production would not be sufficient for the demand and hence we have decided to procure it from states like Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh. We have also increased the reservation of the production to 100% for medical use by banning industrial use for a few days,” he said. Shingne said the supply of Remdesivir is expected to increase to 75,000 vials from the existing supply of 55,000 vials in the next few days. He said they have also directed production companies to tap the possibility of stalling the export of Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-sees-vaccine-shortage-centres-shut-101617999316472.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Online exams for SSC, HSC not feasible||Class 10 and 12 board exams in the state cannot be conducted online this year as per the feedback given by various experts to the state government in the last few days. State education minister Varsha Gaikwad released a short video message on Friday evening urging students appearing for their boards not to worry. “Students in the state should just focus on studies and not worry. Their health is our topmost priority,” said Gaikwad, adding that she had spoken to representatives of companies like Google India and Tata Consultancy Services in the past few days regarding the conduct of board exams in the state. Officials in the education department said these companies had mentioned that with the magnitude of the board exams, in which nearly 33 lakh students appear every year, readying digital infrastructure can take upto two years. “They were of the opinion that this cannot be done overnight, especially this year at such a short notice. It is a known fact that in Maharashtra, considering the state’s topography and challenges with online learning in rural parts, it is not feasible to conduct exams as crucial as the boards online. Hence that option is nearly ruled out,” said an official present at the meeting. Gaikwad said that a detailed announcement regarding the board exams will be made soon in consultation with the chief minister and deputy chief minister. While numerous consultations have been held regarding the conduct of board exams in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases in the state, the government is likely to push exams further. A final decision in this regard is awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/online-exams-for-ssc-hsc-not-feasible-101617999317093.html
10-04-2021||Other||CBI records statements of suspended Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze, bar owner||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Friday recorded the statements of a bar owner and suspended Mumbai policeman Sachin Vaze as part of its probe into the allegations of corruption raised by former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh. A team of the central agency, which is in Mumbai to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the allegations as directed by the Bombay high court (HC), visited the office of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday to record Vaze’s statement the third day in a row, following which Vaze was sent to judicial custody by the special NIA court. Vaze was in custody of the NIA in connection with his alleged role in planting explosives in an SUV outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence in February. He is also accused of allegedly murdering Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran who was in possession of the SUV. On Friday, a CBI team questioned the owner of a bar in Kandivali, who was also questioned by the NIA. “The owner of a bar and restaurant in Kandivali area was questioned twice by the NIA and his detailed statements were recorded when the agency learnt that he was allegedly collecting monthly collection (money) from other restaurant owners on behalf of a former police officer,” a senior NIA official said on condition of anonymity. “[The bar owner’s] statement was recorded to corroborate the allegation made by Singh,” a CBI official said, refusing to elaborate. The CBI had recorded Param Bir Singh’s statement on April 8, a day after Vaze attempted to submit a letter to the special court in which he stated that Deshmukh and state transport minister Anil Parab had asked him to extort money from businessmen and establishments. On March 20, three days after he was transferred to take charge of the Maharashtra Home Guard, Singh wrote a letter to the chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and other top officials alleging that Deshmukh ran an extortion racket, and had set targets of ₹100 crore to some policemen, including Vaze to collect this money from establishments like restaurants, bars and hookah bars. Deshmukh, who rejected the allegations, resigned from the cabinet on April 5 after the HC order. In an official report submitted on Wednesday, newly appointed Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said all critical decisions related to arrests and raids were taken under Vaze’s directions, who reported directly to Singh. Assistant police inspectors do not usually report directly to the chiefs. The CBI has also recorded the statements of deputy commissioner of police Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police Sanjay Patil, and Dr Jaishri Patil whose Public Interest Litigation led to the HC order directing a probe by the CBI. A team of 10 officers – including a superintendent of police – is conducting the probe and will submit a report within 15 days. “We have recorded statements of other bar and restaurant owners and all documents related to investigation were handed over to the CBI which will help in their investigation,” the NIA official quoted above said. “Apart from the Kandivli bar owner, we will record statement of other bar owners to verify the facts,” a CBI official said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cbi-records-statements-of-suspended-mumbai-policeman-sachin-vaze-bar-owner-101617999256433.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare case: Sachin Vaze in judicial custody till April 23||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court on Friday remanded former Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze – arrested for his alleged role in parking an explosives-laden car outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia in February – to judicial custody till April 23.As his period of NIA custody ended on Friday, Vaze was produced before court in the afternoon. The agency did not seek his further custody and said that he may be remanded to judicial custody.Vaze’s lawyers pleaded the court that Vaze be lodged in a secure cell in prison as they apprehend threat to his life. The court noted the request.During the hearing, NIA brought to the notice of the court about Vaze’s letter getting leaked. The agency claimed that the letter was written while Vaze was in their custody. On Wednesday, when he was produced before the court, he was allowed to meet his lawyers for five minutes and the time was misused.The court reprimanded the defence lawyers saying they were asked to follow proper procedure, but they did not. The court warned them to not repeat it in the future.Vaze was arrested on March 13. He has been booked under various charges of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA). Under the Act, the agency can seek custody of the accused up to 30 days, which otherwise is restricted up to 14 days only. Since his arrest, Vaze had been in NIA custody.Vaze has also been named an accused in the murder case of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran. The 48-year-old auto spare parts trader is suspected to be murdered on March 4, the day he went missing. His body had washed ashore at a creek at Mumbra the next day.The murder is also being probed by NIA as the same being linked to the Antillia case. The Scorpio found parked outside Antilia on February 25 with 20 sticks of gelatin was the one that Hiran had been driving for three years and was reported stolen on February 18.Meanwhile, the special court has allowed the plea of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), seeking records from NIA about their investigation into the case. CBI is probing the allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh by ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.During the Antilia probe, Singh was transferred to a low-key post in the home guard department. Subsequently, he made several allegations in a letter addressed to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20 against Deshmukh.The Bombay high court (HC), which was hearing of multiple public interest litigations and a writ petition seeking a CBI probe into the accusations, had directed the central agency to conclude a preliminary inquiry in the case within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/antilia-case-former-mumbai-police-officer-sachin-vaze-in-judicial-custody-till-april-23-101617999196494.html
10-04-2021||Other||Elgaar Parishad: Court questions defence on report that states evidence was planted||The special National Investigation Agency (NIA) court hearing the Elghar Parishad case on Thursday sought a clarification on the report of Arsenal Consulting, which claimed that the evidence produced by the prosecution was planted after the computer of one of the accused was hacked. The report was submitted by the team of defence lawyers for Dr Anand Teltumbde while arguing his bail recently. The court, after perusal of the report, observed that though the report is addressed to the special court, it has not reached the court. “It appears that it is the copy of the report addressed to the court in the present proceeding. On inquiry with the sheristedar [court officer], it is reported that the court has not received such a report. Record reveals that at no point of time, the agency, Arsenal Consulting, was called upon by this court to submit the report,” read the court’s noting of Friday. The court then asked that if the copy addressed to the court has not been received, how was it accessed by the defence lawyers. Teltumbde’s lawyers have been asked to clarify “how he got custody of the document, which has been purportedly addressed to the court.” Special public prosecutor Prakash Shetty objected to the report which the defence relied upon while seeking bail for Teltumbde. The NIA, which submitted its reply on Thursday, said, “The authenticity of the report remains a question. It cannot be admitted at this stage. It has to be tested at the time of the trial.” The Arsenal report states that Rona Wilson’s [another accused] laptop and thumb drive had been compromised with for 22 months before it was seized by Pune Police. The report further states that the hacker had planted the alleged letters that incriminated Wilson and others in the laptop using a malware which was not known to Wilson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elgaar-parishad-court-questions-defence-on-report-that-states-evidence-was-planted-101617999076295.html
10-04-2021||Other||Mumbai likely to get respite from heat this week||The city is likely to get a reprieve from rising temperatures over the next week, according to the official forecast by the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Mumbai, along with the other parts of Maharashtra, may also witness thunderstorms and lighting. IMD had on Thursday issued a storm warning for 13 districts, including Mumbai city and suburbs, warning of a possibility of rain until Saturday.As per IMD’s forecast, partly cloudy skies are likely to prevail over the weekend. Cloudy skies and an increase in relative humidity on Friday resulted in a near normal temperature of 33.1 degrees Celsius. The temperature over the next two days may dip slightly, to about 32 degrees Celsius. The mercury had touched a season high of 35.8 degrees on April 6, but has consistently reduced in subsequent days.Meanwhile, a yellow warning (indicating thunderstorms, lighting and isolated rainfall) has been issued for Satara, Kolhapur, Sangli, Ratnagiri, Sindhudurg, Beed, Latur, Nanded, Hingoli, Osmanabad, Solapur and Sindhudurg districts. In Vidarbha and Marathwada, thundershowers will continue for at least the next three days, with a possibility of hail.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-likely-to-get-respite-from-heat-this-week-101617999016393.html
10-04-2021||Other||PIL: Maharashtra minister should foot ₹42-L bill for chartered flights used by him||The Bombay high court (HC) has refused to grant urgent hearing to a public interest litigation (PIL) filed by a social activist, seeking directions to energy minister Nitin Raut to pay around ₹42 lakh which power firms had paid for his chartered flights. Raut had earlier denied the allegations. The PIL, based on information received under the Right to Information (RTI) Act from various power generation and distribution companies, has alleged that during the lockdown, the Congress leader had used chartered flights on numerous occasions in the name of ‘administrative work’ and had made the power companies foot the bills . The PIL has claimed that as the money shelled out by the companies is public money, the minister should be directed to reimburse the said amounts, as he used the chartered flights for his personal use. The PIL filed by social activist and lawyer Vishwas Pathak was mentioned on Friday before the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni. Pathak, who is also the media head of the Bharatiya Janata Party, sought an urgent hearing of the petition as it involved loss of public money. He claimed that during the lockdown, when the country’s highest officials were performing their duties from remote and virtual setups, Raut “flouted existing norms on multiple occasions and took the liberty to travel around the country during the lockdown period for his personal reasons under the pretext of administrative work.” Pathak has alleged that the bills were paid by state-owned companies that are publicly funded and are discharging public duties and public welfare schemes. The petition has alleged that companies – Maharashtra State Electricity Board (MSEB), Maharashtra State Power Generation Company (Magagenco), Maharashtra State Electricity Transmission Company Limited (Mahatransco) and Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) – under pressure from Raut had to pay for the flights. In light of these submissions, the PIL has sought directions to the minister to reimburse the companies as well as to a couple of companies to furnish information of the flight bills paid by them which they had refused to share through the RTI queries. After hearing the petition, the bench said that due to the Covid-19 situation, it was hearing only urgent matters till April 30 and hence would hear the petition only after that.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pil-maharashtra-minister-should-foot-42-l-bill-for-chartered-flights-used-by-him-101617998896270.html
10-04-2021||Other||2 I-T inspectors held for accepting ₹15-L bribe in Mumbai||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has arrested two inspectors working in the investigation unit of Income-Tax (I-T) department at Ballard Pier for allegedly accepting a bribe of ₹15 lakh from an employee of a logistics firm. CBI conducted searches at the accused’s residences in Mumbai and Delhi and recovered ₹7 lakh and some incriminating documents related to investment in commercial and residential properties from one of the accused. The accused have been identified as Dilip Kumar and Ashish Kumar, while another official, who is also booked in the case, is being investigated by CBI. According to CBI, the complainant works as general manager in a logistics company in Mumbai and has alleged that the accused had demanded ₹15 lakh for helping him in a case in which the I-T department is probing him. The complainant did not want to pay the bribe, so he approached CBI last month. The agency verified the facts from independent witnesses and recorded the conversation of the accused, when they had demanded money from the complainant. The officials then laid a trap in Goregaon (East), when Dilip Kumar arrived to accept the bribe. He was nabbed while accepting ₹10 lakh. “Later, when they laid a trap to nab Ashish Kumar, he suspected something amiss and fled after throwing the bribe amount of ₹5 lakh, said a CBI official. However, the officials chased him for around 200m towards the fire brigade office from Oberoi Mall and managed to nab him. The CBI court has sent the duo to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-i-t-inspectors-held-for-accepting-15-l-bribe-in-mumbai-101617998836326.html
10-04-2021||Other||Assess actor Sachiin Joshi’s medical condition: Bombay HC to JJ hospital||The Bombay high court (HC) refused to grant any relief to actor, producer and businessman Sachiin Joshi, who has been booked by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the alleged money-laundering case involving the realty firm Omkar Group.The bench directed the dean of the state-run Sir JJ Hospital to constitute a medical board to assess Joshi’s condition on or before April 12.The reliefs were denied after ED filed an appeal against the bail granted to Joshi by the special Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) court on medical grounds. The bail order, which was kept in abeyance by the special court after ED requested the same, has been continued by HC till April 19, when it will hear the agency’s plea.The single-judge bench of justice Prakash Naik, while hearing the criminal application filed by ED against the special court order on Friday, was informed that Joshi had played a vital role in getting consent from societies and slum dwellers for slum rehabilitation projects for Omkar Group. ED submitted that the developer had secured loans from Yes Bank and Joshi had helped the group divert the funds.Joshi, however, denied the allegations and said that he had no role in the case.The bench further directed the hospital to submit Joshi’s health report in a sealed envelope on April 19. “The dean, JJ hospital, Mumbai, is directed to constitute a medical board consisting of neurologist, endocrinologist and general physician and examine respondent Sachin Joshi. If necessary, Joshi can be hospitalised at JJ hospital. The order passed by special judge, keeping the order granting bail in abeyance, shall continue till April 19, 2021, the order said.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/assess-actor-sachiin-joshi-s-medical-condition-bombay-hc-to-jj-hospital-101617998776286.html
10-04-2021||Other||3 killed, 2 critically hurt in fire at Maharashtra’s tiger reserve||A forest fire that broke out in Gondia’s Nawegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) on Thursday night killed three forest workers and left two others critically injured. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh for the families of each of the victims and said that the cost of treatment for the injured would be borne by the state. M Ramanujam, field director and conservator of forest, NNTR, claimed that the blaze had been started by unidentified persons in compartment numbers 97, 98, 99 and 100 of the Nagzira wildlife sanctuary and Pitezari forest reserve – estimated to be about 2,000 hectares in size – around 11:30am on Thursday. Officials said that some locals abet with poachers and start fires to reduce the density of the forest. “It took about 50-60 people to put out the fire by around 5pm. But the weather was stormy, and the wind picked up speed in the evening, because of which another fire broke out and spread even faster,” said Ramanujam. Nitin Kakodkar, state’s principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife), said, “This was an unfortunate accident. According to the information we received, a sudden change in wind direction changed the orientation of the fire, trapping five labourers who were helping to bring the blaze under control.” A huge portion of the lush green habitat is now a vast black terrain without any trace of plant or animal life after the fire. The exact area of damage is yet to be ascertained. The forest labourers who died in the mishap have been identified as Rekchand Rane, 45; Sachin Ashok Srirange, 22; and Rakesh Madavi, 24. They had been hired by the forest department as fire-watchers for the summer season. The two injured forest labourers – Vijay Maraskolhe, 40, and Raju Sayam, 30, are undergoing treatment for severe burns at Orange City Hospital in Nagpur. They hail from Thadezari, Kosamtondi and Dhanori villages in Gondia district. After the fire, villagers from Thadezari – where the labourers hailed from – assaulted a forest official, leading to a violent confrontation between forest guards and residents. The superintendent of police and other personnel rushed to the spot after the violence, reports stated. “We were not able to assess the damage because we were busy responding to the law and order situation. One of our forest guards was manhandled by the community, who has been protesting. We have assured the families of the victims that they will receive an additional ₹5 lakh from the forest department,” said Ramanujan. Nagzhira is the home to several species of wildlife, including tiger, leopard, Indian gaur, wild boar, sloth bear, barking deer and wild dogs. Kakodkar said a similar incident had been reported from adjacent Bhandara district a day earlier, when a labourer employed with the Forest Development Corporation was left in a critical state while fighting a wildfire. A veteran Indian Forest Services officer, who has occupied senior positions at the Forest Research Institute and in the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change (MoEFCC), said, “Forest fires have been raging in other parts of India too, but we haven’t heard of any casualties from Uttarakhand or Odisha where the fires are more intense. The authorities need to reveal what went wrong here.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3-killed-2-critically-hurt-in-fire-at-maharashtra-s-tiger-reserve-101617998536203.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||2015 post-sacrilege violence: HC quashes SIT probe reports, asks Punjab to form new team||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday quashed the probe reports submitted by Punjab Police in two FIRs registered in connection with 2015 Kotkapura violence. The high court bench of justice Rajbir Sehrawat also asked Punjab government to constitute a fresh special investigation team (SIT) excluding IPS officer of the rank of IGP, Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Multiple lawyers associated with the case confirmed the development, including senior advocate RS Cheema. However, detailed order is yet to be released. Former DGP Sumedh Singh Saini, former IGP PS Umaranangal and former SSP Charanjit Sharma were among the seven accused against whom challan was filed by the SIT in a 2018 FIR. Lawyers said since the same SIT had probed FIRs in Behbal Kalan cases too, this order may have a bearing there as well. Two people had lost their lives in the violence reported after incidents of sacrilege in 2015. Three FIRs on incidents of sacrilege were recommended for CBI probe in 2015 by the then SAD government in Punjab, out of which, the state passed a resolution to withdraw two FIRs in August 2018 during Congress government. In the same resolution, it also withdrew two more FIRs related to violence, entrusted to CBI barely four days before the move. There are a total of four FIRs registered to probe the incidents of violence. The high court order came on the 2019 plea of Gurdeep Singh Pandher, a former sub-inspector with Punjab Police and then Kotkapura SHO, being probed in these FIRs, who had approached the high court levelling allegations against IGP Singh and sought his ouster from the SIT. The second petition was of head constable (retd) Rashpal Singh, who suffered injuries in the clashes. The petitions demanded transfer of probe to CBI or speed up the probe into the initial FIR of 2015 on Kotkapura violence registered on the complaint of policemen. The SIT had taken over probe in this FIR too and named some cops as accused. The probe report has been quashed in this case too, Cheema added. The plea had argued that challan filed in the 2018 FIR revealed that it has been filed by IGP Singh alone without the assent of four other SIT members. The injured policemen have been left as mute spectators in the political fight between the two regimes and the SIT is hell-bent to implicate the senior police officials by conducting investigation in a biased manner and also by suppressing real facts from the court, the plea had alleged, further arguing that August 7, 2018, FIR was registered for the same incident where an FIR stood registered in October 2015. The high court at one point had asked government whether it can reconsider its decision of replacing IGP Singh. However, the government, as well as the DGP, had categorically told the court that it may not be in the interest of the integrity of the investigation to change the constitution of the SIT at this stage or to remove the IGP from the SIT. The probe is being supervised by head of Bureau of Investigations (BoI), the government had contended.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/2015-post-sacrilege-violence-hc-quashes-sit-probe-reports-asks-punjab-to-form-new-team-101617997996973.html
10-04-2021||Other||Covid-19 shadow: Revamped Jallianwala Bagh not to reopen on April 13||The second wave of covid-19 infection has cast its shadow on the opening of the revamped Jallianwala Bagh. The Centre has postponed it from April 13, the 102nd commemoration of the massacre, following the guidelines put in place to contain the spread of the disease.A trustee of Jallianwala Bagh National Memorial Trust and BJP Rajya Sabha member Shwait Malik said, “Over 95% of the redevelopment project has been completed and we were trying to reopen it. Covid-19 has put paid to our plans. According to fresh guidelines of the state government issued on Wednesday, barring wedding and cremation functions, no event is allowed. When the state government will allow us, we will throw the monument open for the public.”There were also reports that Prime Minister Narendra Modi would inaugurate the revamped monument, virtually, though there is no confirmation. Started around two years ago, the much-hyped project of redevelopment was dedicated to the centenary of the massacre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-shadow-revamped-jallianwala-bagh-not-to-reopen-on-april-13-101617997758631.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal HC orders action against officials responsible for felling of 416 trees||Miffed over the non-compliance with its directions in the matter related to illicit felling of 416 trees in Koti forest range, the Himachal Pradesh high court has directed the principal secretary (forests) and principal chief conservator of forests, Shimla, to remain present before the court on April 20.A division bench comprising Chief Justice L Narayana Swamy and Justice Anoop Chitkara passed these orders on a petition taken up suo motu by the court as public interest litigation on a letter written to the chief justice for conducting a fair and impartial investigation in the matter.The court observed that vide order dated 17.05.2018, directions were issued to register FIR against all forest officials who were responsible for illicit felling of 416 trees in Koti, UPF Shalot and also to initiate disciplinary action against all such officials, who were allowing the practice over the last three to four years in that area. The chief secretary was directed to comply with the directions and file compliance affidavit within a period of two weeks. The court had also directed Shri Bhoop Ram, who had cut the trees, to deposit a sum of ₹34.6 lakh (the value ascertained by the forest officials of the felled trees).The court further observed that it is apparent from the affidavits of the chief secretary and DSP (City), Shimla, that charges were framed only against three officials — one beat guard and two block officers (one of whom has retired) — and FIR(s) have also only been registered against the three officials and Bhoop Ram.The court observed that the respondents have not complied with the directions passed by this court in letter and spirit and what action has been taken by the respondents is just an eye wash, as no liability has been fixed on the officials who are higher in rank.The court directed the principal chief conservator to file an affidavit indicating on what basis, the officials, who are in lower rank, were held responsible in allowing felling of trees.The court also directed the additional advocate general to file an affidavit, indicating therein status of the FIR(s), investigating report and status of the trees/saplings, which were planted where illicit felling took place. The HC has directed Bhoop Ram to remain present before the court on the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/himachal-hc-orders-action-against-officials-responsible-for-felling-of-416-trees-101617997697732.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K will continue to be an integral part of India: Vice-president Naidu||Vice-president M Venkaiah Naidu on Friday said that Jammu and Kashmir has been and will continue to be an integral part of India and added that “any external interference in India’s internal affairs is unwarranted”. Addressing third and fourth convocation of Indian Institute of Management (IIM) at Jammu, he underlined India’s commitment to the overall development and addressing all the challenges. He called upon national institutes such as IIMs to offer innovative courses and diplomas based on new market realities. He also emphasised on the need of reorienting higher education in tune with the realities of the world. To this extent, he called for bringing diverse fields like agriculture, business, technology, humanities and management together. “This is the spirit of the multidisciplinary push of the new education policy. We cannot solve the problems of future with the same superficial and segregated approach of the past,” he said. Naidu told the students that as future managers, they have to respond to a world that is changing rapidly. “Your ability to make decisions in an uncertain world and your agility to adapt to new contexts will become very crucial,” he added. He advised the institutions of higher education to “adapt, evolve and respond” to situations that have never before been faced by mankind. Calling upon the aspiring entrepreneurs, managers and consultants to identify innovations at the grassroots and use their expertise to achieve scale for indigenous solutions, he urged them to bring in technology to complement the traditional skills of craftsmen and increase farm productivity to help farmers. Naidu also urged the management students to work with farmers to improve the marketing of farm produce. “E-NAM is a great tool for better price realisation. This should be further scaled up and new innovations be brought into post-harvest facilities,” he said. Terming skill development and quality education crucial development accelerators, he stressed the need for enhancing access and quality of education. Naidu said that industry-institute linkages should be further strengthened. Our industry will also greatly benefit from the fresh perspectives young minds can offer, he added. Noting that pandemic has shown the necessity and potential of technology in delivering education, the vice-president called for more extensive and prudent use of technological tools. However, in this process, the existing digital divide should not widen, he cautioned. “The most remote areas and most underprivileged students should be enabled to benefit from this technological revolution,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jk-will-continue-to-be-an-integral-part-of-india-vice-president-naidu-101617997696623.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tenders to be floated for disposal of legacy waste in Ludhiana||With residents raising a hue and cry over frequent fire incidents being reported at the main dump site due to garbage accumulation, a city-level technical committee of Ludhiana Smart City Limited (LSCL) has given the nod to float tenders to appoint a contractor for disposing of legacy waste. Of 16 lakh tonnes of legacy waste that sits on 45 acres, around 5 lakh tonnes will be disposed of in the first phase, which will approximately cost ₹28 crore. The technical committee has also approved a financial bid for appointing a contractor for construction and demolition of waste in the Dhandari area. The project has been hanging fire.Apart from legacy waste that has been piling up for years, over 1,100 metric tonnes of garbage is added to the dump on a daily basis. The MC’s troubles have been exacerbated by the fact that the refuse derived fuel (RDF) plant and compost plant on the site have not been used since the solid waste management contract, handled by A2Z company, was terminated on February 4.Residents’ health affected With the temperature rising, highly combustible methane gas that is emitted by the decomposing waste catches fire, which is causing respiratory issues among residents of Mahavir Colony, Kakka village, Sandhu Colony and other areas around and downwind of the site. The MC has also repeatedly got the stick from the National Green Tribunal (NGT) for its failure in dealing with legacy waste. MC commissioner-cum-chief executive officer, LSCL, Pardeep Sabharwal said,”The project to dispose of legacy waste is being taken up under smart city mission on the directions of mayor Balkar Sandhu. In the first phase, the MC will appoint a contractor for dealing with 5 lakh tonnes of legacy waste.”Nod to proposals for development of sports infraThe technical committee has also approved multiple proposals for renovation of the hockey ground at Punjab Agricultural University, development of a basketball court at the Guru Nanak Stadium, and badminton courts in Shastri Hall among other projects. Officials said tenders will now be floated to appoint contractors.Sabharwal said Cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu is monitoring different projects to develop sports infrastructure in the city and a meeting with members of different sports associations had also been conducted to learn of their requirements.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tenders-to-be-floated-for-disposal-of-legacy-waste-in-ludhiana-101617997220821.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sleazy video: Akal Takht lifts ban on ex-Chief Khalsa Diwan president Chadha||The Akal Takht has lifted a ban on former Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Charanjit Singh Chadha, three years after he was barred from addressing religious, social, political and educational functions following charges of ‘immoral act’.Action against Chadha was taken on January 23, 2018, after a video purportedly showing him in an objectionable position with a woman principal of a CKD-run school went viral. Chadha and his son, Inderpreet Singh, who later committed suicide, were booked for sexual harassment and criminal intimidation on the complaint of the woman principal on December 28 in 2017. Later, the cops who investigated the case, asked court to scrap the FIR stating “he (Chadha) cannot be held guilty in the case”.Chadha approached the Akal Takht on several occasions pleading to lift the ban, but to no avail. His fresh plea was taken up at a meeting of the Sikh clergy headed by Akal Takht acting jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh on March 31 and it was decided to lift the ban. A letter from the Akal Takht office on April 1 intimated Chadha that the ban on him has been lifted. In 2018, the Sikh clergy headed by Giani Gurbachan Singh stated that “after two years, Chadha will send a written request to the Akal Takht for religious atonement.” But the Takht took one more year to lift the ban.“I thank the jathedar for considering my plea. I will conduct Akhand Path in a local gurdwara and the bhog ceremony will be held on Baisakhi,” said Chadha.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sleazy-video-akal-takht-lifts-ban-on-ex-chief-khalsa-diwan-president-chadha-101617997096962.html
10-04-2021||Other||{Covid-19 pandemic} Medical varsities advised to hold MBBS exams on schedule||Amid the raging covid-19 pandemic, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has advised medical universities across the country to conduct their MBBS final examinations as per their scheduled timelines. The commission had received representations from some medical universities, expressing difficulty in getting external examiners from outside their respective states for conduct of exams due to covid-19 restrictions on travel etc. The Undergraduate Medical Education Board (UGMEB) of the NMC issued the notice which has also been forwarded to Punjab. “The UGMEB, after considering representations seeking guidance for the conduct of final examinations for MBBS course in view of ongoing covid-19 pandemic, advises that all final MBBS examinations be conducted by universities concerned as per their scheduled timeline. It is also advised that the universities try to adhere to the existing norms,” Dr Aruna V Vanikar, president, UGMEB, says in the advisory. “Considering the risk stratification of areas, where the medical colleges and institutions are located, if the external examiners are not available from outside the state due to the pandemic, at least one examiner must be called from outside the state to conduct the exams online. The other external examiners may be invited from the same health university, who is to remain present physically. The internal examiners must conduct exams physically in the same premises. If there is shortage of clinical material, the same may be replaced by simulating material or case scenarios including the provision of supporting material like x-rays, CT scan, ECG, lab reports, etc,” the advisory adds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid19-pandemic-medical-varsities-advised-to-hold-mbbs-exams-on-schedule-101617996976549.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Officials keeping their fingers crossed as wheat procurement begins today||Even as the district administrations of southern Punjab claim to have geared up for wheat procurement starting Saturday, officials are keeping their fingers crossed.People familiar with the matter said there may be a chaos if the arhtiyas remain adamant on boycotting procurement.The Punjab Mandi Board has started distributing coupons to farmers through arhtiyas for staggered purchase but they have not to make the situation clear for their participation in the process.“The field staff has been asked to follow the traditional practice where arhtiyas play the crucial role for service providers. After a farmer lands in mandi, it is the arhtiyas who provide labour for cleaning, packing and loading wheat. Their respective offices maintain all procurement records related to farmers and if these agents stayed away, there is absolutely no other way,” said an official engaged in purchase.State authorities have deputed officials for procurement duties and all arrangements, including sanitisation, drinking water, hand sanitisers and Covid-19 vaccination at the mandis.Officials said the situation may go out of hand if farmers arrive in grain markets and there is no work.“Malwa belt districts, particularly Mansa, Bathinda and Sangrur, have a common practice where the farmer unions gather in a large numbers even at the slightest incident. The police administration is needed to be on alert for smooth working in mandis across the state,” said another official.Bathinda mandi officer Preet Kanwar Singh Brar said there is hardly any demand for purchase on day one. “We will issue coupons on the basis of demand by farmers. Harvesting will pick up pace in the next week,” he said.Ranjnish Goel, head of Mansa district, said coupons have been issued to arhtiyas on Thursday and the department expects a smooth procurement season.1,830 coupons issued in PatialaPATIALA: All preparations are in place for wheat procurement in Patiala. To avoid rush of farmers at the purchasing centres in wake of Covid-19, the administration has issued 1,830 coupons and set up 352 additional purchasing centres to ensure that precautions and protocol related to Covid-19 are followed. Only farmers with hologram coupons will be allowed to enter the purchasing centres to ensure hassle-free operations. The district administrations of Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar, Kapurthala, Jalandhar and Hoshiarpur claimed that proper arrangement has been put in place for the wheat procurement. The mandi board officials of Jalandhar said that they have issued passes to the arhtiyas who will further give to farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/officials-keeping-their-fingers-crossed-as-wheat-procurement-begins-today-101617996917093.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid tally crosses 38K-mark with 438 new cases in Ludhiana||With 438 fresh coronavirus detected on Friday, the district’s tally crossed the 38,000-mark on Friday. Four patients succumbed to the virus, pushing the death toll to 1,194. So far, 38,052 people have tested positive in the district, of which 3,293 people are still infected and 33,665 have recovered.Among the newly detected patients were two healthcare workers, two police personnel, two Arya College lecturers, six teachers — one each from Government Senior Secondary School (GSSS), Jandali village; GSSS, Ayali Khurd; Partap Public School, Hambran Road and Government School, Dashmesh Nagar. The virus claimed the lives of a 60-year-old woman of Rajgarh, a 41-year-old woman from Basant Avenue, a 58- year-old woman from Fatehgarh Mohalla and a 61-year-old man from Jassowal.Health department officials said 2,939 more samples had been sent for testing on Friday.12,514 get jab As many as 12,514 eligible residents were vaccinated in the district. Of which, 6,628 people were aged between 45 to 60 and 4,448 people above 60 years. Around 45 health care workers got the first dose of vaccination and 129 received the second dose. Similarly, 219 frontline workers received the first dose while 234 were administered their second dose. As many as 268 people aged between 45 to 60 and 525 senior citizens (above 60 years) got the second dose of vaccination. So far, 295924 eligible residents have been vaccinated in the district.Mobile testing clinic-cum-ambulance gathers dust At a time when the state government has asked health officials to increase testing, the mobile testing van-cum-ambulance, which was introduced by the administration in August last year, has not been used for over three months.Around ₹20 lakh was spent in converting a city bus into a mobile clinic. The administration had initially used the van for testing residents in micro-containment and densely populated areas. However, after a decline in infections in the first week of January, its services were stopped.However, the services have not been restarted despite a second wave of infections sweeping through the district. The bus, which carries a doctor and a technician, is equipped to collect samples at people’s doorsteps.Civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeevan Kakkar said, “The van is under the jurisdiction of the district administration. The department will discuss the matter in the coming days. Meanwhile, testing is being done on a large scale in the city.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-tally-crosses-38k-mark-with-438-new-cases-in-ludhiana-101617996797386.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Gangster involved in illegal sand mining held with weapons in Khanna||LudhianaKhanna police on Friday arrested an alleged kingpin of a gang involved in illegal sand mining along the Sutlej.Gurinder Singh, alias Ginda, of Bhorla in Samrala, is also wanted by Gujarat Police in a high-profile murder case of Ashish Maharaj in Kutch. Police said Ginda has links with the gangsters of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh.Khanna senior superintendent of police Gursharandeep Singh Grewal said the accused was arrested following the directions of Enforcement Director (Mining) RN Dhoke. The police have recovered four weapons and a car from his possession.Dhoke said they received a tip-off about some unscrupulous elements involved in illegal mining in the Rahon area SBS Nagar district following which the information was shared with the Khanna police. The SSP formed a team led by inspector Rajesh Thakur, who along with police party set up a checkpoint near Rahon river bridge in Machhiwara and apprehended Ginda. On his frisking, 2 pistols of .32 bore, 2 magazines, 10 live cartridges and 2 pistols of .315 bore and 2 cartridges were recovered.The SSP said Ginda is the kingpin of the gang operating in Rahon area along with his accomplices. He is wanted in many cases of murder and robbery in Punjab and Gujarat. “Ginda revealed that he was doing illegal mining with Raju Gujjar of Ratnana village in SBS Nagar and Karanvir Singh, alias Kavi, of Samrala and others in the riverbed of Sutlej in the Rahon area. Ginda is wanted in high-profile murder case in Gujarat,” the SSP said. “Ginda had snatched an Ertiga car at gunpoint near Ladhowal Toll Plaza, Ludhiana. He had also fired gunshots to create panic near Garshankar along with his accomplice Gurjinder Singh Sonu. It has come to light that he had planned to rob an NRI family of Una at gunpoint,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/gangster-involved-in-illegal-sand-mining-held-with-weapons-in-khanna-101617996676251.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Ludhiana car trader duped of ₹8 lakh by friend, 3 others||Four people were booked on Friday for duping a city-based car trader of ₹8 lakh on the pretext of buying used cars from the Russian Embassy in New Delhi. The accused are Avinash Bhatti of Issa Nagri, Ankush Kumar Malik of Dugri, Abhishek of Sahibjada Ajit singh Nagar and Rinku Bawa of Ludhiana. The complainant, Sukhwinder Singh, 45, of Bajra village, who deals in old cars said Malik, a broker, who had earlier helped him sell two cars, had told him about three cars of the Russian Embassy that were in good condition and were available for sale. Malik took him to the embassy where they were joined by Bhatti, Abhishek and Bawa. He was shown three cars — a Toyota Innova and two sedans.He paid ₹8 lakh for the cars but the vehicles were not delivered to him. Upon realising that he had been duped, he lodged a police complaint on July 21, 2020. After eight-and-a-half months of investigation, a case was registered. Sub-inspector Pooran Singh said the cars parked outside the embassy had no link with the embassy officials. A case had been registered under Sections 406 (breach of trust) and 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at the Sahnewal police station. 70-yr-old farmer assaulted, robbed of car in Raikot Three unidentified men have been booked for assaulting a 70-year-old man and stealing his car in Raikot on Thursday evening. The complainant, Gurdeep Singh, 70, of Burj Hari Singh Nalwa village of Raikot, a farmer, said the incident took place when he had gone to attend a workshop on making gates and grills on Barnala Road. He parked his car in front of a congregation centre and started walking towards the workshop when three men accosted him and demanded the keys of his car. When he resisted, the accused assaulted him, took his keys and drove off in his Maruti Suzuki Swift. Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Balbir Singh, who is investigating the case, said as per the victim, the accused were 25 to 30 years old and had covered their faces with masks. He said the accused had been booked under Sections 379-B (snatching with hurt, wrongful restraint or fear of hurt) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). Police are scanning CCTVs installed in the area to identify the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ludhiana-car-trader-duped-of-8-lakh-by-friend-3-others-101617996556331.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC warns of action against politicos getting jabs at home||“Leaders of Maharashtra are not a class apart and cannot get jabs at their homes,” the Bombay high court (HC) noted while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) seeking door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens and specially-abled persons. The court observed that while the President and Prime Minister had gone to a government vaccination centre to gets the jabs, Maharashtra leaders should also have gone to vaccination centres rather than getting jabs at home. The bench asked the government pleader to inform the concerned department of the court’s warning that if it came to know of political leaders getting jabs privately, it would initiate action accordingly. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing a PIL filed by lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari, was informed that there were many senior citizens and specially-abled persons who were unable to go to vaccination centres set up by the government and local municipal authorities to get jabs. The PIL, hence, sought directions from the court to the Central and state governments and municipal authorities to have a policy for door-to-door vaccination for such persons. While citing the communication of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal that vaccination could not be provided in the HC medical centre for judges, lawyers and court staff as it did not have an operational intensive care unit (ICU), the bench sought to know how jabs were being provided to political leaders at their homes. “Are ICUs available in the homes of leaders,” HC asked. The bench then referred to reports wherein it was stated that a certain political leader had got vaccinated at home and remarked, “How is that important political leaders are getting Covid-19 jabs at home if there is no door-to-door policy? There has to be a uniform policy. What has happened has happened. If we find any report that any political leader is taking a jab at home, we will see to it.” The court then asked government pleader Poornima Kantharia to inform the concerned officials of the court warning. Citing the example of the leaders at the centre, the bench said, “If the President of India and the Prime Minister can get vaccinated at the centres, then why can’t the political leaders in Maharashtra go to centres too? They are not class apart. This sends out a wrong message.” Addressing the concerns of the petitioner regarding helpline numbers for senior citizens willing to visit vaccination centres, the court said, “There has to be something for the senior citizens along with a simplified online procedure for vaccination.” The court then directed the Central government to file a short affidavit on the vaccination protocols and whether a policy for door-to-door vaccination for senior citizens can be put in place. In the previous hearing the bench had noted, “We do not want senior citizens collapsing after taking the vaccine. There has to be an ambulance with ICU facilities. We are not interfering with government policies. What we are seeking is some improvement.” The court observed that it was cognisant of reports of shortage of vaccines, but said it was another concern which would be addressed at a relevant time and posted the next hearing on April 21.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-warns-of-action-against-politicos-getting-jabs-at-home-101617996375608.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai crosses 500,000-mark of Covid-19 cases, the quickest jump so far||The city crossed the 500,000-mark of Covid-19 cases on Friday, over 13 months after the first case was reported in March 20020. Of the 500,000 cases, around 100,000 were reported in the past two weeks (since March 29) — making it the quickest surge so far. The number of cases in Mumbai has gone up since the past one month owing to the intensified testing by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). However, the positivity rate in the city has come down in the past two days, as of Thursday.Mumbai crossed the 100,000-mark in July last year, 200,000-mark in September, 300,000-mark in January this year and 400,000-mark on March 29. According to data, the positivity rate in the city was around 18% on Thursday, which had touched 26% earlier this week after a sharp increase since February 10. It was between 4% to 7% in February and early March and went up to 15%-20% by March-end. On Friday, the city reported 9,202 cases and 35 deaths, taking the case tally to 501,182 and toll to 11,916. The recovery rate in the city stands at 79% with 400,173 recoveries on Friday. Mumbai’s case fatality rate is 2.37% and there are 88,503 active cases in the city.According to BMC officials, daily Covid cases in the city are stabilising between 8,000 and 10,000 and there is a possibility of a downward trend post April 20.Municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal had earlier this week said, “If we look at the current scenario in the city of a second wave, the daily cases being reported in the city have almost stabilised between 8,000 and 11,000. If this trend continues, cases will start to go down post April 20, but only if citizens continue to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour.”Chahal added, “ Covid-appropriate behaviour and taking the vaccine for those eligible are the two most important things citizens have to follow. We need to undertake Covid-19 vaccination on the lines of polio vaccination. And for this, we are trying to mobilise citizens. BMC is yet to get permission for door-to-door vaccination, and hence I have requested elected representatives from the city to mobilise citizens for Covid-19 vaccination.”Meanwhile, experts said the surge in the number of cases is not only due to increased testing or mutations in foreign countries but also due to local mutations and lax behaviour of citizens. Dr Madhav Sathe, former professor of Microbiology at BYL Nair Hospital, said, “Covid-19 is undergoing mutation called as antigenic drift. It occurs very frequently, that is around six times a week. This mutation helps the virus spread rapidly, infecting many people in close families. Infections are mostly very mild in 85% to 90% people. Many are asked to remain in home quarantine.”He added, “However, the effect multiplies when they (Covid-positive patients) do not follow restrictions at home, move around freely because nobody monitors them. So, the virus infects all others in the family. This has also happened due to prolonged lockdown last year, citizens are bored and frustrated. The second wave is not due to UK, South Africa or Brazil strains; it is mainly due to our own Indian mutated strain which spreads fast but causes mild or asymptomatic infection.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-crosses-500-000-mark-of-covid-19-cases-the-quickest-jump-so-far-101617996255557.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Attack on CLU scam whistle blower: Court dismisses anticipatory bail plea||Asserting that anticipatory bail should not be granted in cases pertaining to heinous crimes, the court of additional district and sessions judge Dr Ajit Atri on Friday dismissed the bail plea of two persons charged with attacking RTI activist Kuldeep Singh Khaira in January 2018. The court dismissed the anticipatory bail plea of Baljinder Singh Kahlon and Sukhbir Singh alias Sony Randhawa who had been booked under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 452 (house-trespass), 295­A (injuring), 506, (criminal intimidation) and 120­B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). However, they have not been arrested so far. The court observed that while the FIR was lodged in January 2018, the applicants are at large and have evaded the process of the law. The court ruled that when the allegations were taken in their entirety, it was clear that all efforts were made to silence the complainant, who seems to be the torchbearer for highlighting the wrong acts of some builder. “It is not the case of the applicants that they are not connected with the said project, against which the complainant had moved the complaint. This kind of conduct to silence the person by giving him threats and beatings will make out that the accused have no respect for the law and they want to go as per their wishes.” What had happenedOn January 23, 2018, Kuldeep Singh Khaira had alleged that he had been attacked by three unidentified miscreants with covered faces while he was at his shop. It was alleged that he was attacked by the henchmen of RK Builders against whom he had filed a complaint with the vigilance department and the MC had recommended filing an FIR in the case. Khaira had alleged that the builder was constructing flats on agricultural land in Ishar Nagar illegally and had written to the chief vigilance officer a week prior to the incident. He also alleged involvement of MC officials in the case and was the whistleblower in the CLU scam.During the course of investigation, Khaira had submitted a supplementary statement in court saying Kahlon and Randhawa, owners of the flat constructed by RK builders, were his attackersand and had threatened him to not to proceed with the complaints.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/attack-on-clu-scam-whistle-blower-court-dismisses-anticipatory-bail-plea-101617996136178.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid spike in Covid cases, fresh restrictions coming up in Haryana||Amid rising coronavirus cases, the Haryana government has decided to shut schools for students of Classes 1 to 8, anganwaris, and creches.The government, however, is yet to take a call on imposing night curfew. The state on Friday recorded 2,994 cases taking the tally of active cases to 18,142.“Formal orders regarding fresh restrictions will be issued in a day or two,” said an official.Meanwhile, state health minister Anil Vij said that a “vaccination festival”, as suggested by the Prime Minister, will be held in the state from April 11 to 14. In these four days, the health department expects to vaccinate 6-7 lakh people free of cost. Directions have been given to cancel holidays of doctors and staff of medical colleges.Vij said that vaccination will be done in all major villages, town colonies, settlements, worksites, public places, markets in state as promised by PM Modi. People will be made aware of the vaccination and coronavirus screening with the help of posters and banners at roads, bus stands, railway stations, hospitals, and other places.Vij added that there is sufficient amount of vaccine in state, yet we will demand more vaccine from the central government.He said that help of Panchayati Raj institutions, anganwadi centres, prominent people in villages and cities, NGOs, MLAs and other dignitaries will be taken for the vaccination festival. He directed authorities to create micro-containment zones around Covid patients to protect others from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-spike-in-covid-cases-fresh-restrictions-coming-up-in-haryana-101617996016163.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Housing societies start imposing curbs, prohibit home deliveries, visitors||With the surge in Covid-19 cases, housing societies have started imposing restrictions on residents like they did last year during the lockdown. Managing committees of housing societies have now put several restrictions such as not allowing home deliveries, prohibiting visitors, closing down amenities like gymnasium and games, and even fining people if found without masks or not following Covid-19 protocols.“We have started imposing restrictions like last year. We have started restricting outside vendors to the lobby level. Many have also stopped visitors,” said Dhaval Shah, chairman of Lokhandwala-Oshiwara Citizens Association. He, however, said there has been a lot of resistance to restrictions from the residents this time. “There was tremendous fear of Covid-19 last year and residents adhered to the various restrictions, but that is not the case anymore,” he added.Civic officials are advising managing committees to fine people and take their photographs if they fail to wear mask or violate Covid-19 guidelines. “Since we cannot be everywhere, it makes sense for societies to fine people,” said a civic official who refused to come on record.State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said the state is mulling over granting special police power to chairman and secretary of housing societies to rein in errant members. If allowed, the office-bearers will have the power to fine members and use force if necessary.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has opposed the proposal saying it would lead to friction between office-bearers and other residents. “Housing societies are facing so many issues, and if you give police power to two people, it may cause havoc. These people, if they use police power, will have to bear the effects for years,” said BJP spokesperson Madhav Bhandari.Advocate Vinod Sampat also voiced similar concerns and called it a bad step. “The government is abdicating its responsibility. These office-bearers are not trained to perform policing jobs, and the whole atmosphere of the housing society will get spoiled by such acts,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaihousing-societies-start-imposing-curbs-prohibit-home-deliveries-visitors-101617995955595.html
10-04-2021||Other||Kaithal farmers protest no procurement, block Hisar-Chandigarh highway||Protesting non-procurement of wheat at grain markets, a group of farmers on Friday blocked the Hisar-Chandigarh highway in Kaithal.The farmers alleged the Haryana government is trying to divide farmers and arhtiyas. They said farmers are being harassed due to new mode of payments adopted by the government.They said the government should ensure that their produce is procured on minimum support price (MSP) without any delay.“Agencies concerned are not procuring our wheat and we were waiting in mandis since four days. This is even after the produce is fit for procurement,” alleged the protesting farmers.They slammed arhtiyas for not procuring their wheat and forcing them to wait at mandis.“Why are the farmers being harassed by the commission agents? Farmers have the right to get direct payment and will return the dues of arhtiyas if their produce is procured,” said BKU (Charuni) Kaithal district president Hoshiar Singh Gill, adding that the government is not taking any action to resolve the issue.After high drama of hours and assurance of the district administration, the farmers ended their protest and lifted the blockade. At around 3pm, the district authorities started the procurement process.KARNAL ARHTIYAS SUPPORT PROCUREMENTIn Karnal, a section of arhtiyas continued to oppose the strike and support the procurement operations for the second consecutive day.Ashok Gupta, president of the Haryana State Anaj Mandi Arhtiyas Association, who is leading the strike against the decision of 100% direct payment to farmers, reached Karnal to seek support of all arhtiyas and urged them not to support procurement and join the strike.But over 200 commission agents continued with the procurement process.75% FARMERS SOUGHT DIRECT PAYMENTAdditional chief secretary to Haryana government Devender Singh inspected procurement operations in Karnal grain market and said that government is committed towards procuring every single grain on MSP.Reacting to the strike of arhtiyas, he said that the decision of direct payment was taken after over 75% farmers sought direct payment into their bank accounts.He said that the payment will be disbursed into accounts of farmers within 48 hours of procurement and the commission agents will get their commission and labour charges.BKU (CHARUNI) FARMERS, ARHTIYS’ FACE-OFF AT AMBALA GRAIN MARKET
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Isolation railway coaches on standby for Covid-19 patients in Mumbai||Railway officials on Friday said that isolation railway coaches for Covid-19 patients in the city have been kept on standby. In case of non-availability of bed in the city, the railway authorities will provide the isolation coaches on demand from the state government. Around 153 isolation coaches for Mumbai are presently available with the Central and Western Railway, of which 128 coaches are available with the Western Railway (WR) and 25 with Central Railway (CR).The coaches can facilitate nearly 3,600 patients at one time. Each coach can accommodate nearly 24 patients. The coaches are also equipped with medical oxygen. The isolation coaches are generally used for patients with mild symptoms.“We have appraised the state government regarding the isolation coaches. We have not yet received any demand from the government. The coaches will be ready within 24 hours after the state government asks for them,” said GVL Satya Kumar, divisional railway manager, WR. The coaches were not used in Maharashtra last year but were made available to other states including Uttar Pradesh and Telangana. The coaches are deployed only on the request of the state government.The Indian Railways had, in 2020, converted more than 5,000 railway coaches into isolation units for covid-19 patients. Of these, over 800 coaches were provided to CR and WR. The coaches were converted at cost of ₹2 lakh and will be stationed at the designated railway stations. There will be no movement of the trains from the railway station where they are stationed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/isolation-railway-coaches-on-standby-for-covid-19-patients-in-mumbai-101617995715416.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana takes punitive action against ‘corrupt’ employees||The Haryana government on Friday took punitive action against some officials allegedly involved in corruption or facing departmental action for administrative lapses.While directions were issued to lodge first information report (FIR) in a bogus ration cards case, a joint director and two sub-inspectors were suspended.A section officer of the local bodies department was suspended after being found guilty of siphoning off ₹88 lakh on the basis of fake documents; a computer operator was dismissed in an alleged bribery case; departmental action was ordered against a technical assistant; and an employee of Kaithal sugar mill was dismissed from service after being found guilty of getting job on the basis of fake documents.An official spokesperson said the orders were issued on instructions of Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar through CM’s good governance associate programme project director Dr Rakesh Gupta and CM’s OSD Bhupeshwar Dayal during review meeting of CM window and social media grievance tracker on Friday.The CM has also given directions to seal illegal chemical factory running in Hisar since 2019 and to stop its electricity and water supply.Orders were issued to all officers of the department concerned that whenever a building or factory is sealed, its electricity and water supply should also be cut off on the same day so that the sealed factory or building is not used illegally.Taking cognisance of a complaint about 60 bogus ration cards being made in the Sonepat food and supplies department, the CM has ordered to take legal action against the officers concerned and beneficiaries by registering an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-takes-punitive-action-against-corrupt-employees-101617995596113.html
10-04-2021||Other||Kerala minister Jaleel not fit to continue in power: Lokayukta||Thiruvananthapuram: The Kerala Lokayukta on Friday found state higher education minister KT Jaleel guilty of favouritism, abuse of power and violation of oath of office, and ruled that he has no right to continue in the council of ministers. The verdict against the minister, who was grilled several times in connection with import of dry dates and holy books by central agencies, came on a complaint regarding the appointment of his relative KT Adeeb as the general manager of the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited in 2018. There was a big uproar when Adeeb was appointed allegedly by flouting all norms and later forced to resign. Later, a lawyer V K Mohammad Shafi, had filed a compliant with the Lokayukta, which on Friday ruled, “The action of the respondent (Jaleel) was actuated in a discharge of his function as minister by personal interest to favour his second cousin. It amounted to favouritism and nepotism and also lack of integrity in his capacity as the minister.” The verdict was passed by Justices Cyriac Joseph and Harun-al-Rasheed. It also said he diluted qualifications and norms for the post just to favour his kin. Lokayukta found that the minister’s earlier assertion, that Adeeb was selected after many candidates appeared for the interview, unsuitable. “In spite of objections raised from many quarters, the minister directed to issue an order and in the process other eligible candidates were denied the opportunity,” it said. Muslim League leader P K Firoze was first to raise the allegation. After his appointment snowballed into a major row, Adeeb quit his post and rejoined his parent organisation, South Indian Bank. The opposition Congress and BJP had sought Jaleel’s immediate resignation. “He has no right to continue in power. The CM should drop him,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. But the minister maintained that the case was rejected by high court and he would take a decision after consulting legal experts. “Former Governor Justice Sathasivam and High Court had rejected the petition two years back. I will take a decision after consulting my lawyers,” he posted his comment on social media. After the gold smuggling case involving the UAE consulate came to light last year, Jaleel was questioned by the Customs and Enforcement on several occasions. Trouble started brewing for him after call records of Swapna Suresh, the main accused in the gold smuggling case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently in the list. Soon after the list came out, the minister said he had called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital.But the minister’s clarification invited more trouble as he was not supposed to accept any funds or freebies without the consent of the Ministry of External Affairs and experts said it was a clear violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). During the probe, the customs also found that a heavy consignment came in last March in 31 bags, weighing more than 4,000 kg and they were taken to Malappuram. The minister later admitted that he took these packets to his constituency and said they were religious books. The customs also found that between 2017 and 2018, about 17,000kg dry dates was imported by the consular office. Considered close to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, the party had defended the minister, who was the minority mascot of the party on several times.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-minister-jaleel-not-fit-to-continue-in-power-lokayukta-101617995475334.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Complete weekend lockdown in force in Mumbai, may get extended next week||As Maharashtra starts its weekend lockdown from 8pm on Friday till 7am on Monday, wherein nobody will be allowed to step out of their homes without a valid reason, all establishments, except essential services, will be shut, the Maharashtra government is mulling it till 7am on April 19 (next Monday) to break the transmission chain. Through this, the civic body will be able to impose a full nine-day lockdown which will help in bringing the situation under control, officials said. Chief minister (CM) Uddhav Thackeray has called an all-party meeting on Saturday evening where the proposal is likely to be discussed in detail. State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the state is heading towards complete lockdown and is hoping to bring the situation under control before that. “We are heading towards complete lockdown. However, we are hoping to control the situation. I am not in favour of imposing it immediately, but if hospitals are overwhelmed and we start facing shortage of doctors, healthcare workers, health infrastructure and medicines, then lockdown has to be imposed to break the chain,” Tope told NDTV. “All activities categorised under essential services can remain open. No person can move without a valid reason, which includes reasons specified in the order as well as reason for requirement of performing an essential service,” states a clarification issued by Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, disaster management and relief and rehabilitation department on Friday. During the weekend lockdown, restaurants and eateries will be allowed to serve only take-aways. It has also allowed all Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (AMPC) markets to remain open during weekend lockdown, provided they ensure strict adherence of Covid-appropriate behaviour. If local authorities feel indiscipline in any APMC can lead to further transmission of the virus, they may close it after seeking permission from the state government. It is expected that local authorities will keep a strict vigil over these, the order stated. It further allowed restaurants and bars to function following timings determined by local authority with the constraint that no seating and dining will be allowed inside. Only parcels will be allowed to be picked up from restaurants and bars by customers themselves from 7am to 8pm. Home deliveries through e-commerce have also been allowed during the restricted period, it added. A complete lockdown has to be imposed from at least 15 days to three weeks and it should be followed very seriously, only then some positive impact can be expected from the entire exercise, Tope said, in reply to a question. The issue of imposition of lockdown was discussed in a meeting called by CM Thackeray on Friday to discuss deferment of Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) examinations scheduled on April 11. State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar, who was present in the meeting, demanded that a lockdown be imposed for three weeks. Few leaders such as Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray, revenue minister and former Congress state chief Balasaheb Thorat said are in support of a complete lockdown. “There is a need to enforce a three-week lockdown across the state to save the lives of innocent people. I made this demand in the meeting before the chief minister,” Wadettiwar told reporters. Pravin Darekar, leader of Opposition in the legislative Council who also attended the meeting, said the issue was discussed during the meeting and he demanded an all-party meeting to discuss the same, which the CM accepted. “I demanded that an all-party meeting be called to discuss the issue of imposing complete lockdown in the presence of former chief minister and leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis and state BJP president Chandrakant Patil as the debate over the same started during the meeting called to decide postponement of MPSC exam,” Darekar said. Only home delivery allowed for liquorThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) in a circular issued on April 9 said wine and beer shops in the city would be able to sell liquor only via home delivery on all days of the week between 7am to 8pm in the backdrop of restrictions implemented in the city. BMC also said that a shop, which is a licence holder, can deliver liquor but to a permit holder only. However, one cannot purchase by going to the shop for the same.BMC commissioner IS Chahal, in an order, said the person who will be sent for the delivery of the same should be wearing a mask and sanitising hands regularly. The state order which was issued earlier this week had stated that restaurant and bars inside hotels were to be open for in-house guests while only takeaway would be allowed for outsiders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/complete-weekend-lockdown-in-force-in-mumbai-may-get-extended-next-week-101617995295240.html
10-04-2021||Other||Farmers’ numbers decrease at Singhu border||For the first time in over four months since the farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s three farm laws began, number of protesters at Singhu border has decreased as compared to Tikri border.As per farm leaders, at present people at Singhu border are thinning and less than 10,000 farmers are camping there while nearly three to four times the number of protesters are present at Tikri.Since the farm stir started, Singhu border was the epicentre of the stir and all decisions were being taken there by the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM).SKM leader Inderjit Singh said the farmers’ numbers have reduced at both protesting sites as many have gone to their villages for rabi crops harvesting and will return after selling the yield.“The impact can be seen at Singhu border more because it has more presence of Punjab farmers while Tikri border is dominated by Haryana farmers. It is not easy for Punjab farmers to visit Singhu border on daily basis due to distance and crop procurement season, while Haryana farmers can visit Tikri on a work-free day due to their proximity,” Singh added.Another SKM leader Darshan Pal Singh agreed that the protesters gathering at Singhu have decreased as compared to Tikri.“Most protesters at Singhu hail from Punjab and have returned to their villages. We expect that labourers, farmers and students from Punjab will return to Singhu protest in next two weeks and the protest will once again gain momentum,” he added.Balbir Takhan, state secretary of the All India Kisan Sabha, who is camping at Tikri said that over 30,000 farmers are protesting here and the number of farmers will double by the end of April, once harvesting and procurement process concludes.The farmers are protesting with the same zeal and will not go back until the farm laws are repealed,” he added.FARMERS TO BLOCK KMP FOR 24 HRS TODAYIn view of SKM’s call to shut down Kundli-Manesar-Palwal expressway for 24-hours on Saturday, Haryana issued a traffic advisory. The planned blockade will be in place from 8am on Saturday to 8am on Sunday.Sonepat SP Jashandeep Randhawa said traffic diversions have been made and asked people to avoid visiting the KMP.“Heavy vehicles coming from Ambala, Chandigarh on NH-44 may go towards North/East Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal- Shamli- Baghpat-Khekra or from Panipat-Sanauli-Baghpat-Khekra to Ghaziabad and Noida. Similarly, vehicles going towards Gurugram can go via NH-71A via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari,” the SP added.The SP said the light vehicles coming from Ambala, Chandigarh can travel to North/East Delhi and Noida/Gaziabad via Baghpat, Khekra, Loni border from Bahalgarh using NH-44.“It is advised that light vehicles from Ambala to South/West Delhi and Gurugram can take diversion from Bahalgarh to Sonipat-Barota-Narela or Bahalgarh-Sonipat City-Barota-Lampur-Bawana,” the Sonepat SP added.The deputy commissioners and SPs of Rohtak, Jhajjar and Sonepat held meetings with officials and appointed their duties for Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-numbers-decrease-at-singhu-border-101617995121880.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||86 of 120 vaccination centres in Mumbai did not operate on Friday||Of the 120 vaccination centres in Mumbai, 86 centres could not conduct sessions on Friday as they ran out of vaccine, according to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). Effectively, only 36 vaccination centres carried out the vaccination drive on Friday. BMC is expected to receive 100,000 vaccine doses by Friday late night.“The vaccination drive will take place only at government and municipal hospitals on Saturday and Sunday,” municipal commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said on Friday night. Private vaccination centres will not conduct vaccination drive on April 10, 11, and 12 as BMC directed all private vaccination centres to cancel any scheduled sessions on these days and inform beneficiaries who have signed up for these dates.There are 33 municipal-run vaccination centres and 16 state and Central government-operated vaccination centres in Mumbai, where vaccination will continue between 12noon and 6pm on Saturday, and between 9am and 5pm on Sunday. KEM Hospital, BYL Nair Hospital, Rajawadi Hospital, Mahim Maternity Hospital and BKC jumbo Covid centre will also operate till 8pm on Saturday as these facilities have signed up for two sessions of the vaccination drive per day.“However, if more vaccines become available, efforts will be made to resume vaccinations in private hospitals,” BMC’s public health department said.At the end of Thursday’s vaccination drive, BMC had utilised about 50% of the 103,320 vaccine vials in stock and the remaining were left for Friday. Following this, BMC vaccinated 33,551 beneficiaries on Friday, as opposed to around 50,000 beneficiaries vaccinated daily in the past week. On Friday, 29,187 beneficiaries received the first dose of their vaccine, and 4,364 beneficiaries received their second dose. These figures do not include final figures reported during the second session on Friday, which went on till 8pm.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner in-charge of BMC’s public health department, on Friday said, “BMC will receive 100,000 vaccine doses by Friday night. Presently we have zero vaccine stock at BMC’s central storage facility.”Among the centres that ran out of vaccine doses and did not operate on Friday were BKC jumbo Covid facility, Dahisar jumbo facility, Cooper Hospital, Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, SevenHills Hospital, Sion Hospital, VN Desai Hospital, Bhatia Hospital, and Breach Candy Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/86-of-120-vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-did-not-operate-on-friday-101617994995770.html
10-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra records 58,993 cases; tally reaches 3,288,540||Maharashtra on Friday recorded 58,993 Covid-19 cases pushing the count to 3,288,540. The active cases also rose to 534,603 which accounts for 16.25% of the total cases reported till date.The state also saw more than 300 fatalities for the third consecutive day with 301 deaths, taking the toll to 57,329. Nagpur reported the highest number of fatalities with 33 deaths in the city and 15 from its rural areas. Mumbai reported 35 deaths, taking its toll to 11,916. It also recorded 9,202 cases and taking tally to 501,182.To control the cases, the state government imposed strict restrictions such as a night curfew on weekdays from April 5 and complete curfew on weekends from Friday 8pm till Monday 7am. It has also ordered shutting down of non-essentials businesses till April 30.However, the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases has continued. Since the past four days, the state is reporting more than 55,000 cases daily and has recorded 475,474 cases in the past nine days.State health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the state is heading towards complete lockdown, but the state will decide to impose it only if they are unable to cope up with the situation.“We are heading towards complete lockdown. However, we are hoping to control the situation. I am not in favour of imposing it immediately, but if hospitals are overwhelmed and we start facing shortage of doctors, healthcare workers, health infrastructure and medicines, then lockdown has to be imposed to break the chain,” Tope told NDTV.In the past 24 hours, the state tested 245,707 samples and had a positivity rate of 24%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.02%. It has also reported 45,391 recoveries on Friday, taking the number of recovered patients to 2,695,148.With 8,057 cases, Pune recorded the second-highest cases across the state. Of these, Pune city and district recorded 5,714 and 2,343 cases, respectively.The state has also decided to allow rapid antigen tests instead of RT-PCR tests for the staff allowed to function during strict restrictions. The negative test report will remain valid till 15 days. This rule is valid for workers related to various sectors including public transport and private transport; shootings for films, serials, advertisements; home delivery services; wedding venues; funeral venues; eatable vendors; labourers; workers; staff in the manufacturing sector; e-commerce firms staff; permitted construction activity, etc. The new rule will come into effect from April 10, states an order issued by Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, disaster management and relief and rehabilitation department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-58-993-cases-tally-reaches-3288540-101617994815193.html
10-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra: 4 Covid patients die in Nagpur hospital blaze||At least four patients, including a woman, died following a massive fire that broke out in a Covid hospital at Wadi area of Nagpur on Friday night. According to unofficial sources, around 27 patients at the hospital were shifted to government-run medical college and hospital and Indira Gandhi Medical College in a serious condition. This is the second such tragedy in the state after Mumbai where several patients being treated for Covid-19 at Sunrise Hospital were killed after a fire broke out last month.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Samir Meghe, who represents the area, said the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. “Prima facie it appears that short-circuit could have triggered the fire,” said Meghe, who overseeing the rescue operations. Sources said the fire started on the first floor of Well Treat Hospital at Wadi, and the smoke spread to the second floor where 10 patients were in the ICU. Of these, the hospital staff managed to rescue six patients while the remaining four died of asphyxiation due to toxic smoke. “We can’t comment on the health condition of others as we are busy shifting the patients to other hospitals,” said commissioner of police Amitesh Kumar. Four fire tenders rushed to the spot and it took about an hour to bring the blaze under control. Names and identities of the deceased were not yet known. Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has instructed Nagpur guardian minister Nitin Raut to visit the spot and ordered an inquiry into the incident. District collector Ravindra Thakare said he had a talk with the civil surgeon and asked him to conduct a probe and submit a report as soon as possible. Meanwhile, over 6,5,50 new Covid-19 cases and 67 deaths were reported in Nagpur on Friday. RSS chief tests positive for Covid-19Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) supremo Mohan Bhagwat tested positive for Covid-19 on Friday. According to RSS headquarters, Bhagwat was not feeling well for the past couple of days and underwent RT-PCR test this morning. The report in the evening stated that he was positive. Later in the night, he was admitted at Kingsway Hospital, which is run by former BJP Rajya Sabha member Ajay Sancheti.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra4-covid-patients-die-in-nagpur-hospital-blaze-101617994695230.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Traffic violators started receiving real-time challans starting Friday||Gurugram Traffic Police on Friday issued 30 real-time challans from three locations, Galleria Market, Bakhtawar Chowk and Iffco Chowk Metro station. This was the first time that the process of issuing traffic challans was automated in the city.Police said they will expand to 10 more locations by the end of the month.In December, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) had installed 315 red light violation detection (RLVD) cameras at 28 locations across the city.Sanjeev Balhara, assistant commissioner of police (traffic), said one RLVD camera atop traffic signal could capture an entire intersection and detect wrong side driving and spot red light violations. “With the help of integrated command and control system (ICCC), cameras are linked to the traffic signals, with light sensors detecting the changes,” he said.Balhara said the violators would receive instant text messages. On Friday, four traffic violations, wrong side driving, red-light jump, driving without a helmet and speeding, were in focus. The camera switches on as soon as the traffic light turns red and the automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system will capture violators and send it to the ICCC command centre in Sector 44.Police said a copy of the challan along with the violation evidence would be sent to the registered address of the vehicle owner within two days.Trials of the new system held in February and Marchwas a resounding success following which the system was approved for deployment, said police.Balhara said the plan was to deploy the systems at 28 locations but due to ongoing construction of underpass and flyovers, only 13 locations are equipped with ANPR cameras that can identify the four violations. “Once the cameras detect high-security number plates, data will be transferred over the optical fibre network and will be sent to the ICCC,” he said.A team of 10 traffic policemen at the ICCC monitor the feed and challans are generated automatically. Data on the offending vehicle owners are accessed from the ministry of road transport’s national database Vahan.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said the exercise will also help to keep a watch on street crime and offenders involved in snatching cases. “The policemen keeping a watch from ICCC informs the local police control room van and rider after he witnesses any suspicious activity at any intersections,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/traffic-violators-started-receiving-real-time-challans-starting-friday-101617994035176.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Man booked for impersonating son of property owner, selling land for crores||Police have booked a man for alleged impersonation and forgery to sell property worth several crores that was not his in Palam Vihar.According to police, a man named Aalok Kumar allegedly sold the property of Palam Vihar resident Braham Kumar Bishnoi. The property was then used to secure a bank loan and then sold again to another person who also used it to secure a bank loan.The crime was discovered when Bishnoi approached Palam Vihar police on February 20 and complained that Ankit Yadav, a resident of Moulsari Avenue in DLF Phase 3, had illegally bought his property.Yadav said he told police that he was looking to buy property in the city in 2019 when he met two property brokers named Kamal Arora and Amrit.“They introduced me to Aalok Kumar who said he was the son of Braham Kumar Bishnoi and the sole owner of a 435-square meter property in F-Block. He also produced a transfer deed dated August 2019 to this effect, his passport, Aadhar card, bank passbook and even an allotment letter,” he said. He said he then proceeded with the deal and bought the land, paying a stamp duty of ₹16 lakh. He did not disclose the price he paid for the land.But as it turned out, Bishnoi did not have a son in the first place and Yadav said he got to know of this only when police came knocking at his door. “I thought I bought the property legally and sold it legally,” said Yadav.Yadav said he had mortgaged the land for a ₹2.5 crore bank loan. “The bank too did its due diligence before granting the loan,” he said.In July 2020, Ankit sold the property off to another person who also took a bank loan.On March 5, Ankit Yadav filed a complaint on the basis of which a case was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (Cheating), 467 (forgery), among others, at the Palam Vihar police station.Police are yet to verify the suspect’s identity or that of the persons who introduced him to Yadav.“A case has been registered. We are verifying the facts and once the investigation is complete, we will arrest the suspect,” said K K Rao, commissioner of police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-booked-for-impersonating-son-of-property-owner-selling-land-for-crores-101617993977063.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||No plan to impose lockdown or night curfew in state: CM||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Friday said his government was not considering imposing curfews to deal with the rising Covid-19 cases.Instead, Haryana will follow directions from Prime Minister Narendra Modi and focus on testing, tracking and strict enforcement of Covi-19 health protocols, he said. In-person classes till grade 8, however, will remain suspended till further notice.Khattar was in Gurugram to attend the eighth Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA).Gurugram is in the midst of a surge in Covid-19 cases. On Friday, it reported 703 cases, taking its tally to 68193 . The active cases were 4,591 and the total death toll was 368. Haryana recorded 2,994 cases taking the tally to 310,504. It suffered 11 more deaths due to the disease, taking the death toll to 3,241.Delhi, Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar had ordered a night curfew between 10 pm and 5 am earlier this week. Their Covid-19 case rise had been sharp with record levels of new cases this year. With Gurugram also witnessing a rapid rise in the spread of Covid infections in the last month, there was strong apprehension among the residents that the state government could impose a similar curfew.Khattar said the focus was on ensuring normal life continued in the cities with strict measures to control the spread of the coronavirus disease. “Both preventive and punitive measures will be taken and different strategies will be implemented that suit different cities in the state. This year, most of the patients are in home isolation, but we are also confident that the health care system will be able to manage the situation as it did last year,” he said.The CM also said that district administrations across the state have been told to ensure safeguards such as wearing masks, social distancing, check on public and social gatherings and sanitization of public spaces is done on priority and continuously. “Vaccinations and testing are also going on smoothly and it will be further expanded,” he said.He said that situation in various cities was being continuously monitored and there was no need for panic.Given the surge in the Covid 19 infections, Khattar said that the government has decided that schools up to class eighth should remain closed. “There is no need for lockdown or similar measure right now and the situation is being monitored. We had a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which CM’s of all the states were present and the Covid situation was discussed in detail and directions were issued as to how to manage the situation,” said Khattar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/no-plan-to-impose-lockdown-or-night-curfew-in-state-cm-101617993975652.html
10-04-2021||Other||47 waterless urinals installed in Gurugram mini secretariat||Gurugram: To reduce the use of water, a water management society has installed 47 waterless urinals in the mini secretariat complex in Gurugram. Officials said the urinals -- installed by GuruJal society in collaboration with a private firm over the past one week -- will help save nearly 1.5 kilolitres (KL) of water per urinal per annum. Osho Kalia, a senior member from GuruJal working on the project, said, “We have recently installed waterless urinals with zero odour technology in the mini secretariat complex... It is estimated that a total of 7,050 KL of water per annum will be saved through this initiative.” A hub of most government offices in the district, including the deputy commissioner’s office, the mini secretariat complex witnesses a footfall of at least 3,000 people daily. The latest data obtained from the agricultural department’s groundwater cell revealed that between June 2019 and June 2020, the groundwater table in Gurugram district dropped by 0.27 metres and stood at 29.86 metresWhile the long-term functionality of these waterless urinals has often been questioned, especially since its failure in neighbouring Delhi, Kalia said they have taken steps towards ensuring regular maintenance. “We understand that failures have been witnessed before due to lack of maintenance, but as the mini secretariat already had its own sanitation staff, they have been trained regarding its maintenance. The toilets will be cleaned once every day and a perfumed substance is also put in the system once every month to keep it odourless,” added Kalia. With the groundwater table continuing to drop in Gurugram, officials also hope the new urinals will set an example in water conservation.Between 2014 and 2018, the groundwater table in Gurugram district reduced by 2.5 metres. In 2014, the district recorded an average groundwater level of 26.3, but this had dipped to 28.9 metres across four monitoring blocks of Gurugram, Sohna, Pataudi and Farrukhnagar, by 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/47-waterless-urinals-installed-in-gurugram-mini-secretariat-101617993976302.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Covid 19 spike continues, 703 cases reported||Gurugram recorded 703 Covid-19 infections on Friday, taking the total number of cases till date to 68,193. As per details shared by the city’s health department, the total number of active cases rose to 4,591. There has been a rapid surge in the Covid 19 infections since March 15, when the total active cases had been 534. The rise also reflected in the positivity rate, the total number of positive cases per 100 tests, that read 7.8 percent. “We have increased testing considerably to reduce positivity and in last 10 days the sampling has increased from 3000 per day to 8008 on Friday. The vaccination outreach is being expanded considerably,” said Varinder Yadav, chief medical officer. Yadav said that a number of vaccination session sites were set up on Friday across industrial areas to boost reach. “Several factory and industrial associations have tied up with the health department and are vaccinating their employees. Arvind Rai, senior executive at Modelama, an export house in Udyog Vihar said that they held a vaccine session at their factory on Friday. “ A number of workers were vaccinated and these camps will be held regularly,” he said. On Friday, a total of 14,043 eligible beneficiaries were vaccinated at 214 session sites. Out of these 10218 jabs were given by government hospitals and remaining by private hospitals. In view of the rising cases, the district administration had increased the number of containment zones to 61 from 31 on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/covid-19-spike-continues-703-cases-reported-101617993975100.html
10-04-2021||Other||Now book affordable homes online on DTCP portal||htreporters@hindustantimes.comGurugram: To ensure all home buyers get equal chance to book affordable flats and the practice of collecting premiums from buyers at the time of submitting applications is curtailed, the town and country planning department has launched an online webpage on its portal to allow prospective buyers to book flats online, officials from the department aware of the development said on Friday. Sanjeev Mann, senior town planner, Gurugram, said the module for online booking of affordable plots has been launched. Buyers can access the DTCP website and apply for a flat. “At the time of applying for a flat, the buyers can select whether they want a one BHK, two BHK or three BHK flat. At the time of submitting the application, they will have to deposit 5% of the cost of the flat,” he said adding that in case the application is not successful, the applicant will get a refund of the booking amount. DTCP officials said the portal to book affordable homes was launched on Wednesday after buyers complained that either forms were not available or only limited forms were being made available. It may be recalled that on February 18, 2020, KM Pandurang, director of DTCP, had called for the creation of an online portal to provide applications forms for affordable housing projects. As per the directions issued by the director, DTCP, “The applications shall be invited online through STP of the respective circle and then allotment shall be made by the coloniser. The first draw of lots shall be held within four months from the date of first advertisement and there shall be a gap of at least three months between any two such advertisements. After three such attempts by STP, the coloniser will make allotment of flats on a first-come, first-serve basis but on pre-defined rates.”Mann, who is also the nodal officer for the portal, said the module will be fine tuned further based on the feedback of applicants. “The objective is to ensure transparency in allotment of affordable homes,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-book-affordable-homes-online-on-dtcp-portal-101617993916756.html
10-04-2021||Gurugram||Construction on stretch linking Rampura Chowk-Pataudi Road to commence next month||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development (GMDA) is likely to start revamping a key 5.6-kilometre road that links Rampura Chowk on national highway (NH) 48 and Pataudi Road from next month.The stretch carries a heavy volume of traffic from Pataudi and Western Peripheral Highway towards the new Gurugram sectors. For those travelling on NH 48 from Jaipur towards Delhi, the stretch will serve as an alternative to bypass the heavily congested Kherki Daula toll and can also provide easier access to residents living on Dwarka Expressway.Currently, the stretch is designed as a “sector dividing road” passing through residential sectors such as sector 81, 81A, 82, 82A, 85, 86, 89, and 90. It is riddled with potholes, heavily broken and unlevelled, making it extremely difficult to drive on. It is also inadequately lit, with several dark stretches.GMDA officials said that they will be building the road afresh as its existing base cannot handle the large volume of vehicles, especially the weight of heavy vehicles that lead to its degrading.As part of the construction, GMDA will be expanding the stretch to a six-lane road with service roads, cycle tracks and footpaths on both sides of the road, running parallel to each other.“The tendering process has started, and all the submitted bids will be opened on May 5, following which a contractor will be finalised. We are aiming to start on-site construction from May-end onwards,” said Shweta Sharma, executive engineer, infrastructure division 1, GMDA, who is overseeing the project.On Thursday, GMDA opened bids for this project for potential contractors.“We have set a deadline of 18 months for the concessionaire to complete the project. Besides cycle tracks, footpaths, service lanes; three roundabouts and two T-junctions will also be redeveloped in this project,” said Sharma.GMDA officials said that the finalised contractor will maintain the stretch for a period of four years after construction.As per GMDA officials, privy to the matter, LED streetlights will also be installed along the six-kilometre stretch under this project along with the development of green belts.They further said that the drains will be aligned in such a manner that rainwater will first be sprinkled on green belts before proceeding towards stormwater drains.As per GMDA’s design plan, each carriageway will measure around 5.6 kilometres in length and 14 metres in width. The five-kilometre footpath and cycle track will be two metres and 2.5 metres wide respectively on each side. The service lane will measure around 5.2 kilometres with 5.5 metres width.The entire project is expected to cost around ₹57 crore, said officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/construction-on-stretch-linking-rampura-chowk-pataudi-road-to-commence-next-month-101617993915533.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Delhi Meerut E-way: Traffic violations continue, NHAI yet to approve automatic registration-plate reader and toll rates||Ghaziabad: It has been nine days since the Delhi Meerut Expressway (DME) opened to the public on April 1, but traffic violations, such as over-speeding, continues unabated at the expressway section. Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that although automatic number plate readers (ANPRs) have been installed at various locations along the e-way, approval to run them is pending, along with levying toll rates. HT on Friday visited the UP-Gate to Dasna section of the DME and found that the ANPRs in operation at Indirapuram displayed speed of vehicles over the limit of 100kmph, which is permissible under the jurisdiction of Uttar Pradesh. Further ahead, autos and private buses continued to remain parked on highway lanes, blocking the traffic, and a similar situation prevailed at the Lal Kuan intersection. NHAI officials said traffic violations data is being recorded with the help of ANPR systems but they did not share the number of erring vehicles noted so far. “We have ANPR systems installed at six entry/exit points of the expressway and at eight other locations as well. We are monitoring traffic violations and fines will be sent to the district officials once the ANPRs get approval. At present, we are conducting only dry runs with ANPRs. The approvals for these as well as toll rates are also pending, and we are expecting them soon. In case of any accidents, the respective commuter will be held responsible,” said Mudit Garg, project director from NHAI. The ANPRs are high-resolution CCTV cameras which detect speed violations and also read the registration plate of vehicles at the entry and exit points so as to ascertain the toll amount on the basis of distance travelled by the vehicle. According to official sources, the DME, in 24 hours from midnight of April 7 to midnight of April 8, witnessed movement of about 94,800 vehicles, of which about 99% were cars and the rest were light-weight commercial vehicles, buses, trucks and other multi-axle vehicles. Sources said that about 55% of the overall vehicles were found using the FASTag facility on the expressway, while those without FASTags were cars. On the DME, only those vehicles with FASTags would be allowed once toll operations start, while non-FASTag vehicles will be penalised double the toll rate for the entire DME’s 60km section.“It would have been better if officials had taken some more time and finished the pending works. The works of commuter safety come first. Wrong-side driving and even people crossing the expressway, risking their lives, is a common feature on the DME,” said Alok Kumar, founder member of the Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association. Instances of jaywalking near Sector 63, Noida, and also at places in Vijay Nagar continue unabated on DME. Officials of the Ghaziabad traffic police, meanwhile, said they have not received any penalties yet from NHAI, hence are not acting against speed limit violation. “This is because their ANPR systems are not connected and fully functional for fines. On our part, we are taking up enforcement against wrong side driving and also autos plying on DME. About 200 fines have been issued so far since April 1, when the DME was opened,” said Ramanand Kushwaha, superintendent of police (traffic).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/delhi-meerut-e-way-traffic-violations-continue-nhai-yet-to-approve-automatic-registration-plate-reader-and-toll-rates-101617993916114.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Feral dogs major threat to wildlife in Dhanauri wetland, say experts||Feral dogs are a major threat to the already struggling wildlife at unprotected habitats like Dhanauri wetland in Gautam Budh Nagar, according to experts. Recently, a video showing a small pack of free-ranging dogs chasing an injured Sarus crane in Dhanauri wetland made the rounds on social media platforms.“We saw four dogs chasing the bird with an injured right wing on Saturday. The Sarus crane spread its wings and struggled to defend itself. It tried to take flight every time the pack came close to it. We have informed animal rescue NGOs and the forest department, but not much was done about it. We have not spotted the crane since that day,” said Rohit Sharma, a city-based birder who frequents the wetland.Recalling a similar incident, Sharma said that some feral dogs had killed a Nilgai in Dhanauri two months ago, adding that they often charge at nests in the wetland.Meanwhile, the forest department said that it has formed a team to find and rescue the injured bird. It also mentioned multiple incidents where feral dogs hunted endangered species like Blackbuck and Sarus in the district.“Feral dogs have become one of the major threats to the wildlife in the division, especially to species like Sarus crane in Dhanauri, but no one wants to highlight this sensitive issue as it might lead to backlash from activists and dog lovers. There have been incidents of injuring or killing of the scheduled species too. Last year, feral dogs killed three Blackbucks in Maksudpur and Jewar, and a Nilgai in Surajpur reserve forest,” said PK Srivastava, divisional forest officer (DFO), Gautam Budh Nagar, adding that the forest department is working on building the first rescue centre for the scheduled species in the district.‘Dogs responsible for driving down endangered birds’ population’Researchers said that these dogs are responsible for driving down the population of endangered birds like black-necked cranes in Trans-Himalaya and Ladakh, and the Great Indian bustard in central India. Regions of western Uttar Pradesh, with the healthy Sarus crane population, must be worked upon, they added.According to conservationists, for a place like Dhanauri — with dropping water levels and more non-breeding population or the birds looking actively for partners — feral dogs bring birds under stress, affecting the possibility of pairing too.“Dhanauri is a perfect place for Sarus cranes, however, the threat posed by dogs has sub-lethal effects which is far more dangerous because we are not able to quantify it. For western Uttar Pradesh, the non-breeding population is almost 50-60 %, which means the population is healthy. But at the same time, we need more wetlands and a safe environment for them to survive, roost, etc. Amid the threats from the dogs, they don’t get a place to rest. This is a disturbance of balance between feeding and resting,” said KS Gopi Sundar, scientist, Nature Conservation Foundation. He is also the global co-chair of the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Stork, Ibis and Spoonbill Specialist Group (SIS-SG).Sundar said that the recent evidence, like nesting in dry areas, shows that Sarus cranes are going towards an adjustment phase due to the unseasonal rainfall and land use change pattern, and the rising population of dogs now emerges as the biggest threat to the cranes.“The increasing population of feral dogs leads to more competition for the resources, consequently affecting the birds and their nestlings for easier food options. These feral dogs are posing a threat to their future population too,” said Manisha Bisht, researcher, Wildlife Institute of India (WII).On a decreasing population trend across the world, Sarus crane is listed as “vulnerable” under the IUCN red list. As per the last forest department census held in the 2019 summer, 80 out of 140 Sarus cranes spotted across the district were from Dhanauri.‘India home to 60 million of the world’s estimated 1 billion dogs’Stating that the free-ranging dogs are loosely associated with humans, researchers called for an urgent need to control the population.“India is home to about 60 million of the world’s estimated 1 billion dogs. Many researchers and scientists reported that dogs are the third human-introduced predator which contributes to the extinction of wildlife animals. There is still an untamed conflict with scientific and rational policies in India, such as the animal welfare community in India, that has promoted the maintenance of unowned dogs in public places and even areas with the wildlife. There is an urgency in controlling the impact of free-ranging dogs on the wildlife,” said Sipu Kumar, research scholar, WII.According to Anand Arya, a city-based birder, “Feral dogs have become a menace in Dhanauri, and much could not be done until the wetland is not protected. The forest department must speed up the process of recognising the habitat.”The activists, however, put the onus on the forest department, saying that they are “neither feeding the dogs living inside the wetlands, nor are they doing anything to control the population”.“The population of the dogs must be controlled immediately through sterilisation, but the forest department is not doing so. Dogs living in the wetland would obviously follow the natural instincts, just like the pack that chased the Sarus crane. The department is neither providing food to them, nor are they sterilising them. The question is: what are they doing to control the issue?” asked Kaveri Rana, director, People for Animals, Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/feral-dogs-major-threat-to-wildlife-in-dhanauri-wetland-say-experts-101617993856367.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Uttar Pradesh okays groundbreaking ceremonies for Noida airport, Film City||GREATER NOIDA: The Uttar Pradesh government has asked the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida) to start preparations for bhoomipujan of several projects,including the Noida Internal airport and the proposed Film City project.With a series of events planned, the bhoomipujan of the Noida international airport being the biggest draw, officials said Yeida has already begun looking for an agency which has handled top events. Among the criteria for the event management firm includes experience in handling at least five events presided by the Prime Minister or chief ministers.“Officials said the authority will also carry out the groundbreaking ceremony of the Film City project later this year after completing all formalities. We have started the process to hire the event management company because the process takes time and we have to follow procedures to finalise a company,” said a Yeida official, who asked not to be named.The UP government has already handed over 1,334 hectares of land to Swiss company, Zurich International AG, which is likely to start work on the airport project at the ground by June this year. Officials said the firm is currently in the process of completing the required formalities before starting the work on the ground.The state government has also sanctioned ₹2,000 crore for acquiring 1,365 hectares of land for the expansion of airport project.“We will start deciding on land rates for the second phase once the social impact assessment survey is completed. We are in process of shifting farmers so that the airport work can begin,” said Balram Singh, additional district magistrate, Gautam Budh Nagar.A total of 8,971 farmers’ families have given either their agricultural land or houses for the airport. Of them, 3,627 families will be displaced, the officials said, adding that each farmer/family will given a plot which is 50% of their existing land/house. The administration has allotted at least 1,000 plots to farmers who will be displaced while the remaining will be shifted after allotment of land, “probably next month”.“We are shifting farmers to airport townships properly so that the work can start on time,” said Arun Vir Singh, chief executive officer of Yeida.Meanwhile, Yeida has sought permission from the UP government to issue a global tender to hire a developer to build the first phase of Film City on 376 of the total 1,000 acres of land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/uttar-pradesh-okays-groundbreaking-ceremonies-for-noida-airport-film-city-101617993855632.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Man arrested for demanding dowry in Noida; cops on look out for his family||Noida: A 25-year-old man was arrested for allegedly demanding dowry from his wife, in Noida’ Sector 62. The woman alleged that her husband and in-laws beat her up over the issue. The suspect is a resident of Rasulpur Nawada village in Sector 62.The victim has registered two FIRs against her husband and in-laws at the Sector 58 police station. In the second FIR, which was registered March 12 this year, the woman stated that the couple married in March last year. “On February 24, 2021, my in-laws thrashed me and my husband’s brother sexually abused me. I filed a police complaint after the incident. However, locals resolved the matter,” she said. The 23-year-old woman alleged that on March 5, 2021, her in-laws again beat her up and ousted her from the house. “They tied a piece of cloth on my neck and tried to strangle me. I raised an alarm after which locals rescued me,” she alleged. Anil Kumar, SHO, Sector 58 police station, said a case has been registered against her husband and nine members of his family under sections 147 (rioting), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC and another case under sections 376 (rape), 307 (attempt to murder) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC.“The woman alleged that her in-laws were demanding a four-wheeler and ₹5 lakh as dowry. We have arrested the husband and launched a search for the other suspects who are absconding,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-demanding-dowry-in-noida-cops-on-look-out-for-his-family-101617993855025.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Noida: 9,370 fined for not wearing masks, police collected ₹937,000 so far||Noida: Police have launched enforcement action as Covid-19 cases are on the rise in Noida and Greater Noida. In the past two days, they have imposed fines against 9,370 persons for not wearing masks and collected ₹937,000 from them for violating Covid-19 protocols. Police have also issued challans to 2,947 vehicle owners and collected ₹3.62 lakh as fine.On Friday, the Noida police fined 6,006 persons against 3,364 on Thursday and collected ₹600,600 against ₹336,400 a day earlier. Police have also issued challans to 1,262 vehicle owners against 1,685 on Thursday and collected ₹1.63 lakh against ₹1.99 lakh a day earlier. They also registered 30 FIRs against 77 persons for violating Covid-19 protocols on Friday, against 30 cases against 70 persons on Thursday.Love Kumar, additional commissioner of police, Gautam Budh Nagar, reminded people that wearing a mask is mandatory. “The police teams are conducting awareness drives in different markets and public places and are urging people to follow Covid-19 protocols. We are conducting an enforcement drive and have asked people to maintain social distancing and other such norms. We have also fined people for not wearing masks,” Kumar said.Rajendra Kumar, sub-inspector, Sector 39 police station, said that his team is conducting the enforcement drive in the neighbourhood.“While on duty in Noida Sector 94, we saw a person standing without a mask. He was chewing and spitting tobacco. We registered a case against him under section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), section 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), and section 51 of the Disaster Management Act,” he said.Gautam Budh Nagar reported 134 fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, with 33 discharges and 743 undergoing treatment. Total 93 persons have died of the coronavirus, and 25,985 recovered in Gautam Budh Nagar since the outbreak in March 2020.Rajesh S, deputy commissioner of police, Noida zone, said a similar enforcement drive was launched on Friday, and different police stations have compiled the data and shared it. “We are taking fines for not wearing masks and registering cases if four or more persons are found together. We are trying to break the human chain to keep the Covid-19 spread in check,” he said.NK Sharma, president of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Noida chapter, said that the “people have been flouting Covid-19 protocols as they are taking the pandemic lightly”. “The government had announced nationwide lockdown and put several restrictions in place for a few months. This had curbed the spread of the coronavirus. But recently, people have started moving freely and socialising like before. This led to a rise in the infections,” Sharma said, adding that people should avoid going out unless it is necessary. He has also advised the people to frequently wash their hands and maintain social distancing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-9-370-fined-for-not-wearing-masks-police-collected-937-000-so-far-101617993796839.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Dedicated government Covid hospital in Ghaziabad doubled up as vaccination and testing centre||Ghaziabad: Ever since it was converted to a dedicated L2 Covid-19 hospital on April 1, the Sanjay Nagar government hospital has been doubling up as a coronavirus disease vaccination and testing centre as well, which experts fear might put people at risk. The Ghaziabad district magistrate, however, said the facility is safe for those coming for jabs or testing. According to sources at the hospital, the hospital has 118 beds and as of April 9, occupancy was 10%. They added that the vaccination centre at the hospital has an average of more than 500 visitors per day, while about 70-80 persons come for Covid-19 testing. Last year, a similar testing booth was from the hospital when the hospital was declared as a dedicated Covid-19 facility; the authorities had later shifted the booth to another centre. “As per norms, there has to be a separate entry/exit point for the Covid building. In private hospitals which double up as a Covid and non-Covid centres, officials ensure there is a separate entry/exit for the Covid and non-Covid blocks. And these have to be clearly marked as red and green zones. If the hospital is a dedicated Covid facility and has two other centres operating, there is likely to be mixing of people coming there,” said Dr Ashish Agarwal, president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). The Sanjay Nagar hospital has a main entrance through which ambulances pass. The same is also used by a majority of people coming for vaccination as well as testing. The distance between the vaccination centres and the Covid testing booth is barely 20-25 metres, while the two are adjacent to the dedicated Covid block whose entry gate is on the other side. The Ghaziabad district administration, however, said that there is no mixing of people and the hospital is not a containment zone. Last year, the facility was declared as a containment zone when it started operation as a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. “The Covid block is separate, and the testing and vaccination centres are also separate. So, there is no mixing of people and all three can run from the same hospital,” district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said. Dr Sanjay Teotia, the chief medical superintendent of the hospital, could not be reached for comments. 50% AMBULANCES TO BE USED FOR COVID PATIENTSMeanwhile, state officials released yet another order regarding the ‘108 ambulance service’ in which they said that only 50% of the number of ambulances available in Uttar Pradesh districts will be used for non-Covid patients while the rest can be used for Covid patients. The order was issued by Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary, on April 8. An earlier order on April 4 had said that all 108 ambulance service vehicles can be used for ferrying any kind of patients. “It is now decided that only 50% ambulances in the districts will be used for Covid patients and rest 50% for non-Covid patients. In case more than 50% vehicles are required for ferrying Covid patients, approval of director general (health) is mandatory. However, in case of extraordinary circumstances, the permission for usage over 50% can also be given by district magistrates,” said an officer from district health department, requesting anonymity. The Ghaziabad district has 16 ambulances under the 108 service and another set of five advanced life-support ambulances.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/dedicated-government-covid-hospital-in-ghaziabad-doubled-up-as-vaccination-and-testing-centre-101617993796324.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Vaccination centres run of out of stock, district left with 4,700 doses||Ghaziabad: The announcement of the upcoming four-day event of ‘Tika Utsav’ from April 11 to April 14 has come as a breather for the Covid vaccination centres (CVCs) as the state officials directed that on Saturday, the vaccination will take place only at medical colleges and district hospitals. Officials in Ghaziabad said they will operate only two government vaccination centres. There are 100 CVCs in the district, including 34 private CVCs. On an average, the district is conducting vaccination of about 8,000 beneficiaries per day in April to meet its target of inoculating 216,000 beneficiaries by the end of the month. District magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey said on Friday that there is no shortage of vaccine in the district and added that the district will get 10,000 more doses by Friday night. However, officials in the know said the district was left with only 1,000 doses of Covishield, which is widely being used for vaccinating beneficiaries, and 3,700 vials of Covaxin. “There is shortage of vaccine. However, we are expecting that we will get more vaccine doses by Saturday night. As directed, we will inoculate beneficiaries only at MMG Hospital and community health centre at Dasna on Saturday. Only doses of Covaxin will be administered in both the vaccination centres. The 1,000 doses of Covishield are available in small batches at variouss CVCs and not as a whole bunch,” said an officer from the health department, who didn’t want to be quoted. Officials said that ahead of the ‘Tika Utsav,’ the staff at vaccination centres will take up training for the event. “During the event, we will take up comprehensive vaccination at 6,000 centres and will scale up to 8,000 centres midway during the event,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, UP’s additional chief secretary (health). Dr Raj Kumar, additional director (health) at Meerut, said vehicles will move to the vaccine depots at Agra and Lucknow to get new stock of the doses. “The vehicles will get vaccine stocks from Agra for Bulandshahr and Gautam Budh Nagar districts. Likewise, vehicles from Ghaziabad will bring stock of vaccine from Lucknow for Meerut and Ghaziabad district. As of now, we don’t have the approximate number of doses that will be made available,” said Kumar. Meanwhile, private CVCs continued with their “out-of-stock” run on Friday. “We have no stock of vaccine at our hospital hence, no vaccination has taken place. We have made the payments but the officials have told us to wait for a couple of days,” said Mohit Tyagi, accounts manager at Ganesh Hospital in Nehru Nagar. Lalit Goyal, manager operations from St Joseph Hospital at Nandgram, echoed similar views. “We administered the last vaccine on Saturday. We were to get a stock of 200 doses but got only 100, all of which were administered to the beneficiaries. Though the beneficiaries keep calling us, we cannot assure them about the availability of vaccines as the officials have told us to wait for a few more days,” said Goyal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccination-centres-run-of-out-of-stock-district-left-with-4-700-doses-101617993795545.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||HT journalist Kapil Datta dies due to Covid in Delhi hospital||Veteran journalist Kapil Datta, who was working with Hindustan Times as a stringer, after being associated with the paper for at least two decades in various capacities, passed away on Friday morning at Delhi’s Vimhans hospital where he was being treated for covid. He is survived by his wife and a son.“He started writing for Hindustan Times in late 1990s, when our father YP Datta, a journalist, died. Since then he has been continuously writing for Hindustan Times with the zeal of a young man. He was admitted to Delhi hospital 12 days back, when he experienced difficulty in breathing after testing positive for Covid-19,” said Sunil Datta, Kapil Datta’s brother.Kapil Datta’s wife 62-year -old Lata Datta is also down with Covid and is under home isolation. His 36-year-old son Manish Datta works with a private company.Datta extensively reported on the Arushi-Hemraj murder case, the Bhatta Parsaul farmer-police clash and the Nithari killings. UP Real Estate Authority Chairman Rajive Kumar said: “We are extremely sad to hear the news of his demise. We lost such a nice human being so early. He was very knowledgeable on matters related to Noida. ”City reporting was Datta’s main forte . UP’s additional resident commissioner in Delhi Saumya Srivastava, who has known Datta for two decades said: “He was a true professional, thorough gentleman and always focused on news.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ht-journalist-dies-due-to-covid-in-delhi-hospital-101617993794984.html
10-04-2021||Noida||Vaccine crisis: GB Nagar admin to run only 3 vaccine centres today||NOIDA: After repeated claims that Gautam Budh Nagar district has adequate doses of Covid-19 vaccines, district health officials admitted on Friday that there is an acute crisis of vials. The revelation comes on a day when the district reported 225 fresh Covid-19 cases on Friday, the highest single-day case surge registered so far this year. According to the state health bulletin, the Covid-19 tally in the district increased to 27,046 on Friday. The death toll stood at 93 as no fresh fatalities from the infection were reported in the last 24 hours. The shortage of vaccines has forced the district administration to run only three inoculation centres on Saturday (today), where beneficiaries will be administered only Covaxin jabs. After the vaccination drive concluded on Friday, only 7,727 vaccine doses-- 798 doses of Covishield and 6,929 shots of Covaxin--are in the stock of the district. District magistrate of Gautam Budh Nagar Suhas LY said the district will get the next lot of vaccine from Agra and Meerut depots by Saturday morning. “It can’t be called a crisis as we inoculated 68,343 people against the target of 53,000 beneficiaries in the first nine days of April. The shortage of the vaccine is only due to the imbalance between the demand and supply as we used 12 days’ stock in nine days. I have spoken with the higher officials. We will get ample doses of the vaccine by Saturday. From Sunday, the vaccination drive will regain momentum,” he said. District chief medical officer (CMO) Dr Deepak Ohri said that if the issue of vaccine shortage persists, the inoculation drive after Saturday will be badly affected. “We are left with only 7,727 vaccine doses. Since a major portion of the stock is Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin, we have little option but to reduce the vaccination centres from 60 (on Friday) to three on Saturday.” The district hospital in sector 30, the Super Specialty Paediatric Hospital and Post Graduate Teaching Institute – better known as Child PGI-- in sector 39, and the Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) in Greater Noida will provide only Covaxin jabs to the registered beneficiaries,” said Ohri. Additional chief medical officer (ACMO), Dr Neeraj Tyagi, who is also the in-charge of Covid-19 vaccination in the district, said 12,000 vaccine doses have been wasted so far. “Nearly 8,500 doses were wasted during the vaccination drive of health care workers and frontline workers in January and February. After that, the percentage of wastage has gone below 2%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/vaccine-crisis-gb-nagar-admin-to-run-only-3-vaccine-centres-today-101617993735077.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||AAP MLA acquitted by court for rioting at Tripoliya Gate||A Delhi court on Friday acquitted AAP MLA Akhilesh Pati Tripathi and 15 others in a 2013 case of rioting at Tripoliya Gate.Tripathi and the others had been accused of allegedly instigating a mob of 300 people against police officials for not taking action against a murder accused.CBI Judge Geetanjali Goel, however, convicted Tripathi for unlawful assembly and voluntarily obstructing any public servant in the discharge of duty.Another accused, Geeta (identified by first name only) was found guilty of 147 (rioting), 186 (obstructing public servants in carrying out their duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 333 (causing hurt to public servant) read with section 149.In January 2019, a city court had framed charges against Tripathi and 16 others for rioting, obstructing the Delhi Police from discharging duty, using criminal force and causing voluntary hurt, after all the accused pleaded not guilty.According to the charge sheet, the mob had brought the dead body and kept it in front of Tripoliya gate at GT Karnal road to block the traffic.Around 50 workers of Aam Aadmi Party, who were wearing white caps, joined the crowd and started shouting slogans against Delhi Police, which allegedly led the mob to pelt the policemen with stones.Advocate Prashant Manchanda, appearing for Tripathi and others who were acquitted, had vehemently argued that all the accused were falsely implicated by the active political players of the erstwhile government who also facilitated the actual culprits to get off the hook.He had said that the entire incident was a ploy used by erstwhile ruling dispensation to nip rising the political opponent, Aam Aadmi Party.On Friday, the court said that the prosecution has proved the guilt of Tripathi beyond reasonable doubt for the offence under Section 186 IPC read with Section 149 IPC and he is convicted for the same. It however, acquitted him of all the other charges.The judge asked the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) to furnish the income details of the convicts to provide compensation to the victims.The matter would be now heard on April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/aapmlaacquitted-by-court-for-rioting-at-tripoliya-gate-101617993677341.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Gopal Rai visits Narela, says no FCI counters buying foodgrains at MSP||Delhi agriculture minister Gopal Rai on Friday inspected the wholesale grain market in Narela and alleged that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) has not set up any counter inside the market to procure food grains at minimum support prices (MSP).The Union ministry of food and public distribution, however, dismissed the allegations.Addressing a press conference later in the day, Rai said he has called a meeting with senior officials of FCI at the Delhi Secretariat on Saturday to resolve the issue.“In Narela Mandi, neither any procurement is being made nor has any counter been set up. FCI claimed that they set up a counter, but our visit reveals something else. Some of their officers had said that counters had been set up in the godown. But, even over there, no purchases were being done, and instead, farmers were being asked for documents. This system is such that the farmer is just being made to go from the mandi to the godown throughout the day,” he said.Rai said the government has decided to authorise some senior government officials in the market in order to create a system in which farmers are able to avail all facilities from a single place.Responding to Rai’s allegation, a spokesperson of the Union ministry of food and public distribution dismissed the allegations and said the FCI will send visuals of the counter at the market to the Delhi government.On Wednesday, the FCI and its Delhi region office had taken to Twitter calling the AAP-led Delhi government’s claims of no counters having been set up for purchase of produce from farmers “baseless”. “Allegations made by the Delhi government are completely baseless. FCI Delhi is fully prepared to procure wheat from farmers of Delhi at FSD Narela, Mayapuri & APMC Najafgarh mandi, which have been operational since April 1 & FCI has already procured 158 Qt wheat as on April 7,” tweeted FCI Delhi region, along with photographs of FSD Narela.Leader of opposition (LoP) in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, challenged Rai to prove his claim that the FCI is not procuring grains from the Narela market.“If his allegation turns out to be false, he should resign and if I am proved wrong, then I will step down as Leader of Opposition. The FCI had already started procuring wheat at its three centres in Narela, Najafgarh and Mayapuri from April 1 at the MSP of ₹1,975 per quintal,” he said.Bidhuri further said that on April 10, he along with some farmers will go to meet Kejriwal. “If Kejriwal refuses to meet us, we will stage a dharna outside his residence. We demand that all obstacles in the way of procuring wheat from Delhi farmers at MSP be removed at once and that the farmers be given 50% extra as promised by Kejriwal. Also, there should be an announcement of free power supply to them,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/gopal-rai-visits-narela-says-no-fci-counters-buying-foodgrains-at-msp-101617993676718.html
10-04-2021||Other||Police notice to Dasna temple head priest for derogatory remarks against Islam||New Delhi: The Delhi Police on Friday served a notice to Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, the head priest of Dasna Devi temple, to join the investigation in a case registered against him last week for his alleged derogatory remarks against the Prophet Mohammad and Islam during a conference at Delhi Press Club earlier this month.“We have served a notice to Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati today (Friday), asking him to join the probe today itself. His response is awaited,” said deputy commissioner of police (New Delhi) Eish Singhal.Police have also served a similar notice to AAP MLA Amanatullah Khan asking him to join investigation into the case registered against him under Indian Penal Code’s sections 153 A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc., and doing acts prejudicial to maintenance of harmony) and 506 (criminal intimidation). Khan, who had reacted to the head priest’s video with threats on Twitter, was asked to be present at the Parliament Street police station at 6 pm on Friday and record his version in the case.When contacted, Khan confirmed that he had received the notice.The priest’s inflammatory remarks, seen and heard in a video that was circulated on social media, attracted sharp reactions from people who also demanded police action against him.The Delhi Police responded by saying that they had taken cognizance of the viral video and a case under Indian Penal Code’ Sections 153 A and 295 A (deliberate and malicious acts, intended to outrage reli­gious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or reli­gious beliefs) was registered at Parliament Street police station.Despite repeated attempts, Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati could not be reached for comments.Among many leaders who had reacted on the priest’s remarks was Khan, who on last Saturday shared the video clip on Twitter and demanded that action be taken against the priest for making the derogatory remarks. Khan’s strong remarks attracted censure from many who also demanded action against him.Delhi Police took cognisance of Khan’s intimidating remarks and registered a case against him for allegedly threatening Yati Narsinghanand Saraswati, who also heads the Akhil Bharatiya Sant Parishad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-notice-to-dasna-temple-head-priest-for-derogatory-remarks-against-islam-101617993676098.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Woman whose husband poisoned her with thallium dies after a month in coma||After more than a month in coma, Divya Arora, whose husband Varun Arora had poisoned her and several of her family members with thallium, died at a hospital in the city on Thursday.Divya’s sister and mother died of the poisoning earlier, while her father and their domestic help recovered after being treated.Varun, a realtor who lives in Greater Kailash-1, was arrested on March 24 for poisoning her family with thallium, a toxic substance.The suspect served them fish laced with the lethal chemical at his in-laws’ house in west Delhi’s Inderpuri on January 31 this year, said police. Investigators involved in the case said he made sure that neither he nor his two children ate the poisoned food.Divya’s sister Priyanka Sharma was the first casualty of the conspiracy and died on February 15. Varun’s mother-in-law, Anita Sharma, was hospitalised on March 4 and died on March 22, while Divya was admitted to Sir Ganga Ram Hospital on March 6.One of Divya’s cousins, who asked not to be named, said, “She was in coma since day one of hospitalisation. Varun is still in medical custody and we demand strict action against him. Divya’s father Devender Sharma is still recuperating and is still under medical supervision due to the poisoning,” she said.The relative said Divya’s family will also pursue legal options for custody of their two children.Police found that Varun bought the chemical online from a pharmaceutical company in Panchkula, Haryana, and got the consignment delivered to his relative’s house in Gurugram to avoid suspicion.Deputy commissioner of police (west) Urvija Goel said they are verifying if the firm had sold thallium to Varun after carrying out the requisite checks. “We are yet to verify if the pharmaceutical company sold the chemical after verification or not. The documentation between them is also being checked. Any possible negligence is being looked into,” she said.Varun had told police earlier that since thallium is tasteless, he had mixed it with water and poured it over the fish that he had cooked for dinner. To save his four-year-old twins, he gave them milk to drink right before dinner, so that the family members did not serve them the fish. He made a religious excuse and did not eat the fish himself.The police also recovered thallium from his GK-1 house.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-whose-husband-poisoned-her-with-thallium-dies-after-a-month-in-coma-101617993675525.html
10-04-2021||Other||Snatchers held for robbing lawyer using monkeys||New Delhi:Over a month after an advocate was robbed of ₹6,000, allegedly by three men who threatened him with trained monkeys, police arrested two men for the crime from Chirag Dilli on Thursday and are on the lookout for a third suspect. While only one such case has come to light so far, police suspect the accused used the same modus operandi to target others.According to police, the accused -- identified as Balwan Nath (26) and Salin Nath (23), who originally belonged to a community of snake charmers -- played drums at weddings and other events before the pandemic curbs affected their livelihoods. Subsequently, to make money, the accused allegedly caught monkeys from forested areas in south Delhi and started using them to seek donations on the road.On March 2, police said, the accused surrounded the lawyer, who was travelling in an autorickshaw in Malviya Nagar, and demaned money from him after setting their trained monkeys on him. “When the lawyer pulled out his wallet, which contained ₹6,000, to pay them off, the accused snatched it and fled,” said an officer.Deputy commissioner of police (south) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the Malviya Nagar police received a call from the advocate, following which a police team rushed to the spot. The victim was on his way to the Saket court when the accused targeted him.Police scanned CCTV cameras from the area and also tapped their human intelligence network.On Thursday, the investigating team received information that the suspects were present at Chirag Dilli bus stop with the monkeys, following which a team caught the two suspects and their monkeys, said the DCP.In addition to robbery, the accused have also been charged for cruelty to animals and using them for a crime as well as livelihood. While the two have been sent to jail, the monkeys were handed over to the wildlife department.“We also booked them under the Wildlife Protection Act for showing cruelty to the animals. The monkeys were deposited at the wildlife SOS centre. Raids are on to nab the third suspect, Ajay,” added DCP Thakur.Meanwhile, police suspect they may be involved in other cases as well. “Although the arrested duo claimed that the Malviya Nagar’s robbery was the only crime they had committed, we have reasons to believe that they may have used the monkeys for committing similar crimes. There are possibilities that the victims may not have filed complaints,” said a police officer, who did not want to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/snatchers-held-for-robbing-lawyer-using-monkeys-101617993674935.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Traffic mayhem as commuters look to get home before night curfew||Roads around Delhi’s borders were packed with vehicles on Friday evening as commuters tried to cross over to Noida, Ghaziabad and Gurugram before the night curfew kicked in at 10pm. Delhi traffic police officials said checkpoints in the city and at its border points had a knock-on effect and slowed movement down in several parts of Delhi, leading to serpentine snarls.A senior Delhi traffic police official said that though the curfew starts at 10 pm, many stretches and crossings in the city have seen snarls since the evening, with many residents looking to return home well before the restrictions, with the Capital, Noida, and Ghaziabad all under a curfew between 10pm and 5am. Gurugram, meanwhile, has banned the entry of private vehicles into the city after 10pm.“Till 7pm, we had already received 43 calls from commuters reporting the long wait at the borders. In order to be able to cross the borders before time, many vehicles swarmed the borders from around 6pm, which has led to the chaos at the borders. The traffic situation was under control till Wednesday, but Noida and Ghaziabad also imposed night curfews on Thursday and the checkpoints at borders are causing traffic jams in the Delhi side,” the traffic official said.He added, “There is a lot of confusion and fear among people about the guidelines of the night curfew in different states and this panic was seen on the roads.”The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday imposed the night curfew in the Capital till April 30, restricting all movement, except for people involved in essential services, in cases of medical emergency, for Covid-19 vaccinations, and for travel to and from the airport, railway stations, and bus terminals.Delhi traffic police control room recordings show that on Friday long traffic snarls were witnessed around Delhi-Noida-Direct (DND) Flyway, Noida Link Road, Chilla Border, Kalindi Kunj bridge, Anand Vihar, Ghazipur border, Vikas Marg, Dhaula Kuan, Rao Tula Ram Marg, Airport Road, Dwarka Road, Ashram intersection, Jasola Vihar and Delhi-Gurugram Expressway.Traffic officials said that jams are expected to intensify as more barricades will be placed across the city to check vehicles after the 10pm deadline.Love Kumar, additional commissioner (law and order), Noida, said all vehicles entering the UP city are being stopped at the borders and drivers are being asked the reason for their movement.“After 10pm, all drivers will have to state the reason for travelling during the curfew hours. We are allowing them to enter Noida only if we find their reason for commute to be satisfactory. Many people were not aware of the night curfew yesterday (Thursday) but from today (Friday) the restrictions will be imposed more strictly,” said Kumar.Commuters, however, said that the administrations seemed unprepared to handle the curfew, which was causing these long traffic jams.Rohan Kataria, who travels from Noida to Delhi for work, said that his shift gets over by 10pm. On Thursday, the transit from Noida to Delhi was smooth, but his colleagues have warned him of heavy barricading and checking on Friday.“Everyone does not have a 9-5 job where they can get free from work and be home before 10pm. If the administration is planning such restrictions then people like us should be given some consideration. The system should be better prepared to manage such curfews, so that people are not inconvenienced,” said Kataria.Many commuters also narrate their woes after getting caught in the traffic on Friday.Shiv Raj Kathal, a Twitter user, tweeted at 7.10pm, “Stuck near Hauz Khas for the last 2hrs, crossed two barricades even though the curfew has not even started. Traffic is inching at snail’s pace (sic).”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/traffic-mayhem-as-commuters-look-to-get-home-before-night-curfew-101617993616177.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||8,521 new infections: Second highest Covid-19 case spike in Delhi||The Capital on Friday reported 8,521 new Covid-19 cases, the second-highest single-day spike in infections recorded in the city ever, as the infection continued to swell at rates not seen at any point during the previous three waves in Delhi.Delhi’s record case-spike was on November 11 last year, when it added 8,593 infections.Friday’s surge came on the back of record Covid-19 testing in the city, with 109,398 samples collected, more than the previous high logged on April 6, when 103,453 people were tested. Less than 65% of Friday’s samples used the RT-PCR method, regarded as the gold-standard of Covid-19 diagnosis. The Centre has urged states to ensure that at least 70% of all tests conducted use the RT-PCR technique.While the test positivity rate fell to 7.79% on Friday from 8.10% the previous day, this is still higher than the 5% threshold that experts recommend, before an infection can be considered under control in a region.The test positivity rate has been on the up consistently in the city during the current surge of infections, rising from an all-time low of 0.17% on February 16.Delhi had kept the positivity rate below 5% for 124 days, between December 2 and April 4.The state government’s health bulletin also reported 39 deaths due to the viral infection on Friday, the most in a day since 41 fatalities were recorded on December 15.The last time Delhi saw as many cases was at the peak of the third and worst surge of cases in November.Also Read| DDMA discusses increasing Covid beds, capping passengers in buses but no lockdown yetThe number of new cases recorded each day increased from 4,000 to 8,000 within six days during the current wave. In comparison, it took 20 days from the end of October end to reach 8,000 in mid-November.“The pace of increase in the infections is certainly very fast this time. But, there are a lot of unknowns, including why the cases went down sharply after the November surge. I think it was because of the high sero-prevalence of 56% that reduced transmission. Then came the laxity. Everybody thought Covid-19 was over. People started mixing, partying, and not following Covid-appropriate behaviour,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).He said the night curfew, in place between 10pm and 5am, was not enough to curtail the spread, even though it helped reduce the number of parties and late-night gatherings. “We need to increase restrictions in places such as restaurants. We should learn from the world. A study from Columbia district of Washington showed that the number of cases went down when they reduced these social interactions and shot up again as soon as restaurants were opened up,” he said.Dr Khilnani added that disease was not milder. “The number of deaths is likely to increase sharply as well because people fall sick and die a few days after getting the infection,” he said. The current seven day rolling average case fatality ratio is at 0.39%.The number of hospital admissions is also fast increasing, with the Delhi government having to order increases in bed capacity thrice within seven days. The number of hospitalisations has increased from over 2,700 to over 4,700 in the last six days. As on Friday night, 5,112 were hospitalised, occupying 47% of the 10,832 beds earmarked for Covid-19 treatment, according to the government’s Delhi Corona app.Test positivity rate 1.28% at transit points: GovtBetween March 23 and April 7, the city administration tested 94,828 passengers arriving in the city at various transit points, of which 1,221 (1.28%) tested positive for Covid-19, showed government data.At the New Delhi railway station, 4,729 samples were collected during this period, of which 113 (2.38%) tested positive. At the Indira Gandhi International Airport, Delhi cantonment railway station and Dhaula Kuan bus stand, a total of 13,821 tests were conducted, of which 197 (1.42%) passengers had the infection.At Kashmere Gate ISBT, 361 (1.40%) of the 25,749 tests came positive. At Anand Vihar, which has a metro station, an ISBT and a railway station, 358 (1.29%) of the 27,736 tests came positive.At the Kapashera-Delhi-Gurugram border, five people tested positive after 1,585 tests.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/second-highest-one-day-covid-spike-in-delhi-ever-101617993615540.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Man moves court over privacy breach by doctor||The Delhi High Court on Friday sought working status of mental health boards in the city after a man said there is no authority to consider his complain against a psychiatrist, who told her mother about his homosexuality in breach of his privacy and confidentiality.Justice Prathiba M Singh asked the State Mental Health Authority (SMHA), represented by advocate Tushar Sannu, to file status reports on the current functioning of the Mental Health Review Board (MHRB), SMHA and its members, on the plea by a 19-year-old man who was taking treatment from a psychiatrist after being diagnosed with Obsessive Compulsive Disorder (OCD) in 2016.The petitioner, a student of BA (Hons) in Psychology at Delhi University, was taking treatment from a doctor at a private hospital from June 15, 2019, and alleged that the latter compromised his privacy.During the course of his session with the doctor on that day, where he was present on his own, he claimed that he informed her that he was exploring his sexual orientation. He said that he categorically told the doctor that he was fearful of his parent’s reaction and the consequences if he told them about it.Following this, on June 29, 2019, he was referred to a clinical psychologist for cognitive behavioural therapy. While starting weekly sessions with the clinical psychologist, he would periodically discuss his progress with the psychiatrist.In July 2019, the man turned a major and the plea contended that the doctor never insisted him to bring his parent prior to this. During a session on August 3, 2019, when the man was accompanied by his mother, the doctor had a private conversation with his mother, the details of which were not divulged to him.During the subsequent session on September 14, 2019, the doctor allegedly informed him that based on her conversation with his mother; she also believed that his parent would not accept a non-normative sexual orientation. In June 2020, while the man was again accompanied with his mother, the doctor reportedly had a lengthy private conversation with his mother once again.On June 25, 2020, the man reportedly got to know that the doctor revealed his sexual orientation to his mother. The plea claimed that during the course of the conversation between the man’s mother and the doctor on June 20, 2020, his mother made a specific enquiry regarding his sexual orientation and the doctor divulged the details that had been confidentially communicated to her by the petitioner, despite knowing that he did not want to tell his parent about the same.The plea said that the man was still exploring his sexuality, and had informed the doctor in complete confidence about this. Anticipating his parent’s likely adverse reaction, the plea further pointed out that the man needed sufficient time before he could talk about his sexuality with them.“The process of coming out, that is, of informing others about one’s sexual orientation, gender identity, or both, which may include one’s family, friends and colleagues, is a deeply personal experience with profound implications on an individual’s life and safety. A person’s sexual orientation and gender identity are intimate aspects of their life and the decision to discuss this with others rests entirely with that person alone….,” the plea read.On Friday, advocate Mihir Samson, appearing for the petitioner, told the court that he had written to the private hospital to take action against the erring doctor, though the request was not entertained. He said that he wanted to complain to the MHRB, since it has been the authority of the second instance.However, due to the failure of the Delhi government to implement the Mental Health Care Act, 2017, the state authority set up under the repealed Mental Health Act, 1987, continues to operate as the SMHA for Delhi under the 2017 Act, as well as the MHRB which is entirely contrary to the scheme of the Act, he submitted.While the Delhi government, represented by advocate Devesh Singh sought time to seek instructions, Sannu, appearing for the SMHA, disputed the submission of the petitioner. He said that both the authorities are working even though there is a temporary arrangement in place.He said that retired district and sessions judge Subash Goel was currently presiding over the MHRB, adding that action will be taken against the doctor if a complaint is filed with the doctor.Following this, the court asked him to file status reports and posted the matter for hearing on July 22||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/privacy-breach-by-doctor-hc-seeks-status-of-mental-health-boards-for-legal-recourse-101617993615041.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||DDMA discusses increasing Covid beds, capping passengers in buses but no lockdown yet||New Delhi: Members of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Friday discussed strategies such as increasing Covid-19 beds in city hospitals by at least 6,000, shutting schools, capping the number of passengers in state-run buses and regulating weekly markets to contain the sharp increase in the cases of the infection even as all members were unanimous that a lockdown was not feasible.Measures such as ensuring adequate contact tracing, maintaining the current testing numbers and increasing enforcement against gatherings in the light of upcoming festivities such as Navratras and the Muslim fasting month of Ramzan were also discussed during an authority meeting chaired by lieutenant governor Anil Baijal and attended by Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and senior administration officials.Soon after a meeting of the authority concluded, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is the vice-chairperson of DDMA, announced closure of all schools in the city. “Due to increasing cases of Covid-19, all schools, government and private, in Delhi are being closed for all classes till further orders,” he tweeted.Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal, who is the chairperson of DDMA, directed health officials to augment bed strength further up to the number of Covid-19 beds that Delhi had during the third wave of the disease in November.“On November 11, 2020, when Delhi recorded 8,593 cases, we had 16,500 beds earmarked for the treatment of Covid-19 in government and private hospitals. The L-G and the expert panel on Friday suggested that the number of Covid-19 beds be matched to that at least,” said a senior official who attended the meeting on condition of anonymity.There have been suggestions to revive the Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel Covid hospital in Delhi Cantonment area, which was managed by the DRDO, officials aware of the matter said. The hospital can provide 1,000 Covid beds. The facility had shut operations on February 12 this year on the directions of the Union ministry of home affairs as Covid cases had declined.On Friday, Delhi recorded 8,521 new Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths, according to the state government bulletin. It also showed that as on Friday, 5,097 Covid beds were occupied against a total of 10,832 beds. As per the Delhi corona app, 427 ICU beds with ventilators out of 1,156 were available and 711 ICU beds without ventilators of total 1,770 were vacant on Friday.On Thursday, the Delhi government directed 115 private hospitals with a bed capacity of at least 50, to reserve either half of the ICU and ward beds or 1.25 times the number of beds occupied by Covid patients at present, whichever is higher. The bed capacity in the government-run Lok Nayak Hospital and GTB Hospitals has been increased 500 each.A second senior official who attended the DDMA meeting said the members also discussed if the number of passengers in Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) and cluster buses should once again be capped (up to 50% capacity). Currently, all seats in the state-run buses are allowed to be occupied, but passengers are not allowed to stand while travelling. The Delhi Metro is already operating at half of its strength so no changes were suggested in that regard, the official said.After the DDMA meeting, the L-G said that he told all the district administrations to ensure optimum utilisation of existing Covid care centres, apart from ensuring enhanced capacity and dedicated resources in hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients.“After detailed deliberations with experts, in view of the recent surge of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, strict enforcement of Covid-appropriate behavior was emphasised, particularly in market places, public transport, workplaces etc, especially in wake of the upcoming festivals,” Baijal said in a tweet.Officials said the focus will continue to be on preventing any form of gatherings which are likely to happen in the light of the upcoming Navratra and the Muslim fasting month of Ramzan and other festivals.“Officials were advised to further strengthen the implementation of testing, tracing and treatment strategies with focus on micro-containment zones and geographical areas with high incidence of Covid-19 cases. The health department has been advised to scale up vaccination efforts so as to enhance coverage…” read another tweet by the L-G.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ddma-discusses-increasing-covid-beds-capping-passengers-in-buses-but-no-lockdown-yet-101617993555511.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Covid: JNU, Jamia, DU issue guidelines for students, suspend all offline academic activities on campus||New Delhi: Higher educational institutions in Delhi, including Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi University, Jamia Millia Islamia, and Ambedkar University have issued guidelines for students to observe all Covid-19 protocols on campus and suspended all offline activities till further orders in the light of a sharp spike in the Covid-19 cases in the city.Calling for necessary enforcement of Covid-19 guidelines on campus, JNU registrar Anirban Chakraborti on Friday said in a statement that since the phase-wise reopening initiated by the university in November last year, over 281 Covid-19 cases have been reported from the campus.Currently, there are 27 active cases, of which 24 are students. There have been five deaths including staff, he said.“Wearing face mask is mandatory in public places, including streets, health centre, school buildings library, offices, markets and located on the campus. The security personnel are authorised to take photographs, if anyone is not wearing the face mask. Appropriate disciplinary action including fine will be imposed in this regard,” Chakraborti said, adding that visitors’ entry will be restricted to only through the north gate of the campus.Ambedkar University also issued a circular on Friday, cancelling all offline classes on its campus until further notice. Until Friday, final-year students were allowed to physically attend classes on campus. “Offline classes shall be suspended in all campuses of the University till further notice. All classes will be held online as per prior schedule,” registrar Nitin Malik said in a notice on Friday.Meanwhile, Jamia Millia Islamia has constituted a vaccination camp committee to organise Covid-19 vaccination camps for teaching and non-teaching employees of the university. The decision to constitute the committee was taken in the meeting between university officials and deans of faculties on April 7.“The committee shall decide the venue of the camp and its duration as early as possible. All the permanent teaching and non-teaching employees of the age of 45 years and above shall be vaccinated in the vaccination camp in the first phase. In the second phase, the dependents of the permanent staff members and family pensioners eligible under medical reimbursement scheme will be vaccinated. The cost of the vaccination will be reimbursed by the university as per rules,” the university said in a statement.On Thursday, the university advised students to stay at home and “avoid physical presence for their academic work, library, laboratory, etc. unless it is very essential”. The varsity also suspended booking of conference halls, auditorium, and seminar halls till further notice.Delhi University last week issued guidelines asking students to stay at home or hostel and avoid going to the campus for academic work unless it was unavoidable. The university said it will review the situation in 10 days. The circular came shortly after at least 13 students and two staff members of St. Stephen’s College tested positive for Covid on April 1, following a college trip in March.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jnu-jamia-du-issue-guidelines-for-students-suspend-all-offline-academic-activities-on-campus-101617993554992.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Surge hits health staff: 20 AIIMS docs, six MBBS students test Covid-positive||At least 20 doctors and six MBBS students tested positive for Covid-19 in the last ten days at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS). Most of them were not vaccinated against the viral infection, said hospital authorities aware of the matter.According to the officials at the hospital administration, among the 20 doctors who have tested positive for the viral infection are two faculty members, each of who had received the Covid-19 vaccine.A senior administrator from the hospital said the number of health care workers infected could be as high as 50 in the last one week. “There are at least three faculty members who have tested positive for the infection. Each day, we have eight to twelve people (from among the staff) who are being diagnosed with the infection. The number of cases had gone down to zero to one each day when very few cases were being reported from across the city,” said the administrator.So far, 65% of the hospital staff have received at least one jab of the vaccine. “A majority of them have taken their second shot as well,” said the administrator. The window period for getting the second shot of Covishield has been increased to up to eight weeks. However, for Covaxin, the window period is between four and six weeks.On Friday, the hospital further curtailed the number of patients at its outpatient clinics, day care, and non-emergency cancer surgeries. The hospital has already stopped walk-ins in outpatient departments (OPDs) and stopped all routine surgeries Friday onwards.At the Delhi government-run Lok Nayak hospital, 11 staff members-- four doctors, five nurses and two sanitation workers-- have tested positive for Covid-19 in the last three days. None of them were working in the Covid-19 ward.“We haven’t analysed whether they have received the vaccine. It is likely that they have received the jabs as most of our staff have been inoculated,” said a senior doctor from Lok Nayak hospital administration.In another incident, 250 medical students from Maulana Azad Medical College (MAMC) were asked to get themselves tested for Covid-19 after the patient examined by those in the ENT department for their practical exam tested positive later. At least one senior resident doctor tested positive after the incident, according to the doctors at the medical college.“We have again stopped physical classes, lectures will resume online from tomorrow (Saturday). We have also created a facility for students to get tested at the college,” said Dr Ritu Arora, dean of MAMC.These developments came on a day when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal met chairman of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital Dr DS Rana after 37 of their doctors tested positive for Covid-19. Most of the doctors were fully immunised. Of the 37 doctors, 32 are in home isolation with the five others with comorbidities are taking treatment in the hospital.“Our doctors have been at the forefront in fighting Covid-19. I pray for a swift recovery of all the doctors who have tested positive. The hospital can reach out to the Delhi government at any point, if and when required, and we will provide them all possible help,” said Kejriwal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20-doctors-6-mbbs-students-test-covid-positive-101617993495301.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Porta cabins sought for the homeless Delhi||With night curfew in place in Delhi till April 30, civil society members want the Delhi government to put up porta (portable) cabins or make arrangements for homeless people in the city.The Delhi government’s Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB), which runs shelter homes in the city, recently removed the temporary shelters it had put up during winter.Activists and civil society members said with the imposition of the night curfew, a large number of people’s livelihood has been impacted as many are daily wagers working as labourers or loaders in various markets in Delhi.Indu Prakash, member of the Supreme Court appointed monitoring committee on shelter homes, said, “These people are sleeping out in the open. I have suggested to Dusib to put up porta cabins to provide shelter to the homeless people. With their livelihood affected, they are finding it difficult to arrange food. I have asked Dusib to tell us about their plan.”Last year, Dusib, which has over 210 shelter homes in the city, had put up 120 additional temporary shelters to accommodate people during winter. Officials from Dusib said the NGOs that were running the temporary shelters were also providing food to people free of cost.“We had put up more tents last year compared to the previous years to ensure social distancing in the temporary shelters amid the outbreak of Covid-19. We have removed the tents now as winter is over,” said Dusib officials.A senior Dusib official said, “We have space at some of our shelters where the homeless can be accommodated only if they are willing to go. They will be provided food also at these shelters.”As per the data available on the Dusib’s website, as on April 8, 5,108 people put up in 205 shelter homes, which collectively can accommodate upto 9,086 people, at night.Dusib officials said the 205 shelter homes can accommodate over 18,000 people, but due to the Covid-19 oubreak, the collectively capacity of the shelter homes has been reduced to a little over 7,000.Bipin Rai, member of Dusib, said, “We are planning to set up temporary shelters (for homeless people). We will take up this matter in the board meeting on Monday.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/porta-cabins-sought-for-the-homeless-in-city-101617993435727.html
10-04-2021||Other||April 17 inauguration of revamped Chandni Chowk stretch cancelled||New Delhi: The scheduled inauguration of the first phase of the Chandni Chowk redevelopment project by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on April 17 has been cancelled, an order issued by the PWD minister’s office to the engineer-in-chief on Friday stated. While the government is yet to officially share the reason behind the cancellation, officials familiar with the matter said the decision was taken in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases that the state has been witnessing in the past few days. A senior official in the chief minister’s office confirmed that the inauguration was cancelled owing to the raging pandemic . “Yes, the programme has been cancelled because of the rising Covid-19 cases in the city. The chief minister’s focus is on the Covid-19 management now and also it is not appropriate to organise events when the positivity rate is on a rise. It will also give a message that people should not organise events or gatherings ,” said the official on condition of anonymity. Nitin Panigrahi, deputy general manager, Shahjahanabad Redevelopment Corporation (SRDC), which is the nodal agency for the redevelopment project, said that work on the site will continue as before. “Work on the site is continuing, but there has been an impact due to the night curfew. We are no longer able to carry out work at night due to the restrictions,” said Panigrahi. As part of the much-delayed Chandni Chowk redevelopment project, a 1.3-km stretch of the main road between Red Fort and Fatehpuri mosque has been completely pedestrianised. While the redevelopment project was proposed in 2006, work on the project finally started in December 2018, following the directions and monitoring of the Delhi high court. The project envisages complete makeover of Chandni Chowk and aims at reviving the lost glory of Shahjahanabad, which was built by Mughal emperor Shah Jahan. Chandni Chowk is one of the most congested parts of the Capital and the redevelopment plan also aims at streamlining the movement of pedestrians, non-motorised vehicles and automobiles. The initial deadline for the project was fixed for March 2020, but it was revised to March 2021 due to several delaying factors, including majorly the Covid pandemic and the legal issues in removing encroachments, including some religious structures. Around ₹99 crore has been spent on the project till now. In the first phase of the project, utilities such as electric cables and other networks were taken underground, and dedicated lanes for non-motorised transport and walkways were constructed. Facilities such as toilets, ATMs, and benches for visitors have been provided in the redeveloped space. SRDC will work towards improving the façade of the heritage market in the second phase.Sanjay Bhargava, president Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal, said that the project had faced delays in the past as well and while there was no clarity on the reason behinds the cancellation, a significant amount work of was yet to be completed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/april-17-inauguration-of-revamped-chandni-chowk-stretch-cancelled-101617993434970.html
10-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Restaurant owners say sales down by almost 70% since night curfew||A number of restaurant owners across the city said that their sales had dipped by nearly 70%, ever since the a night curfew was imposed from Tuesday onward to curb the spread of Covid-19.Restaurateurs said that while the industry was already reeling from the after effects of last year’s nationwide lockdown, the latest night curfew had further hurt their interests. They said that the curfew timings requires them to wrap up services by 9pm — a crucial period for sales.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday had ordered a night curfew from 10pm to 5am till April 30 in the back drop of rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi. Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Wednesday said that the seven-hour-long curfew was imposed in the capital as people were found organising parties and other events where Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, like wearing masks and maintaining social distancing, were often ignored.Delhi on Friday added 8,521 fresh cases at the back of 109,398 tests being conducted. The positivity rate of the city — proportion of samples that return positive among total tested — hovered around the 7.79% mark.Delhi’s positivty rate has increased from 0.17% to over 8% within a month. Last month, the daily positivity rate hovered around the 0.17% mark. The World Health Organization (WHO) says that the positivity rate, for a region with a comprehensive testing programme, should be at or below 5% for two weeks in order to consider a viral outbreak to be under control.Saurabh Suman, manager of Pebble Street in New Friends Colony (NFC), said that the restaurant’s sales had declined by 60-70% since the imposition of restrictions. Suman said that while the restaurant used to close around 11pm on normal days, the timing has been moved up to 9pm in view of the fresh restrictions. “People are not stepping out on account of fear. The footfall in the NFC market is also low. Earlier, we used to see huge crowds. Nowadays, we barely see 50-100 people come here,” said Suman. He said that while the restaurant had seen some improvements in terms of business in the first three months of the year, business was starting to nose-dive once again. “Things had started looking up since January. We did well last month as well. However, since the new restrictions were imposed, we are again losing a lot of business. The market is looking dull and our staff is scared about losing their jobs,” said Suman.He said that while the government was taking all necessary steps for the safety of residents, it could make some concessions for restaurants that deliver food. “We are doing home-delivery till 11pm, so restaurants should be allowed to open till then at least,” said Suman.Ramesh Kitchloo, founder of Samavar restaurant in Pamposh enclave, said that sales had declined by 70%. “Earlier, our sales would be around ₹80,000- ₹90,000 but now sales are around ₹20,000- ₹30,000 only. In normal days, people from far-flung places would visit our restaurant. Now, the footfall is less. Most people visit us during the day and opt for take-out,” said Kitchloo. He echoed that the curfew imposed by the Delhi government had exacerbated the financial crisis for restaurateurs. “The restrictions have ruined our prospects. This time, the impact is harder and much more severe. People had started holding marriage and engagement functions but all that has stopped now,” said Kitchloo.SN Kaushal, senior manager of Kwality restaurant, Regal Building, said that sales had reduced by 50% since the imposition of fresh restrictions. “From August to November last year, we saw around 30-40% of sales as compared to pre-Covid times. Then our sales had slowly crawled up to the 60% mark between December-February. The sales have reduced again and are back to the 30-40% mark,” said Kaushal. He said that the restaurant was not taking orders beyond 9pm to ensure compliance with curfew timings. “We take the last order at 9pm so that we are able to vacate the premises by 9:30. The staff has to reach home before 10pm as well. The timings are causing problems,” said Kaushal.In a statement issued by the National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) on Wednesday, Kabir Suri, vice-president, NRAI, said that it was highly unlikely that the restaurant sector would be able to sustain the pressure any longer. “We were shut for the most part of last year. We have been operating at 50% since and have restricted hours. We had just started seeing a little surge in consumption, which had helped us in hiring back people we had let gone off earlier. Now, we have been left in a lurch again,” stated Suri, adding that the curfew timings affect the delivery business that contributes to the major proportion of revenue in their business.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital, said that in the current situation, it was necessary to curtail unnecessary movement to stop the transmission of infection. “The issue is that we need to stop movement to contain the infection. Light-night parties and outings need to be stopped especially when people are not abiding by Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. These restrictions have become unavoidable in the prevailing situation,” said Kishore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/restaurant-owners-says-sales-down-by-almost-70-since-night-curfew-101617993374940.html
10-04-2021||Pune||MPSC exam postponement evokes mixed response from students in Pune||Following a meeting chaired by chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, the group B preliminary combined examination of the Maharashtra Public service Commission (MPSC) scheduled on April 11 is postponed by the state government. The decision was taken following record spike in Covid cases in the state. A new date of the examination will be declared soon, according to the state government officials. Meanwhile, many candidates have tested positive and unable to appear for the exams. While many students and unions have welcomed the postponement of exams considering the safety of students, some students have criticised the move. “It is a welcome decision taken by the state government and looking at the hike of Covid cases across the state it was necessary to postpone the exams. Last week one of the students who had tested positive died during treatment. And many students are still positive and cannot appear for the exams. It is a relief not only for students, but also to their parents.” said Sharmila Yeole, a student. Last month, when on similar grounds MPSC had postponed the preliminary examination, protests were carried by students across the stats. Hundreds of students had hit the streets in Pune in protest, after which the chief minister had to interfere and declare the next date for the exams. While opposing the decision, Kuldeep Ambekar, a student and president of Students Helping Hand organisation said, “The decision taken today by the state government is wrong as it is going to impact adversely on students. As majority of students come to Pune from rural areas, now their daily rent, food mess and other expenses will also increase till the next date of examination. It is true that some of the students have tested positive, but postponing the exam is not the solution and the government should have given some other option to the candidates.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mpsc-exam-postponement-evokes-mix-response-from-students-in-pune-101617981552674.html
10-04-2021||Pune||FIR against 33 traders, including Fatehchand Ranka, for protesting on Laxmi road||Following protests by shop owners, Pune police have booked 33 traders including Fatechand Ranka, president, Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), under the Disaster Management Act, 2005. The FIR was lodged at Vishrambaug police station late on Thursday under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 and Disaster Management Act, 2005, based on a complaint made by police constable Ganesh Turke. Earlier on Thursday, traders and shop owners took to the streets to protest against the new Covid restrictions imposed by the state government to keep non-essential shops closed until April 30. While the traders vowed to open shops on Friday, they later postponed the decision until Monday, said Ranka. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) on the other hand has formed teams to act against shopkeepers trying to reopen their establishments. “We have already asked shopkeepers to follow government directions given the seriousness of the situation. If there are any violations, we will act against shopkeepers based on the orders from the state government,” said PMC municipal commissioner Vikram Kumar. Earlier on Wednesday, during a meeting with Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, traders were assured of a solution. The traders said they hope Thackeray will consider their demand and withdraw the lockdown. Members from at least 50 traders’ associations from across the district participated in the protest on Laxmi road. They were seen standing outside shops holding banners starting from Quarter Gate chowk to Vasant Talkies chowk. “We have written a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray and deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar on Wednesday and conveyed our demand to allow us to reopen non-essential shops. We are ready to follow all protocols, so why this compulsion of closing non-essential shops just before the festive season,” said Ranka. “We held a protest today on Laxmi road and tomorrow (April 9) we will reopen non-essential shops at 10.30 am across Pune,” he said. Darshan Rawal, secretary, United Hospitality association, said, “The newly imposed restrictions are equal to a complete lockdown for us. The decision by the government is affecting lakhs of people.” Rahul Yemul, owner, Peshwai Creations, said, “Though our shop is closed, our daily expenses have increased. We have to pay for the salaries of our staff, electricity bills and shop maintenance. We will take all safety measures, but lockdown is not the solution.” Jetharam Tak, one of the workers at a cloth shop, said, “I am completely dependent on this job to earn for my family. All our savings have been used up in the last year due to the lockdown. Common public is suffering due to the pandemic; the government should not burden us more.” Meanwhile, the hospitality associations organised silent protests, under the aegis of the United Hospitality Forum of Maharashtra, against the recent lockdown order. The campaign #MissionRoziRoti has gained momentum on social media with restaurateurs and hoteliers posting pictures, messages, and videos showing support and solidarity to the campaign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fir-against-33-traders-including-fatehchand-ranka-for-protesting-on-laxmi-road-101617980292377.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Water hyacinth at Pashan lake poses a threat to natural ecosystem||Pashan lake, a preferred destination for migratory birds and tourists is now on the brink of losing its natural ecosystem due to beautification projects, concretisation and urban development, experts say. Every inch of the lake is currently covered with hyacinth, and environmentalists and ornithologists claim the bird count at the lake has dropped below 50 per cent. “There have been numerous news stories on the condition of Pashan lake and issues here. However, no real action has been taken. When the project of beautification of Pashan lake was implemented under the JNNURM scheme, all the microhabitats were destroyed by the project. The bird count has gone down below 50 per cent since its glory days in the 1980s. What you see today are only resident birds like Indian Pond Heron, Purple Moorhen and a few egrets. In the peak of winter too there was almost no presence of Wagtails this year, which were once very common at the lake,” said Dharmaraj Patil, ornithologist, head, environment division, Raintree Foundation. Patil further added that there is a serious need for all types of auditing of the beautification project.“The lake restoration plan has also been given to PMC, but no action has been taken as of yet. Water hyacinth is just a tip of the iceberg. The natural system is at a collapse and we have to revert the actions taken in the name of beautifying the lake,” he added. Shreedhar Yeolekar, executive engineer, PMC’s drainage department, said, “The drainage department received an order to work on the removal of water hyacinth last week and since then we have teams on site working. Usually, the water hyacinth is removed by December. We use a spider machine and 10 to 12 nets of 100 sq metres each, which are used to remove the hyacinth. It is a slow process.” Shrikant Gabale, a geotagger who is tagging lakes and rivers said, “Pashan lake is an important element of the green belt, which is under a lot of duress, with concrete buildings and other elements creating hurdles for this lake. Though this lake was man-made, it has a small natural island as its key component which should be protected at all costs. The concretisation and building of gardens, people’s movement and dumping of garbage are adding a threat to its ecosystem.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/water-hyacinth-at-pashan-lake-poses-a-threat-to-natural-ecosystem-101617980232505.html
10-04-2021||Pune||PCMC serves notices to three private hospitals||The Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has served notices to three private hospitals for selling the Remdesivir injection at higher rates than allowed. Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner sent the notice and asked the hospitals to reply within 48 hours. Residents have complained about Aditya Birla Hospital, Lokmanya Hospital and DY Patil Hospital selling the Remdesivir injection at higher rates. Since the last few days Remdesivir has been in great demand with cases rising in Pune and PCMC. “In the current crisis situation, people are already suffering due to a shortage of Remedesivir drugs and it should not be sold at higher costs,” said Rajesh Patil, PCMC commissioner. In January, the demand for Remdesivir was 700 vials everyday but it has increased 20 times since the past week. The drug should be given to only those patients whose blood oxygen level is below 93 to 92 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pcmc-serves-notices-to-three-private-hospitals-101617979872412.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Students unable to pay fees sent transfer certificates by post||Students who have been unable to pay the previous academic year’s fees in full, are receiving transfer certificates (TC) from city-based private schools by post. Parents also allege that schools are not giving admission to these students for the next academic year. Imran Khan, a parent who has two children enrolled in a city-based private school said that the TC of both the students was sent by post. “My elder son is promoted to Class 10 now. We received the TC for both my children. I had given post-dated cheques to the school. However, both my students have been asked to leave,” said Khan. Khan is also a member of the parents’ association of Pune. Jayshree Deshpande, president of the parents’ association of Pune, said that there are 20 students who have lost their admissions recently. “The students have lost admission solely because the parents were not able to pay full fees. Due to the ongoing pandemic, many parents are going through financial difficulties; some of them paid partial fees. These students are an easy target for schools. Unfortunately, even authorities are mute spectators in this. Despite several complaints, the education department is moving at snail’s pace to resolve the matter,” said Deshpande. She added that students are in a lot of stress due to this situation. Rajendra Singh, president of the Federation of School Association of Maharashtra said that the schools have taken the right decision. “The schools are suffering losses and paying fees is important for the smooth functioning of the school. As the academic year has ended, parents are free to find an affordable school for their ward,” said Singh. The education department believes that students should not be given a TC for failing to pay the fees in full, it has issued an order dated April 8, instructing schools to immediately start the online education of students who have been issued a forced TC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-unable-to-pay-fees-sent-transfer-certificates-by-post-101617979752422.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Cloudy weather in Pune until April 15: IMD forecast||On Friday, Pune continued to experience cloudy weather, some relief from the scorching heat. The city reported 37.7 degrees Celsius as its maximum temperature on Friday, which was 0.5 degrees cooler than the forecast temperature. As per forecasts made by the India Meteorological Department (IMD), the weather is likely to be cloudy until April 15. The night temperature in Pune was 20 degrees Celsius which was 1.3 degrees warmer than normal.“The day temperature will be around 38 degrees Celsius, and the night temperature will remain around 19 degrees Celsius. The sky will be partly cloudy until April 13 in Pune city,” said IMD officials. The cloudy weather is attributed to various weather systems active over Maharashtra including a north-south trough from Vidarbha to south interior Tamil Nadu and wind confluence at lower level over south peninsular India, said IMD officials. Other parts of Maharashtra will also witness thunder activity along with lightning and strong winds until April 13. “Until March 12, Vidarbha may experience thunderstorms with lightning. Similar weather conditions will be observed at Marathwada and Madhya Maharashtra until April 13. Konkan and Goa will have similar weather conditions from April 11 to April 13,” said IMD officials. Across Maharashtra, the highest maximum temperature reported was at 41.5 degrees Celsius at Akola.The lowest minimum temperature reported was 19 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cloudy-weather-in-pune-until-april-15-imd-forecast-101617979692371.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Vaccine shortage: Many second-shot beneficiaries fail to get jab in Pune||Many who visited Jayabhai Nanasaheb Sutar hospital in Kothrud for the second vaccine shot had to return as the doses were unavailable. Some other vaccination centres in the area displayed a notice board citing unavailability of the shots. The beneficiaries had visited Sutar hospital to get the second shot after completing 45 days of taking the first dose. A group of six traffic staff from Kothrud police station had come to take the second shot to the vaccination centre in Sutar hospital had to return because of the unavailability. “We received the message for the second shot today, but found that the vaccine was unavailable,” said a traffic constable. Varsha Sunthankar, 55, of Ajinkygadh society in Kothrud also had come to Sutar hospital to get her first shot. She was told to come on Monday. “My husband who is above 60 years got vaccinated in the earlier phase. Rest of my family are below 30 and ineligible for the shots. A volunteer at the vaccination centre told me to come on Monday. I shouldn’t have delayed my jabs,” said Sunthankar. Rohini Honap, a volunteer at Sutar hospital who guides the people who come for vaccination at the centre, said that many had to return because of the unavailability of the vaccine. Other vaccination centres in Kothrud such as Krishna hospital, Shashwat hospital had placed notice of closure of vaccination due to lack of stock. Dr Anjali Tilekar, ward medical officer of Kothrud-Bavdhan, said only 150 shots were given in Sutar Hospital on Friday. Vaccination centre in Narayan peth was closed because there was no supply of the vaccine. PMC health department officials said that on Friday no dose was given at 36 vaccination centres in civic limits because of vaccine shortage. “ Some centres reported shortage,” said Dr Vaishali Jadhav, Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) assistant health chief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccine-shortage-many-second-shot-beneficiaries-fail-to-get-jab-in-pmc-101617979152277.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Closed vaccination centres disappoint citizens in PCMC||Pune: The Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s (PCMC) decision to put on hold the vaccination drive on Friday due to shortage of doses left many beneficiaries who were allotted the slot disappointed. Of the 87 vaccination centres in PCMC, 59 are run by the administration and 28 by private hospitals. The centres run by the civic body have inoculated 180,092 and private hospitals have given the jab to 50,777 residents. Since the order came after 9.30 pm on Thursday, most of the citizens were unaware and visited the centres to get the jab. “I was told to come today by 10 am with the token given yesterday (Thursday) and I came early. I was the first person from our family to get a vaccine. Now when will the vaccine be available? Should I come tomorrow?” said 53-year-old Dadasaheb Raut from Anant Park after reading the notice at a PCMC-run school in Thergaon that is a vaccination centre. Jyotsna Shinde, another beneficiary who visited the Thergaon vaccination centre, said that she had taken two hours leave from office to get the jab and now will again have to do so to get the vaccine. “Yesterday (Thursday), there was rush and the doctor told me to come today. I have been taking short leave from my office since the last two days,” said Shinde, a resident of 16 number locality, Thergaon. Dr Kedar Kulkarni of Talera Hospital, Chinchwad, which is one of the vaccination centres, said, “There is no stock of Covishield or Covaxin available for second dose as well. We will only resume the vaccination drive when we get the stock and the orders to do so.” The authorities present at various centres were also clueless about when the drive will restart. “Once the stock arrives, whether it will be distributed to all centres or a few? These are the questions that need to be answered,” said a staff member of vaccine centre Premlok Park, Chinchwad on the request on anonymity. Vax drive to resume todayThe vaccination drive which was put on hold on Friday will be starting again from Saturday as 20,000 doses of Covishield are available with PCMC administration.“Vaccination drive at all the centres will be available from Saturday. We have got 20,000 doses of Covishield,” said Pavan Salve, additional health and medical officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/closed-vaccination-centres-disappoint-citizens-in-pcmc-101617977471904.html
10-04-2021||Pune||Closed jab centres disappoint Pimpri-Chinchwad residents||No inoculation drive was carried out in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) on Friday due to vaccine shortage. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) continued the campaign as it has 25,000 doses left. “We are trying to procure doses. Vaccination will resume once we get the stock,” said Pavan Salve, additional health officer, PCMC According to PCMC commissioner Rajesh Patil, there are 80 vaccination centres in the city of which 60% are run by the civic body. On Thursday, many inoculation centres in Pune district operated partially due to the unavailability of vaccines even as PMC officials claimed that there was no shortage in the city. Of the 427 centres across the district, 54,059 got their vaccine doses, while in the city, 130 centres inoculated 18,480 people on Thursday. “We are procuring excess doses from hospitals to supply vaccines to hospitals which have zero doses,” said a civic official on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/vaccine-shortage-no-jab-drive-in-pimpri-chinchwad-on-friday-101617976211668.html
10-04-2021||Chandigarh||12,000 bags of wheat smuggled from Bihar seized in Bathinda||Bathinda: The Bathinda district authorities confiscated more than 25,000 bags of wheat, weighing 50kg each, being transported illegally from other states on Friday, the eve of procurement in Punjab. BJP leaders Sukhpal Sra and Sandeep Aggarwal noticed the unauthorised movement of wheat at the local mandi (grain market) and reported the matter to the police late on Thursday night. “We alerted the police but did not get much assistance. There were 35 trucks in the mandi with most bearing Punjab registration numbers. Only three trucks were impounded and the rest got time to flee. This is the tip of the iceberg as illegal movement of wheat stock is impossible without the state’s political leadership’s patronage,” Sra said. Official sources said it was an attempt to smuggle wheat bought for about ₹1,100 from Bihar and other places to be sold at a higher minimum support price (MSP) of ₹1,975. State mandi officials said the involvement of a commission agent (arthiya) in Bathinda has come to the fore. 9,000 bags of wheat found stacked on roadside Punjab Mandi Board deputy general manager, Ferozepur division, Kuldeep Singh Brar said the three trucks-laden with wheat were impounded from the grain market, but a stock of wheat packed in more than 9,000 gunny bags was found on the roadside. He admitted that the drivers did not have a purchase document. “Inquiries have shown that the consignment belongs to a commission agent’s firm, named Babu Ram Ashok Kumar. A police complaint has been filed and the licence of the firm will be cancelled,” he said. District mandi officer Preet Kanwar Singh Brar said another stock of more than 8,000 bags was recovered from two makeshift godowns. “Transportation and stocking wheat was illegal as the mandi office had no record in this regard,” said Brar. Kotwali station house officer Daljit Brar said a case has been registered under Sections 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code. Bathinda Arhtiya Association president Satish Kumar Babbu demanded strict action against the commission agent. “The association condemns any such illegal activity,” he said. Official sources said after Haryana brought transparency in crop procurement to much higher level under ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal, traders have started eyeing Punjab for illegal sale of foodgrains. “Probably it is for the first time that Punjab is witnessing wheat arrival from other states while illegal mixing of paddy from outside the state is quite a common practice. After Haryana, Punjab is the only market, where the government agencies pay MSP for wheat and paddy and traders, see a scope to buy the produce at lower prices from other states and sell it to the government agencies in collusion with officials,” a state functionary said. BJP leaders want probe, say godowns full already BJP leaders demanded a probe into the incident, alleging godowns in the local industrial area and other places are already flooded with wheat stocks bought from other states. Activists of farmer unions gathered at the mandi to register their protest against the illegal transportation of wheat from other states. They demanded an assurance from the state government that no food grain will be allowed from other states. Senior superintendent of police BS Virk said the district administration and food and civil supplies, officials were immediately alerted to ascertain the legality of the wheat stock. 40 wheat trucks from UP impounded in RupnagarRupnagar: Forty trucks laden with wheat from Uttar Pradesh were confiscated in Rupnagar on Friday. The wheat was ordered by a Rupnagar-based private flour mill, Megastar Foods Limited. District mandi officer Bhajan Kaur said the trucks were sent back to UP. “There is no provision to take action against private firm under any Act,” she said. Following the incident, local farmers blocked the Rupnagar-Chandigarh national highway for around two hours. “A meeting was convened between officials of Megastar Foods Limited and the protesting farmers in which the owner said he was willing to donate ₹2.5 lakh for farmers protest,” she said, adding that the flour mill also submitted in writing that they will purchase wheat from Punjab mandis only.FIRs registered against 3 firms: Ashu Chandigarh: Food and Supplies Minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu said FIRs have been registered against three firms trying to sell wheat in state mandis brought from outside the state. He said a department team had found around 8,000 gunny bags in yard of M/s Babu Ram Ashok Kumar and Lakshmi Oil Mill in Grain Market Bhatinda. Upon further inquiry, it was found that the wheat had been procured from Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan at lower prices and was to be sold at MSP here. Besides this, total of 17,000 bags have also been seized from godowns of these two firms. The minister said 8,000 to 9,000 wheat bags have also been recovered from Kishan Trading Company of Bugga Mandi in Ferozepur. He said that cases have been filed against these three firms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/12000-bags-of-wheat-smuggled-from-bihar-seized-in-bathinda-101617969492128.html
10-04-2021||World||Iran starts up advanced centrifuges in nuclear deal breach||Iran announced Saturday it has started up advanced uranium enrichment centrifuges in a breach of its undertakings under a troubled 2015 nuclear deal, days after the start of talks on rescuing the accord.The United States had said Friday that it had offered "very serious" ideas on reviving the hobbled agreement but was waiting for Tehran to reciprocate, something Saturday's move signally failed to do.President Hassan Rouhani inaugurated a cascade of 164 IR-6 centrifuges for producing enriched uranium, as well as two test cascades -- of 30 IR-5 and 30 IR-6S devices respectively -- at Iran's Natanz uranium enrichment plant, in a ceremony broadcast by state television.State TV aired no images of the injection of uranium hexafluoride gas into the cascades, but broadcast a link with engineers at the plant who said they had started the process and showed rows of centrifuges.Rouhani also launched tests on the "mechanical stability" of its latest-generation IR-9 centrifuges, and remotely opened a centrifuge assembly factory to replace a plant that was badly damaged in a July 2020 "terrorist" blast.Under the 2015 deal between Tehran and world powers, Iran is currently only allowed to use "first-generation" IR-1 centrifuges for production, and to test a limited number of IR-4 and IR-5 devices.The US unilaterally withdrew from the nuclear deal in 2018 under then-president Donald Trump, who reimposed crippling sanctions on Tehran, which responded by stepping back from several of its commitments under the deal.Trump's successor Joe Biden has said he is prepared to return, arguing the deal had -- until Washington's withdrawal -- been successful in dramatically scaling back Iran's nuclear activities.Iran's latest move to step up uranium enrichment follows an opening round of talks in Vienna Tuesday with representatives of the remaining parties to the deal on bringing the US back into it.The Vienna talks are focused not only on lifting the crippling economic sanctions Trump reimposed, but also on bringing Iran back into compliance.All sides said the talks, in which Washington is not participating directly but is relying on the European Union as an intermediary, got off to a good start.Iran has demanded that the US first lift all sanctions imposed by Trump, including a sweeping unilateral ban on its oil exports, before it falls back in line.The "US -- which caused this crisis -- should return to full compliance first," Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif tweeted, adding that "Iran will reciprocate following rapid verification."'Seriousness of purpose'Washington has demanded movement from Tehran."The United States team put forward a very serious idea and demonstrated a seriousness of purpose on coming back into compliance if Iran comes back into compliance," a US official told reporters as talks broke for the weekend.But the official said the United States was waiting for its efforts to be "reciprocated" by Iran.The US official indicated the major stumbling block in the initial talks was not the order of compliance but rather which sanctions were under discussion, as Iran is demanding an end to all US restrictions.The nuclear deal, formally known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, covers only nuclear sanctions and not US measures taken in response to human rights or other concerns, the official said.The far more powerful centrifuges started up on Saturday allow uranium to be enriched quicker and in greater amounts than Iran's first-generation devices.Uranium enrichment can produce the fuel for a nuclear reactor, or in highly extended form, the fissile core of an atomic warhead. It is one of the most sensitive nuclear activities carried out by Iran.Rouhani again underlined at the ceremony, which coincided with Iran's National Nuclear Technology Day, that Tehran's nuclear programme is solely for "peaceful" purposes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-starts-up-advanced-centrifuges-in-nuclear-deal-breach-101618078406623.html
10-04-2021||World||Nasa’s Ingenuity helicopter first flight on Mars delayed. Here’s what happened||Nasa has rescheduled the first flight attempt of the Ingenuity helicopter on Mars to no earlier than April 14 based on data that arrived late Friday night. Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) on Saturday said that the decision to postpone the flight attempt was taken after an issue was flagged during a high-speed test of the blades. The rotorcraft weighing 1.8 kilograms was earlier expected to take off this weekend and hover 10 feet above the surface for up to 30 seconds.Nasa JPL said in a statement that the command sequence controlling the full-speed test ended early due to a “watchdog” timer expiration. The watchdog timer oversees the command sequence and alerts the system about any potential issues. The timer helps Ingenuity stay safe by not proceeding if an issue is encountered.The watchdog timer expiration occurred when the command sequence was trying to transition the flight computer from ‘Pre-Flight’ to ‘Flight’ mode. Nasa stressed that the Ingenuity helicopter, which had travelled to Mars being attached on the Perseverance rover’s belly, is safe and healthy and communicated its full telemetry set to Earth.“The helicopter team is reviewing telemetry to diagnose and understand the issue. Following that, they will reschedule the full-speed test,” said Nasa.After dropping from Perseverance belly, Ingenuity survived the first night on its own and successfully tested the blades at a lower speed. It is required to spin up rotor blades at planned flight speed for the first time on Mars while still on the surface. If all issues get resolved, it will lift off for the first time in the thin Martian atmosphere no earlier than April 14.Ingenuity’s guidance, navigation, and control systems will do the piloting for autonomous flight attempt, mostly because radio signals will take 15 minutes and 27 seconds to bridge the 278-million-kilometre gap between Mars and Earth. The live coverage confirming Ingenuity’s first flight will be available on Nasa’s website, app, and television. It will also be live-streamed on multiple social media platforms of the US space agency, including the JPL YouTube and Facebook channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-ingenuity-helicopter-first-flight-on-mars-delayed-here-s-what-happened-101618076239444.html
10-04-2021||World||Severe storm damages buildings in Florida Panhandle||A cluster of severe storms swept across Southern states early Saturday, destroying buildings in the Florida Panhandle and dropping large hail on a coastal Alabama city.In Panama City Beach, Florida, a home and convenience store were leveled by a possible tornado, city officials said in a Facebook post . A resident's photo posted by The Panama City News Herald shows the store's roof and walls ripped away, but its counters, shelves and the merchandise they held appear untouched. There were no immediate reports of injuries.The town is in Bay County, which was heavily damaged by Hurricane Michael in 2018.In Pensacola, Florida, the roof of a downtown brewery was ripped off by the storm, local news reports show. The National Weather Service has not confirmed if that was caused by a tornado.Images shared by news outlets showed car windshields shattered by hail about as large as baseballs in Orange Beach, Alabama.Storms also brought heavy rain and strong winds to parts of Louisiana and Mississippi.Some flooding was reported. Several thousand customers lost power overnight, according to utility tracking website poweroutage.us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/severe-storm-damages-buildings-in-florida-panhandle-101618076049803.html
10-04-2021||World||India finalises air bubble pact with Sri Lanka||New Delhi, Apr 10 (PTI) India has established a bilateral air bubble arrangement with Sri Lanka for operation of special international passenger flights between the two countries, the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Saturday.With this, India now has such pacts with 28 countries, including Afghanistan, Bahrain, Canada, France, Germany, Iraq, Japan, the Maldives, Nigeria, Qatar, the UAE, the UK and the USA.Under an air bubble pact between two countries, special international passenger flights can be operated by their airlines into each other's territories under restrictive conditions."India has finalized an air bubble agreement with Sri Lanka, making it the 6th such arrangement in SAARC region and the 28th in total," the Civil Aviation Ministry said on Twitter."All the eligible passengers will be able to travel between the 2 countries in the near future," it noted.Scheduled international flights have been suspended in India since March 23, 2020 due to the coronavirus pandemic.However, special international passenger flights have been operating under the Vande Bharat Mission since May last year and under bilateral air bubble arrangements since July.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-finalises-air-bubble-pact-with-sri-lanka-101618076014125.html
10-04-2021||World||US defends freedom of navigation ops in India’s EEZ||The United States has defended the freedom of navigation operation conducted by its 7th Fleet in India’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ). The US said it was an “innocent passage through the … in the ‘vicinity’ of the Republic of the Maldives and that the US will continue to maintain the right, indeed the responsibility to fly, sail and operate in accordance with international law”.Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby told reporters on Friday that the USS John Paul Jones, a Navy destroyer, “asserted navigational rights and freedoms in the vicinity of the Republic of the Maldives by conducting innocent passage through its territorial sea, in normal operations with its exclusive economic zone, without requesting prior permission and that’s consistent with international law”. “Again, we will continue to maintain the right, indeed the responsibility to fly, sail and operate in accordance with international law,” he added.Pressed further, the spokesperson said, “We do it all around the world. It’s not just something that - you know, we - we tend to talk about it in - in regard to China and their excessive maritime claims but it isn’t all just about China, it’s something we do all around the world.”US Navy’s 7th Fleet had said that on Wednesday, USS John Paul Jones “asserted navigational rights and freedoms” around 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent, consistent with international law, as required by India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-defends-freedom-of-navigation-ops-in-india-s-eez-101618072225616.html
10-04-2021||World||Prince Philip's funeral to be at Windsor Castle on April 17||Buckingham Palace officials say Prince Philip’s funeral will take place April 17 at Windsor Castle in a family service that will be closed to the public.The palace said Philip, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, took part in planning his funeral and the focus on family was in accordance with his wishes. The 99-year-old duke died Friday.Prince Harry, who stepped away from royal duties last year and now lives in California, will attend the service along with other members of the royal family. His wife, the duchess of Sussex, who is pregnant, has been advised by her doctor not to attend.Palace officials said that the ceremony would be conducted strictly in line with government Covid-19 guidelines, which restrict the number of people attending funerals. They declined to say whether the royal family would be required to wear masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/prince-philip-s-funeral-to-be-at-windsor-castle-on-april-17-101618071061662.html
10-04-2021||World||Caribbean's St. Vincent awaits new volcanic explosions as help arrives||Extremely heavy ashfall rained down across the eastern Caribbean island of St. Vincent on Saturday and a strong sulfur smell enveloped communities a day after a powerful explosion at La Soufriere volcano uprooted the lives of thousands of people who evacuated their homes under government orders.Lush green Caribbean villages were transformed into a sort of gloomy, gray version of Alpine villages under a blanket of fine soot, which also hung in the air, obscuring the sun.Nearby nations including Antigua and Guyana have offered help by either shipping emergency supplies or temporarily opening their borders to the roughly 16,000 evacuees fleeing ash-covered communities with as many personal belongings as they could stuff into suitcases and backpacks.The volcano, which last had a sizable eruption in 1979, kept rumbling and experts warned that explosions could continue for days or weeks. A previous eruption in 1902 killed some 1,600 people.“The first bang is not necessarily the biggest bang this volcano will give,” Richard Robertson, a geologist with the University of the West Indies’ Seismic Research Center, said during a news conference.Conditions for many worsened overnight as heavy ash covered homes, cars and streets and even the runway of the airport at the opposite end of the roughly 20-mile (30-kilometer) long island from the volcano’s crater. People left footprints in the ash as they trudged away from their homes.Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves told NBC Radio, a local station, that officials were trying to figure out how to remove the ash.“It's difficult to breath,” Gonsalves said, adding that while the volcano's venting has diminished, a big plume of ash and smoke remained. “What goes up, must come down.”He asked people to remain calm, have patience and keep protecting themselves from the coronavirus as he celebrated that no deaths or injuries were reported after the eruption in the northern tip of St. Vincent, part of an island chain that includes the Grenadines and is home to more than 100,000 people.“Agriculture will be badly affected, and we may have some loss of animals, and we will have to do repairs to houses, but if we have life, and we have strength, we will build it back better, stronger, together,” he said.Gonsalves has said that depending on the damage caused by the explosion, it could take up to four months for life to return to normal. Some 3,200 people were staying in 78 government shelters while four empty cruise ships floated nearby, waiting to take other evacuees to nearby islands. Those staying in shelters were tested for COVID-19, and anyone testing positive would be taken to an isolation center.The first explosion occurred Friday morning, a day after the government ordered mandatory evacuations based on warnings from scientists who noted a type of seismic activity before dawn on Thursday that meant magma was on the move close to the surface.An ash column burst more than 33,000 feet (7 kilometers) into the sky, with lightning crackling through the still-towering cloud late Friday.The ash forced the cancellation of several flights and poor visibility limited evacuations in some areas. Officials warned that Barbados, St. Lucia and Grenada could see light ashfall as the 4,003-foot (1,220-meter) volcano continued to rumble. The majority of ash was expected to head northeast into the Atlantic Ocean.La Soufriere previously had an effusive eruption in December, prompting experts from around the region to fly in and analyze the formation of a new volcanic dome and changes to its crater lake, among other things.The eastern Caribbean has 19 live volcanoes, including two underwater near the island of Grenada. One of those, Kick ’Em Jenny, has been active in recent years. But the most active volcano of all is Soufriere Hills in Montserrat. It has erupted continuously since 1995, razing the capital of Plymouth and killing at least 19 people in 1997.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/st-vincent-awaits-new-volcanic-explosions-as-help-arrives-101618068619363.html
10-04-2021||World||Let us rebuild Beirut's port in less than three years, says French company||French container shipping group CMA CGM is pursuing a plan to rebuild Beirut's port within three years, despite political deadlock in Lebanon that has prevented decisions on the port since a blast last August, a company executive said.A chemical explosion at the port killed 200 people and destroyed entire neighbourhoods, deepening Lebanon's worst political and economic crisis since the 1975-1990 civil war.CMA CGM's plan, first outlined to Lebanese authorities in September, envisages the reconstruction of damaged docks and warehouses, along with port expansion and digitalisation, at a total cost estimated at $400 million to $600 million, Joe Dakkak, general manager CMA CGM Lebanon, said on Saturday."Our offer remains on the table," he told Reuters. "Our project is a realistic one because the situation is urgent."On Friday, German companies presented a separate multi-billion-dollar plan to rebuild Beirut's port and neighbouring districts, confirming a previous report by Reuters.Dakkak said the German initiative was more focused on longer-term real-estate development but CMA CGM would be willing to contribute to the port part of that project if invited to.CMA CGM is controlled by the French-Lebanese Saade family and the group joined French President Emmanuel Macron in relief efforts in Beirut following the explosion last summer.The French government is not part of CMA CGM's reconstruction plan, Dakkak said, adding French companies and financial institutions had shown interest, and that the Lebanese state would have a role through a public-private partnership.As well as devastating the bulk section of Beirut port, last year's blast destroyed equipment in the container terminal. This has doubled waiting time for vessels, adding to longstanding inefficiencies at the port, according to Dakkak.CMA CGM is the leading shipping operator at Beirut port, accounting for 60% of volumes, and remains a candidate in partnership with Swiss-based MSC for the concession to run the container terminal, Dakkak said.It has been told a tender process to run the container terminal, held up by the political crisis, will be relaunched in two weeks, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/let-us-rebuild-beirut-s-port-in-less-than-three-years-says-french-company-101618068108971.html
10-04-2021||World||China's graft watchdog rebukes 'mukbang' binge-eating, drinking videos||China's corruption watchdog has called on online video-sharing platforms to take action against "mukbang" shows, in which people livestream themselves eating - or drinking - excessively, saying such content encourages food waste.Mukbang videos originated in South Korea and are increasingly popular in China, but they have faced sharp criticism from state media and regulatory crackdowns - especially since President Xi Jinping launched a campaign to curb food wastage last year.The country's graft watchdog, the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), said video-hosting platforms should strengthen their supervision, stop and remove inappropriate broadcasts and block the accounts of offenders.Punishments for people uploading such content should also be toughened, the commission said in an article posted on its website on Saturday, noting that binge drinking videos have become more popular following a clampdown on heavy eating streams."Behaviour such as 'heavy drinking videos' not only damages the physical health of the presenters and causes food waste, but also promotes an ugly mentality and seriously harms the healthy ecology of the industry," it said.The watchdog said some people uploading mukbang videos were earning as much as 3,000 yuan ($458) in pledges by fans.China cracked down on "inappropriate" content on the video-sharing website Kuaishou in 2018, suspending the account of one user known as Hebei Pangzai, who regularly shared videos of himself drinking copious amounts of beer to his 400,000 followers. He now shares videos on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-graft-watchdog-rebukes-mukbang-binge-eating-drinking-videos-101618066125643.html
10-04-2021||World||Explained: Why is Russia massing troops in Donbas region of eastern Ukraine?||Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy is set to hold talks on Saturday with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan amid rising tension with Russia over the conflict in Ukraine's eastern Donbas region. Last week, Ukrainian commander-in-chief Ruslan Khomchak accused Moscow of pursuing an “aggressive policy” towards Kyiv by amassing troops near the contested region.The continued military build-up in the area around eastern Ukraine has triggered a strong response from the West as the United States has warned of “consequences”. White House press secretary Jen Psaki said at a daily briefing that the US is in close consultation with its allies in the region over Russia’s troop movements. “Of the actions that have already been taken, that we’ve had an ongoing review about we’ve been clear, There will be consequences, some unseen and some seen. We will hope to have more about those soon,” Psaki said on Friday.During a phone call with Russian President Vladimir Putin, German Chancellor Angela Merkel demanded a reduction in troops at the Ukrainian border. "One subject of their conversation was, among others, the increased Russian military presence near eastern Ukraine. The chancellor called for a reduction of these troop reinforcements to de-escalate tensions," the German government said in a statement.Also Read | Any attempt to start a new war in Donbas could destroy Ukraine: RussiaHowever, Moscow accused Kyiv of provocative actions which “has recently purposefully escalated the situation on the line of contact”. Kremlin said in a statement that Putin stressed the need for strict implementation of previously reached agreements to “legally formalise the special status of Donbas”.Ukraine, a country geographically divided between Europe and Russia, has pro-Russia and pro-West people. The fourth Ukrainian president, Viktor Yanukovych, was pro-Russia and backed away from EU Association Agreement in November 2013 to prevent the country from turning to the West. Yanukovych’s U-turn over signing the agreement triggered protests and he had to flee to Russia.The tensions later spread to Crimea and the territory was annexed by Russia following a controversial referendum, which Crimean Tatars, an East European Turkic ethnic group, and Ukrainians had objected to. The long-running conflict has claimed more than 13,000 lives since 2014. Pro-Russian separatists also claim control over the Donbas region, which includes Donetsk and Luhansk provinces.Minsk Agreements were signed between the pro-Russian separatists and the Kyiv administration to stop the armed conflict. The agreements called for a ceasefire in the region as well as prisoner exchange while allowing the Ukrainian government to make a constitutional amendment that would provide for special status to Donbas. But the implementation of those agreements has been hampered by multiple ceasefire violations for which the two sides have traded blames.Earlier this week, Zelensky urged Nato, an intergovernmental military alliance between Western powers, to speed up his country’s membership. In a phone call with NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg, the Ukrainian president said that it was the only way to end fighting with pro-Russia separatists and end the war in Donbas. Russia sees Ukraine’s entry into Nato as a threat and fears have been mounting of a major escalation in the conflict areas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-why-is-russia-massing-troops-in-donbas-region-of-eastern-ukraine-101618065586026.html
10-04-2021||World||Covid-19 pandemic: South Asia surpasses grim milestone of 15 million cases||Coronavirus infections in the South Asia sub-region surpassed the grim milestone of 15 million on Saturday, a Reuters tally shows, led by India's record daily infections and vaccine shortages.South Asia - India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Bhutan, Nepal, Maldives, and Sri Lanka - accounts for 11% of global cases and almost 6% of deaths. The region accounts for 23% of the world's population of 7.59 billion people.India, the country with the third-highest coronavirus total, accounts for over 84% of South Asia's cases and deaths.The world's second-most populous country reported 145,384 new cases on Saturday, the fastest climb in the world and the country's fifth record this week, as well as 794 deaths. The government blames the current spike on crowding and a reluctance to wear masks.India is accounting for one in every six reported infections in its current surge.While ramping up its vaccination drive, inoculating about 4 million people a day, several states said they were rationing doses as the federal government was not refilling stocks in time.India's western neighbour Pakistan, the second-hardest hit in the region, is in its third wave, recording more than 700,000 cases and 15,000 related deaths.It has seen a sharp rise in cases in the past 10 days. Officials say there are now more people in intensive care than at any other point during the pandemic.Bangladesh, India's eastern neighbour, is reporting about 7,000 cases a day, totalling some 678,937 cases.Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi has given Bangladesh 1.2 million doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine.At least 94.1 million people had received their first Covid-19 vaccine dose in southern Asia by Friday, according to figures from Our World in Data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-pandemic-south-asia-surpasses-grim-milestone-of-15-million-cases-101618063807185.html
10-04-2021||World||Strong earthquake kills 6 people in Java, Indonesia; no tsunami warning||A strong earthquake killed at least six people and damaged buildings on Indonesia's main island of Java and shook the tourist hotspot of Bali, officials said Saturday. No tsunami warnings were posted.The US Geological Survey said the magnitude 6.0 quake struck off the island's southern coast at 2:00 p.m. local time (0700 GMT). It was centered 45 kilometres south of Sumberpucung town of Malang District in East Java province, at a depth of 82 kilometres (51 miles).Rahmat Triyono, the head of Indonesia's earthquake and tsunami center, said in a statement the undersea earthquake did not have the potential to cause a tsunami. Still, he urged people to stay away from slopes of soil or rocks that have the potential for landslides.Falling rocks killed a woman on a motorcycle and badly injured her husband in East Java's Lumajang district, said Raditya Jati, spokesperson for the National Disaster Mitigation Agency.He said dozens of homes were damaged across the district, and rescuers had retrieved two bodies from the rubble of collapsed homes in the district's Kali Uling village. Two people were also confirmed killed in an area bordering Lumajang and Malang districts, while one person found dead under rubble in Malang.Television reports showed people running in panic from malls and buildings in several cities in East Java province.Indonesia's search and rescue agency released videos and photos of damaged houses and buildings, including a ceiling at a hospital in Blitar, a city neighboring Malang. Authorities were still collecting information about the full scale of casualties and damage in the affected areas.It was the second deadly disaster to hit Indonesia this week. On Sunday, a downpour triggered by Tropical Cyclone Seroja killed at least 165 people and damaged thousands of houses. Some were buried in either mudslides or solidified lava from a volcanic eruption in November, while others were swept away by flash flooding.Indonesia, a vast archipelago of 270 million people, is frequently struck by earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis because of its location on the “Ring of Fire,” an arc of volcanoes and fault lines in the Pacific Basin.In January, a magnitude 6.2 earthquake killed at least 105 people and injured nearly 6,500, while more than 92,000 displaced, after striking Mamuju and Majene districts in West Sulawesi province.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/strong-earthquake-kills-6-people-in-java-indonesia-no-tsunami-warning-issued-101618061596168.html
10-04-2021||World||With artillery guns and flowers, Britain salutes Prince Philip||Gun salutes were fired across Britain on Saturday to mark the death of Prince Philip as tributes flooded in for a man who was a pillar of strength for Queen Elizabeth during her record-breaking reign.Members of the public laid flowers outside royal residences, paying their respects to the 99-year-old prince who spent more than seven decades at his wife's side.On its official Twitter feed, the royal family put up a tribute paid by the queen to her husband on their 50th wedding anniversary in 1997."He has, quite simply, been my strength and stay all these years, and I, and his whole family, and this and many other countries, owe him a debt greater than he would ever claim, or we shall ever know," she said.Members of the family have been visiting the grieving monarch at Windsor Castle where Philip died on Friday."The queen has been amazing," said a tearful Sophie, the Countess of Wessex, as she left with her husband Prince Edward, the youngest son of Elizabeth and Philip.The armed forces marked Philip's passing at noon (1100 GMT) with a Death Gun Salute. Artillery units in London, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast and Gibraltar, and some navy warships, fired their guns.Buckingham Palace is expected to announce details of the funeral later on Saturday.It is likely to be a small, private affair, stripped of the grandeur of traditional royal occasions by Covid-19 restrictions and by the prince's own dislike of people making a fuss.Despite a request from the royal family for the public to obey pandemic social distancing rules and avoid visits to its residences, people laid cards and bouquets outside Windsor Castle and Buckingham Palace."It's not something I've ever done before," said Joanna Reesby, 60, who came to pay her respects at Buckingham Palace. "I brought yellow roses for friendship because I think that's what he exhibited to everyone who came into his world."'BELOVED HUSBAND'The queen, 94, announced the death of "her beloved husband", and she has lost her closest confidante, the one person she could trust and who was free to speak his mind to her. They had been married for 73 years and he would have turned 100 in June.Messages of condolence have poured in from world leaders.The Duke of Edinburgh, as Philip was officially known, was credited with helping to modernise the institution and supporting his wife as the monarchy faced repeated crises during her reign, which has lasted 69 years so far.The tenor bell at London's Westminster Abbey tolled 99 times, a traditional marking of the death of a royal family member.Flags at Buckingham Palace and at government buildings across Britain were lowered to half-mast and billboard operators replaced adverts with a photo and tribute to the prince.The BBC aired a special programme with interviews with the queen and Philip's children, including heir-to-the-throne Prince Charles.Philip "probably wanted to be remembered as an individual in his own right", said Charles."He didn't suffer fools gladly, so if you said anything that was in any way ambiguous, he would say: 'Make up your mind!' Perhaps it made one choose one's words carefully," Charles said.A Greek prince, Philip married Elizabeth in 1947 and broke the news of her father's death five years later while they were in Kenya, meaning that she was queen at the age of 25.He went on to play a key role helping the monarchy adapt to a changing world in the post-World War Two period, finally stepping back from public duties in 2017."I think he'll be remembered as a moderniser in many ways, as someone who both inside the palace and outside the palace was a force for change," Simon Lewis, the queen’s communications secretary from 1998 to 2001, told Reuters.He said Philip's loss would be a terrible blow to the queen."I think they were the most extraordinary partnership and that's going to be a huge, huge, gap," Lewis said. "I think he always saw himself partly as the eyes and the ears of the queen - that's gone forever."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/with-artillery-guns-and-flowers-britain-salutes-prince-philip-101618058550397.html
10-04-2021||World||UK's Prince Philip honoured with 41-gun salutes after death||Gun salutes across the U.K., in Commonwealth countries and at sea are marking the death of Britain’s Prince Philip on Saturday as military leaders honor the former naval officer and husband of Queen Elizabeth II.Batteries of cannons in London, Edinburgh, Cardiff, Belfast and other cities fired 41 rounds at one-minute intervals starting at midday. The Australian Defense Force offered its salute at 5 p.m. local time outside Parliament House in Canberra, and New Zealand planned to give an artillery tribute on Sunday.“His Royal Highness leaves us with a legacy of indomitable spirit, steadfastness and an unshakeable sense of duty,’’ said General Nick Carter, chief of the U.K. Defense Staff. “From all of us who serve today and who have served, thank you.”Also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, Philip served in the Royal Navy during World War II and once had a promising military career. He joined the Royal Navy as a cadet in 1939 and won mentions during the war for his service aboard the battleship HMS Valiant at Cape Matapan, on Greece’s Peloponnesian peninsula. He rose to the rank of commander before he retired from active duty.Two years after the war ended, Philip married the future queen at Westminster Abbey when she was 21 and he was 26. His naval career came to an abrupt end when King George VI died in 1952 and Elizabeth became queen.At the queen’s coronation in 1953, Philip swore to be his wife’s “liege man of life and limb” and settled into a life supporting the monarch. The couple had four children — Charles, the heir to the throne, Anne, Andrew and Edward.Members of the public left flowers outside Buckingham Palace and Windsor Castle on Saturday, ignoring appeals from authorities and the royal family to refrain from gathering because of the Covid-19 pandemic.“Oh, I think everyone’s in shock,” Maureen Field, a 67-year-old Staines resident, said. “ I think everyone would like to pay their respects. Because of the virus, a lot of people have to stay away. He didn’t want a big funeral. He wanted a very private time with his family to say their goodbyes. So, we’ve all got to respect that.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-prince-philip-honoured-with-41-gun-salutes-after-death-101618057176526.html
10-04-2021||World||New York City's next mayor could be decided in the Black church||The race to become New York City’s next mayor is playing out in the hallowed halls of Black churches.Long a dominating force in New York politics, Black churches have taken on even more importance during a pandemic that shuttered businesses and curtailed large gatherings. With many church services still held in-person and traditional campaign events rendered unthinkable, candidates are looking to weekly rites to connect with one of the most important voting blocs in the city before the June 22 Democratic primary.Black New Yorkers made up nearly a quarter of the city’s potential voters, according to Census Bureau data. While they don’t hold monolithic views, in New York they are more politically engaged than other demographics and lean Democratic in a city where Democrats already outnumber Republicans seven-to-one.Now, as the city focuses its massive vaccination program on houses of worship to reach the Black and minority residents who have been hardest-hit by Covid-19, the role of the church carries even more sway.“The Black church for generations has been the cornerstone and the backbone of the Black community,” said Laurie Cumbo, City Council majority leader and part of the body’s Black, Latino and Asian Caucus. “Because of that the Black church has been an instrumental platform in terms of political dynamics and political leadership.”Personal ConnectionOn a recent Sunday, New York City mayoral hopeful Ray McGuire made his way to Mount Olivet Baptist Church. Located in a Queens neighborhood that is 65% Black, Mount Olivet was buzzing with energy as children raced in between pews and congregants made their way to their seats after getting their temperatures checked at the door.For months, the pandemic had trapped McGuire on endless Zoom calls to preach his vision for the city. But as the former investment banker walked into the church, the tightness in his shoulders loosened. The frustrations of trying to break through a screen eased. Finally he could greet congregants face-to-face. Shake hands with the pastor. Make jokes. When a staffer asked if he felt comfortable in the pews, he recalled his poor Ohio childhood. “I grew up in the church,” he said “The church is my home.”It’s not just McGuire. Nearly every mayoral candidate is spending Sundays visiting Black churches, working with clergy on vaccine drives, and volunteering at church food pantries.“To be able to connect with people around these shared values and ideas and in this communal community space has been a very powerful and positive part of the campaign,” Dianne Morales, a Brooklyn native and former public school teacher running for mayor. “As someone who’s not religious at all, it’s been inspiring to enter into those spaces and find alignment and resonance in the message.”Civil rights lawyer Maya Wiley, who would become the city’s first female mayor, said she hired a staffer specifically to work with religious institutions. She regularly attends Sunday church and called religious institutions “key partners” in the city’s economic revival.Former presidential candidate Andrew Yang, who also tasked a top aide with religious outreach, has worshiped at the House of Justice alongside Reverend Al Sharpton and plans to visit several houses of worship throughout his campaign, a campaign spokesperson said.Yang was the first choice for 16% of likely Democratic voters, but only 13% of Black respondents in a March 24 poll by Fontas Advisors and Core Decision Analytics. By contrast, 19% of Black voters named Brooklyn Borough President Eric Adams as their first choice, compared to 10% among all those surveyed. Wiley is ranked third overall, as well as with Black voters. However, pollster George Fontas cautioned that early polls, when broken out by demographics, remain inconclusive because half of those surveyed remain undecided. Black VotersBlack churches have played an outsize role in New York politics dating back to the 1940’s, when the city passed some of the nation’s first civil rights laws. Pastors like Harlem’s Adam Clayton Powell Jr. rose to national prominence and Martin Luther King Jr. famously condemned the Vietnam War in a 1967 speech at Manhattan’s Riverside Church. More recently, Mayor Bill de Blasio garnered 96% of votes cast by Black New Yorkers when he first ran for mayor in 2013, which propelled him to victory. “Black voters delivered a win for de Blasio,” said Christina Greer, an associate professor of political science at Fordham University.Nationally, Black voters came out in droves during the November presidential elections and January’s runoff election in Georgia, which thrust Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff to office and allowed Democrats to take the Senate. Roughly 115,000 runoff voters hadn’t cast a general election ballot and 40% of them were Black, according to Democratic voter-data firm TargetSmart. In New York City, nearly a third of Black workers belong to a labor union, according to a CUNY School of Labor and Urban Studies report. That’s the highest rate among all demographics in a city where unions dominate local elections and membership is double the national average.More than 80% of Black voters lean Democrat, according to a February study by the Pew Research Center. Black Protestants and Catholics are more politically engaged than unaffiliated peers and a quarter of Black Americans said houses of worship should offer sermons on political topics, Pew found.“The person that campaigns in our communities and has a solid plan to address our issues will win,” said Cheryl Watts, a retired correction officer who’s also a member of the Mount Pisgah Baptist Church in Brooklyn and a leader of Community Voices Heard, a New York advocacy group.Pastor NetworkReverend Kevin Miller, the pastor at Carter Community African Methodist Episcopal Church in Jamaica, Queens, said visiting one Black church can help candidates tap a larger network.“It’s not a case of talking to one particular congregation — you’re really talking to a collaboration of Black churches in the community,” said Miller, a member of the clergy engagement team for nonprofit Faith in New York. “Pastors are in communication with one another, we’re in alliances.”He said his members are looking for candidates to address communities of color with specific plans for issues like rent relief, immigration, pandemic recovery and education. “These candidates need to answer those questions,” Miller said. “People here have lost their jobs and are struggling. The stimulus checks are nice and wonderful but they can only go so far.” One major topic is criminal justice reform, which draws support from nearly 90% of Black adults, according to Pew. Candidates have promised to overhaul the city’s beleaguered police department and curtail the force’s budget but most have stopped short of calls to wholeheartedly defund the police — a rallying cry for activists during last summer’s Black Lives Matter protests.Adams, a former high-ranking police officer, has pledged to recruit more officers from communities of color and publicize the list of officers being monitored by the NYPD after violent incidents. He recently told congregants at Staten Island’s St. Philip’s Baptist Church how NYPD officers arrested and beat him and his brother as teens, an experience that shaped his views of police reform.“I have gone through some stuff,” he said from the church pulpit. “It’s time for us to have a mayor that has gone through some stuff so he can help people going through some stuff.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-york-city-s-next-mayor-could-be-decided-in-the-black-church-101618056560568.html
10-04-2021||World||Too much? BBC gets complaints over Prince Philip coverage||The U.K.’s national broadcaster switched instantly into mourning mode when Prince Philip’s death was announced Friday.The BBC canceled its regular programming and aired special coverage hosted by black-clad news anchors throughout the day. Popular prime-time shows such as the cooking contest “MasterChef” were supplanted, and the network’s music radio stations played instrumentals and somber tunes.Some Britons saw the BBC’s actions as a fitting mark of respect. For others, it was a bit much.The broadcaster received so many complaints alleging its reporting was excessive that it set up a special website page for viewers to register objections if they felt there was “too much TV coverage of the death of HRH Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.” It didn’t disclose how many people had complained by Saturday.Simon McCoy, a long-time BBC news presenter who recently left the network, suggested the wall-to-wall coverage was inordinate.“BBC1 and BBC2 showing the same thing. And presumably the News Channel, too. Why? I know this is a huge event. But surely the public deserve a choice of programming?” McCoy said on Twitter.The publicly funded BBC often finds itself under fire from all sides for its treatment of major national events. When the Queen Mother Elizabeth died in 2002, the broadcaster received criticism because the announcer who delivered the news did not wear a black tie.Britain’s other TV stations also gave extensive coverage to Philip’s death at age 99 and after 73 years of marriage to Queen Elizabeth II. Commercial network ITV aired news coverage and tribute programs all day Friday in place of scheduled programming.The BBC is under unique pressure, though, because it is taxpayer-funded. Scrutiny and questions about its role have grown in recent years as commercial rivals and streaming services give audiences more choice.The BBC has often irked governments with its coverage of their failings and scandals. Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s Conservative administration has been especially rankled, detecting a liberal bias in the broadcaster’s coverage of issues such as Brexit.For a time, the government refused to allow Cabinet ministers to appear on major BBC news programs, and it mulled the idea of scrapping the 159 pound ($218) a year license fee that households pay to fund the broadcaster.BBC Director-General Tim Davie has acknowledged the organization must evolve with changing times, but says it remains essential to British society.“We have a different purpose” than broadcasters such as Netflix, Davie told U.K. lawmakers last month. “I’m not running a business for profit. I’m running...an organization for purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/too-much-bbc-gets-complaints-over-prince-philip-coverage-101618056556554.html
10-04-2021||World||Dalai Lama sends condolences following Prince Philip's death||The Dalai Lama on Saturday expressed condolences on the passing away of Prince Philip, the Duke of Edinburgh and husband of United Kingdom's Queen Elizabeth.The Buddhist spiritual leader has sent letters addressed to both Queen Elizabeth and Prince Charles after Prince Philip died at 99 in the UK.To the Queen, he wrote: “I am sorry to learn the sad news that your husband, H.R.H. Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh has passed away. I will pray for him and offer my condolences to Your Royal Highness and your family at this sad time."“As we all remember him, we can rejoice that he lived a meaningful life.”In his letter to Prince Charles, he stated, “I have written to your mother, Her Majesty the Queen, offering my condolences at this sad time. As someone who counts you as a dear, respected friend, I would also like to offer my condolences to Your Royal Highness and your family.”He repeated his appreciation that the Duke lived a full and meaningful life.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dalai-lama-sends-condolences-following-prince-philip-s-death-101618056461429.html
10-04-2021||World||Iran orders 10-day shutdown amid 4th wave of Covid-19 pandemic||Iran imposed a 10-day lockdown across most of the country on Saturday to curb the spread of a fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic, state media reported.The lockdown affects 23 of the country’s 31 provinces, health ministry spokesman Alireza Raisi said. Businesses, schools, theatres and sports facilities have been forced to shut and gatherings are banned during the holy fasting month of Ramadan that begins on Wednesday. Iran’s coronavirus cases have surpassed 2 million with a new daily average of over 20,000 infections over the past week, according to the health ministry. It has reported more than 64,000 fatalities. “Unfortunately, today we have entered a fourth wave,” President Hassan Rouhani said in televised remarks. He blamed the surge foremost on the variant that first emerged in the UK which spread to Iran earlier this year from neighbouring Iraq.Other factors included widespread travel, weddings, and celebrations during the Iranian New Year holidays that began on March 20, he said.The UK variant is now predominant in the country, and 257 cities and towns are in red alert, Raisi said.Iran has been the epicentre of the pandemic in the Middle East. In February, it closed several crossing points with Iraq in an effort to stem the spread of the UK variant.The country's vaccination drive has also been slow going.Tehran says it has received more than 400,000 of 2 million Sputnik V vaccines on order from Russia, and that it is awaiting delivery of 4.2 million AstraZeneca shots.It has also received 250,000 doses of China’s Sinopharm vaccine and part of an order of 500,000 doses of India’s COVAXIN.With a population of 83 million, Iran had hoped to secure over 2 million vaccines by March 20 to vaccinate mainly healthcare workers. It is developing at least four local vaccine candidates, one in cooperation with Cuba, which are expected to reach production in a few months.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-orders-10-day-shutdown-amid-4th-wave-of-covid-19-pandemic-101618053739249.html
10-04-2021||World||Nasa’s Ingenuity helicopter ready to fly on Mars. Schedule and what to expect||Nasa’s Ingenuity helicopter is ready for its first flight on Mars this weekend after completing almost all the important milestones before the historic liftoff. After dropping off from the belly of the Perseverance rover, the Ingenuity helicopter unlocked its blades and conducted a slow spin test of its blades on Thursday.Nasa’s Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL), which built and manages operations of the Perseverance rover, released a GIF image of the slow spin test, indicating that Ingenuity is well on its way to attempt the first powered, controlled flight on another planet. But unlike the landing of Perseverance on Mars, we won’t know right away if the flight was successful.The rotorcraft weighing 1.8 kilograms is expected to take off from its “airfield” at around 10:54pm ET on April 11 (8:24am IST on April 12) and hover 10 feet above the surface for up to 30 seconds.Ingenuity’s guidance, navigation, and control systems will do the piloting for autonomous flight attempt, mostly because radio signals will take 15 minutes and 27 seconds to bridge the 278-million-kilometre gap between Mars and Earth.The first data from the first flight attempt is expected to arrive at Nasa’s JPL in Southern California at around 4:15am ET on April 12 (1:45pm IST on April 12).The Martian atmosphere is 99 per cent less dense than Earth's, which makes it difficult to achieve enough lift. Successful flights of Ingenuity could provide an ambitious aerial dimension to future Mars exploration.“We do tech demos like this to push the envelope of our experience and provide something on which the next missions and the next generation can build,” Thomas Zurbuchen, associate administrator for science at Nasa headquarters, said in a statement.“Just as Ingenuity was inspired by the Wright brothers, future explorers will take off using both the data and inspiration from this mission,” he added.Live coverage confirming Ingenuity’s first flight is targeted to begin around 3:30am ET, April 12, on Nasa’s website, app, and television. It will also be live-streamed on multiple social media platforms of the US space agency, including the JPL YouTube and Facebook channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-ingenuity-helicopter-ready-to-fly-on-mars-schedule-and-what-to-expect-101618050733180.html
10-04-2021||World||China comes down hard on Alibaba group, fines $2.78bn||Chinese regulators have hit top e-commerce giant Alibaba with a record 18.23 billion yuan ($2.78 billion) fine for violating anti-monopoly laws, it was announced on Saturday.The fine, the largest anti-monopoly fine ever rolled out by Chinese authorities, was imposed after an investigation revealed an “exclusive dealing agreement” that violated Chinese monopoly laws. The fine is equal to 4% of Alibaba’s sales in 2019, the Xinhua news agency said in a report on Saturday.The strongly worded statement said the company “abused” its dominant market position since 2015.Founded by China’s most famous entrepreneur, Jack Ma, once a schoolteacher who became a multi-billionaire, Alibaba is possibly the world’s biggest e-commerce company with hundreds of millions of users and billions of dollars in turnover - according to Bloomberg, it is Asia’s “most valuable corporation”.Its three main sites Taobao, Tmall and Alibaba.com host millions of merchants and businesses.But in December, China’s State Administration for Market Regulation started an investigation on Alibaba Group for alleged monopoly conduct including implementing an ‘exclusive dealing agreement’,” Xinhua, China’s official news agency, had then announced.The investigation was preceded by the suspension of Ant’s planned IPO in early November, which itself was indication of the troubles ahead of the company.The announcement on Saturday was made at the end of the investigation. “The administration ordered Alibaba Group to stop illegal activities and pay a fine of 18.228 billion yuan (about $ 2.78 billion), which is equal to 4% of its sales in China in 2019,” the Xinhua said.“The penalty was imposed according to China’s anti monopoly law based on the outcome of an extensive investigation and the evidence gathered from Alibaba Group and other competitive platforms and businesses,” the report added.According to the investigation, Alibaba’s conduct of implementing an “…exclusive dealing agreement hinders competition in China’s services market involving online retail platforms, impedes the free flow of goods, services and resources, and infringes the legitimate rights and interests of merchants on the platform as well as the interests of consumers”.Since 2015, the group has abused its dominant market position by prohibiting merchants on its platform from opening stores or participating in promotional activities on other competitive platforms, the investigation found.It has also used market forces, platform rules, data, algorithms and other technical means to implement the “exclusive dealing agreement”, the investigation report added.“In accordance with the principle of combining punishment with education, the administration also issued administrative guidance to the group, requiring it to conduct comprehensive rectification and submit self-inspection reports to the administration for three consecutive years,” the Xinhua report added.“The $2.75 billion fine bill is not as big as we think - it’s almost a symbolic fine for Alibaba... The implications for the rest of China’s internet platforms are limited,” Liu Xu, researcher at the National Strategy Institute, Tsinghua University, told Reuters.“A true enhancement of China’s anti-trust efforts will depend on persistent determination from the central government and a more transparent, fair mechanism to help the anti-trust forces to get rid of various kinds of interference during their investigations and enforcement,” Liu added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-comes-down-hard-on-alibaba-group-fines-278bn-101618052963729.html
10-04-2021||World||EU's Michel says he's sleeping badly after sofa gaffe in Turkey||European Council President Charles Michel is suffering from bad nights due to his embarrassment over a seating arrangement incident at a meeting in Ankara this week, he told German newspaper Handelsblatt.Ursula Von der Leyen, the first female president of the European Commission, expressed surprise and raised a hand in disbelief when she found Michel had taken the only chair available next to Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan at the talks.In the episode, caught on camera, she ended up being relegated to a sofa, further away."I make no secret of the fact that I haven't slept well at night since because the scenes keep replaying in my head," Michel told Handelsblatt, adding if it were possible he would go back and fix it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eus-michel-says-he-s-sleeping-badly-after-sofa-gaffe-in-turkey-101618052228960.html
10-04-2021||World||Explained: What is behind the latest unrest in Northern Ireland?||Young people have hurled bricks, fireworks and gasoline bombs at police and set hijacked cars and a bus on fire during a week of violence on the streets of Northern Ireland. Police responded with rubber bullets and water cannons.The streets were calmer Friday night, as community leaders appealed for calm after the death of Prince Philip, Queen Elizabeth II's 99-year-old husband. But small gangs of youths pelted police with objects and set a car ablaze during sporadic outbreaks in Belfast.The chaotic scenes have stirred memories of decades of Catholic-Protestant conflict, known as “The Troubles.” A 1998 peace deal ended large-scale violence but did not resolve Northern Ireland's deep-rooted tensions.A look at the background to the new violence:WHY IS NORTHERN IRELAND A CONTESTED LAND?Geographically, Northern Ireland is part of Ireland. Politically, it's part of the United Kingdom.Ireland, long dominated by its bigger neighbour, broke free about 100 years ago after centuries of colonisation and an uneasy union. Twenty-six of its 32 counties became an independent, Roman Catholic-majority country. Six counties in the north, which have a Protestant majority, stayed British.Northern Ireland's Catholic minority experienced discrimination in jobs, housing and other areas in the Protestant-run state. In the 1960s, a Catholic civil rights movement demanded change, but faced a harsh response from the government and police. Some people on both the Catholic and Protestant sides formed armed groups that escalated the violence with bombings and shootings.The British Army was deployed in 1969, initially to keep the peace. The situation deteriorated into a conflict between Irish republican militants who wanted to unite with the south, loyalist paramilitaries who sought to keep Northern Ireland British, and UK troops.During three decades of conflict more than 3,600 people, a majority of them civilians, were killed in bombings and shootings. Most were in Northern Ireland, though the Irish Republican Army also set off bombs in London and other British cities.HOW DID THE CONFLICT END?By the 1990s, after secret talks and with the help of diplomatic efforts by Ireland, Britain and the United States, the combatants reached a peace deal. The 1998 Good Friday accord saw the paramilitaries lay down their arms and established a Catholic-Protestant power-sharing government for Northern Ireland. The question of Northern Ireland's ultimate status was deferred: it would remain British as long as that was the majority's wish, but a future referendum on reunification was not ruled out.While the peace has largely endured, small Irish Republican Army splinter groups have mounted occasional attacks on security forces, and there have been outbreaks of sectarian street violence.Politically, the power-sharing arrangement has had periods of success and failure. The Belfast administration collapsed in January 2017 over a botched green energy project. It remained suspended for more than two years amid a rift between British unionist and Irish nationalist parties over cultural and political issues, including the status of the Irish language. Northern Ireland's government resumed work at the start of 2020, but there remains deep mistrust on both sides.HOW HAS BREXIT COMPLICATED THINGS?Northern Ireland has been called the “problem child” of Brexit, the UK's divorce from the European Union. As the only part of the UK that has a border with an EU nation — Ireland — it was the trickiest issue to resolve after Britain voted narrowly in 2016 to leave the 27-nation bloc.An open Irish border, over which people and goods flow freely, underpins the peace process, allowing people in Northern Ireland to feel at home in both Ireland and the UK.The insistence of Britain's Conservative government on a “hard Brexit” that took the country out of the EU's economic order meant the creation of new barriers and checks on trade. Both Britain and the EU agreed that border could not be in Ireland because of the risk that would pose to the peace process. The alternative was to put it, metaphorically, in the Irish Sea — between Northern Ireland and the rest of the UK.That arrangement has alarmed British unionists, who say it weakens Northern Ireland's place in the United Kingdom and could bolster calls for Irish reunification.WHY HAS VIOLENCE ERUPTED NOW?The violence has been largely in Protestant areas in and around Belfast and Northern Ireland's second city, Londonderry, although the disturbances have spread to Catholic neighborhoods.Britain left the EU's economic embrace on Dec. 31, and the new trade arrangements quickly became an irritant to Northern Ireland unionists who want to stay in the UK. Early trade glitches, exacerbated by the coronavirus pandemic, led to some empty supermarket shelves, fueling alarm. Border staff were temporarily withdrawn from Northern Ireland ports in February after threatening graffiti appeared to target port workers.There was anger that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who long insisted there would be no new checks on trade as a result of Brexit, had downplayed the scale of the changes wrought by leaving the EU. Some in Northern Ireland's British loyalist community feel as if their identity is under threat.“Many loyalists believe that, de facto, Northern Ireland has ceased to be as much a part of the UK as it was,” Ulster University politics professor Henry Patterson told Sky News.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-what-is-behind-the-latest-unrest-in-northern-ireland-101618051580998.html
10-04-2021||World||Chinese TV censor foreign fashion brands amid Xinjiang cotton row: Report||Amid Beijing's ongoing tussle with foreign companies over forced labour issues in Xinjiang, Chinese television channels have censored the logos and symbols of brands on sneakers and t-shirts worn by their contestants in various shows.Since late March, streaming platforms in China have started blurring out logos of western brands like Adidas that are worn by contestants performing dance, singing and standup-comedy routines, The New York Times reported.This comes after the big-name international companies said they would avoid using cotton produced in the western Chinese region of Xinjiang, where the authorities are accused of mounting a wide-reaching campaign of repression against ethnic minorities, including Uyghurs.Recently, several companies including H&M and Nike came under tremendous pressure after they said that they were concerned about allegations that forced labour has been used to produce cotton in Xinjiang.They are also been subjected to pressure amid China's rising tension with the west.The ruling Communist Party lashed out at H&M, Nike and other shoe and clothing brands last week after the United States, the European Union, Britain and Canada imposed travel and financial sanctions on officials accused of abuses in Xinjiang in China's northwest.China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghur Muslims by sending them to mass detention camps, interfering in their religious activities and sending members of the community to undergo some form of forcible re-education or indoctrination.Ying Zhu, a media professor at the City University of New York and Hong Kong Baptist University, suggested that the censorship was a response to both state and grass-roots patriotism, especially as the opinions of nationalistic viewers become more prominent and loud."The pressure is both top-down and bottom-up," said Professor Zhu. "There is no need for the state to issue a directive for the companies to rally behind. Nationalistic sentiment runs high and mighty, and it drowns all other voices."Last month, Chinese media called for Chinese boycotts of Swedish multinational retailer H&M, sports apparel powerhouses Nike and Adidas; New Balance; Burberry and other members of the Better Cotton Initiative (BCI) that have voiced concerns or pledged not to use supply chain components produced in Xinjiang, South China Morning Post reported.H&M, the world's second-largest clothing retailer, has been pulled from major e-commerce stores in China and blocked by several major navigation, review and rating apps.Dozens of Chinese celebrities have terminated contracts or said they would cut ties with these brands, including Nike, Adidas, Puma, Converse, Calvin Klein, Tommy Hilfiger, and Uniqlo -- a move lauded by state media.H&M was forced to close 20 stores in China following its statement on forced labour in Xinjiang that leads to uproar among Chinese nationals and authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-tv-censor-foreign-fashion-brands-amid-xinjiang-cotton-row-report-101618050435482.html
10-04-2021||World||United Arab Emirates names country's first female astronaut for space program||The United Arab Emirates named the next two astronauts in its space program Saturday, including the country's first female astronaut.Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, the ruler of Dubai who also serves as the autocratically ruled country's prime minister and vice president, named the two astronauts on Twitter.He identified Noura al-Matroushi as the UAE's first female astronaut, with her male counterpart as Mohammed al-Mulla.A later government promotional video described al-Matroushi, born in 1993, as an engineer at the Abu Dhabi-based National Petroleum Construction Co.Al-Mulla, born in 1988, serves as a pilot with Dubai police and heads their training division, the government said.The two had been selected among more than 4,000 applicants in the UAE, a federation of seven sheikhdoms on the Arabian Peninsula that's also home to Abu Dhabi.The two will undergo training at NASA's Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas.If al-Matroushi ends up going on a mission, she could become the first Arab woman in space, the UAE government said.Anousheh Raissyan, an Iranian-American telecommunications entrepreneur and millionaire from Dallas, became the first Muslim woman and first Iranian in space when she traveled as a self-funded civilian to the International Space Station in 2006. She reportedly paid $20 million to travel there as a tourist.The first Muslim in space was Saudi Prince Sultan bin Salman, who joined the crew of the shuttle Discovery in 1985.In 2019, Maj. Hazzaa al-Mansoori became the UAE's first astronaut in space, spending an eight-day mission aboard the International Space Station.The Emirates has had other recent successes in its space program. This February, the UAE put its Amal, or Hope, satellite in orbit around Mars, a first for the Arab world. In 2024, the country hopes to put an unmanned spacecraft on the moon.The UAE also has set the ambitious goal of building a human colony on Mars by 2117||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-arab-emirates-names-country-s-first-female-astronaut-for-space-program-101618049068817.html
10-04-2021||World||Hong Kong Police arrested over 10,200 due to protests in last 20 months||Hong Kong Police have arrested over 10,200 people in connection with the anti-government protests in the last 20 months, signalling the extent of the crackdown launched by Beijing-backed authorities to silence dissenters.Over 600 people have already convicted, according to South China Morning Post. During that period, 26 serving civil servants were arrested or charged over their suspected involvement in the social unrest.The figures were disclosed in papers released to lawmakers on Thursday by the Department of Justice, the Civil Service Bureau, and the Constitutional and Mainland Affairs Bureau.Of the 10,242 arrested, 2,521 had undergone or were undergoing judicial proceedings, including 720 charged with rioting. The rest have been charged with offences such as unlawful assembly, arson, desecrating the national flag, possession of an offensive weapon, assaulting a police officer, and stopping a vehicle on an expressway."Of the 2,521 arrestees having undergone or undergoing judicial proceedings, 883 have to bear legal consequences - including 614 convicted, 261 bound over, four subject to a care or protection order and four punished in civil proceedings for contempt of court," the justice department said."The charges against another 50 have been withdrawn and another 186 have been acquitted after trial, while the rest are undergoing judicial proceedings."According to the Civil Service Bureau, of the city's more than 170,000 civil servants, 26 were being investigated or had been charged, while there were "eight probationers whose service had been terminated under the Civil Service Regulations".The protests erupted in June 2019 over the now-withdrawn extradition bill. The bill was deemed as an example of increasing Chinese influence in Hong Kong.Hong Kong was rocked by months of protests, which were sparked by the now-withdrawn extradition bill in June 2019.The opposition to the bill morphed into wider and often violent civil unrest. It eventually led to Beijing imposing a national security law on the city last June. The law has been condemned by countries around the world and rights activists.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-police-arrested-over-10-200-due-to-protests-in-last-20-months-101618047816309.html
10-04-2021||World||Saudi Arabia says it executed 3 soldiers for 'high treason'||Saudi Arabia executed three soldiers Saturday it accused of committing “high treason,” without elaborating on which enemy the kingdom believed the men aided.The state-run Saudi Press Agency identified the men as soldiers working in the Defense Ministry.It did not elaborate on how the men aided the kingdom's enemies. Saudi Arabia is fighting Yemen's Iranian-backed Houthi rebels. The kingdom also views Iran as a regional archrival.The kingdom said the three men were convicted in court and a later royal order served as a death warrant.Saudi Arabia carried out the world's third most executions in 2019, according to figures from Amnesty International. The kingdom followed China and Iran, respectively. In 2019, the kingdom put to death 184 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-says-it-executed-3-soldiers-for-high-treason-101618045894195.html
10-04-2021||World||Chinese aircraft skirt Taiwan in second show of force this week||The Chinese air force sent a fleet of aircraft close to Taiwan for the second time this week in the latest sign of military intimidation against the separately ruled island.Eleven People’s Liberation Army planes flew into Taiwan’s southwest air defense identification zone Friday, according to a statement from Taipei’s Ministry of National Defense. The fleet included J-10 and J-16 fighter jets, electronic warfare and anti-submarine planes. Taiwan’s air force responded by sending patrol aircraft to the area and monitoring the Chinese planes with its air defense missile systems.Flights by small numbers of Chinese planes around Taiwan have become an almost daily occurrence over the past year, but Friday’s incident was the second significant incursion this week. On Wednesday, 15 PLA aircraft entered Taiwan’s ADIZ on the same day the USS John S. McCain destroyer sailed through the Taiwan Strait.Military action has steadily escalated in the seas and skies around Taiwan in recent months as the U.S. pushes back against Chinese attempts to intimidate the government in Taipei. The Chinese Communist Party views Taiwan as a part of its territory despite never having had control over the island. Taiwan’s government rejects China’s claim, asserting the island is already a de facto sovereign nation.U.S. President Joe Biden has so far largely continued the Trump administration’s robust support for Taiwan. The State Department on Friday eased restrictions governing official contacts with Taiwan in an effort to counter increasing encroachment by China on the island’s sovereignty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-aircraft-skirt-taiwan-in-second-show-of-force-this-week-101618045194867.html
10-04-2021||World||Indian doctors, nurses to benefit from UK’s fee-free 1-year visa extension||Indian doctors and nurses are among 14,000 applicants from across the world that are set to benefit from a one-year fee waiver for visa extensions announced on Friday for frontline workers dealing with the Covid-19 pandemic.The UK Home Office said that the free one-year visa extensions will be automatically granted to eligible overseas health and care workers and their dependents whose visas were due to expire before October 1.The extension will cover healthcare professionals working in the National Health Service (NHS) and the independent health and care sector, which includes a large number of Indian professionals.“The dedication and skill of overseas health and care workers who are leading the UK’s fight against coronavirus is truly extraordinary,” said UK Home Secretary Priti Patel.“Thousands of them have helped save countless lives throughout this pandemic and are now playing a vital part in the hugely successful vaccination rollout. Our offer of free visa extensions shows how our country values the contributions of these heroes,” she said.Periodic free visa extensions for health workers have been announced since last year at the peak of the pandemic and the Home Office said it has extended the visas of more than 10,000 people across the UK.The latest extension is intended for doctors, nurses, paramedics, midwives, occupational therapists, psychologists and others to be able to continue their crucial work in the fight against coronavirus as their visas will be extended for a year, free of all fees and charges, including the Immigration Health Surcharge.“Our overseas health and care workers make such a vital contribution to our health system and have been a key part of the fight against the pandemic. They are protecting our loved ones and vaccinating the public so that we can save lives and return to normalcy,” said UK Health Secretary Matt Hancock.“To help those staff from overseas, we are extending their visas to provide security while they continue to tackle this virus,” he said.The Home Office said that those benefiting from this extension will need to complete a simple online form to verify their identity, with employers asked to confirm eligibility.It also highlighted that the new Health and Care Visa, which launched in August last year, would make it "easier, cheaper and quicker" for the global health professionals to work in the NHS, the social care sector and for those organisations which provide commissioned services to the NHS. So far, more than 20,000 people have been granted a visa through the route.Last year, the Home Office also expanded the Bereavement Scheme to all NHS, health and social care workers to support the family of frontline healthcare workers who die in the line of frontline duties.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indian-doctors-nurses-to-benefit-from-uk-s-fee-free-1-year-visa-extension-101618043916930.html
10-04-2021||World||US loosens restrictions on Taiwan contacts, defies pressure from China||The State Department on Friday unveiled new rules for U.S. government contacts with Taiwan that are likely to anger China but appear to reimpose some restrictions that had been lifted by the Trump administration.The department announced the changed policy in a statement that said the Biden administration intends to “liberalize” the rules to reflect the “deepening unofficial relationship” between the U.S. and Taiwan. However, the revised guidelines don’t include all the changes put in place by former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo in the waning days of the Trump administration.Pompeo had lifted virtually all restrictions on contacts with Taiwan, including allowing Taiwanese military officers to wear uniforms and display the Taiwanese flag at meetings with U.S. officials. Friday’s changes were silent on those matters, although the rules do continue to permit U.S. officials to meet their Taiwanese counterparts in federal buildings.China regards Taiwan as a renegade province and opposes any attempt to treat the island as an independent country. China had condemned Pompeo's easing of the restrictions that had been in place since the U.S. recognized Beijing and dropped formal diplomatic relations with Taiwan in 1979.“These new guidelines will continue the U.S. government’s longstanding practice of providing clarity throughout the U.S. executive branch of how to implement our ‘one China’ policy,” the department said. “This new guidance is a step forward from earlier versions, including the contact guidance that was in place for virtually all of the previous administration, by encouraging engagement with Taiwan counterparts and removing unneeded restrictions.”Yet the statement contained no details about the new “contact guidance” and congressional aides briefed on the matter said the changes were actually more restrictive than those Pompeo had rolled out just 11 days before the end of the Trump administration.The department said Pompeo's changes had not made engagement with Taiwan easier but rather “had the practical policy effect of impeding our unofficial engagement with Taiwan — a problem that we are rectifying today with this new guidance.” It was not immediately clear how the new guidance rectified the matter.On Jan. 9, Pompeo issued a sweeping order that rescinded almost all U.S. restrictions on contacts with Taiwan.“The United States government took these actions unilaterally, in an attempt to appease the Communist regime in Beijing. No more," Pompeo said in a statement that announced the “lifting all of these self-imposed restrictions.” He said the U.S.-Taiwan relationship should not “be shackled by self-imposed restrictions of our permanent bureaucracy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-loosens-restrictions-on-taiwan-contacts-defies-pressure-from-china-101618044714896.html
10-04-2021||World||China's Covid-19 vaccine output to hit 3 billion by year-end: Official||China's will likely have produced 3 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines by the end of the year, a National Health Commission official said on Saturday.Zheng Zhongwei, who also heads a team coordinating the country's Covid-19 vaccine development projects, made the comment during an industry event in the city of Chengdu in southwestern China's Sichuan province."In the second half of this year, we are fully capable of meeting our own demand," Zheng said.Though manufacturers are rapidly expanding production capacity, it is unclear if output has risen as fast. Production tripled from Feb. 1 through late March to 5 million doses a day, the government said its most recent update.Leading vaccine manufacturer Sinovac Biotech said this month it had doubled its annual production capacity to 2 billion doses after completing its third production facility.The China National Pharmaceutical Group (Sinopharm) also has a combined annual production capacity of at least 1.1 billion for two separate vaccines. The company has said it aims to raise capacity to 3 billion but has not specified a timeframe.Sinopharm said on Friday that it will be able to supply 100 million Covid-19 vaccines a month starting from April.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-covid-19-vaccine-output-to-hit-3-billion-by-year-end-official-101618044453041.html
10-04-2021||World||Myanmar military sentences 19 to death, says anti-coup protests dwindling||Nineteen people have been sentenced to death in Myanmar for killing an associate of an army captain, the military owned Myawaddy TV station said on Friday, the first such sentences announced in public since a Feb. 1 coup and crackdown on protesters.The report said the killing took place on March 27 in the North Okkalapa district of Yangon, Myanmar's biggest city. Martial law has been declared in the district, allowing courts martial to pronounce sentences.The military rulers who overthrew an elected government said on Friday that a protest campaign against its rule was dwindling because people wanted peace, and that it would hold elections within two years, the first timeframe it has given for a return to democracy.Troops fired rifle grenades at anti-coup protesters on Friday in the town of Bago, near Yangon, witnesses and news reports said. At least 10 people were killed and their bodies piled up inside a pagoda, they said.Myanmar Now news and Mawkun, an online news magazine, said at least 20 people were killed and many wounded. It was not possible to get a precise toll because troops had cordoned off the area near the pagoda, they said.Junta spokesman Brigadier General Zaw Min Tun told a news conference in the capital, Naypyitaw, that the country was returning to normal and government ministries and banks would resume full operations soon.More than 600 people have been killed by security forces cracking down on protests against the coup, according to an activist group. The country has ground to a standstill because of the protests and widespread strikes against military rule."The reason of reducing protests is due to cooperation of people who want peace, which we value," Zaw Min Tun said. "We request people to cooperate with security forces and help them."He said the military had recorded 248 deaths and he denied that automatic weapons had been used. Sixteen policemen had also been killed, he said.The Assistance Association for Political Prisoners (AAPP) activist group has said 614 people, including 48 children, had been killed by security forces since the coup, as of Thursday evening. More than 2,800 were in detention, it said."We are humbled by their courage and dignity," a group of 18 ambassadors in Myanmar said of the protesters in a joint statement."We stand together to support the hopes and aspirations of all those who believe in a free, just, peaceful and democratic Myanmar. Violence has to stop, all political detainees must be released and democracy must be restored."The statement was signed by the ambassadors of the United States, Britain, the EU, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Korea, Switzerland and several other European nations."The suggestions from neighbouring countries and big countries and powerful people in politics, we respect them," Zaw Min Tun said. He also accused members of deposed leader Aung San Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy of arson and said the protest campaign was being financed by foreign money, but gave no details.Suu Kyi and many of her party colleagues have been in custody since the coup.Zaw Min Tun said reports that some members of the international community did not recognise the military government were "fake news"."We are cooperating with foreign countries and working together with neighbouring countries," the spokesman said.Ousted Myanmar lawmakers urged the United Nations Security Council on Friday to take action against the military."Our people are ready to pay any cost to get back their rights and freedom," said Zin Mar Aung, who has been appointed acting foreign minister for a group of ousted lawmakers. She urged Council members to apply both direct and indirect pressure on the junta."Myanmar stands at the brink of state failure, of state collapse," Richard Horsey, a senior adviser on Myanmar with the International Crisis Group, told the informal UN meeting, the first public discussion of Myanmar by council members.The UN special envoy for Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener, had wanted to visit the country but said she has been rebuffed by the generals.She said on Friday she had arrived in Bangkok, the capital of neighbouring Thailand."I regret that Tatmadaw answered me yesterday that they are not ready to receive me," Schraner Burgener said on Twitter, referring to the Myanmar military. "I am ready for dialogue. Violence never leads to peaceful sustainable solutions."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-military-sentences-19-to-death-says-anti-coup-protests-dwindling-101618042300986.html
10-04-2021||World||Western Australia braces for 'worst case scenario' as cyclone Seroja nears||Authorities in Western Australia were urging residents of its Mid West coast to find safe shelter or leave on Saturday as cyclone Seroja barrelled towards a coastal region that is usually too far south to fall in the path of cyclones.Residents in Western Australia's Mid West and Gascoyne regions are being urged to finalise their emergency plans, as the cyclone is expected to intensify to a category three overnight, battering a region where buildings are not made to withstand cyclonic winds."This is a very serious situation. The potential for widespread devastation is high," state Emergency Services Minister Fran Logan said on the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC)."We hope that we can get through these next few days without loss of life and without serious property damage. We need to work on the basis of worst case scenario," she said, adding that cyclonic winds had not been seen in the area for decades.Australia's Bureau of Meteorology forecasts destructive winds with gusts to 150 km per hour (93 miles per hour), and heavy rains that could cause significant damage to coastal communities as the cyclone moves across the coast and further inland.The most likely area to experience destructive wind gusts is on the coast between Geraldton, 200 km north of Perth, and Denham, 500 km north of Perth.This area is much further south of Port Hedland, the world's largest iron ore export hub, which withstands several cyclones a season and where houses are built to stronger standards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/western-australia-braces-for-worst-case-scenario-as-cyclone-seroja-nears-101618041033346.html
10-04-2021||World||6.0-magnitude earthquake strikes off Indonesia coast: USGS||A 6.0-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Indonesia's Java island Saturday, the United States Geological Survey said, but no tsunami warning was issued.The quake hit at a depth of 82 kilometres (50 miles), about 45 kilometres southwest of Malang city in East Java.There were no immediate reports of casualties, but the temblor shook Malang, a city of several million people."It was pretty strong and went for a long time," resident Ida Magfiroh told AFP."Everything was swaying."Indonesia experiences frequent seismic and volcanic activity due to its position on the Pacific "Ring of Fire", where tectonic plates collide.In 2018, a 7.5-magnitude quake and a subsequent tsunami in Palu on Sulawesi island left more than 4,300 people dead or missing.On December 26, 2004, a devastating 9.1-magnitude earthquake struck off the coast of Sumatra and triggered a tsunami that killed 220,000 throughout the region, including around 170,000 in Indonesia.It was one of the deadliest natural disasters in recorded history.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/60magnitude-earthquake-strikes-off-indonesia-coast-usgs-101618041280828.html
10-04-2021||World||WHO says Covid appropriate behaviour best way to curb transmission of virus||Adoption of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour is the best way to stop transmission of the virus and its variants, Dr Poonam Khetrapal Singh, Regional Director, WHO South-East Asia Region, said here as she underlined that efforts to test, trace, isolate, and treat need to be scaled up.In an interview to PTI on the recent surge in coronavirus cases, Singh also spoke about the importance of communities practising cough etiquette, hand hygiene and social distancing in the fight against the disease.India has been registering a record number of cases of coronavirus since April beginning. With a record 1,45,384 fresh cases, India's Covid-19 tally climbed to 1,32,05,926 on Saturday.The number of active cases of the disease has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months.Speaking to PTI, Singh said stringent implementation of public health and social measures remain the key to stop virus transmission.Physical distancing measures and movement restrictions can slow Covid 19 transmission by limiting contact between people, she said in response to a question."However, a careful risk assessment and staged approach is needed to balance the benefits and potential harms of adjusting these measures. Decisions to tighten or loosen or re-institute these measures should be based on scientific evidence and real-world experience and should take into account other critical factors, such as economic factors, food security, adherence to measures etc," she added.Asked about lockdowns, Singh said local epidemiology and risk assessment, including capacities of health systems, should guide decisions imposing such curbs."Regardless of lockdowns, public health and social measures remain the key to stop virus transmission. Efforts to test, trace, isolate, and treat must be scaled up along with communities practising cough etiquette, hand hygiene and social distancing," the World Health Organization (WHO) regional director added.On variants of the virus, she said information on their occurrence is currently not systematic and universal."But what we know for sure is that to limit the emergence of variants of concerns, we need to do all we can to curtail virus transmission," Singh added.She said WHO was tracking variants of interest through its Virus Evolution Working Group."WHO has also developed a Risk Monitoring Framework to identify, monitor and assess SARS-CoV-2 mutations, variants of interest and variants of concern. It will involve surveillance, through epi studies, molecular testing and genomic sequencing; research on variants of concern and evaluation of the impact on diagnostics, therapeutics and vaccines," Singh added."Virus variants need a quick and coordinated global response. WHO is leading discussions to shape an agile, global decision framework that can be activated to adapt vaccines, diagnostic tests, treatments, prevention measures and other tools if the need arises," she further said.Replying to a query on re-infection, Singh said most people develop an immune response within one-three weeks following the infection, but "we are still learning how strong the immunity is or how long it may last".There are studies showing that antibody response in people may last many months (possibly six or longer), but there are some differences in the strength of the response depending on the severity of the disease the person experienced (no disease, mild disease to severe disease), she said."There are some reports of reinfection, though this is not systematically monitored. From previous experience with other coronaviruses, we expect there to be an antibody response that declines over time. We need more research to answer this fully, especially longitudinal studies that follow the same individual over time and measure the neutralizing antibody response," Singh added."We urge everyone – whether they have had Covid-19 or not – to take precautions including physical distancing, hand and respiratory hygiene, wearing a mask and ensuring adequate ventilation to prevent getting or spreading Covid-19," she said.Asked how the second wave of the virus can be expected to proceed, Singh said from the epidemiology perspective, no one can predict where it is going."However, from our past experience from several countries in the last one year, we have evidence that implementation of public health measures and adoption of Covid-19 appropriate behaviours are proven strategies to curtail virus transmission," she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-says-covid-appropriate-behaviour-best-way-to-curb-transmission-of-virus-101618039189332.html
10-04-2021||World||'Seen and unseen consequences': US warns Russia on aggression in eastern Ukraine||The Biden administration is carrying a review of its policies against Russia over its escalating aggression in eastern Ukraine and there will be "consequences", some seen and some unseen, to Kremlin, the White House has warned.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki during her daily briefing said the US is in close consultation and working with partners and allies in the region over Russia's troop movements on Ukraine's borders.“Of the actions that have already been taken, that we've had an ongoing review about we've been clear, There will be consequences, some unseen and some seen. We will hope to have more about those soon,” Psaki said on Friday.“As it relates to the escalating Russian aggression in eastern Ukraine, including Russia's troop movements on Ukraine's borders, we are, of course, in close consultation and working with partners and allies in the region to assess, to share intelligence, to determine what's happening, and what can be done about it,” Psaki said.Responding to a question, Psaki said there's ongoing diplomatic engagement between the US and a number of countries in the region, including Russia, including Ukraine, including European partners and allies who share a number of American concerns about the aggression of Russian movements on the border.The long-running conflict in Ukraine’s mainly Russian-speaking east has claimed more than 13,000 lives since 2014.Fighting in the conflict, which erupted after Russia’s annexation of Crimea from Ukraine in 2014, subsided in 2020 as a new ceasefire agreement took hold last July.But clashes have picked up again since the start of the year. Ukrainian separatists are widely seen as having Russia’s political and military backing, which Moscow denies.Ukraine last week accused Russia of massing thousands of military personnel on its northern and eastern borders as well as on the Crimean peninsula.The Russian buildup has become the latest point of friction in icy relations between Moscow and the Biden administration. The two sides have differences over arms control, human rights and other issues.Meanwhile, media reports said that Biden Administration has completed its security review of Russia and is planning new sets of actions against Russia.“From his first phone call with President Putin, President Biden has been clear that the United States will respond to a number of destabilising Russian actions, in a manner and timing of our choosing,” a White House spokesperson said in response to a question.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/seen-and-unseen-consequences-us-warns-russia-on-aggression-in-eastern-ukraine-101618037394859.html
10-04-2021||World||Stalled at first jab: Vaccine shortages hit poor countries||As many as 60 countries, including some of the world’s poorest, might be stalled at the first shots of their coronavirus vaccinations because nearly all deliveries through the global program intended to help them are blocked until as late as June.COVAX, the global initiative to provide vaccines to countries lacking the clout to negotiate for scarce supplies on their own, has in the past week shipped more than 25,000 doses to low-income countries only twice on any given day. Deliveries have all but halted since Monday.During the past two weeks, according to data compiled daily by UNICEF, fewer than 2 million COVAX doses in total were cleared for shipment to 92 countries in the developing world — the same amount injected in Britain alone.On Friday, the head of the World Health Organization slammed the “shocking imbalance" in global Covid-19 vaccination. WHO Director General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreysus said that while one in four people in rich countries had received a vaccine, only one in 500 people in poorer countries had gotten a dose.The vaccine shortage stems mostly from India’s decision to stop exporting vaccines from its Serum Institute factory, which produces the overwhelming majority of the AstraZeneca doses that COVAX counted on to supply around a third of the global population at a time coronavirus is spiking worldwide.COVAX will only ship vaccines cleared by WHO, and countries are increasingly impatient. Supplies are dwindling in some of the first countries to receive COVAX shipments, and the expected delivery of second doses in the 12-week window currently recommended is now in doubt. In a statement, the vaccine alliance known as GAVI told The Associated Press that 60 countries are affected by the delays.In vaccination tents set up at Kenyatta National Hospital in Nairobi, many of those who arrived for their first jabs were uneasy about when the second would arrive.“My fear if I don’t get the second dose, my immune system is going to be weak, hence I might die,” said Oscar Odinga, a civil servant.Internal WHO documents obtained by the AP show the uncertainty about deliveries "is causing some countries to lose faith in the COVAX (effort).” That is prompting WHO to consider speeding up its endorsement of vaccines from China and Russia, which have not been authorized by any regulators in Europe or North America.The WHO documents show the U.N. agency is facing questions from COVAX participants about allotments in addition to “uncertainty about whether all those who were vaccinated in round 1 are guaranteed a second dose.”WHO declined to respond specifically to the issues raised in the internal materials but has previously said countries are “very keen” to get vaccines as soon as possible and insisted it hasn't heard any complaints about the process.Concern over the link between the AstraZeneca shot and rare blood clots has also “created nervousness both around its safety and efficacy,” WHO noted. Among its proposed solutions is a decision to “expedite review of additional products” from China and Russia.WHO said last month it might be possible to greenlight the Chinese vaccines by the end of April.Some experts have noted that Sinopharm and Sinovac, two Chinese-made vaccines, lack published data, and there are reports of people needing a third dose to be protected.“If there is something that we miss from not having thoroughly evaluated the risks of serious adverse events from these vaccines, that would undermine the confidence in all the good products that we’re using that we know are safe,” said Dora Curry, director of health equity and rights at CARE International.Other experts worried that delays could erode faith in governments that were particularly efficient in their vaccination programs and were counting on second doses soon.“In the absence of high vaccination coverage globally, we risk dragging out the pandemic for several more years,” said Lavanya Vasudevan, an assistant professor at Duke University’s Global Health Institute. “Every day that the virus is in circulation is an opportunity for it to mutate into a more deadly variant.”Earlier this month, the WHO appealed to rich countries to urgently share 10 million doses to meet the U.N. target of starting COVID-19 vaccinations in every country within the first 100 days of the year. So far, countries have pledged hundreds of millions of dollars to COVAX. But there are simply no doses to buy, and no country has agreed to immediately share what it has.Bilateral donations of doses tend to go along political lines, rather than to countries with the most infections, and they aren't nearly enough to compensate for the goals that COVAX has set out. Think Global Health, a data site managed by the Council on Foreign Relations, identified 19 countries that have donated a total of 27.5 million doses to 102 nations as of Thursday.“You can make a strong argument that we’re better off making donations in crisis and getting the pandemic under control than vaccinating low-risk groups at home,” said Thomas Bollyky, director of the Global Health Program at the Council on Foreign Relations. Bollyky said COVAX was both a great disappointment and the only available option for most the world.According to the International Rescue Committee, COVID-19 cases and deaths last month surged in numerous crisis-hit countries: by 322% in Kenya, 379% in Yemen and 529% in northeast Syria.On Thursday, the agencies behind COVAX — WHO, vaccines alliance GAVI and CEPI, a coalition for epidemic preparedness — celebrated their delivery of 38 million lifesaving vaccines to more than 100 countries.Brook Baker, a vaccines expert at Northeastern University, said the laudatory message was misplaced.“Celebrating doses sufficient for only 19 million people, or 0.25% of global population, is tone deaf,” he said, adding it was time for WHO and partners to be more honest with countries.“WHO and GAVI have repeatedly overpromised and underdelivered, so why should we believe that they will suddenly be able to ramp up production and deliveries in a couple of months?” he said.Outside the vaccination tents in Nairobi on Thursday, Dr. Duncan Nyukuri, an infectious disease physician, tried to reassure people getting their first dose.“If you receive the first dose and you fail to receive the second dose, this does not mean that your body will be any weaker or you will be at an increased risk of getting any infection," he said. "What it means is your body will have developed some immunity against the coronavirus infection. But this immunity is not as good as somebody who has received both doses.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stalled-at-first-jab-vaccine-shortages-hit-poor-countries-101618035999767.html
10-04-2021||World||Only 43% Canadians feel Trudeau has handled Covid-19 well: Poll||Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s approval rating has fallen to its lowest level in a year, according to a new survey.The numbers released by the non-profit public polling agency Angus Reid Institute or ARI on Friday show that just 43% believe he is doing a ‘good job’ when it comes to dealing with the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country. That is sharply in contrast to the 62% approval rating he enjoyed in April last year, as the virus first started to make its presence felt in Canada and across the world.These approval numbers have dropped a point from last month, while those who think his performance is not up to the mark remains at 52 per cent.More interestingly, support from within the cohort that voted for Trudeau’s Liberal Party in the October 2019 Federal elections has dropped from 90% to 73%.These figures come even as Canada faces simultaneous challenges of not just a surge in infections, but also continuing shortfall in the availability of vaccines as well a steep increase in cases caused by variants of the coronavirus. Canada recorded 6,471 new cases on Friday, a 63% increase over the daily case load two weeks earlier, taking the total infections to 1,042,499. Covid-19 has also resulted in 23,247 deaths.ARI pointed out that “as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau reinforces that the country is facing a ‘very serious’ third wave of the virus, Canadians continue to reinforce that they do not perceive an improvement in his handling of this file”.Concern over the impact of the virus is also rising among Canadians, undoing the optimism that was noticeable in the beginning of the year due to the belief that ample vaccines would soon be available for administration. As ARP stated, “The first quarter of 2021 began with optimism on some fronts in the battle against Covid-19. Concern over becoming sick with the virus began to dissipate slightly within the Canadian public.” However, the situation has changed as “highly infectious variants of the virus” have been spreading in the country leading to the concern returning to “closer to peak levels” with two-thirds of Canadians worried about becoming sick themselves. A larger percentage, 81%, “worry about a friend or close family member potentially contracting Covid-19”.Trudeau has tried to calm citizens by repeating on Friday that a flood of vaccines will flow into the country in June and that 10.5 million doses have already been delivered, though just about half those have been administered so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/only-43-canadians-feel-trudeau-has-handled-covid-19-well-poll-101618034962985.html
10-04-2021||World||Protest erupts in Pakistan demanding Imran Khan's apology over rape statement||A protest erupted here against Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan, demanding a public apology from him for his statement blaming "vulgarity" in society for rape and sexual violence.The demonstration was organised on Thursday by Rights activist and civil society representatives outside the National Press Club here, Pakistan's News International reported.The protestors criticised Khan for what they called "victim-blaming" and called for an apology for the comment he made during a question and answer session with the public when he was asked for suggesting a solution to rising child abuse cases in the country.The protestors were holding placards and banners inscribed with their demand for an apology and said that such statements would encourage rapists."It can be considered an opinion when a common person says such thing but if a prime minister makes such comment, it becomes a policy statement. We cannot ignore such a statement which puts the burden of such crimes on the way women dress up. It is a dangerous statement for women like us who work in offices, fields and factories," said one protestor.Last week, Khan has blamed "fahashi" (vulgarity) for surge in rape and sexual violence instead of the deteriorating law and order situation in the country.As he took calls from the people on Sunday, Khan -- when asked by a caller what the government plans to do in the light of rising incidents of rape and sexual violence, especially against children -- said that there are some fights that governments and legislation alone cannot win and that the society must join in the fight. He said it was important for societies to protect themselves against "fahashi" (vulgarity), reported Geo News.The prime minister said incidents of rape and sexual violence that make their way to the media are just one per cent of the actual horrific crimes of such nature that take place.Khan said when he went to the UK, during the '70s to play cricket, the "sex, drugs and rock n roll" culture was taking off. He said nowadays, divorce rates "have gone up by as much as 70 per cent due to vulgarity in that society". He said the whole concept of 'pardah' (or covering up, or modesty) in Islam has a purpose to it which is to "keep temptation in check".His remarks sparked outrage in the country where women are subjugated and deprived of basic rights like educations.Human rights activist Tahira Abdullah said this outrage against Khan's statement is because he was asked about rise in child abuse cases but in response, he started blaming the rise in vulgarity and lack of 'pardah' among women for such incidents. "If these are the reasons then why dead women, animals and children get raped in our society," she asked.She demanded the Prime Minister to take his words back and apologise.Meanwhile, former secretary Women's Parliamentary Caucus Shaista Pervaiz Malik, MNA, said Prime Minister Khan needed to do some reality check and speak only after reviewing the bigger picture of our societal fabric.Official statistics in Pakistan have revealed that at least 11 rape incidents are reported in the country every day, with over 22,000 cases reported to the police in the last six years.However, only 77 of the accused have been convicted which comprises 0.3 per cent of the total figure, reported Geo News.These statistics were obtained from the Police, Law, and Justice Commission of Pakistan, Human Rights Commission of Pakistan, the Women's Foundation, and provincial welfare agencies.Moreover, in February, in an insensitive move, the Forensics Department of Khyber Medical College University proposed a plan to charge rape victims Pakistani ₹25,000 for medical examination and ₹5,000 for an autopsy for the local residents of Peshawar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/protest-erupts-in-pakistan-demanding-imran-khan-s-apology-over-rape-statement-101618033318373.html
10-04-2021||World||UK urges mourners for Prince Philip not to gather or lay flowers due to pandemic||UK officials urged people not to gather or lay flowers following the death of Prince Philip, Queen Elizabeth II’s husband, a sign of how longstanding traditions will have to be put aside due to the pandemic.Well-wishers congregated outside Buckingham Palace and laid floral tributes on Friday, following the news of the Duke of Edinburgh’s passing at Windsor Castle, west of London, at the age of 99.Prince Philip, Queen Elizabeth’s Activist Husband, Dies at 99“The Royal Family have the safety and wellbeing of the public in mind during these challenging times,” Buckingham Palace said in a statement. “In accordance with public health advice, members of the public are asked to continue to follow the current government coronavirus guidelines, particularly on avoiding meeting in large groups and on minimizing travel.”The British public has also been urged not to attempt to attend the Duke of Edinburgh’s funeral, while will take place following a period of national mourning -- though the date has not been announced. Flags on public buildings will fly at half-mast.Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s government is relaxing pandemic restrictions in England from Monday, with the re-opening of non-essential shops, while pubs and restaurants will be able to serve customers outdoors.But social-distancing rules will remain in place, including limiting gatherings to up to six people or two households. That could potentially put authorities in a difficult position if large crowds gather ahead of Prince Philip’s funeral.That ceremony will also have to take into account pandemic rules, which limit the number of mourners able to attend to 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-urges-mourners-for-prince-philip-not-to-gather-or-lay-flowers-due-to-pandemic-101618029170843.html
10-04-2021||World||China approves 3rd Sinopharm Covid vaccine for clinical trial||China has approved the third Covid-19 vaccine from Sinopharm Group Co. to start clinical trials, the company said.The green light to begin testing comes after two inactivated vaccines from Sinopharm were approved and widely used both at home and in developing countries.The latest one is a recombinant vaccine that includes parts of the coronavirus’s spike protein to stimulate immune response, according to a release posted on the company’s official WeChat account on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-approves-3rd-sinopharm-covid-vaccine-for-clinical-trial-101618029330753.html
10-04-2021||World||IMF, World Bank urged to ensure timely delivery of Covid vaccines||Asserting that the effects of the Covid-19 pandemic will be felt for years, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank have been urged by a joint ministerial committee of the two global financial bodies to ensure timely delivery of safe and effective vaccines across all countries."Timely delivery of safe and effective vaccines across all countries is critical to ending the pandemic, especially as new variants emerge. Developing countries need to strengthen their readiness for vaccination campaigns and develop coordinated strategies to reach vulnerable populations," a joint ministerial committee of the World Bank and the IMF said in a communique.The Development Committee Communique at the conclusion of the Spring Meetings of the IMF and the World Bank said the Covid-19 pandemic has caused an unprecedented public health, economic, and social crisis, threatening the lives and livelihoods of millions.The economic shock is increasing poverty, worsening inequalities, and reversing development gains. As the global economy begins a gradual recovery, uncertainty surrounds near- and medium-term prospects, it said."We call for sustained, differentiated, and targeted financial and technical support for an adequate policy response, strong coordination across bilateral and multilateral organisations, and further support to the private sector. We urge the World Bank Group (WBG) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF), in line with their respective mandates, to work closely together and with other partners to contain the impacts of the pandemic," the communique said.The communique called for redoubling the efforts to support manufacturing capacity for vaccines and the pandemic-related medical supplies in developing countries."The pandemic has triggered far-reaching consequences, and we must strengthen global preparedness for future pandemics, and at the same time make progress in building robust health systems with universal coverage," it said.As poorer countries face the crisis with increased resource constraints, limited fiscal space, and rising public debt levels, more of them, including small states, are vulnerable to financial stress, the communique note.The rapid initial response under the Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) has provided much-needed liquidity for IDA countries, it said."The effects of the Covid-19 crisis will be felt for years. Mobility restrictions and lockdowns have triggered job losses, especially for women, youth, and vulnerable groups, and can undermine social inclusion," the communique said.School closures have caused unprecedented disruption to education, especially for girls, damaging human capital, with long-term economic implications. Inflation and depleted incomes have raised household indebtedness and food insecurity, it said, urging the IMF and the World Bank to scale-up its work to address rising levels of food insecurity and to support countries in achieving Sustainable Development Goal 2 and nutrition for all.Commending the WBG's scale-up of climate finance over the past two years, its continuing role as the largest multilateral source of climate investments in developing countries, its emphasis on biodiversity, and its technical and financial support for adaptation, mitigation, and resilience, the communique also welcomed the WBG and IMF's work to assess the impact of climate change on macroeconomic and financial stability.Observing that a vibrant private sector will be essential for client countries to recover, create jobs, and embrace economic transformation, the communique urged the World Bank Group to continue its work to help crowd-in private capital and finance, and to support the private sector.Earlier in his address to the Development Committee, World Bank Group President David Malpass said the world is developing a better line of sight forward, and our collective efforts to poverty, climate change, and inequality will be the defining choices of our age."It's time to move urgently toward opportunities and solutions that achieve sustainable and broad-based economic growth without harming climate, degrading the environment, or leaving hundreds of millions of families in poverty," he said.Malpass strongly welcomed the G20's decision to extend the DSSI to end-2021."We are working closely with the IMF to support the implementation of the G20 Common Framework, as detailed in this joint paper. I welcome the clear statement in the G20's communique that the need for debt treatment, and the restructuring envelope that is required, will be based on an IMF/World Bank Debt Sustainability Analysis as an input to the creditor committee deliberations," he said.To recover from Covid-19, we will need integrated, long-run strategies that emphasise green, resilient, and inclusive development (GRID), Malpass said."This must be aligned with the need for policies that help countries increase literacy, reduce stunting and malnutrition, ensure clean water and energy access, and provide better healthcare," he said."We must help countries improve their readiness for future pandemics. We need to help them accelerate the development and adoption of digital technologies. We need to work to improve and expand local supply chains and strengthen biodiversity and ecosystems," Malpass said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/imf-world-bank-urged-to-ensure-timely-delivery-of-covid-vaccines-101618028389574.html
10-04-2021||World||The Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine bet that paid off||With a strategic alliance, 24-hour production and a bit of luck, Pfizer and BioNTech were able to roll out their Covid vaccine at a brisk pace and relatively free of controversy.US pharmaceutical giant Pfizer and BioNTech, a smaller German biotech firm, joined forces on April 9, 2020, as the world reeled from the pandemic, with deaths soaring and nations under lockdown.The companies set an ambitious goal: Producing hundreds of millions of jabs in 2021 -- an incredibly short timeline when vaccines usually take years to develop and secure regulatory approval.Seven months later, Pfizer announced promising results from clinical tests showing the vaccine developed by BioNTech was 90-percent effective against the novel coronavirus.The shot -- using the hitherto unproven mRNA method to deliver vaccines -- has since proven a success in public rollouts across the world.In March, BioNTech even promised 2.5 billion doses this year, a quarter more than initially planned.The vaccine currently plays a leading role in European vaccination campaigns and in the United States.- Exhausted employees -The shot's success has helped overcome suspicions the companies were driven by the chance to make profits.In November 2020, Pfizer CEO Albert Bourla raised some eyebrows when he raked in millions from selling company shares just after the announcement of the positive clinical test results, although the share sale was long planned.Then in January, another controversy erupted when Pfizer announced that its vaccine vials contain six doses instead of five.The company had a lot to gain with the change. With the stroke of a pen, it boosted its deliveries by 20 percent.But in Europe, and to a lesser extent in the United States, health professionals worried they didn't have enough special syringes to get the sixth dose out of the vial.Two months later the controversy has been forgotten. French and US health authorities, when contacted by AFP, said they are not aware of any problems obtaining enough of the special syringes."That has never been a problem," said Romain Comte, who runs a vaccination clinic in Paray-le-Monial in the centre of France. "Now that things have been cleared up, we even manage to get a seventh dose of the Pfizer vaccine" from the vials.Pfizer has also escaped labour difficulties despite its staff coming under enormous pressure, such as in its facility in the Belgian town of Puurs."In the Covid departments, we work 24/7," said Patrick Coppens, a representative of the FGTB union, adding that wages are low."Many of my colleagues are on the edge of nervous breakdowns as they've been doing this for a full year," he said. "It can't continue like this."Despite disagreement about wages in the sector, labour unions have called on workers at the Puurs plant not to go on strike given the pandemic.Another sensitive subject is the vaccine's price.According to documents accidently disclosed by a Belgian official, the EU is paying 12 euros ($14) for each Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine dose.While cheaper than what Moderna charges for its vaccine, it costs 10 euros more than the AstraZeneca/Oxford University jab.- Cold storage -Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna used the innovative messenger RNA (mRNA) technique for their vaccines.The downside is that the doses must be kept at ultralow temperatures, though Pfizer has managed to demonstrate that its vaccine can be kept up to two weeks at less intense cold."Pfizer and Moderna are very aware at the moment they can only use their vaccines in developed countries because the storage and distribution are going to be quite difficult," said Adam Barker, a health industry expert at London-based asset manager Shore Capital.With hundreds of millions of doses in production at the Serum Institute of India, the world's largest manufacturer of vaccines, AstraZeneca could eventually overtake Pfizer.It is stored at a warmer temperature and billed as the vaccine of choice for poorer countries since it can be transported more readily than some counterparts."AstraZeneca of course know their vaccine will be used much more widely in the developing world," due to its price and easier handling, Barker said.But AstraZeneca's jab has faced some setbacks as several countries have halted its use among younger people over concerns about rare cases of blood clots in some recipients.The British company has also been reprimanded by the European Union over delays in delivering tens of millions of doses.Pfizer also had some delays earlier this year, notably in Puurs, which the company said was due to efforts to step up the speed of production.Pfizer has since made up for the delays.Other rivals have fared worse.French pharmaceutical giant Sanofi is months behind in its main vaccine development, while US firm Merck dropped its vaccine candidate.By joining forces with a larger company like Pfizer, BioNTech was able to produce many more doses than Moderna, which relies on subcontractors.But the biggest bet was using the mRNA technique. Already used for animal vaccines, it had promising potential but no guarantee it would work."If we had this conversation a year ago, I would have been advising caution," said Dan Mahony, health specialist at British fund Polar Capital."It worked a lot better than I would have thought."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/the-pfizer-biontech-covid-19-vaccine-bet-that-paid-off-101618023439060.html
10-04-2021||World||China fines Alibaba record $2.75 billion for anti-monopoly violations||Chinese regulators have fined Alibaba Group Holding Ltd 18 billion yuan ($2.75 billion) for violating anti-monopoly rules and abusing its dominant market position, marking the highest ever antitrust fine to be imposed in the country.The penalty, equivalent to around 4% of Alibaba's revenues in 2019, comes amid an unprecedented regulatory crackdown on the home-grown technology conglomerates in the last few months that have weighed on company shares.Alibaba's billionaire founder Jack Ma's business empire has been particularly put under intense scrutiny after his stinging criticism of China's regulatory system in late October.In late December, China's State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) announced it launched an antitrust probe into the company. That came after authorities halted a planned $37 billion IPO from Ant Group, Alibaba's internet finance arm.SAMR said on Saturday that after an investigation launched in December, it had determined that Alibaba had been "abusing market dominance" since 2015 by preventing its merchants from using other online e-commerce platforms.It said the practice violates China's anti-monopoly law by hindering the free circulation of goods and infringing on the business interests of merchants.The SAMR ordered Alibaba to make "thorough rectifications" to strengthen internal compliance and protect consumer rights."This penalty will be viewed as a closure to the anti-monopoly case for now by the market. It's indeed the highest profile anti monopoly case in China," said Hong Hao, head of research BOCOM International in Hong Kong."The market has been anticipating some sort of penalty for some time ... but people need to pay attention to the measures beyond the anti-monopoly investigation, such as the divestment of media assets."Alibaba said in a statement posted on its official Weibo account that it "accepted" the decision and would resolutely implement SAMR's rulings. It said it would also work to improve corporate compliance.The Chinese e-commerce giant said it will hold a conference call on Monday to discuss the penalty decision.Alibaba had come under fire in the past from rivals and sellers for allegedly forbidding its merchants from listing on other e-commerce platforms.The practice of preventing merchants from listing on rival platforms is a long-standing one, and the regulator spelled out in rules issued in February that it was illegal."The fine bill is a milestone and road sign with great importance," Shi Jianzhong, antitrust consultant committee member of the State Council and professor of China University of Political Science and Law, wrote in state-backed Economic Times."It indicates that the antitrust law enforcement on internet platforms has entered a new era, and released clear policy signal."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-fines-alibaba-record-2-75-billion-for-anti-monopoly-violations-101618022980291.html
10-04-2021||World||Aggressive US climate plan puts pressure on China, India||An ambitious pledge to cut greenhouse-gas emissions under consideration by the U.S. gives President Joe Biden more leverage when he hosts leaders for a climate change summit later this month -- presenting a particular challenge to China’s Xi Jinping.The White House may commit to emissions cuts of 50% or more from 2005 levels by 2030, Bloomberg reported this week. Officials are looking at opportunities across the federal government on standard-setting, clean energy investments and resilient infrastructure plans, according to people familiar with the deliberations.It’s uncertain whether the U.S. can actually deliver on such a bold plan, but the indication that Biden is willing to significantly up the ante on emissions targets may put pressure on China, which has already tried to position itself as a leader in reducing greenhouse gases.The U.S. administration is fashioning the aggressive target as it seeks to rebuild trust with nations wary after former President Donald Trump withdrew from the Paris agreement and dismantled domestic policies key to driving the country’s promised emissions cuts.At stake is the ability to create standards and develop equipment and technologies that will be used for decades to transition the global economy away from fossil fuels with advances in everything from renewables to electric vehicles to greener steelmaking.“You can cancel regulation, but you can’t erase technological advances,” said Lauri Myllyvirta, lead analyst with Centre for Research on Energy and Clean Air. “Hopefully the U.S. domestic plans will be followed by ambitious programs to invest in the low-carbon transition in emerging countries.”Tackling climate change has been an effective foreign policy tool for Xi since he became China’s president in 2013. He and former President Barack Obama worked out a bilateral emissions agreement in 2014 that helped pave the way for the 2015 Paris climate pact. When Trump’s administration left that, Xi began to assert more of a global leadership role in the area.Xi last year announced that China would reach net-zero emissions by 2060. His policies have also led China to a world-leading role in manufacturing solar panels, wind turbines and electric vehicles.Also hanging in the balance may be the shape of India’s energy transition. The world’s third-biggest polluter has yet to publicly commit to a pathway toward net zero emissions. During the summit, Biden is likely to press for a commitment from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who may seek to tie a pledge to energy transition aid, according to BloombergNEF analyst Ali Izadi-Najafabadi.Here’s a look at how other Asian countries attending the April 22-23 event may be impacted by a larger U.S. climate pledge, according to Izadi-Najafabadi:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aggressive-us-climate-plan-puts-pressure-on-china-india-101618021900604.html
10-04-2021||World||Richer nations getting most Covid-19 jabs, rues WHO||The head of the World Health Organization (WHO) said that over 87% of the more than 700 million doses of coronavirus vaccine that have been administered worldwide have been given in wealthier countries.WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said that on average, one in four people in rich countries have received at least one dose of a Covid-19 vaccine, compared to only one in 500 people in low-income countries.“There remains a shocking imbalance in the global distribution of vaccines,” Tedros told reporters on Friday.He called COVAX, the UN-backed initiative to distribute vaccines fairly, “a strong mechanism that can deliver vaccines faster and more efficiently than any other mechanism”. He noted that COVAX so far has delivered about 38 million doses worldwide, or enough to cover about 0.25% of the global population.Tedros criticised countries that plan to donate vaccines directly to other nations instead of going through COVAX. “These bilateral arrangements run the risk of fanning the flames of vaccine inequity,” he said, without explaining why donations that bypass COVAX were problematic.Meanwhile, Europe’s vaccine roll-out faced multiple shocks on Friday as EU regulators said they were reviewing side effects of the Johnson & Johnson shot and France further limited its use of the AstraZeneca jab.As Europe continues to reel from constant rows over AstraZeneca’s jab, the EU’s medicine regulator announced it would be probing a second jab over blood-clot concerns. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) said four “serious cases” of unusual blood clots had been reported - one of them fatal - with the Johnson & Johnson vaccine.In Germany, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s spokeswoman said the government will draw up legislation to ensure that restrictions are imposed uniformly in regions with high coronavirus infection rates.‘Vaccine nationalism’China urged the international community to resist “vaccine nationalism” and to coordinate policy to make vaccines accessible for developing countries in order to contain the pandemic and for the sake of the global economy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/richer-nations-getting-most-covid-19-jabs-rues-who-101618021041242.html
10-04-2021||World||Prince Philip, the Queen's husband, dead||Prince Philip, Queen Elizabeth’s husband and a pivotal figure in the British royal family for almost seven decades, has died aged 99, Buckingham Palace said on Friday.The Duke of Edinburgh, as he was officially known, had been by his wife’s side throughout her 69-year reign, the longest in British history. During that time he earned a reputation for a tough, no-nonsense attitude and a propensity for occasional gaffes.‘DEEP SORROW’“It is with deep sorrow that Her Majesty The Queen announces the death of her beloved husband, His Royal Highness The Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh,” the palace said. “His Royal Highness passed away peacefully this morning at Windsor Castle. Further announcements will be made in due course. The Royal Family join with people around the world in mourning his loss.”A Greek prince, Philip married Elizabeth in 1947. He went on to play a key role in modernising the monarchy in the post-World War II period, and behind the walls of Buckingham Palace was the one key figure the queen could turn to and trust.“He has, quite simply, been my strength and stay all these years,” Elizabeth said in a rare personal tribute to Philip, made in a speech marking their 50th wedding anniversary in 1997.“I, and his whole family, and this and many other countries, owe him a debt greater than he would ever claim, or we shall ever know.”Philip spent four weeks in hospital earlier this year for treatment for an infection and to have a heart procedure, but returned to Windsor in early March. He died just two months before he was to celebrate his 100th birthday.FLAGS LOWEREDFlags at Buckingham Palace and at government buildings across Britain were lowered to half-mast.No details about his funeral were disclosed yet, but ceremonies are likely to eschew the grand displays of pomp that often follow royal deaths.’SECOND HANDSHAKE’In private, the prince was regarded as the unquestioned head of his family, but protocol obliged the man dubbed “the second handshake” to spend his public life literally one step behind his wife. “There was no precedent. If I asked somebody ‘what do you expect me to do?’, they all looked blank - they had no idea, nobody had much idea,” he said in an interview to mark his 90th birthday.After completing more than 22,000 solo appearances, Philip retired from public life in August 2017, although after that he occasionally appeared at official engagements.His last appearance was last July at a military ceremony at Windsor Castle, the royal palace west of London where he and the monarch have resided during Covid-19 lockdowns.ALL EYES ON THE QUEENThe death of the queen’s husband will raise questions over whether she might consider abdication, but royal commentators say there is little or no chance than this will happen.In recent years, the queen has cut the number of official engagements she carries out and has passed many royal duties and patronages onto Prince Charles, his son William.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/buckingham-palace-loses-its-fillip-101618021079910.html
10-04-2021||World||Nepal foreign minister raises delay in delivery of Made in India vaccines||Nepal foreign minister Pradeep Gyawali on Friday raised the issue of delay in delivery of a million doses of Made in India Covid-19 vaccines during a phone conversation with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar.Kathmandu was expecting the million doses of Covishield vaccine contracted from the Serum Institute of India (SII) last month, and the delay in delivery has affected the roll-out of the second phase of the neighbouring country’s inoculation drive, Nepali officials have said.In a separate development, Iran, too, raised the need to expedite the delivery of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin doses that it has already paid for. The issue figured in a set of tweets from the Iranian embassy.India’s decision to calibrate vaccine exports to cope with a surge in domestic infections and the expansion of its inoculation programme has affected several nations, including Nepal, the UK, Brazil, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, South Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines and Vietnam.Nepal signed an agreement with SII for two million doses, half of which were supplied and used for the first phase of the national inoculation drive. The delay in delivering the second million doses has left people waiting for more than six weeks for a second jab, people familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity.According to a readout from Nepal’s foreign ministry, Gyawali requested Jaishankar “for necessary facilitation for the supply of vaccines for Nepal to continue administering the second dose of vaccination for people at highest risk”.Jaishankar assured Gyawali of “continued support to Nepal in its fight against the pandemic, including through the supply of vaccines”, the readout said.There was no official word on the conversation from the Indian side. Nepal has already made 80% of the payment for the doses and the remaining amount will be paid when the consignment moves out of SII’s facilities in Pune, the people said.The Iranian embassy said in a tweet on purchase of vaccines from India that Tehran conveyed its needs to Indian government and Bharat Biotech.Following this, Iran had received the first consignment of 125,000 doses.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nepal-foreign-minister-raises-delay-in-delivery-of-made-in-india-vaccines-101618015846411.html
10-04-2021||World||Blinken is set to return to Brussels for more NATO meetings||Secretary of State Antony Blinken is set to return to Brussels next week for more meetings with NATO officials, according to three people familiar with the matter, as the U.S. grows increasingly concerned about Russian troop movements near Ukraine.The meetings will take up most of the week, said the people, who asked not to be identified discussing plans that haven’t been made public. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin will be in Brussels at the same time, for a meeting with NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg.Blinken traveled to Brussels in late March on his first trip to Europe after being confirmed by the U.S. Senate. That visit was intended to assure allies that President Donald Trump’s “America First” era was over and the U.S. was fully committed to NATO. Trump often criticized the alliance and complained that European countries were not paying enough for their defense.The State Department declined to comment.Earlier this week, Russia announced the beginning of mass military drills, heightening concerns about the risk of new clashes along the country’s border with Ukraine that could lead to a broader conflict. Some 13,000 people have died in seven years of combat.Ukraine is just one of the many foreign policy challenges facing President Joe Biden and his administration. China’s latest threats against Taiwan have generated widespread concern. The U.S. also faces a May 1 deadline to withdraw troops from Afghanistan under a deal the Trump administration made with the Taliban, though Biden has made clear he won’t meet that timeframe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-is-set-to-return-to-brussels-for-more-nato-meetings-101618015693051.html
10-04-2021||World||US, Iran clash on sanctions; US sees possible 'impasse'||US and Iranian officials clashed on Friday over what sanctions the United States should lift to resume compliance with the 2015 nuclear deal, with Washington predicting an impasse if Tehran sticks to a demand that all sanctions since 2017 be removed.The two nations laid out tough stances as indirect talks in Vienna on how to bring both back into full compliance with the agreement wound up for the week, with some delegates citing progress.The talks, in which European Union officials are shuttling between the remaining parties to the deal and the United States, aim to restore the bargain at the core of the agreement - restrictions on Iran's nuclear activities in exchange for the lifting of U.S. and other international sanctions.The United States was the first to renege on that bargain under then-President Donald Trump, who vehemently opposed the deal and sought to wreck it. He pulled out, reimposed the sanctions that were lifted, and brought in many more. Iran responded by breaching many of the nuclear restrictions."All Trump sanctions were anti-JCPOA & must be removed—w/o distinction between arbitrary designations," Iranian Foreign Minister Javad Zarif said on Twitter, referring to the deal by its full name, the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.The United States says it is prepared to lift "sanctions that are inconsistent with the JCPOA". While it has declined to elaborate, that appears to exclude sanctions formally unrelated to nuclear issues covered by the deal.A senior U.S. State Department official told reporters the United States had seen some signs of Iranian seriousness about returning to the nuclear pact but "certainly not enough.""If Iran sticks to the position that every sanction that has been imposed since 2017 has to be lifted or there will be no deal, then we are heading towards an impasse," the senior U.S. official told reporters on a conference call.Whether the statements are opening gambits or more firm positions remains to be seen. European officials said Iran was bargaining hard at the outset.The remaining parties to the accord - Iran, Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia - met again on Friday after talks formally began on Tuesday and they agreed to keep going, Russian and Chinese envoys said."The #JCPOA participants took stock of the work done by experts over the last three days and noted with satisfaction the initial progress made," Mikhail Ulyanov, Russia's envoy to the United Nations' International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), said on Twitter after the meeting formally known as the Joint Commission."The Commission will reconvene next week in order to maintain the positive momentum."The remaining parties have formed two expert-level working groups whose job is to draw up lists of sanctions that the United States will lift and of nuclear restrictions Iran will implement. Their work continues between Joint Commission meetings."All parties have narrowed down their differences and we do see the momentum for gradually evolving consensus," Wang Qun, China's ambassador to the IAEA, told reporters.'IRAN IS THE PACE CAR'Iran's foreign ministry said in a statement diplomats would meet again on Wednesday in Vienna. Talks are expected to drag on for weeks."Given the technical complexity of the nuclear aspects and legal intricacies of sanctions lifting, it would be very optimistic to think a few weeks," a senior European diplomatic source said.Some diplomats hope agreement can be reached before Iran's June 18 presidential election or else talks risk being pushed back until later in the year."Iran is the pace car for progress. If Tehran decides to push forward swiftly before the June presidential elections, the U.S. will almost certainly be receptive," Henry Rome, an analyst with the Eurasia Group research firm, said in a note."That would require Iran to compromise on its sanctions and sequencing demands. If Tehran is unsatisfied with the U.S. position, or if Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei is wary about the political consequences of a diplomatic breakthrough in the midst of a presidential campaign, Tehran will tap the brakes."Khamenei, who has the last say on all state matters, has opposed any gradual easing of sanctions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-iran-clash-on-sanctions-us-sees-possible-impasse-101618011940737.html
10-04-2021||World||No region in the world spared as Covid-19 cases, deaths surge||Hospitals in Turkey and Poland are filling up. Pakistan is restricting domestic travel. The US government will send more help to the state with the country's worst infection increase.The worldwide surge in coronavirus cases and deaths includes even Thailand, which has weathered the pandemic far better than many nations but now struggles to contain Covid-19.The only exceptions to the deteriorating situation are countries that have advanced vaccination programs, most notably Israel and Britain. The US, which is a vaccination leader globally, is also seeing a small uptick in new cases, and the White House announced Friday that it would send federal assistance to Michigan to control the state’s worst-in-the-nation transmission rate.The World Health Organization said infection rates are climbing in every global region, driven by new virus variants and too many countries coming out of lockdown too soon.“We’ve seen rises (in cases) worldwide for six weeks. And now, sadly, we are seeing rises in deaths for the last three weeks,” Dr. Margaret Harris, a WHO spokeswoman, said at a briefing in Geneva.In its weekly epidemiological update, the WHO said over 4 million Covid-19 cases were reported in the last week. New deaths increased by 11% compared to last week, with over 71,000 reported.The increasing infections, hospitalizations and deaths extend to countries where vaccinations are finally gaining momentum. That leaves even bleaker prospects for much of the world, where large-scale vaccination programs remain a more distant prospect.In Turkey, which is among the badly hit countries, most new cases of the virus can be traced to a variant first found in Britain.Ismail Cinel, head of the Turkish Intensive Care Association, said the surge was beginning to strain the nation’s relatively advanced health care system and “the alarm bells are ringing” for intensive care units, which are not yet at full capacity.“The mutant form of the virus is causing more harm to the organs,” Cinel said. “While 2 out of 10 patients were dying previously, the number is now 4 out of 10. And if we continue this way, we will lose six.”Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan eased Covid-19 restrictions in early March to minimize pain to his nation’s ailing economy. The new spike forced him to announce renewed restrictions, such as weekend lockdowns and the closure of cafes and restaurants during Ramadan, which starts April 13.Turkish medical groups say the reopening in March was premature and that the new measures do not go far enough. They have been calling for full lockdowns during the holy Muslim month.In the US capital, President Joe Biden's administration outlined how the federal government planned to help Michigan better administer the doses already allocated to the state, as well as expand testing capacity and the availability of drugs. The effort will not include any extra vaccine doses, a move Gov. Gretchen Whitmer sought.Doses are currently allocated to states proportionally by population. Whitmer has called for extra doses to be shifted to states like hers experiencing a sharp rise in cases. She also urged a voluntary two-week halt to in-person high school classes, youth sports and indoor restaurant dining, but stopped short of issuing new restrictions.In Brazil, which has the second-highest death toll in the world after the US, Sao Paulo has started night burials to cope with demand, and school vans have been used to transport coffins. With the pace of vaccination already slow — less than than 3% of Brazil’s 210 million people have received both vaccine doses, according to the research site Our World in Data — some governors have expressed concern about vaccine supplies.The death toll in Iran is also rising, prompting new restrictions that will take effect for 10 days in 257 cities beginning Saturday. They involve the closure of all parks, restaurants, confectionaries, beauty salons, malls and bookstores.Authorities in Pakistan, which is in the middle of a third surge of infections, are restricting inter-city transportation on weekends starting at midnight Friday.Elsewhere in Asia, authorities in Thailand ordered new restrictions Friday in an effort to contain a growing coronavirus outbreak just days before the country’s traditional Songkran New Year’s holiday, when millions of people travel.In Germany, Poland and other countries in the 27-member European Union, vaccination programs are finally ramping up after a slow start blamed on delivery shortages.Thousands of German medical practices joined the vaccination campaign this week, helping the country reach consecutive daily records for doses administered. So far, 14.7% of the population has received at least one dose and 5.8% has received both shots.Yet German health officials are warning of a steep rise in intensive care patients and are calling for stronger action to contain infections.Neighboring Poland is also seeing a dramatic spike in deaths, and hospitals have been forced to turn away cancer and other patients as ICU and other hospital beds are taken by Covid-19 patients. Hospitalizations of virus patients there have jumped 20% in the past two weeks.Harris, from the WHO, said the world knows how to fight these surges. She cited good news from the UK, where new coronavirus cases dropped 60% in March amid a strong vaccination program, “but we have to do it all.”“We have to keep on social distancing. We have to avoid indoor crowded settings," she said. “We have to keep wearing the masks, even if vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-region-in-the-world-spared-as-covid-19-cases-deaths-surge-101618003484790.html
10-04-2021||World||Texas man charged with threatening Amazon center in Virginia||A Texas man was charged Friday with threatening to blow up an Amazon data center in Virginia in an effort to damage the internet and services he believed were used by federal agencies, according to acting US Attorney Prerak Shah.Seth Aaron Presley, 28, of Wichita Falls is charged with attempting to destroy a building with an explosive, Shah said in a statement.Presley is in custody, according to a spokesperson for the US Department of Justice, who did not know if he had an attorney who could speak for him.In a complaint filed in federal court, FBI special agent John Coyle said a confidential source notified the FBI in January of threatening posts on social media by a user later identified as Presley.A second confidential source later in January notified the FBI that Presley had threatened to blow up Amazon Web Services data centers in Ashburn, Virginia, to “kill off about 70% of the of the internet.”The second source on Thursday introduced Presley to an undercover FBI employee in March, saying the agent was an explosives provider.“In recorded conversations, Mr. Pendley allegedly told the undercover (employee) he planned to attack web servers that he believed provided services to the FBI, CIA, and other federal agencies,” according to Shah's statement.Pendley again met with the undercover agent on Thursday in Fort Worth to pick up what he believed to be explosive devices that were inert, according to Shah, and was arrested by FBI agents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/texas-man-charged-with-threatening-amazon-center-in-virginia-101618002844994.html
10-04-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray says difficult to trace Covid-19 in second wave. Then explains||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray indicated on Saturday that a strict lockdown will be imposed in the state amid the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. Thackeray also pointed out that the challenge to break the transmission of coronavirus this year, in contrast with the last year's wave of infections, comes with a setback."Last year during the lockdown, people were at home so it wasn't difficult to trace infections. Since everything is open now it is practically very difficult to trace people. The Centre must understand this," Thackeray said, reported news agency ANI.Also read: Maharashtra govt may impose lockdown to stop Covid-19 surge; decision on duration to be decided soonThackeray said that people will have to go through some hardships. "On the one hand there is a public sentiment but on the other hand, there is an outbreak of coronavirus… If you want to win this battle you have to go through some hardships," a statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) quoted him as saying.Maharashtra's on Saturday saw its overall Covid-19 case tally rise to 33,43,951 and the death toll to 57,638. The state now has 536,682 active cases of the coronavirus disease.Indicating a possible lockdown-like circumstance, Thackeray said, "The number of patients is increasing so fast that if we do not decide on a lockdown today, a lockdown-like situation will automatically arise tomorrow. Today the situation is getting worse. We are also constantly considering Covid-19 task force experts in the state."Also read | India fastest nation to administer 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine: GovtDuring an all-party meeting on Saturday, Uddhav Thackeray said that the decision on the lockdown will be announced soon. Thackeray will meet the state Covid-19 task force on Sunday and other stakeholders over the next two days, following which a decision on the duration of the lockdown may be announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uddhav-thackeray-says-difficult-to-trace-covid-19-in-second-wave-then-explains-101618070333005.html
10-04-2021||India||Bihar Governor Phagu Chouhan calls all-party meet on April 17 to tackle Covid-19||Amid the rapidly growing cases of Covid-19 in Bihar, Governor Phagu Chauhan has called an all-party virtual meeting at the Raj Bhawan on April 17 at 11 am at the request of an alarmed Nitish Kumar government.The decision was taken after deputy chief minister Tar Kishore Prasad and parliamentary affairs minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary met the Governor during the day. Principal Secretary, department of health, Prataya Amrit was also present at the meeting to inform him about the latest situation.The Raj Bhawan secretariat will establish contact with the participants.On Friday, after a high-level review meeting with the top brass of the state administration on the Covid-19 situation, chief minister Nitish Kumar had said that the government would soon contact the Governor to request him to call an all-party meeting, as suggest by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during an interaction with chief ministers. The government placed its request before the Governor within a day.Leader of Opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav has often been attacking the government for not setting up an all-party committee to monitor the Covid-19 situation in the state despite agreement on it in the Bihar Assembly during the one-day session amidst the pandemic last year. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had proposed a committee till the end of the tenure of his previous government.According to people familiar with the development in the government, the rapidly rising Covid-19 graph, especially since the return of migrants during Holi and the grim situation in Maharashtra and some other states, requires greater caution and awareness among the masses and the political parties could play a big role in reaching out to the people with the right message, especially regarding the basic guidelines.“Wearing masks is the most important requirement, but people still seem to take it lightly, putting themselves and their near and dear ones at risk and also contributing to the spread of the virus. As doctors also say, prevention is better than cure in case of Covid-19 and that is what everyone should try to follow. With the flood situation also approaching, it could be double whammy for Bihar and therefore, the state needs to be prepared,” they added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-governor-phagu-chouhan-calls-all-party-meet-on-april-17-to-tackle-covid19-101618073908130.html
10-04-2021||India||Rhino calf found dead in Dudhwa National Park||A month-old rhinoceros calf was found dead in the Dudhwa National Park, officials said on Saturday.Field Director Sanjay Kumar Pathak told PTI, "The carcass of the female calf was lying in a swampy area of Bhadi Taal in the Rhino Rehabilitation Area 2 with no external injuries."Pathak said a post-mortem examination by a panel of veterinary doctors will be carried out to ascertain the cause of the death.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rhino-calf-found-dead-in-dudhwa-national-park-101618068807592.html
10-04-2021||India||India fastest nation to administer 100 million doses of Covid-19 vaccine: Govt||With the total number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country crossing 10 crore, the Union health ministry on Saturday said that India is the fastest nation to administer 100 million doses in 85 days.The US took 89 days to administer 10 crore doses of Covid-19 vaccine, while China took 102 days to cross the same number, it said.In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,93,288 doses administered per day, the ministry said.The US had administered 92.09 million doses in 85 days, while China and the UK administered 61.42 million doses and 21.32 million doses, respectively, in 85 days, it said.The Prime Minister's Office also tweeted a chart showing India as the fastest country to reach this vaccination milestone, calling it "strengthening efforts to ensure a healthy and Covid-19 free India".Eight states -- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala -- account for 60.62 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, according to the ministry. The countrywide vaccination drive was rolled out on January 16 with healthcare workers (HCWs) getting inoculated and vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started from February 2.The next phase of Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for those over 60 years of age and for people aged 45 and above with specified co-morbid conditions. India launched vaccination for all people aged more than 45 years from April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-fastest-nation-to-administer-100-million-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-govt-101618068068564.html
10-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi reports 7,897 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deaths in last 24 hours and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi records 7,897 fresh Covid-19 cases, positivity rate shoots upDelhi on Saturday recorded 7897 cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), pushing the Capital’s cumulative tally to 714,423, according to a health bulletin. The fatalities also rose sharply in the last 24 hours after 39 new deaths were recorded, the bulletin added. Read moreGavaskar's advice to Pant ahead of IPL 2021 clash: 'Don't allow MS Dhoni to put his arms around your shoulders'Match 2 of the 2021 IPL pits two very similar yet contrasting captains. MS Dhoni is into his 12th season as captain of Chennai Super Kings, while for Delhi Capitals captain Rishabh Pant, this is the first time. Read moreDeepika Padukone calls herself 'Indiranagar ki gundi' after Rahul Dravid's viral ad. See throwback picAfter Rahul Dravid proudly wore the 'Indiranagar ka Gunda' title in a new ad, fellow Bangalorian Deepika Padukone has reserved the 'Indiranagar ka Gundi' title for herself. Read moreHere's everything we know about the Google Pixel 5a 5G so farEarlier in the day there were rumours doing the rounds about how the Google Pixel 5a might be canceled due to the ongoing chip shortage. Read moreGhar pe raho says glammed up Sonakshi Sinha to fans amind rising Covid casesRowdy Rathore actor Sonakshi Sinha on Saturday treated her fans to a glammed-up photo of her and urged everyone to stay at home amid the raging second wave of Covid-19. Read moreWatch: 200 bombs found in Bengal amid polls; controlled explosion at fieldWest Bengal police made a startling discovery on April 9. Around 200 country-made bombs were found by police personnel in Nanoor. Subsequently, the explosives were disposed of by the bomb squad. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-reports-7-897-new-covid-19-cases-39-deaths-in-last-24-hours-and-all-the-latest-news-101618066660193.html
10-04-2021||India||India tells China disengagement must for de-escalation of conflict||At the latest 11th round of military talks with China in eastern Ladakh to reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border would set the stage for the two sides to “consider de-escalation of forces, ensure full restoration of peace and tranquility, and enable progress in bilateral relations,” the Indian Army said a day after the talks.The two armies had a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to disengagement along the LAC, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said on Saturday.India and China have been locked in a standoff in the Ladakh sector for over 11 months and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The 11th round of talks took place on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point on Friday and went on for 13 hours.The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pull back of front-line troops and weapons. The Indian Army is focussing on resolving outstanding problems with the PLA at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.“The two sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols…The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest,” Anand said. He added that the two armies also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground and avoid any new incidents.It is good that both sides continue to engage each other, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“The Indian side has clearly linked the de-escalation of forces and full restoration of peace with disengagement in remaining areas. We will have to now see what the Chinese response is. That will give some indication of how things go forward,” Hooda added. There was no official statement from the Chinese side when this report was filed.While disengagement began and ended in the Pangong Lake sector in less than 10 days, it appears to have lost its initial momentum going by the lack of progress at other friction points on the LAC.The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has also been affected in Gogra and Hot Springs, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.The 10th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies took place on February 20 after the completion of disengagement on strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso. Both sides pulled back their frontline troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns under the disengagement agreement.At a marathon 16-hour meeting between senior commanders on February 20, the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to resolve outstanding issues at friction points on the LAC in a “steady and orderly” manner and were unanimous that the Pangong Tso disengagement provided “a good basis” for resolving pending problems.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-tells-china-disengagement-must-for-de-escalation-of-conflict-101618065624783.html
10-04-2021||India||Punjab farmers protest against Centre's direct benefit scheme||Farmers and commission agents in Amritsar on Saturday went on strike against the Centre's direct benefit transfer scheme, alleging that if implemented it will destroy farmers."We have staged a strike supporting farmers who have been protesting for the last few months. If the Centre's direct benefit transfer scheme is implemented, it will destroy farmers," General Secretary of the Majdoor Union, Punjab told ANI.Farmers' markets in the state wore a deserted look as commission agents and farmers staged the protest, despite the state government's announcement of the start of procurement of produce.Punjab Food and Supplies Minister, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, in Ludhiana, meanwhile, said, "Commission agents have called off their strike over direct benefit transfer to farmers. The procurement process will be started now at Rajpura mandi. The farmers will get payments in their accounts."Earlier this week, Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh had flayed the Central government for "encroaching upon the rights of the states in its bid to dominate them," while castigating it a one-sided decision to forcibly impose the farm laws and the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) on the state's farming community.States never faced such problems earlier, the Chief Minister said, slamming the government for attempting to "destroy the existing relations and systems in the name of so-called reforms, which they were trying to impose without taking the stakeholders into confidence."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/punjab-farmers-protest-against-centre-s-direct-benefit-scheme-101618062255192.html
10-04-2021||India||India, China to resolve outstanding LAC issues in ‘expeditious manner’: MEA||India and China have agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an “expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols” during the 11th round of military dialogue in eastern Ladakh to reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), according to a statement issued by the Indian government on Saturday. The statement came a day after the corps commander level meeting was held at Chushul-Moldo border on Friday.“In this context it was highlighted also that completion of disengagement in other areas would pave the way for two sides to consider de-escalation of forces and ensure full restoration of peace and tranquility and enable progress in bilateral relations,” the ministry of external affairs said in the statement.Also read | Talks with India to resolve LAC tension not delayed: China“The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest. They also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents and jointly maintain peace in the border areas,” it added.Both sides have been locked in a standoff for more than 11 months and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The talks--which were led by Lieutenant General PGK Menon, the commander of the Leh-based 14 Corps--began at 10:30am on Friday on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point. Also read | ‘Russia closely watching LAC developments’: Foreign minister Sergey LavrovThe 11th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers was expected to focus on outstanding problems with the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang. A complex disengagement process was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pull back of front-line troops and weapons, the officials said. The 10th round of talks—which lasted for around 16 hours—between corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies took place on February 20, two days after the completion of disengagement on strategic heights on the North and South banks of the Pangong Lake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-to-resolve-outstanding-lac-issues-in-expeditious-manner-mea-101618061889054.html
10-04-2021||India||Customs interrogates Kerala Speaker in dollar smuggling case||Kerala legislative assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan was questioned by customs officials on Saturday at his official residence in connection with the dollar smuggling case. Later his private flat in the state capital was also searched. Earlier the customs department had served several notices to him to appear before the agency but he failed citing many reasons. Customs officials later confirmed this and said the questioning went on for five hours. The dollar smuggling case pertains to the alleged smuggling of ₹1.30 crore by a former head of the finance department of the UAE Consulate at the state capital, to Muscat in Oman. The Speaker was questioned on the basis of statements given by the two main accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. They reportedly told officials that the speaker was close to many officials of the Consulate. After the gold smuggling case surfaced last July, there were reports allegedly linking the main accused Suresh with the Speaker. He later admitted that he knew Suresh as an employee of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) Consulate and attended some functions on her invitation. But the opposition Congress and BJP alleged that it was more than an ‘official relationship’ and that Sreeramakrishnan had travelled with Suresh several times to West Asian countries and he had invested heavily in an educational group in one of the Middle-Eastern countries. They also alleged the accused smuggled US dollars to the Gulf countries using Sreeramakrishnan’s green channel access. They said that a major portion of the smuggled US dollars was commission obtained from various projects in the state. But the Speaker had denied all these allegations. Sreeramakrishnan also refuted a report circulating on some social media sites that he attempted suicide. “I am not the one who takes respite in death. I am not a coward,” he said in a Facebook post saying some people were busy churning out malicious stories.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/customs-interrogates-kerala-speaker-in-dollar-smuggling-case-101618062264437.html
10-04-2021||India||10 states face severe Covid-19 vaccine shortage. Here's a list||India is facing two of its worst possible crisis during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic—record spikes in daily cases of Covid-19 and what several states have claimed a shortage of vaccine against the viral disease. Several states have reached out to the Centre for assistance as many claimed that their stocks will only last for a few days. Responding to the requests and concerns, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan has said the country has enough doses and urged state governments to put an end to “fear-mongering.”States like Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh and Jharkhand complained that they are facing a shortage of vaccines, while reports emerged from several other states that vaccine centres were shutting early or turning people away due to supplies running out.India's severely-hit state of Maharashtra—which reports the country's highest cases and deaths—was the first to flag the vaccine shortage. Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Thursday said the state is facing a Covid-19 vaccine crunch and demanded 40 lakh doses every week from the Centre. The state reported 58,993 new Covid-19 cases, 45,391 recoveries, and 301 deaths on Friday. Maharashtra alone accounts for 51.23 per cent of the total active cases in the country, according to the health ministry.MaharashtraMaharashtra minister Aslam Shaikh on Saturday said that the state received the least number of vaccines and a majority of vaccination centres were facing closure due to a shortage of doses.PunjabPunjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh joined the list of state heads talking about the dwindling vaccine doses on Saturday and said that its stock will only last for three days. "Punjab is left with only five days of supply (5.7 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses) at the current levels of vaccinating 85000-90000 persons a day. If the state is able to meet its target of 2 lakh vaccines a day, then its current supplies will last only three days," Singh said during the meeting, news agency ANI reported.RajasthanRajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot also said the shortage of vaccines was a reality during a virtual meeting chaired by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi with leaders of states ruled by the party to take a view on their ongoing efforts against the coronavirus pandemic. The Rajasthan chief minister on Friday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi that vaccine stocks in his state will last only till Sunday.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel also told Gandhi that his state will run out of the vaccine stock in three days unless the central government ramps up the supply.DelhiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday also red-flagged the shortage and said that the national capital has vaccines for 7-10 days.OdishaOdisha's Covid-19 vaccination in-charge Bijay Panigrahi on Friday said the state is left with only two days of vaccine stock but expects to receive more vaccine doses from the Centre within two days. Speaking to reporters about the situation of vaccine stock, Panigrahi said, "We have 3.2 lakh doses of Covishield and 1 lakh doses of Covaxin in Odisha. With this stock, we can continue vaccination for two days. We expect to receive more vaccine doses from the Government of India within two days."In Thursday's meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, chief minister Naveen Patnaik had asked the Centre to supply 10 days stock of 25 lakh vaccine doses.Andhra PradeshThe list of states also includes Andhra Pradesh, which sent an SOS to the Centre seeking immediate supply of at least one crore doses of the coronavirus vaccine and said its current stock would last no more than two days. Health officials on Thursday informed chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy that the state currently has just three lakh doses of the vaccine while on average 1.4 lakh people were being inoculated per day.There were over one crore people above 45 years in the state to be inoculated but a shortage of vaccine has become a cause for concern, news agency PTI reported.JharkhandJharkhand is facing a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and is only left with stock for a couple of days, health minister Banna Gupta had said on Thursday. "We have stock for the next 1-2 days. We have made a request to the Union Health Minister and I am hopeful that he will provide the vaccines," Gupta was quoted as saying by ANI.Uttarakhand and AssamOfficials in states such as Uttarakhand and Assam said they only had supplies for the next few days would be forced to close some vaccination centres if supplies are not replenished.India, a major vaccine manufacturer, has so far administered 97 million shots but is facing major supply snags as it works to inoculate a huge population of nearly 1.4 billion people. Vaccine shots are currently limited to people over age 45 and frontline workers. India has exported 64.5 million vaccine doses of vaccines to other nations. It stopped exports last week to prioritise domestic needs.The CEO of the Serum Institute of India, the world's biggest vaccine maker by volume, has warned that production capacity is "very stressed".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-face-severe-covid-19-vaccine-shortage-here-s-a-list-101618047783891.html
10-04-2021||India||COVID-19: A year on, India's situation grimmer with 'more infectious' variants, surge in cases||When millions of Indians switched off lights and lit candles and earthen lamps in the early days of the pandemic in solidarity with Covid warriors, many probably though the fight will be over soon, but a year on, the situation has become grimmer.On April 10 last year, five days after millions responded to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's appeal to show the nation's "collective resolve and solidarity" in the fight against the coronavirus, the number of confirmed infections stood at 6,761, while the death toll was 206.Cut to the present, India registered a record 1,45,384 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing its infection tally to 1,32,05,926, while the death toll stood at 1,68,436.Delhi alone recorded over 8,500 new cases on Friday, while Maharashtra reported more than 58,000.As per the health ministry, 10 states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan -- are showing a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases at present.They accounted for 82.82 per cent of the new infections on Saturday, it said.The number of active cases has breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-a-half months, and the country recorded 794 more fatalities in a day, the highest since October 18 last year.India crossed the grim milestone of one crore Covid-19 cases on December 19 last year. The spread of the virus slowed down briefly and there was an improvement in the situation in January 2021.The country's lowest daily spike of just 8,635 infections was reported on February 2.But the ebbing did not last long, and the infections began surging again in March 2021.A large number of healthcare workers have contracted the virus too, including those who have taken both doses of the vaccine.Over 9.78 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far to healthcare and frontline workers, and people above 45.India is racing against time to contain the second wave of the coronavirus by again imposing restrictions like night curfews and vaccinating over 20 lakh people daily.Making matters worse, several more infectious variants of the coronavirus have surfaced, and many experts believe might be behind the surge of cases in the country.Three variants of concern have been identified – the UK variant, Brazil variant and the South African variant.India has also detected a new "double mutant" Covid-19 variant in states like Maharashtra and Delhi, where a surge of cases is being recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-a-year-on-india-s-situation-grimmer-with-more-infectious-variants-surge-in-cases-101618060780923.html
10-04-2021||India||Farmers must follow Covid-19 protocol, defer protests: Narendra Tomar||Union agriculture minister Narendra Singh Tomar on Saturday asked agitating farmers to defer their protests against the three contentious farm laws citing the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in the country and resume discussions with the government. “I had urged union leaders many times to tell children and older people to go back home, in view of Covid-19. Now the second wave has begun, farmers and their unions should follow Covid-19 protocol. They should postpone the protest and have discussions with us,” news agency ANI quoted Tomar as saying.The agriculture minister also assured that the Centre is ready for further rounds of talks to discuss the three laws with the protesting farmers. “Many farmers unions, economists are supporting the agriculture bills but some farmers are protesting against them. The government held 11 rounds of talks with protesting farmer unions, we are ready for more talks,” he added.Also read | Ready to follow SOPs, but agitation won’t end: TikaitThe standoff over the laws has continued to date even after the 11 rounds of talks between the government and the farmers’ leaders. During the eleventh round of talks on January 22, the Centre had proposed to stall the farm laws for a period of 12 to 18 months, but the farmers’ unions maintained their stance and rejected the proposal. Instead, they demanded a complete repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee on the minimum support price (MSP).Tomar also said that the unions are protesting despite the government’s offer to hold talks. “We offered to discuss problematic areas and make changes in them. Farmer unions did not accept and did not give a reason. Agitation continues either when [the] government is not ready to talk or when [the] union doesn't get [a] favourable response. Here unions decided to continue it anyway,” the minister said.Thousands of farmers have been protesting at Delhi’s borders against the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; the Farmers Empowerment and Protection Agreement on Price Assurance and farm Services Act 2020 and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act since November last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-must-follow-covid-19-protocol-defer-protests-narendra-tomar-101618058992694.html
10-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi addresses rally in Bengal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.BJP only party to get ideological energy from Bengal's soil, says PM ModiPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Saturday the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) derives its ideological energy from the soil of West Bengal while addressing a rally in the poll-bound state’s Krishnanagar.Read more.Sonia Gandhi meets CMs of Congress-led states, reviews Covid-19 crisisA day after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting his concerns over the ‘snail paced’ vaccination drive and ‘vaccine starvation’ in the country, Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi said that the Modi government had ‘mismanaged’ the Covid-19 situation.Read more. ‘Allergic to good suggestion!’: Rahul Gandhi’s another jibe at Centre over Covid-19 vaccineCongress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday continued his attack on the Central government and said the Centre’s “failed policies” have led to a “terrible second wave of Corona in the country”. In a tweet on Saturday, Gandhi said “migrant workers are forced to flee again”.Read more. Andhra CM’s sister announces launch of party in Telangana, vows to get rid of KCR’s ruleAnnouncing the launch of a new regional party in Telangana, YS Sharmila, sister of Andhra Pradesh chief minister YS Jagan Mohan Reddy, on Friday vowed to help the people of the state get rid of the feudal regime of K Chandrasekhar Rao and bring back “Rajanna Rajyam” (the rule of her father YS Rajasekhar Reddy).Read more. Anand Mahindra shares animal video with an interesting caption. Seen it yet?“It’s supposed to be just a cute animal video but I think the world may have discovered a new form of energy,” this is how a post by business tycoon Anand Mahindra starts. Shared on Twitter, the post also contains a super cute video showcasing several goats wagging their tails while having their meals.Read more. CSK vs DC: 'Boundary machine' Dhawan eyes milestone in opener against Dhoni & CoVeteran opener Shikhar Dhawan will have a big role to play when he opens the batting for Delhi Capitals in their IPL 2021 season opener against MS Dhoni and his Chennai Super Kings. Dhawan was in top form last season and finished IPL 2020 as the second highest-run getter. In the process he also became the first batsman in the history of the tournament to hit centuries in consecutive matches.Read more.Dolby, Hungama Music on bringing premium audio experience to Indian listenersDolby recently announced it is partnering with Hungama Music to integrate Dolby Atmos with the music streaming service. Through this collaboration, Hungama Music users with Dolby Atmos-supported devices will be able to listen to music with this technology. It’s available for both free and premium Hungama Music users.Read more.  11th hour promotions: Tamannaah Bhatia ups summer fashion in ₹51k floral maxiBaahubali actor Tamannaah Bhatia has recently been flitting across the country for the promotions of her upcoming webseries 11th hour. The actor recently took to her Instagram feed to share images of herself looking stunning in a floral printed maxi dress really bringing "that summer feeling" to her fans.Read more.Prince Harry and Meghan Markle pay tribute to Prince Philip: 'You will be greatly missed'Prince Harry and Meghan Markle paid their tribute to Prince Philip. The patriarch of Britain's royal family and husband to Queen Elizabeth II died on Friday at 99, the Buckingham Palace had said.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-pm-modi-addresses-rally-in-bengal-and-all-the-latest-news-101618053403873.html
10-04-2021||India||Gujarat government not in favour of lockdown: CM Rupani||The Gujarat government is not in favour of imposing a lockdown in the state considering its impact on the poor despite the rise in coronavirus positive cases, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said on Saturday.However, he welcomed the voluntary imposition of lockdowns at a local level by villages or market associations in cities."The state government is not willing to impose a lockdown in the state considering the problems faced by the poor people. We have already imposed a curfew for 10 hours in a day to restrict the unnecessary movement of people," Rupani said when asked if the government was thinking of clamping a lockdown in view of the rising cases.Rupani was speaking to reporters after flagging off 20 new 'Dhanvantari' vans which will conduct coronavirus tests in public places and also suggest treatment."If any market association imposes a lockdown at a local level or if any village imposes such a measure, it is welcome to do so," the chief minister said.Amid the upswing in cases, many villages, housing societies and market organisations in Gujarat have declared lockdowns in their respective areas.The market organisation of Sola road in Ahmedabad has also decided to impose a lockdown on Saturday and Sunday to break the chain of transmission.A 'janta' curfew for two days is also observed in Palanpur city, but some traders kept their shops open.With the latest addition of 4,541 fresh COVID-19 cases, the tally of cases in Gujarat reached 3,37,015 on Friday, as per the state health department.Meanwhile, the CM denied reports that the state government was hiding the true data on the count of fatalities caused by the COVID-19 infection."As per the guidelines of the ICMR, if a comorbid patient dies then a committee of experts decides the primary and secondary causes of such death. If that committee identifies the main cause of the death as a heart attack then even though the patient was infected, such death is not counted as caused by coronavirus. The same system is followed in the entire country," he said.As per the state health government, Gujarat's overall Covid-19 toll stood at 4,697 as on Friday.Rupani further said the state government has made arrangements for hospital beds, oxygen, Remdesivir injections and other facilities to treat patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gujarat-government-not-in-favour-of-lockdown-cm-rupani-101618053893298.html
10-04-2021||India||BJP's V Muraleedharan questions Kerala CM's silence on Lokayukta verdict against minister KT Jaleel||Union Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan on Saturday demanded action by the Kerala government against Higher Education Minister KT Jaleel in light of Lokayukta verdict that he was guilty of nepotism, and questioned Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's silence on the issue.He alleged that Chief Minister's personal relationship with KT Jaleel had protected him and challenged Vijayan to come clean on that relationship.Muraleedharan said, "I demand State government to take action against KT Jaleel and not to give him any special privilege based on his connection with Chief Minister.""Jaleel is privy to information about some act in which Chief Minister is involved. If that is the reason, Kerala CM has to come clean on reasons why he is unable to take any action against Jaleel," he further said."The nepotism in the appointment of Jaleel's relative in a government post clearly brings out large scale corruption in the government of Kerala", he said adding that in spite of all this the Kerala law minister tried to justify Jaleel's side."This shows the double standard that Chief Minister has been practising. What is the special privilege that Jaleel enjoys which has not been given to the senior ministers of CPI(M)?" he asked.Muraleedharan listed out alleged instances of Pinarayi Vijayan coming to Jaleel's rescue citing, "The Chief Minister has been very eager to justify Jaleel when Enforcement Directorate questioned him for almost 8 hours. He did not care to ask the minister what was the close relationship that he had with the consulate of a foreign country in Thiruvanathapuram.""When issues related to abnormalities in the Adalat he conducted personally at Technical University came to light, When issues related to the land acquisition of Malayalam University and when Christian community has complained that minority benefits are not reaching them, the chief Minister justified Jaleel," he added.The Lokayukta on Friday found KT Jaleel, guilty of 'allegations of abuse of power, favouritism, nepotism and violation of Oath of Office' and ordered that he should 'not continue to hold the post held by him as a Member of the Council of Ministers.'The findings by the Lokayukta Justice Cyriac Joseph and Upa Lokayukta Harul Ul Rashid are based on a complaint against the Minister, which accused him of misusing his office to appoint his relative KT Adeeb as general manager in the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bjps-v-muraleedharan-questions-kerala-cm-s-silence-on-lokayukta-verdict-against-minister-kt-jaleel-101618052133222.html
10-04-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi meets CMs of Congress-led states, reviews Covid-19 crisis||A day after former Congress president Rahul Gandhi wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi highlighting his concerns over the ‘snail paced’ vaccination drive and ‘vaccine starvation’ in the country, Congress interim chief Sonia Gandhi said that the Modi government had ‘mismanaged’ the Covid-19 situation.Her remarks came at a virtually held meeting with Congress-ruled states on their ongoing efforts against the second wave of Covid-19. The meeting presided over by the Congress president was also attended by the ministers of Congress’s alliance states.While speaking on the resurgence of Covid-19 cases in the country, Sonia Gandhi remarked that it was their responsibility as the principal opposition party to highlight the issues of vaccine unavailability in the country and push the government to desist from PR tactics and act in the interest of the people.Also read | Punjab, Rajasthan join list of states facing vaccine shortageDemanding more transparency to be brought into the Covid statistics, the 74-year old leader said, “Governments must reveal the actual numbers of infections and deaths across states, whether Congress ruled or otherwise.”Reiterating the earlier concern of Rahul Gandhi on the export of vaccines, she stressed that India’s foremost priority should be to vaccinate the Indian nationals first.“We must focus on India’s vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries,” she said while advocating for responsible Covid appropriate behaviour.Resolving to be constructive and cooperative with the Central government, Gandhi also asked the Congress-led states to take strict measures so that the pandemic does not go out of control.She stressed upon the Chief Ministers of the Congress led states and the ministers in alliance led states to ensure testing on a large scale apart from preparation of adequate facilities along with setting up the temporary ones.Holding the BJP government responsible for the mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation by allowing a shortage of vaccines in the country due to exports, she held that Congress has also been irresponsible to some extent by allowing mass gatherings for the elections.“We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own,” Gandhi said.Gandhi also added as the restrictions were becoming harder and more stringent, it was everyone’s responsibility to support those who face the brunt of reduced economic activity.Watch | BJP counters Rahul Gandhi over 'vaccine shortage' claim, Congress fires back﻿Wayanad MP Rahul Gandhi who was also a part of the meet had yesterday requested the Union government to lend a direct income support to the vulnerable sections of society in these difficult times due to the pandemic.While assessing the vulnerability of public gatherings for the elections, she also questioned the Chief Ministers on the Covid-19 situations in their respective states.“What are our states doing to ensure availability of oxygen, ventilators and other facilities as the pandemic grows?” she asked while inquiring about the availability of the vaccines, oxygen ventilators and other facilities in the Congress-led states.Seeking the views of the Chief Ministers on the economic fallout, lockdown and the central government’s response to demands of states, Mrs Gandhi said, “Various packages had been announced by the Central government to help MSMEs and stimulate the economy. What impact have these packages had and what more should the Government be doing to deal with the continuing crisis? Do you see economic recovery happening in the manner that is being officially claimed?”On the subject of the farmer agitation that has been going on for over five months, Gandhi asked the Chief Ministers to brief her about the latest situation in their respective states and also asked for their views on state bills passed against the farm laws which have failed to receive the presidential nod.“What more should we do on it, even though the key to the solution lies with the Centre which has created the problem in the first place?” she inquired.Rahul Gandhi who was also a part of the meet expressed his deep concern over the second wave of Covid-19 in the country. He asked for a strenuous approach to be put in to identify new mutations leading to the second wave and called for joining hands instead of being complacent and declaring premature victories over the virus.Also read | ‘Allergic to good suggestion!’: Rahul Gandhi’s another jibe at Centre over Covid-19 vaccineHe also reiterated the demand for basic income support for disadvantaged groups as they were attacked by the virus more harshly.Chief Minister of Punjab Capt Amrinder Singh while pointing out the vaccine shortage in the country said that only a vaccine stock of three days was left with them and there was no assurance from the Centre about the further supply of vaccines yet.Speaking about the rise in Covid-19 cases, Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot said that the shortage of vaccines was a reality and the Union government should take states on board as stakeholders and not as their adversaries.Jharkhand minister Rameshwar Oraon who was also attending the meeting enlisted a number of measures that should be undertaken to deal with the Covid-19 crisis, while Maharashtra minister Balasaheb Thorat said that there was an urgent need of almost 1200 ventilators and more Remdesivir injections in that state.Thorat said that their state could vaccinate as many as 5 lakh people daily only if the Central government supplied them with the vaccine. “Our vaccinations centres will otherwise shut down,” he concluded.Inputs by Umar Sofi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-meets-cms-of-congress-led-states-reviews-covid-19-crisis-101618053323763.html
10-04-2021||India||'Hope PM Modi will take opinions from Kejriwal': Manish Sisodia||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal is the only leader with a vision for development, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi should discuss with him schemes to improve the lives of common people, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Saturday.Addressing a press conference here, Sisodia claimed that all political parties were promising to follow the "Kejriwal model" of governance in states where elections are being held."Kejriwal is the only leader who has a vision for the country. He understands the problems faced by common people and their needs and the way for development. He has the capability of taking the country in the right direction. Other parties are following his policies. What he promises, he does," Sisodia said."I hope the prime minister will take opinions from Kejriwal. Every 15 days, Arvind Kejriwal should be called for 'chai' (tea) to discuss what model can be followed for the country's development and which schemes can be implemented for the betterment of the people," he added.The deputy chief minister claimed that Delhi has become a laboratory for developing various policies of development."Whether it is giving 200 units free electricity or free bus rides for women, all political parties are promising these schemes in other states where elections are being held," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hope-pm-modi-will-take-opinions-from-kejriwal-manish-sisodia-101618047212683.html
10-04-2021||India||5 states account for over 72% of country's total active Covid-19 cases: Govt||Five states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, and Kerala -- cumulatively account for 72.23 per cent of the country's total active Covid-19 cases which have breached the 10-lakh mark again after around six-and-half-months, the Union health ministry said on Saturday.Ten districts including Pune, Mumbai, Thane, Nagpur, Bengaluru Urban, Nashik, Delhi, Raipur, Durg and Aurangabad account for 45.65 per cent of the total active cases which have climbed to 10,46,631 and now comprise 7.93 per cent of the total infections, it said.A net increase of 67,023 cases have been recorded in the total active cases in a span of 24 hours. Maharashtra alone accounts for 51.23 per cent of the total active cases in the country, the ministry said.Ten states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan -- have shown a steep rise in the daily Covid-19 cases accounting for 82.82 per cent of the new infections, it said.India registered a record single-day spike of 1,45,384 new coronavirus infections on Saturday taking the nationwide Covid-19 tally of cases to 1,32,05,926,Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 58,993. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 11,447 cases while Uttar Pradesh reported 9,587 new cases.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,19,90,859 with 77,567 recoveries being registered in a day. "Daily Deaths continue to show an upward trend. A total of 794 deaths were reported in a span of 24 hours," the ministry said, highlighting that 10 states account for 86.78 per cent of the new deaths.Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties at 301 followed by Chhattisgarh (91).Twelve states and union territories have not reported any COVID-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours, the ministry said.These are Puducherry, Ladakh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, and Arunachal Pradesh, it said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 9.80 crore, the ministry said.Cumulatively, 9,80,75,160 vaccine doses have been administered through 14,75,410 sessions till 7 am, according to the provisional report.These include 89,88,373 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 54,79,821 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 98,67,330 FLWs who have received the first dose, 46,59,035 FLWs who have taken the second dose.Besides, 3,86,53,105 and 15,90,388 beneficiaries aged above 60 have been administered the first and second dose respectively and 2,82,55,044 and 5,82,064 beneficiaries aged between 45 to 60 received the first and second dose respectively.Eight states including Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala account for 60.62 per cent of the total doses given so far in the country, the ministry said.Over 34 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours, it said.As on day-84 of the vaccination drive (April 9), 34,15,055 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 30,06,037 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 46,207 sessions for the first dose and 4,09,018 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine.In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,93,288 doses administered per day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-over-72-of-country-s-total-active-covid-19-cases-govt-101618044481195.html
10-04-2021||India||Govt exported Covid-19 vaccine and allowed shortage in India: Sonia Gandhi||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday alleged that the government exported Covid-19 vaccine and thus allowed shortage in India. Gandhi said this at a meeting of Congress-ruled states to review Covid-19 situation in the nation. "The Modi government has mismanaged the situation--exported vaccine and allowed a shortage to be created in India," she added.During the meeting, Gandhi discussed the efforts to fight Covid-19 including the availability of vaccine, access to medicines and ventilators. "Public gatherings, including poll rallies should be cancelled," she said.Gandhi also asked chief ministers of Congress-ruled states to scale up testing and tracking of Covid-19 vaccination.Remarks of Congress President, Smt. Sonia Gandhi at a meeting of Congress ruled States & Congress Ministers from our alliance States to review the efforts to fight COVID-19 including availability of vaccines, access to medicines & ventilators. pic.twitter.com/fvJWhzrNO9"We must focus on India's vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries. We must stress on responsible behavior adhering to all laws and Covid regulations without exception. “It is our responsibility to raise issues and push the government to move away from PR tactics and act in the interest of the people," she added.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and Chhattisgarh counterpart Bhupesh Baghel were among those who participated in the meeting. While Singh pointed out that Punjab's vaccination stock will last for five more days, Baghel said Chhattisgarh will run out of the vaccine stock in three days.Gandhi said mass gatherings for elections and religious events have accelerated Covid for which everyone is responsible to some extent. “We need to accept this responsibility and keep the interest of the nation above our own. In our states, we need to take strict measures to ensure that the pandemic doesn’t go out of control and ensure testing at large scale, preparation of adequate facilities, setting up temporary ones.”She sought answers to whether there is enough vaccine available, whether the central government has been cooperative, whether the states are doing enough to ensure availability of the oxygen.“What is your view of lockdown? Should not public gatherings, including election rallies, be cancelled?” she asked.Gandhi also reviewed the efforts to fight Covid-19, including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said.Surjewala further said that Rahul Gandhi, who was also present in the meeting, too "expressed deep concern over the second wave of Covid-19 hitting the country." "Rahul Gandhi points out that virus attacks the poorest and disadvantaged the hardest," Surjewala added.The meeting came a day after Rahul Gandhi has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking him to place an immediate moratorium on the export of Covid-19 vaccines, fast track approval of other vaccines and open up vaccination to everyone who needs it.Referring to the Prime Minister's appeal to the chief ministers to organise a vaccine festival from April 11 to 14, Gandhi tweeted that shortage of vaccines amid the rise in Covid-19 cases is a very serious issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-exported-covid-19-vaccine-and-allowed-shortage-in-india-sonia-gandhi-101618039164534.html
10-04-2021||India||These 10 districts contribute highest to India's Covid-19 active caseload||The second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) took India’s active caseload to one million for the first time since the pandemic hit the country last year. The country logged over 145,000 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday in the last 24 hours, taking the active cases tally to over 1,046,000, according to the Union health ministry data.Click here for complete coverage of Covid-19The surge in coronavirus disease cases is not witnessed only in metropolitan cities. On the contrary, the health ministry’s data shows that the maximum number of active cases are reported from tier-2 or tier-3 cities of the country.These top 10 districts contribute 46 per cent to the active coronavirus caseload of the country.Pune: At the top, this district accounts for 9.54 per cent of the active cases tally in the country.Mumbai: The financial capital of the country accounts for 8.41 per cent of the tally.Thane: Another district in Maharashtra is contributing 6.45 per cent to the active caseload.Nagpur: The district's share of the active caseload amounts to 6.02 per cent.Bengaluru Urban: Contributes 4.06 per cent to the active caseload.Nashik: This Maharashtra district accounts for 3.44 per cent of the active cases.Delhi: The national capital’s contribution amounts to 2.54 per cent.Raipur: Chhattisgarh’s capital is also one of the districts with the highest active cases, 1.78 per cent.Durg: The second-largest urban area after Raipur in Chhattisgarh accounts for 1.76 per cent of the active cases.Aurangabad: This Maharashtra district accounts for 1.62 per cent of the active cases tally.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala contribute maximum to the active caseload of the country, while Maharashtra alone accounts for more than half of the active cases tally. The top four districts with the highest Covid-19 cases also lie in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/these-10-districts-contribute-highest-to-india-s-covid-19-active-caseload-101618042994692.html
10-04-2021||India||‘Allergic to good suggestion!’: Rahul Gandhi’s another jibe at Centre over Covid-19 vaccine||Congress leader and former party chief Rahul Gandhi on Saturday continued his attack on the Central government and said the Centre’s “failed policies” have led to a “terrible second wave of Corona in the country”. In a tweet on Saturday, Gandhi said “migrant workers are forced to flee again”.“Besides increasing vaccination, it is necessary to provide money in their hands - both for the life of the common man and the economy of the country. But the egoistic government is allergic to good suggestions!” Gandhi tweeted.On Friday, Gandhi urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to halt the export of vaccines to curb the second Covid-19 wave in India.“Lack of vaccine is a very serious problem amid the growing Corona crisis... Is the vaccine export right, putting your countrymen at risk?” Gandhi posted on Twitter on Friday. The nationwide vaccination drive, which began on January 16, vaccinated the healthcare and frontline workers first. Gandhi alleged that the pace of the vaccination has slowed down and asked the Central government to speed up the process.On Friday, Gandhi wrote to the PM to make vaccination available to all those who need it. The Wayanad MP blamed the shortage of vaccines on extensive exports and asked the Centre to support all states without any bias.Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad was quick to react and claimed that the shortage in Congress-governed states was not of vaccines but commitment.Union home minister Amit Shah also reiterated the Centre’s stand, saying “all states are being provided with an adequate supply of the vaccine”.Congress president Sonia Gandhi will be taking up the matter on Saturday in a meeting and discuss the party’s Covid-19 action plan and preparedness in states it presently rules.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allergic-to-good-suggestion-rahul-gandhi-s-another-jibe-at-centre-over-covid-19-vaccine-101618041802941.html
10-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Need to remove age criteria, scale up Covid-19 vaccination, says Kejriwal and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.No lockdown but new restrictions in Delhi will be announced soon, says KejriwalDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday said there is a need to remove age criteria and scale up the Covid-19 vaccination process, adding that there will be no lockdown in the national capital. Rahul Gandhi raises migrants' issue, blames Centre's policy failure for Covid-19 2nd waveCongress leader Rahul Gandhi criticized the Centre on Saturday for their “failed policies” which he said has led to a second wave of Covid-19 all over the country, adding that migrants have been forced to leave once again. 'He does it on slow wickets what not many can do': Virat Kohli says 'opposition gets nervous' about AB de VilliersThe first match of the 14th edition of Indian Premier League was a cliffhanger as it went right down to the last ball to determine the winner of the game. Read moreKareena Kapoor shares photo of Taimur stretching on a yoga mat with funny caption, fan calls him 'upcoming Indian yogi'Kareena Kapoor Khan’s elder son, Taimur, seems to be following in her footsteps and taking an interest in yoga. Or maybe not. She shared a picture of him stretching on a yoga mat with a rather funny caption: “Stretching after yoga or stretching after a nap... You'll never know. #LockdownYoga.” She also added laughing emojis. Read moreVirat Kohli reacts to Rahul Dravid’s hilarious ‘Indiranagar ka gunda’ viral adCricket legend Rahul Dravid has taken the Internet by storm with his appearance in an advertisement for CRED, a credit card bill payment platform. Read moreIPL 2021 rolls as pandemic worsens: How the league may be a blessing in disguiseThe Indian Premier League has kicked off amid rising Covid cases in the country. The 52-day event will see players spend their time in bio bubbles. Authorities have also appointed bubble integrity management executives to ensure that players and the coaching staff remain protected at all times. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-need-to-remove-age-criteria-scale-up-covid-19-vaccination-says-kejriwal-and-all-the-latest-news-101618036272589.html
10-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi raises migrants' issue, blames Centre's policy failure for Covid-19 2nd wave||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi criticised the Centre on Saturday for their “failed policies” which he said has led to a second wave of Covid-19 all over the country, adding that migrants have been forced to leave once again. “Failed policies of the central government have led to a dangerous second wave of Corona in the country and migrant workers have been forced to leave again,” tweeted Gandhi.Gandhi called for increasing the pace of vaccination and for disbursing money through cash transfers both for the good of the masses and the country’s economy.“Besides increasing vaccination, it is necessary to put money in their hands - both for the life of the common man and the economy of the country,” Gandhi tweeted in Hindi. “But this egoistic government is allergic to good suggestions!" Gandhi added.On Friday, the Congress leader wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking why the government allowed the export of vaccines while there is a shortage in the country. The government should immediately place a moratorium on vaccine export and open the vaccination drive to everyone who needs it, Rahul Gandhi wrote.Earlier on Saturday, Congress president Sonia Gandhi held a meeting with chief ministers of Congress-ruled states to review the Covid-19 situation, advising states to concentrate on tracking, testing, and vaccinating.India recorded its highest-ever spike in the entire pandemic, reporting 1,45,384 fresh cases and taking the overall tally to 13,205,926.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-raises-migrants-issue-blames-centre-s-policy-failure-for-covid-19-2nd-wave-101618038674450.html
10-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid-19: Uddhav Thackeray calls all-party meet, more curbs likely||Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has called an all-party meeting on Saturday, which will be held via video-conferencing, to review the Covid-19 situation of the state where the proposal of a complete lockdown is also likely to be discussed.A weekend lockdown has been imposed across the state starting from Saturday, while a night curfew was already in place. All shops, dealing with non-essential services, have also been closed in the state, a decision which is facing protests from traders and political parties, including the BJP and the Maharashtra Navnirman Sena.The graph of infections in the state is steadily rising and the state has been recording over 55,000 cases daily. On Friday, Maharashtra reported 58,993 infections as over 2 lakh people were tested.While the BJP and the MNS are urging the state government to allow non-essential shops to function for at least a few hours in a day so that the impact on their businesses can be cushioned to some extent, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said longer lockdown is needed in the present situation of the state. Relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar too said a three-week lockdown is required to bring the situation under control.On Friday, Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with the representatives of private hospitals in the state and asked them to expand their capacity by adding more beds, roping in retired nurses and doctors for some time to tackle the recent surge.The government has postponed the Maharashtra Public Service Commission examination which was scheduled on April 11. Whenever the examination is held, the age mentioned by candidates in the form will be considered, the Chief Minister's Office confirmed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-19-uddhav-thackeray-calls-all-party-meet-more-curbs-likely-101618036286184.html
10-04-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi reviews efforts to tackle Covid-19 in Congress-ruled states||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday reviewed the efforts by the states ruled by her party to tackle the second wave of the coronavirus infection and the vaccination drive.Addressing a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states and ministers of the party in states where it is in power in alliance with others, she said the priority should be to test, track and vaccinate.Gandhi also reviewed the efforts to fight Covid-19, including the availability of vaccines, access to medicines and ventilators, Congress's chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said."The priority is to test, track and vaccinate," he wrote on Twitter, quoting Gandhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-reviews-efforts-to-tackle-covid-19-in-congress-ruled-states-101618035992819.html
10-04-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Kundli Manesar highway blocked for a day||Following the call of the umbrella body of 40 protesting farmers’ unions, the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) highway will be blocked on Saturday for 24 hours.Intensifying the protests against the three farm laws, the Samyukt Kisan Morcha called for blocking the KMP-KGP (Kundli-Ghaziabad-Palwal) highway for 24 hours beginning from Saturday morning.“Tomorrow, on April 10, the KMP-KGP highway will be blocked for 24 hours (from 8am, April 10 to 8am, April 11) as a warning to the government,” news agency ANI quoted the union’s statement.Also Read | Sonia Gandhi writes to Prakash Javadekar, asks him not to implement Ken-Betwa projectThe 24-hour blockade of the highways is part of the agitations scheduled by the farmers’ union this month which also includes programmes scheduled to pay tribute to the martyrs of the Jallianwala Bagh massacre on April 13 and the celebration of ‘Save the Constitution Day' on April 14 to mark the occasion of Ambedkar Jayanti.Kisan Ekta Morcha, one of the protesting farmers’ unions, on Saturday said that farmers will block the highway to reiterate their demands for the rollback of the three contentious farm laws. The union added that all entry and exit points on the highway will be closed without disrupting emergency commuters.“24-hr road blockade starting at 8 AM at KMP Expressway, is no less than 'a warning to the government'. All entry/exit points will be choked without disrupting emergency commuters. Protesting farmers shall perform this to reiterate their demand; REPEAL,” the union tweeted.24-hr road blockade starting at 8 AM at KMP Expressway, is no less than 'a warning to the government'.All entry/exit points will be choked without disrupting emergency commuters. Protesting farmers shall perform this to reiterate their demand; REPEAL#KMP_हाइवे_बंद_है pic.twitter.com/NH9z00v2MzFarmers have been protesting at Delhi borders for more than four months now appealing the repeal of the farm laws passed by Parliament in September last year and a legal guarantee of minimum support price (MSP). The three contentious laws include the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/farmers-protest-kundli-manesar-highway-blocked-for-a-day-101618033182547.html
10-04-2021||India||Migrants leave Maharashtra as fear of lockdown looms||With a rapid surge in Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra and the possibility of lockdown in the state, migrants are once again heading back to their home states.Speaking to ANI, Vishal Mehta, assistant manager of Indore Dewas Tollways said that for the past 4-5 days the tollway has witnessed queues of vehicles coming from Maharashtra."Some people are traveling in their personal vehicles and others in auto-rickshaw, tractors and hired vehicles. The situation is not as bad as the last time when the lockdown was imposed. This time the traffic is manageable," he said.The people said they were leaving before the Covid-19 situation gets worse and they get stranded.Sanjay Yadav, who works in Maharashtra's Palghar and is heading for his home in Azamgarh, said the situation is very bad."There are chances of lockdown there, and that is why we are going back to our home. Businesses are also suffering losses there as everything is closing down. We will come back once the situation is better," he said.Surendra Yadav, an auto driver in Mumbai who left for his hometown in Jharkhand, said that last year when the lockdown was imposed, he along with his family rushed back to his hometown, but when the situation got better, he left his family and came back to Mumbai in January."Now again the Covid-19 cases are rapidly increasing in Mumbai. Many people are returning to their homes from Mumbai. I didn't know if I'll ever return," he said.Arjun Yadav, another auto driver from Mumbai who is also going back to Jharkhand, said though traffic movement is not restricted in Mumbai, people rarely leave their homes due to the rise in Covid-19 cases."Everything is being shut down in Mumbai due to the rise in Covid-19 cases. Last year when the lockdown was imposed it was very difficult for us to leave the state. That is why this year most people are leaving before lockdown is announced and we are again stranded there. I'm an auto driver. Though lockdown has not been imposed and traffic movement is allowed, there are no passengers. We were not earning enough to buy food," he said.Arjun added that because there was a lot of rush in trains he had left the state in his auto-rickshaw.Maharashtra reported 58,993 new Covid-19 cases, 45,391 recoveries, and 301 deaths on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-leave-maharashtra-as-fear-of-lockdown-looms-101618032858980.html
10-04-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi writes to Prakash Javadekar, asks him not to implement Ken-Betwa project||Congress president Sonia Gandhi has written to Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, asking him not to implement the existing Ken-Betwa river linking project, the first of its kind programme in India. In her letter dated April 2, Gandhi argued that over the past decade, the Panna tiger reserve has been revived with great difficulties and now the park is considered an outstanding example of translocation and successful breeding. A reaction to Gandhi’s letter is awaited. “It is now threatened by the river linking project and the state government’s open estimate is that around 40% of the area of the tiger reserve will be irretrievably damaged,” Gandhi wrote, pointing that around 18 lakh trees would be removed from the submergence area and “there would be a serious question over the basic issue of water availability itself for the proposed transfer.”“I request you to ensure that this project in its present shape and form does not get implemented. I gather PILs are pending both in the NGT and the Supreme Court. Many conservationists in Madhya Pradesh and indeed from across the country have called for the abandonment of the project,” she wrote. Last month, Union jal shakti minister Gajendra Singh Shekhawat signed a tripartite agreement with the states of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh on the occasion of World Water Day to start the work on India’s first major river interlinking project that will connect the Ken and the Betwa Rivers. The Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) was signed almost 18 years after the idea of the project was conceived owing to disagreement between the two states over sharing of water. Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said the project will help in irrigating at least 1 million hectares of land and people of nine districts of the state will benefit from it.A 73.8-meter-high dam proposed on Ken at Daudhan in Madhya Pradesh’s Chhattarpur district. Both of the rivers are rain-fed and are tributaries of the Yamuna. The project, which is estimated to take eight years to complete, has an estimated cost of ₹35,111.24 crore.The project was conceptualised in the 1980s but the water-sharing agreement could not be reached between the two states. The work on the project was originally slated to begin in 2015 but only got a fresh push last year with the government making a revised deal with the two states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-writes-to-prakash-javadekar-asks-him-not-to-implement-ken-betwa-project-101618029802367.html
10-04-2021||India||Pentagon defends US Navy ship asserting navigational rights inside India's EEZ||The Pentagon has defended its Navy asserting its navigational rights within India's exclusive economic zone without taking New Delhi's permission, calling the move "consistent with international law".In an unusual move, the US Navy announced that on Wednesday it conducted a freedom of navigation operation in Indian waters without prior consent to challenge India's "excessive maritime claims", triggering a reaction from New Delhi, which on Friday said it has conveyed concerns to Washington through diplomatic channels.The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) also contested the US Navy's 7th Fleet statement of April 7 that the freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) by the guided-missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones "upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses" of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India's "excessive maritime claims".When asked about India's reaction over the US Navy's move, Pentagon spokesperson John Kirby on Friday said: "I can tell you is that the USS John Paul Jones, a Navy destroyer, asserted navigational rights and freedoms in the vicinity of the Republic of the Maldives by conducting innocent passage through its territorial sea in normal operations within its exclusive economic zone without requesting prior permission".Earlier, announcing about the operation, the statement by the 7th Fleet said, "On April 7, 2021 (local time) USS John Paul Jones (DDG 53) asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India's prior consent, consistent with international law."Kirby in response to a question from reporters at a Pentagon news conference said: "That's consistent with international law.""Again, we continue to maintain the right, indeed the responsibility, to fly, sail, and operate in accordance with international law," he said.Kirby said that it is the responsibility of the US to uphold the freedom of navigation and the rights and freedom and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law.The MEA in its statement said: "India's stated position on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) is that the Convention does not authorise other states to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state."The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the government of the USA through diplomatic channels," the MEA added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pentagon-defends-us-navy-ship-asserting-navigational-rights-inside-india-s-eez-101618028140454.html
10-04-2021||India||Maharashtra weekend lockdown: Are liquor shops, dhabas open? Govt answers||The Maharashtra government on Friday issued a set of frequently asked questions in an attempt to clarify in confusion regarding the partial lockdown imposed in the state to check the Covid-19 spread.Maharashtra is among nine states that are reporting a surge in daily infections. According to the Union health ministry, nine states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan accounts for 83.29 per cent of the new cases.On Friday, the state reported the highest number of new cases at 58,993. Out of the total 58,993 cases recorded in the state, Mumbai recorded 9,200 new Covid-19 cases. There are 5,34,603 active cases in Maharashtra, according to the daily health bulletin by the state department.On April 4, the Maharashtra government announced lockdown-like restrictions in the state to curb the rapidly spreading Covid-19 infections. Under the restrictions, the state government announced a weekend lockdown which will begin at 8pm on Fridays and continue till 7am on Mondays. The order also included night curfews and other prohibitory orders during the day.The restrictions will remain in effect till April 30.Read all the FAQs here on partial lockdown in Maharshtra:Q: Can supermarkets or malls like D-Mart, Big Bazar, Reliance remain open?A: Any establishment selling essential items as per the Government orders dated 4' and 5th Aprii, 2021 can remain open between 7 AM to 8 PM subject to strict adherence to COVID 19 appropriate behaviour. If it is selling multiple items some of which do not fall under essential items, that section may remain close.Q: During weekend lockdown which activities will remain open, and which will remain closed? A: All activities categorized under Essential Services can remain open. No person can move without a valid reason, which includes reasons specified in the order as well as the reason for the requirement of performing an essential service.Q: Can APMC market be kept open during weekend lockdown?A: Yes, subject to strict adherence to COVID 19 appropriate behaviour. If the local authorities feel that indiscipline in any APMC can lead to further transmission of the virus, then they may close the same after seeking permission from the State Government. It is expected that local authorities will keep a strict vigil over these.Q: Can shops providing construction materials remain open?A: No.Q: Can garages servicing transport services remain open? Can shops of automotive spare parts etc remain open?A: Garages being incidental to the requirement of transportation may remain open. Shops shall remain closed. Local authorities will keep a strict vigil on these and if any garage is found defaulting the COVID appropriate behaviour, it may be closed till the operation of COVID 19 disaster notification remains in force.Q: Can employees of Central Government, PSU etc. be treated as an essential service provider?A: No. All employees of Central Government and PSU's cannot be treated as essential service providers. However, Central Government / PSU employees belonging to sectors categorized as essential services fall under the ambit of essential service providers.Q: Can citizen buy liquor?A: Yes. In accordance with the Government order dated 4' April, 2021, citizens can buy liquor from bars (on take away basis) or as home delivery from the bars as per the time window provided in the said order for restaurants and bars. This is subject to the rules of the Excise Department. Q: Can Liquor shops remain open/ do home delivery?A: No.Q: Can roadside dhaba remain open?A: Yes. But the rules applicable to restaurants will apply - No seating- only take away/ delivery allowed.Q: Can electrical home appliance (e.g. AC, Cooler, Fridge etc.) repairing shops remain open?A: NoQ: Can Aaple Sarkar Seva Kendra Passport Seva Kendra etc. which provide one window system for various government services be treated under essential services?A: Yes, they can remain open SETU CSC Centers ; SETU between 7 AM to 8 PM.Q: Can restaurants supply home parcels post 8pm and before 7am and on weekend?A: Restaurants and bars are functioning as per the timings given by local authority, with the constrain that there is no seating dining allowed. Parcels are allowed to be picked up from restaurants by customers themselves during weekdays from 7 AM to 8 PM. No parcels can be picked up by the customer beyond these times and on weekends. However, home deliveries through e-commerce are allowed beyond these times and on weekends subject to regular timings as decided by local authorities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-weekend-lockdown-are-liquor-shops-dhabas-open-govt-answers-101618026043406.html
10-04-2021||India||‘Arbitrary, coercive’: Karti Chidambaram challenges constitutional validity of PMLA||Former Union finance minister P Chidambaram’s son and Congress MP Karti Chidambaram has challenged the constitutional validity of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) In his petition, reviewed by HT. Chidambaram said the investigation, interrogation, raids, arrests and trials carried out by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) under this law are “arbitrary, unreasonable and coercive”. The central agency didn’t respond to HT’s email query on the matter. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) arrested Karti Chidambaram on February 28, 2018, in the INX Media case while his father and former Union finance minister P Chidambaram’s dramatic arrest took place from his Jor Bagh residence in New Delhi on August 21, 2019. Both the CBI and the ED filed charge sheets in October 2019 and June 2020 respectively alleging irregularities in giving FIPB (foreign investment promotion board) approval to the media house and subsequent laundering crores of rupees. The ED had alleged that ₹3.09 crore were given to companies associated with Karti Chidambaram by INX Media founder Peter Mukherjea. The central agency attached several properties worth ₹54 crore belonging to Karti Chidambaram in India and abroad. Both are currently out on bail. Kapil Sibal and Advocate Arshdeep Singh, appearing for Karti in the Supreme Court on Thursday, sought to declare the entire PMLA, as amended in 2019, as unconstitutional, ultra vires and void saying, “the entire procedure of investigation and trial under PMLA is totally arbitrary, unreasonable, fails to satisfy the principles of due process and hence violative of and unconstitutional under Articles 14, 19, 20 and 21 of the Constitution of India”. “Consequently, the whole of PMLA is liable to be declared unconstitutional and void,” the petition stated. In his petition, reviewed by HT, Karti Chidambaram has stated the PMLA has unregulated and arbitrary procedure because “the ED doesn’t wait for predicate investigating agency to investigate the predicate crime and arrives at prime facie conclusion that an offence (relating to the predicate offence) may have been committed”. The petition accuses the ED of not following provisions of Chapter XII of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) saying the anti-money laundering probe agency doesn’t send the copy of the ECIR (Enforcement case Information Report) – equivalent to First Information Report (FIR) – to the trial court having jurisdiction over the case; neither is the copy of the ECIR is given to the person named in it. The petition adds the ED and its investigating officers do not maintain a case diary and while examining or arresting a person, it compels him/her to sign the statement irrespective of its accuracy, failing which the person is threatened with a penalty. Asserting how the ED overreaches its authority under the PMLA, the petition claimed the agency doesn’t have jurisdiction to investigate a predicate offence and it can only probe ‘proceeds of crime’. “However, in practice, the authorities under PMLA take upon themselves the jurisdiction to investigate the predicate offence and reach a conclusion whether the predicate offence has been committed or not,” it further added. Karti Chidambaram has further challenged the procedure of attachment, adjudication and possession of properties by the ED, which he argues are done “on the belief of [ED] officer only, even when predicate offence is under investigation and no charges sheet has been filed”. Subsequently, he has argued that the ED doesn’t send any report of search and seizure to the magistrate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/arbitrary-coercive-karti-chidambaram-challenges-constitutional-validity-of-pmla-101618026742164.html
10-04-2021||India||India records highest single-day rise with over 1.45 lakh fresh Covid-19 infections||Continuing the upward trend of daily infections, India on Saturday reported 1,45,384 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike ever, taking the overall tally to 13,205,926. This is the fifth time since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020 that India's 24-hour tally crossed the 1 lakh-mark. On April 5, there were 1,03,558 fresh infections, while on April 7, 1,15,736 infections were reported. On April 8 and 9, the 24-hour tallies were 1,26,789 and 1,31,968, respectively.With Saturday's rise, the active cases in the country crossed the 10 lakh-mark and reached 10,46,631, which is 7.93 per cent of the total cases. Daily fatalities too registered a rise as 794 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Covid-19 in India: Active cases hit 1 million first time since SeptemberFor the first time since September, the number of active coronavirus cases crossed the 10 lakh-mark on Saturday. On September 20, 2020, there were more than 10 lakh cases, as the country at that time was reeling under the peak of the first wave of the pandemic.The number of active cases saw a sharp decline in January as more and more people recovered from the infection and with the virus being effectively contained, there were fewer daily cases. On February 12, there were 1,25,926 active Covid-19 cases. The addition of 9 lakh active cases to the cycle in only two months is worrying as it suggests that the infection is spreading rapidly, while the recovery rate is not being able to keep up. The gap between daily infections and daily recoveries too confirms the disparity as against 1,45,384 new infections, India recorded 77,567 discharges in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh are contributing the highest number of daily cases to the tally. On Friday, Chhattisgarh reported 11,447 new infection in its highest ever spike, and Maharashtra reported 58,993 new cases.In the last 24 hours, over 11 lakh samples have been tested, which is lower than Friday's count as over 13 lakh tests were done between Thursday and Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-1-45-lakh-new-covid-19-infections-in-24-hrs-india-breaks-all-past-records-101618026295817.html
10-04-2021||India||Maharashtra weekend restrictions begin today; Rajesh Tope, Vijay Wadettiwar want longer lockdown||As Maharashtra enters the first weekend lockdown of this year on Saturday, amid protests by traders and opposition by a few political parties, state ministers think the present situation of the state needs longer and stricter lockdown. Both health minister Rajesh Tope and relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar on Friday said more restrictions are needed in the state, though they personally may not favour a lockdown.To lock down or not has remained a contentious issue in Maharashtra since February when the state started seeing a spike in the number of daily cases. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said he personally does not favour lockdown as economy suffers, but after a series of consultation with experts and several stakeholders, the government imposed night curfew and weekend lockdown across the state, apart from closing all sea-beaches, shops dealing with non-essential products and services.Maharashtra weekend lockdown: Are liquor shops, dhabas open? Govt answersVijay Wadettiwar on Friday said a three-week long lockdown is required in the state to bring the coronavirus cases under control, news agency PTI reported. "We need to bring curbs on the movement of railways and stop crowding in public places to prevent the community spread and save people's lives," Wadettiwar said.On the same lines, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said a "complete lockdown" of two to three weeks is required in the state to improve the health infrastructure, PTI reported."We would need a complete lockdown for 15 days to three weeks even though I am not in favour of that immediately. If hospitals are overwhelmed, if there is a shortage of medicines and if the government is unable to cope with the growing number of patients then such a step can be taken," Tope said.Maharashtra has been hit hard in the second wave of the pandemic, more than the first wave in last year. The state is seeing a steady rise in the number of daily infections and is now recording over 55,000 new infections daily. On Friday, the state reported 58,993 new infections.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-weekend-restriction-starts-today-ministers-bat-for-longer-lockdown-101618025727352.html
10-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: PM Modi, Mamata Banerjee urge citizens to vote in large numbers as Phase 4 voting begins in Bengal||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.West Bengal polls: PM Modi, Mamata Banerjee urge citizens to vote in large numbers as Phase 4 voting beginsAs polling began in 44 seats in the fourth phase of West Bengal Assembly elections began on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi and state chief minister Mamata Banerjee urged citizens to vote in large numbers. Read moreMumbai private Covid-19 vaccine centres shut till April 12, BMC apologises for inconvenienceAll private Covid-19 vaccination centres in the jurisdiction of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will remain shut till April 12, the civic body notified on Friday, amid the ongoing debate over vaccine shortage in Maharashtra and several other states. Read moreBack home on leave, Army jawan shot dead by terroristsAn army jawan was shot dead by two terrorists at Bijbhera town in south Kashmir, army officials familiar with the matter said on Friday. Read moreBengaluru night curfew from today: What's allowed, what's notStarting from Saturday night, seven district centres of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, will be placed under a night curfew between 10pm and 5am till April 20. Read moreIPL 2021: With a five-wicket haul, Harshal Patel creates unique IPL record in MI vs RCB matchThere were a lot of star players on the pitch during the opening match of Indian Premier League 2021 between Royal Challengers Bangalore and Mumbai Indians. Read moreRamadan 2021: Islamic traditions, obligatory fasting rules for Muslims in RamzanThe ninth month in the Islamic Lunar Calendar is Ramadan, also pronounced as Ramzaan or Ramzan, which marks a month of fasting by Muslims from fajir or dawn i.e. before the sunrise to maghrib or dusk i.e. after the sunset. Read moreScam 1992 star Pratik Gandhi talks about 'months with no income', being moved to tears by Shabana Azmi's complimentWith the release of Abhishek Bachchan-starrer The Big Bull, Gujarati actor Pratik Gandhi's performance in Scam 1992 has come back into focus. Both play stockbroker Harshad Mehta. Read moreBJP counters Rahul Gandhi over 'vaccine shortage' claim, Congress fires back||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-pm-modi-mamata-banerjee-urge-citizens-to-vote-in-large-numbers-as-west-bengal-phase-4-voting-begins-and-all-the-latest-news-101618024399680.html
10-04-2021||India||Mumbai private Covid-19 vaccine centres shut till April 12, BMC apologises for inconvenince||All private Covid-19 vaccination centres in the jurisdiction of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will remain shut till April 12, the civic body notified on Friday, amid the ongoing debate over vaccine shortage in Maharashtra and several other states.Government and municipal hospitals, however, will continue with the drive, the civic body said, though the timing has been modified because of the weekend lockdown. The civic authority notified that people will be allowed to travel for getting vaccinated. On Saturday, vaccination will be done between 12pm and 6pm. On Sunday, the timing will be between 9am and 5pm.#MyBMCUpdatesVaccination to take place only at Govt & Municipal Hospitals on 10 Apr (12pm- 6pm) & 11 Apr (9am-5pm)No vaccination at any pvt centre on 10, 11 & 12 AprCitizens eligible for vaccination can travel to vaccination centres during curfew on medical grounds pic.twitter.com/0X9f4ucTIs"Dear Mumbaikars. Some of the vaccination-centres are short of vaccines due to non-receipt of stocks from Govt of India but all centres should be up and vaccinating soon. We regret the inconvenience and we shall keep you updated," the civic body said.51 vaccination centres remain closed in Mumbai todayWhile the Centre has reiterated that there is no shortage of vaccine anywhere in the country as the stock is being centrally monitored, several states including Maharashtra, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, have written to the Centre asking for more doses. Some of the doses are on transit. Though it is an ongoing process and vaccine stock is believed to have run out faster than previous times because of the increased number of vaccinations per day, according to the heads of the vaccination centres, they always received advanced stock before the existing stock runs out. This is for the first time that the drive had to be stopped owing to a shortage.Some 90 vaccination centres, including 71 in private facilities, had to be shut on Friday due to shortage of vaccine doses.On Wednesday, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope raised the issue of vaccine shortage in the state, which ensued as state versus Centre debate as Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said states are blaming the Centre to cover up their failure in managing the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbai-private-covid-19-vaccine-centres-shut-till-april-12-bmc-says-sorry-101618022114485.html
10-04-2021||India||RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat tests Covid-19 positive, hospitalised||Nagpur (Maharashtra) [India], April 10 (ANI): Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday has tested positive for Covid-19."He is admitted to a hospital in Nagpur", the organisation said.In a tweet by RSS in Hindi on Friday, it read, "Our Sarsanghchalak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, Dr. Mohanji Bhagwat ji has tested positive for COVID-19 this afternoon. He is currently having common symptoms of coronavirus and has been admitted to the Kingsway Hospital in Nagpur. He is undergoing a general checkup and exercising caution.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageOn March 7, Mohan Bhagwat was administered the Covid-19 vaccine. Along with Bhagwat, the General Secretary of RSS Suresh Bhaiyyaji Joshi also received his first dose of the vaccine against novel coronavirus at Nagpur's National Cancer Institute that day.However, he was not yet administered the second dose of vaccine.India saw 1.31 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Friday, the third consecutive day of the highest spike in cases in the country while 780 more deaths were reported due to the disease in the last 24 hours.According to Union Health Ministry, the country recorded 1,31,968 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours and the total count of cases has gone up to 1,30,60,542.The death toll has gone up to 1,67,642. The country has 9,79,608 active cases.A total of 61,899 people recovered or were discharged on Thursday taking the total number of recoveries to 1,19,13,292.Nine states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan and the Union Territory of Delhi account for 83.29 per cent of the new cases.Maharashtra reported the highest number of new cases at 58,993. Out of the total 58,993 cases recorded in the state, Mumbai recorded 9,200 new Covid-19 cases.There are 5,34,603 active cases in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rss-chief-mohan-bhagwat-tests-covid-19-positive-hospitalised-101618022184755.html
10-04-2021||India||Back home on leave, Army jawan shot dead by terrorists||An army jawan was shot dead by two terrorists at Bijbhera town in south Kashmir, army officials familiar with the matter said on Friday.Mohammad Saleem Akhoon, a Territorial Army soldier from Jablipora in Bijbehara was shot at his residence when he was back home on leave, an army spokesperson said.“The soldier was attacked by two terrorists suspected to be from Lashkar-e-Toiba (LeT), at his house. The soldier was rushed to sub-district hospital Bijbehara from where he was referred to Government Medical College, Srinagar, however he was declared brought in dead at GMC. He had sustained severe head injury,” the spokesperson added.Soon after the attack searches were carried in the area. Saleem is survived by wife, a nine-year-old daughter and a six-year-old son.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/back-home-on-leave-army-jawan-shot-dead-by-terrorists-101618019056540.html
10-04-2021||India||Bengaluru night curfew from today: What's allowed, what's not||Starting from Saturday night, seven district centres of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, will be placed under a night curfew between 10pm and 5am till April 20. As urged by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Karnataka is calling this 'corona curfew' instead of night curfew. "Wherever night curfew is in place, there the phrase 'corona curfew' should be used so that awareness regarding coronavirus is maintained," PM Modi said in his recent interaction with the chief ministers and heads of the state on the Covid-19 situation in the country.Here is all you need to know about Karnataka night curfewDistricts: Bengaluru, Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru, Udupi-Manipal cities will come under night curfew. The night curfew will be limited to only these district centres. Rural areas do not come under this c.Is this a step towards lockdown?A day before the corona curfew kicks in, the state recorded 7,955 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike of this year. But as of now, the measure of corona curfew is not a pre-cursor to more restrictions, Chief Minister BS Yediyurappa said."We are trying to implement the suggestions given by the Prime Minister within this framework....that's the reason, without imposing night corona curfew in the state, we have selected some district centres... we want to see how effective it will be, if things don't come under control, we may have to extend it to the entire state," he said.Services exempt from restrictions:> Factories, companies and organisations that have night shifts can continue to do so, but employees have to report at the work place before 10pm.> Health and emergency services are exempt; vehicles providing essential services can also move without restrictions.> People suffering with health issues along with their attendants are exempt for obtaining health services.> Essential service vehicles, or vehicles carrying freight, home delivery, E-commerce and empty vehicles have been allowed to operate during the curfew hours.> Incoming and out-bound passengers are allowed to travel after producing valid journey tickets.The government has said action will be taken under the the Disaster Management Act 2005, IPC and other acts against those found violating the night curfew order.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bengaluru-night-curfew-from-today-what-s-allowed-what-s-not-101618017635353.html
10-04-2021||India||India, China discuss next steps of disengagement||India and China on Friday held yet another round of military dialogue in eastern Ladakh to reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), where both sides have been locked in a standoff for over 11 months and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border, officials familiar with the developments said.The talks began at 10:30am on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point and were on when this report was filed on Friday night. The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pull back of front-line troops and weapons, the officials said. India’s aim to restore the status on LAC to what it was in April 2020.The 11th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers was expected to focus on outstanding problems with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, as reported by Hindustan Times on Friday. A joint statement on the talks could be issued in a day or two, said one of the officials cited above.Also Read| Talks with India to resolve LAC tension not delayed: ChinaWhile disengagement began and ended in the Pangong Lake sector in less than 10 days, it appears to have lost its initial momentum going by the lack of progress at other friction points on LAC.“I think we need to put constant pressure on the Chinese to get them to agree to restore status quo ante. It appears that we are satisfied with the Pangong Tso agreement and considering other areas as predating the current standoff. This will only make resolution of Depsang difficult,” said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has also been affected in Gogra and Hot Springs, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.The 10th round of talks between corps commander-ranked officers of the two armies took place on February 20 after the completion of disengagement on strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso. Both sides pulled back their frontline troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns under the disengagement agreement.Also Read| China capable of launching cyber attacks, disrupting systems: CDS RawatAt a marathon 16-hour meeting between senior commanders on February 20, the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to resolve outstanding issues at friction points on the LAC in a “steady and orderly” manner and were unanimous that the Pangong Tso disengagement provided “a good basis” for resolving pending problems.On March 12, Indian and Chinese diplomats agreed to ensure stability along the LAC in the Ladakh sector and to convene the 11th meeting of senior military commanders soon to take forward disengagement and de-escalation at friction points on the disputed border.Those outcomes were agreed upon during a virtual meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination (WMCC) on border affairs between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-china-discuss-next-steps-of-disengagement-101618009975956.html
10-04-2021||India||Covid-19 in India: Active cases hit 1 million first time since September||Pushed by a mammoth surge of infections in the country’s second wave over the past few weeks, the number of active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India on Friday crossed the million mark after a gap of nearly seven months.As of Thursday night, there are 1,046,303 active cases in India, the highest active caseload ever recorded in the country since the start of the outbreak in March last year, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.Nearly 47% of the active cases have been added to the country’s tally in the past 10 days. If this period is narrowed down to the past week, then the country has added more than 55,205 active cases to its tally every single day on average, another all-time record.On Friday, for the fourth day running, India set a new record for new Covid-19 infections as 144,923 new cases were reported, while 773 daily deaths were lodged. India’s overall caseload now has reached 13.2 million – the third-highest after the United States and Brazil – and 168,487 people have lost their lives to the disease so far, according to HT’s dashboard.The national seven-day average of new cases is now at 115,948, currently the highest in any country in the world making India the world’s largest Covid-19 hot spot nation. India’s total number of infections is currently on pace to soon overtake Brazil’s caseload of 13.28 million.The last time the country had more than a million active cases was on September 20 last year, at a time when the first wave was raging at its peak. With the first wave coming under control, this number then steadily dropped for six months, and touched to a low of around 137,000 on February 11. However, with the start of the second wave, this receding has now reversed, and the active caseload is now rising at a level that has never been recorded before in the year of the outbreak in India.Active cases – those Covid patients still under treatment – is a crucial metric representing the country’s battle against the viral disease because it directly reflects the pressure on the health care system in a region and shows the number of people who are currently carrying the virus.Maharashtra, the country’s worst-hit region, alone has 536,063 active cases, accounting for 51% of all such cases in the country as on Friday. Chhattisgarh is at the second spot with 76,868 active cases (7% of the national active caseload), followed by Karnataka with 58,084 such infections.At least six states and Union territories – Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab – have so far surpassed their peaks during the first wave. Meanwhile, cases in several other states such as Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Rajasthan and Goa are rising dangerously close to their previous peaks. On Thursday, five states – Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Punjab, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh – set new single-day records for daily infections. For Uttar Pradesh, Friday was the second day in a row that it crossed its previous record of daily cases. On Thursday, the state reported 8,474 new cases, while on Friday it recorded 9,587 cases.The resurgence of cases has pushed several state governments across the country to reintroduce lockdown-like curbs on social movement in an attempt to bring cases in control. Authorities in Maharashtra have imposed a weekend lockdown which came into effect on Friday evening. In Chhattisgarh, the capital district Raipur, is under a 10-day lockdown, while Delhi and its adjoining satellite towns of Noida and Ghaziabad are all under a night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-in-india-active-cases-hit-1-million-first-time-since-september-101618002453625.html
10-04-2021||India||Kerala minister K T Jaleel not fit to continue in power, says Lokayukta||The Kerala Lokayukta on Friday found Kerala Higher Education Minister K T Jaleel guilty of abuse of power, favouritism and violation of oath of office and ruled that he has no right to continue in the council of ministers. The verdict against the controversial minister, who was also questioned several times in connection with import of dry dates and holy books by central agencies, came on a complaint regarding the appointment of his relative KT Adeeb as the general manager of the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited in 2018. There was a big uproar when Adeeb was appointed allegedly flouting all norms and later he was forced to resign. Later a lawyer V K Mohammad Shafi had field a compliant with the Lokayukta which on Friday agreed with the contention of the petitioner. “The action of the respondent (Jaleel) was actuated in a discharge of his function as minister by personal interest to favour his second cousin. It amounted to favouritism and nepotism and also lack of integrity in his capacity as the minister,” said the verdict of the Lokayukta presided over by Justices Cyriac Joseph and Harun-al-Rasheed. It also said he diluted qualifications and norms for the post just to favour his kin. The verdict also found that the minister’s earlier assertion that Adeeb was selected after many candidates appeared for the interview was found unsuitable. “In spite of objections raised from many quarters the minister directed to issue an order and in the process other eligible candidates were denied the opportunity,” it said. Muslim League leader PK Firoze was the first to raise the allegation. After his appointment snowballed into a major row Adeeb quit his post and rejoined his parent organisation, South Indian Bank. The opposition Congress and BJP have sought his immediate resignation. “He has no right to continue in power. The CM should drop him,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. But the minister maintained that the case was rejected by the high court and he will take a decision after consulting with legal experts. “Former Governor Justice Sathasivam and High Court had rejected the petition two years ago. I will take a decision after consulting my lawyers,” he posted on social media. After the gold smuggling case involving the UAE consulate came to light last year Jaleel was questioned by the customs and the Enforcement Directorate on several occasions. Trouble began for him after phone call records of Swapna Suresh, main accused in the gold smuggling case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently in the list. Soon after the list came out, the minister said he called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital.But the minister’s clarification invited more trouble for him as he was not supposed to accept any funds or freebies without the consent of the ministry of external affairs and experts said it was a clear violation of Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA). During the gold smuggling investigation, the customs also found that a heavy consignment came in last March in 31 bags, weighing more than 4,000 kg and they were taken to Malappuram. The minister later admitted that he took these packets to his constituency but said they were religious books. During investigation, the customs also found that between 2017 and 2018 about 17,000 kg dry dates was imported by the consular office. Considered close to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan the party had defended the controversial minister who was the minority mascot of the party on several instances. Hailing from the Muslim -majority Malappuram district, he had earlier created enough headaches for the government in alleged mark donation move to a failed student and other cases but his proximity to the CM saved him from trouble.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-minister-k-t-jaleel-not-fit-to-continue-in-power-says-lokayukta-101618001357595.html
10-04-2021||India||Alarmed over surge in Covid-19 cases, Bihar imposes curbs once again||Amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases in Bihar, the Crisis Management Group (CMG) has decided to impose partial restrictions on trade and business activities and has extended the closure of schools till April 18. “All schools, colleges and coaching institutes will remain closed for further one week till April 18, but the examinations will be held as per schedule and as per the Covid-19 guidelines,” said principal secretary, disaster management department and health department, Pratyaya Amrit. Earlier the government had closed all schools, colleges and coaching institutes from April 5 till April 11, leading to protest in some districts by students. Chief Minister Nitish Kumar made it clear that “it was not a lockdown, but partial restrictions have been imposed following the sudden increase in Covid-19 cases. We will again review the situation in 4-5 days and the government hasn’t thought in terms of night curfew as of now.” Bihar reported 2174 Covid-19 cases on Friday taking the number of active cases to 9557. On April 8, the state had reported 1911 positive cases. Amrit also announced that the government has decided to impose certain restrictions on shops and business establishments. “Till April 30, all shops and business establishments will remain open till 7 pm and they will have to follow all Covid-19 protocols like mask and sanitizers will be mandatory. However, this restriction will not apply to restaurants, dhabas and shops serving food and they will be open beyond 7 pm,” he said. The government, has, however, put a cap on the number of people in the restaurants and this will be not more than 25% of their seating capacity. The home delivery and take away food joints will function normally. The government has decided to close all religious places in the state till April 30 while cinema halls have been allowed to operate with 50% audience capacity. The government has decided not to close down parks but has made masks and Covid appropriate behaviour mandatory. The government also announced restrictions in government and private offices and announced that only 33% employees can attend the office on a given day. However, the industrial units have been put out of the purview of these restrictions and will function normally. With the marriage season scheduled to start soon, the government has allowed presence of 200 people in a marriage or a shradh (last rites) while for cremation and other last rites only 50 people would be allowed. The government, however, has put restrictions on holding of functions at public places. CM Kumar assured that things were well under control and he has suggested to the Governor to convene an all-party meeting to discuss the Covid-19 scenario. “The closure of school, colleges and coaching institutes is only for seven days,” said the CM, while trying to provide confidence to coaching institutes and private school owners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/alarmed-over-surge-in-covid-19-cases-bihar-imposes-curbs-once-again-101618000398671.html
10-04-2021||India||Fearing lockdown, some migrants opt to go home||Some migrant workers from Delhi, Maharashtra and Gujarat have started returning to their villages in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and other eastern states, fearing a rerun of last year’s nationwide lockdown, as Covid-19 infections zoom across the country and governments impose curbs to arrest the outbreak.Railway authorities say that they have witnessed the usual “summer rush” when workers normally return home for harvest season. But many migrant workers say they boarded trains headed to their home states because they feared rising cases would force the administration to impose a lockdown.Last year, after the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 25, millions of migrant labourers walked, cycled, took buses and trains to escape the virus. This time around, they are taking trains that are running packed, throwing to the wind any caution about Covid-19 distancing or safety protocols. “The pain and torture we were subjected during lockdown last year is still fresh in my memory. This time I can’t take any chance,” said Hariharan Yadav, 34, a migrant worker from Rampur Rakba village in Gorakhpur.Yadav walked 200km last year to return home from Nagpur, and returned from Nagpur on March 16 after partial restrictions were imposed. In his village alone, at least 200 other people who worked as painters in Maharashtra returned.On Friday, 17 workers from Mumbai tested positive for Covid-19 at Patna railway station. They reached Patna on board the special Kurla-Patna Express, said Dr Vibha Kumari Singh, Patna’s civil surgeon. “After screening and documentation, they were given the option to avail of government isolation facility or isolate themselves at home,” said Dr Singh. Railways is operating 16 special trains to Bihar from Maharashtra.Many workers who returned from Gujarat and Maharashtra are daily wagers who lost work due to a rise in Covid cases there. “I returned as there was no work for me following lockdown. It is better to be at home rather than to stay at Mumbai without work,” said Mohammaed Aftab, a mason from Siwan.Md Shahbuddin, 25, who worked in a hotel in Pune, returned to Jharkhand in Pune-Hatia special train, fearing a lockdown. “I do not want to face last year like lockdown when I did not had money even to buy food,” explained the man, who earns ₹20,000 per month. There were other workers who took special trains back to Jharkhand’s Deoghar, Jamtara, Sahibganj and Dumka districts.In eastern UP, many workers had returned. “Of the total population of around 2000, around 150 villagers work in different cities, including Delhi, Mumbai, Nagpur and even Nepal. So far, around 90 have returned,” said Narsingh Yadav, headman of village Mahua in Siddhartha Nagar. “A large number of villagers here who work in other states have started returning following Covid and lockdown fears,” said Raj Kumar Gupta, a social worker in Varanasi.Pherai Nishad, a resident of Gidhaura village of Siddhartha Nagar district said, “I won’t be going back this time. Instead I will be in touch with the family through video conferencing. I have also stocked ration well just in case a lockdown is announced.”At Delhi’s Anand Vihar Bus Terminal and Railway Station, officials said that migrant workers were going back but didn’t report any alarming rise in numbers. They said the situation was not similar to last year, when thousands gathered outside the terminal in the hope of a bus back home.Mohit Kumar, 28, a bus conductor in a UP state transport bus ferrying passengers between Delhi and Hardoi, said the crowd was nowhere near to what it was during the exodus in March-April last year. “People are mostly going back home for routine affairs,” he said. But some people said they were still apprehensive. Virendra Kumar, a resident of Chitrakoot in UP who worked on a poultry farm in Haryana’s Tolana, said outside the Anand Vihar Railway Station : “During last year’s lockdown, my employer didn’t pay me and only gave food. Around August, my brother and I left on foot and reached our village after a week... This time... I have taken a leave from work to return home,” he said .Northern Railway (NR), North-Eastern Railways (NER) and Uttar Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) officials said there was no surge in the inward traffic. “The trains are running packed. But there is no unusual surge in the crowd...” said Mahesh Gupta, public relation officer (PRO), Lucknow Division, NR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fearing-lockdown-some-migrants-opt-to-go-home-101617996081566.html
10-04-2021||India||Telangana CM announces ₹2k, 25kg rice for pvt teachers||Hyderabad The Telangana government has decided to extend financial assistance of ₹2,000 in cash and 25 kg of rice free of cost every month to all teachers and non-teaching staff members of various recognised private schools in the state, who had lost their livelihood during the ongoing coronavirus disease (Covid-9) pandemic. While the decision was announced by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao during an official review meeting on Thursday, the modalities of identification of beneficiaries and distribution of cash and rice to them were discussed at a video-conference held by school education minister Sabita Indra Reddy on Friday. An official release from the chief minister’s office said nearly 1.50 lakh teachers and non-teaching staff members of various recognised private schools had lost their livelihood due to closure of the educational institutions during the pandemic. The schools were forced to shut down again from March 24, nearly 50 days after their reopening following 10 months of closure due to the pandemic. The decision to close down the schools again was taken following a steady increase in the number of Covid-19 cases in the last few weeks. The official release said the chief minister has taken a decision to provide some monetary relief and rice to teachers and non-teaching staff of private schools on humanitarian grounds. The assistance will continue till the reopening of all the educational institutions, the CMO release added. The education minister, who, along with state backward classes welfare minister Gangula Kamalakar and principal advisor to the government Dr Rajiv Sharma, held a video conference with all district collectors on Friday, said the beneficiaries will be identified between April 10 and 15. “The details of the beneficiary private school teachers and other staff members will be verified between April 16 and 19; and the money will be credited to their bank accounts between April 20 and 24,” Reddy said. The minister added that the beneficiaries will be supplied with 25 kg of rice each immediately. “The scheme will be in force till all the private schools are reopened after the coronavirus pandemic subsides,” Reddy added. Welcoming the initiative, Telangana Recognised School Managements’ Association thanked the chief minister for announcing cash assistance and free rice supply for the private school staff. “The teachers and other employees of private schools have been going through worst financial crisis in the last one year and many of them are not in a position to buy even groceries. This initiative will help them at least to some extent,” association president Y Shekhar Rao said. He, however, added that there were nearly 2.20 lakh teachers and non-teaching staff members in the private schools in both recognised and unrecognised schools and all of them should be given the assistance. He requested the government to enhance the cash assistance to ₹ 5,000 per month. Meanwhile, All India Congress Committee spokesman Dasoju Sravan described the announcement as election gimmick, aimed at appeasing the teachers ahead of the bypoll to Nagarjunasagar assembly seat. “What was KCR doing for the last one year, when the private teachers were suffering from lack of salaries? At least 10 teachers committed suicide in the recent past owing to financial crisis. Moreover, what about private college lecturers who have also not been getting their salaries for the last one year? What KCR is offering to the teachers is just an eye-wash,” Sravan said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-cm-announces-2k-25kg-rice-for-pvt-teachers-101617995415372.html
10-04-2021||India||City records over 5.5k new cases in its highest single-day spike||Bengaluru Karnataka on Thursday logged 7,955 new Covid-19 cases and 46 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 1.4 million and the toll to 12,813, the health department said on Friday. Bengaluru, meanwhile, recorded its highest ever single day spike in Covid- 19 infections with 5,576 persons testing positive and 29 fatalities.Prior to this, the highest single-day spike was 5,121, which the state capital recorded in October 8 last year. The total number of active cases in Bengaluru rose to 42,525 while it went up to 58,084 across Karnataka. The BS Yediyurappa-led state government has imposed a night curfew for 10 days between April 10 to 20 in Bengaluru and six other district centres after a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday evening.Bengaluru is among the top 10 most impacted districts in the country and experts predict that the surge could continue for another three months. While the positivity rate remained around 6% across the state, Bengaluru accounted for 70% of all cases reported on Friday (24 hours of Thursday)??. Bengaluru accounts for over 73% of all active cases in the state.However, there appears to be no restrictions on political events as thousands gathered for campaigning in the three constituencies going to the bypolls on April 17, including Basavakalyan in the border district of Bidar, about 676 kms from Bengaluru. Bidar, that shares its borders with Maharashtra, reported 186 new infections that takes its active case count to 1,538, while Kalaburagi, next to Bidar, recorded 211 new infections, according to government data. 119 new infections were reported from Chikkaballapur, 115 in Dakshina Kannada, 153 in Hassan, 104 in Mandya, 283 in Mysuru, 143 in Tumakuru and 127 in Vijayapura. Meanwhile, all public religious services in churches and chapels across Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts of the Archdiocese will be suspended till April 20.“All the public religious services in Churches, Chapels and institutions of Bengaluru Urban and Bengaluru Rural districts of our Archdiocese will be suspended from 7 to 20 April. However, Churches and Chapels may be kept open for private visits and adoration,” said Archbishop of Bengaluru Dr Peter Machado in a statement on Wednesday.“The Priests may celebrate the religious services in private with a few or no participation of the public. In any case, maximum precautions and standard operating procedures have to be strictly followed,” said the Archbishop.He further said that not more than 50 people will be allowed for funeral services and there will be no funeral mass in the Churches, but it may be celebrated in the cemeteries with SOPs in place.In the case of sacramental celebrations (baptism, first holy communion, confirmation, marriages etc) which are pre-arranged in this period, not more than 50 people will be allowed. If possible, they will be held behind closed doors with SOPs in place.“The liturgical services such daily and Sunday Holy Masses in different languages, Eucharistic Adoration and other paraliturgical celebrations will be live-streamed on our Archdiocesan YouTube, Facebook and other links,” he said.The parishes are also allowed to live-stream their liturgical services to their parish community by giving sufficient information and publicity for it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/city-records-over-5-5k-new-cases-in-its-highest-single-day-spike-101617995235300.html
10-04-2021||India||Covid-19: 7.3% of active cases in ICUs or on ventilators, says Centre||Around 7.3% of the approximately 980000 active Covid-19 cases in the country as on Thursday night were in ICUs, on oxygen support, or on ventilators, according to data discussed at the 24th meeting of the group of ministers on Covid-19 , chaired by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. That’s a little over 70,000 people.Hospitalizations due to Covid-19 are increasing, and India’s recovery rate has seen a sharp drop from 97.07% a month ago to 91.22% on , owing to a surge in cases, although this is purely a mathematical feature -- recoveries always lag cases by a few weeks.At the meeting, Vardhan attributed rising new cases across the country largely to casual behaviour adopted by people such as not wearing a mask or doing so improperly. To be sure, India’s cases have been on a decline since mid-September, people have become more careless, and governments have eased even more restrictions on movement and activities, but the sudden surge seen since mid February is likely caused by mutant strains of the virus, especially in Maharashtra and Punjab, two of the worst affected states in the second wave, although India isn’t sequencing enough viral genomes to establish this.The good news according to the meeting was that there have been no fresh cases in the past seven days in 149 districts, and for the past 28 days in as many as 63 districts.Governments have substantially ramped up the hospital infrastructure for management of the viral disease amidst the surge. There are 2084 dedicated Covid hospitals(Centre:89 and States:1995) that have been set up in the country with 4,68,974 beds. Of these, 2,63,573 are isolation beds, 50,408 are ICU beds and 1,54,993 are oxygen supported beds.In addition, India has 4,043 (Centre:85 and States: 3,958) dedicated Covid health centres , with 3,57,096Covid beds, out of which 2,31,462 areisolation beds, 25,459 are ICU beds and 1,00, 175 are oxygen supported beds.The country also has 12,673 quarantine centres and 9,313 total Covid care centres.Speaking on the vaccine drive at the metting, the health minister said, “For those between age 45 and 59, first dose has been received by over 26.1 million people and second dose has been received by 5,23,268 people. Over 37.5 million people, above 60 years of age, have received their first dose, while over 1.3 million people have received a second dose.”Just about 11 States together contribute to 54% of the total cases and 65% of the total deaths in the country, the minister pointed out.Disproportionately higher deaths in Maharashtra and Punjab have further increased during the last 14 days (64% of the total deaths in the country). According to the discussions at the meeting, a majority of the cases is being reported in the younger population (15-44 years of age) and the majority of the deaths reported among the elderly population (> 60 years). Maharashtra (25%) and Chhattisgarh (14%) have extremely high positivity rates .Amidst worried about a vaccine shortage, the minister reassured everyone that there are enough vaccines and that the government is taking all appropriate measures to ensure production capacity of existing vaccines is scaled up, and potency and timeline of those undergoing clinical trials....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/73-of-active-cases-in-icus-or-on-ventilators-says-ministry-101617995175222.html
10-04-2021||India||Adults free to choose their faith, says Supreme Court||New DelhiThe Supreme Court on Friday termed as “very harmful” a petition that asked for a strict central law to check religious conversion and observed that adults are free to choose heir faith.A bench headed by justice Rohinton F Nariman expressed strong displeasure at the plea by Bharatiya Janata Party leader and lawyer Aswhini Upadhyay, warning him of a monetary penalty if he chose to press the petition.The bench, which also included justices BR Gavai and Hrishikesh Roy, cautioned senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayan, who represented Upadhyay in the matter, as soon as the hearing commenced.“What kind of a petition is this? This is a very harmful petition. If you are going to argue this, we are going to impose a heavy cost on you,” justice Nariman told Sankanarayanan.The senior lawyer, on his part, sought to rely upon the Supreme Court’s judgement in Sarla Mudgal’s case in 1995 wherein the top court made observations regarding the necessity of having a unified central legislation on religious conversion.“There is a reason why the word ‘propagate’ is there in the Constitution. You have to have some meaning for that word. There is no reason why somebody above 18 cannot choose one’s own religion or somebody else’s religion,” retorted justice Nariman.Sankaranarayanan tried to argue that this petition was not about interfaith marriages after the judge commented that an adult could choose even the religion of somebody else. But justice Nariman replied: “It is exactly about that. You argue this petition at your own risk. We will impose a heavy cost on you.”Justice Nariman also said that, personally, he disagreed with the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Rev Stainislaus case in 1977 whereby it was held that the right to propagate did not include the right to convert someone to one’s own religion. This judgment, therefore, upheld the constitutional validity of the laws enacted by the Madhya Pradesh and Odisha legislatures prohibiting conversion by force, fraud or allurement.At this point, the counsel sought to withdraw this petition with the liberty to file a representation before the law commission of India. The bench, however, refused to give this relaxation and asked Sankaranarayanan to immediately decide on withdrawing it, which the lawyer did.Citing the absence of a central law to stop religious conversion by fraud or allurement, Upadhyay urged the top court to issue appropriate directions to the Centre for considering a unified law in terms of the observation made by it in the Sarla Mudgal case. One of the judges on the division bench in the Sarla Mudgal case asked the Centre to consider the feasibility of appointing a committee to enact a Conversion of Religion Act.Upadhyay said the Centre should be directed to comply with this direction and in the meantime, the Supreme Court may issue certain directives to check fraudulent and forcible religious conversion. The plea claimed religious conversion by “carrot and stick” and “by hook or crook” not only offended constitutional provisions but also went against the principles of secularism.Upadhyay pointed out that although eight states, Odisha (1967), Madhya Pradesh (1968), Arunachal Pradesh (1978), Chhattisgarh (2000), Gujarat (2003), Himachal Pradesh (2006), Jharkhand (2017) and Uttarakhand (2018) have enacted anti-conversion laws, there was an urgent need for the Centre to bring out such a law with a minimum imprisonment of three years along with a hefty fine, applicable across the country.After the hearing, Upadhyay told HT: “I will immediately approach the Union home ministry, law ministry and the law commission of India with my plea on taking appropriate steps towards a central legislation. I will approach the Supreme Court again if no effective steps are taken in the next six months.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/harmful-petition-adults-free-to-choose-their-faith-says-sc-101617995056427.html
10-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi urges PM Modi to halt exports, vaccinate all||New Delhi: Senior Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to halt vaccine exports and demanded that the vaccination drive be opened to “everyone who needs it” amid a rise in the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across the country.In a letter to the PM, the Congress parliamentarian questioned if the export of Covid-19 vaccines was also an “oversight like many other decisions of this government” or was it an attempt to garner publicity “at the cost of our own citizens”.“While our nation is facing vaccine starvation, more than 6 crore (60 million) vaccines have been imported,” Gandhi said. “The state governments are repeatedly highlighting vaccine shortages only to receive intemperate statements by the Union minister of health and family welfare targeting Opposition-ruled states, undercutting cooperative federalism which you too have stressed as essential,” he added in the letter.To be sure, HT reported on March 25 that the government would focus on its domestic vaccination programme and that supplies to other countries would be made only after meeting the country’s needs, but there is no stated export ban.Several states continued to warn that they would run out of vaccines in the next few days, prompting Union health minister Harsh Vardhan to reiterate on Friday that there was no shortage and the country has more than 43 million doses in stock or in the pipeline. To be sure, the problem seems to be more a result of last-mile allocation of vaccines within states, since, at the aggregate level, all of them have at least as many doses as they administer in a couple of days.On Saturday, data collated by HT showed that this number was a little under 42 million on Saturday.Stating that India’s vaccination programme was moving at a “snail’s pace” despite having a first-mover advantage, the 50-year-old Congress leader, in a veiled reference to PM’s photo on vaccination certificates, said that the drive “has to move beyond an individual’s picture on the vaccine certificate, towards guaranteeing maximum vaccination”.India has, so far, administered 97.87 million vaccine doses till Friday night, according to HT’s vaccine tracker. Of this, 12,295,065 people have received both doses and 73,280,915 have received one dose. On Friday, India added 144,923 new cases in a single day, taking its overall tally to 13,202,777; 773 people died from Covid-10 in the past 24 hours.Gandhi has become the latest to demand the opening up of India’s vaccination programme. The Indian Medical Association (IMA) and several chief ministers have appealed to the central government to open vaccination for all people above the age of 18 of years. Experts have also pointed out that in the case of the coronavirus disease, no one is safe till everyone is safe – and in this case this means everyone over the age of 18 (neither of the vaccines in use in India has yet been approved for those below the age of 18). Other experts pointed that even if vaccines must be administered in a prioritised manner, it would make sense to prioritise urban centres, especially those that are seeing a huge surge in infections.The government, however, has opted to stick to a phased approach to vaccination.“It is a common question that is being asked these days that why are not Covid-19 vaccinations being opened for all; why can’t all adults be given it. To those, I want to say that Covid-19 vaccination drive is essentially meant to serve two purposes: to prevent deaths and the other purpose is to protect your health care system. In the middle of a pandemic, the main aim is not to administer the vaccine to those who want it but to those who need it,” health secretary Rajesh Bhushan said in a press conference on Tuesday.In his letter, the Congress leader asked the PM to double the central allocation for vaccine procurement from the existing ₹35,000 crore and give state governments a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution.“Give state governments a greater say in vaccine procurement and distribution and provide direct income support to the vulnerable sections in the disastrous second [Covid-19] wave,” Gandhi said and added that a large section of the “poor have been excluded [from the drive] due to the initial mandatory online”.His suggestions came a day after Modi, during a meeting with chief ministers, said vaccines will have to be prioritised due to limited supply and lamented that some people were playing politics on the issue. “Those who have the habit of doing politics, let them do so. I have faced much criticism, but we remain committed to serving the people,” he said.In a series of tweets, Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad countered Gandhi. “After failing as a part-time politician, has Rahul Gandhi switched to full time lobbying? First he lobbied for fighter plane companies by trying to derail India’s acquisition programme. Now he is lobbying for pharma companies by asking for arbitrary approvals for foreign vaccines.”Prasad said fighting a pandemic was not a one-trick game. “Apart from vaccination, there needs to be adequate focus on testing, tracing & treating. Rahul Gandhi’s problem is that he doesn’t understand all this and his ignorance is compounded by his arrogance,” he tweeted.Hitting back, Congress spokesperson Randeep Singh Surjewala said: “Dear Sh. Prasad, Look around you, the 2nd wave of #COVID19 has hit us. We will lobby for- Direct Income Support to the vulnerable sections as partial lockdowns happen. So stop riling, frothing & steaming up. Start serving India & fellow Indians. Follow ‘Raj Dharma’.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-urges-pm-to-halt-exports-vaccinate-all-101617995055359.html
10-04-2021||India||J&J to seek nod for its one-shot vaccine’s trial||Johnson and Johnson (J&J) is set to seek permission to begin a phase 1/2 clinical trial of its coronavirus vaccine in India, the company said on Friday, announcing that it has begun discussions with authorities for the requisite approvals.J&J’s vaccine can be given as a single-dose inoculation and is being seen as a crucial tool around the world in accelerating immunisations, particularly for a large country like India where only two candidates have been approved till now.“At Johnson & Johnson, we remain fully focused on bringing a safe and effective Covid-19 vaccine to people around the world, if authorised for use by local health authorities. We are in discussions with the Government of India with the objective of starting a bridging clinical study of our Janssen Covid-19 vaccine candidate in India, subject to local regulatory approvals,” the company said in a statement.The dose was developed by J&J’s subsidiary, Belgium-headquartered Janssen pharmaceuticals.The product is also at the centre of an ambitious new vaccine partnership unveiled at the first Quad Summit between US, India, Australia and Japan for the manufacture and distribution of a billion doses to countries in Southeast Asia, the Indian Ocean and the Pacific Islands.The US development bank will assist India’s Biological E to produce one billion doses of the J&J vaccine by the end of 2022, while Australia will help overcome last mile and logistical delivery issues.The countries, following their summit on March 12, also agreed on collaborating on the necessary approval processes in different countries and with the World Health Organization.In India, J&J’s application will be filed with the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), which requires products developed and tested outside of India to undergo a smaller bridging trial in the country.The bridging studies are done in smaller numbers compared to full clinical trials, as long as there is adequate data on safety and efficacy for large studies in other countries.Serum Institute of India (SII) performed bridging studies for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (used as Covishield) and has recently begun similar studies for the Novavax vaccine. Dr Reddy’s too is carrying out a bridging trial for the Sputnik V vaccine.The dose, which uses a similar method as the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine (used in India as Covishield), has been approved in the US, the European Union, South Africa, Thailand and several others.EU regulators, however, on Friday said they were reviewing blood-related side effects of J&J’s vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jj-to-seek-nod-for-its-one-shot-vaccine-s-trial-101617995055908.html
10-04-2021||India||States step up curbs as Covid-19 cases rage on||Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Puducherry decided on Friday to clamp night curfews and a clutch of other states shut schools in a bid to arrest rising Covid-19 infections as Maharashtra, India’s worst-hit state, mulled extending its weekend lockdown to blunt its fierce infection surge.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the government could impose a lockdown if the Covid-19 surge didn’t abate. State officials said on condition of anonymity that government was considering extending the weekend lockdown beyond Monday. Maharashtra began its weekend lockdown from 8pm on Friday to 7 am on Monday, and it will continue till the end of April.“We would need a complete lockdown for 15 days to three weeks even though I am not in favour of that immediately. If hospitals are overwhelmed, if there is a shortage of medicines and if the government is unable to cope with the growing number of patients then such a step can be taken,” Tope told a television channel.He, however, expressed hope that with curbs in place , the government will be able to tame the surge. Tope also admitted that a “chalta hai” (laidback) attitude had creeped in after the government flattened the first wave infection curve. Maharashtra reported 58,993coronavirus cases on Friday.Gujarat, Uttarakhand and Puducherry became the latest states to impose night curfews to curb Covid-19 cases.The Uttarakhand cabinet announced night curfew in Dehradun and closure of all educational institutions in the state till end of this month. Classes will continue online, the government decided. The state has posted 748 cases and hosting the Mahakumbh, which has attracted tens of thousands of devotees.Gujarat’s government decided to clamp night curfew in 20 cities.“Covid-19 cases are rising in Gujarat also. We have imposed a night curfew in 20 cities between 8pm to 6am. We are focusing on testing & vaccination. In last 7 days, we have increased the number of beds by 15,000,” chief minister Vijay Rupani told news agency ANI. The state reported 4,541 cases on Friday.Puducherry lieutenant governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said night curfew would be in force from 11pm to 5am from Saturday. Cinemas will have only 50% seating capacity, and religious and social functions will have restricted gathering. All places of worship will close by 8pm, she said. Elections in the union territory finished on April 6.Bihar decided to close all educational institutions till April 18 and all business establishments by 7 pm. Bihar home department ordered all religious places to stay shuttill end of this month; restaurants will operate with only 25% capacity and offices with one-third staff strength. The government also decided that marriage functions or funerals will be organsied with a maximum of 200 guests.“All schools, colleges and coaching institutes will remain closed for further one week till April 18, but the examinations will be held as per schedule and as per the Covid-19 guidelines,” said principal secretary, disaster management department and health department, Pratyaya Amrit.Delhi announced that all schools will remain closed till further orders but online classes will continue. Himachal Pradesh decided to shut all educational institutions till April 21.“Due to increasing cases of COVID-19, all schools, government and private, in Delhi are being closed for all classes till further orders,” chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted. Board examinations for Class 10 and Class 12 are slated for May-June.Rajasthan, which had earlier clamped a night curfew, increased the curfew timings in nine urban areas from 8 pm to 6 am till April 30. Earlier, the curfew was imposed from 10 pm to 6 am, till April 19.For Udaipur, the state decided to impose night curfew from 6 pm to 6 am. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot ordered strict compliance of Covid guidelines, especially ensuring zero mobility in the containment zones. Rajasthan continues to witness a surge in Covid19 cases. On Friday, 3970 infections were reported with 12 deaths.In Himachal Pradesh, the cabinet decided that only teachers deputed in board exam duties will attend schools. The hill state is reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 infections since the end of February with 662 new cases on Friday.Manipur shut schools for classes 6 to 8 in public interest, according to an order issued by L Nandakumar Singh, director education (schools). “…in view of the second wave of Covid19 pandemic and to avoid any kind of unwanted consequences likely to occur in the near future more particularly the students of Class VI to VIII, for which the schools have been opened recently,” the order said.Assam issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) to celebrate Rongali Bihu, the Assamese New Year festival, which begins next week. The order issued by the health and family welfare department stated that the guidelines would be applicable to other occasions like Ram Navami, Ramzan etc. to “ensure people are able to celebrate their much-loved festivals with joy and gusto, simultaneously adhering to Covid-19 protocols”.Friday’s order directed all event organisers to seek permission to hold functions and mention the capacity of the places where the events would be held . All organisers and volunteers involved with the functions will have to get themselves tested for Covid-19 three days prior to and also after the event, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-step-up-curbs-as-covid-19-cases-rage-on-101617994995169.html
10-04-2021||India||PM Modi expresses grief over loss of lives in Nagpur Covid hospital fire||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday expressed grief over the loss of lives in a fire that broke out at a hospital in Nagpur.Four people were killed in the fire that started on the second floor of the private hospital located in Wadi area of the city, an official said."Saddened by the hospital fire in Nagpur. My thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. Praying that the injured recover at the earliest," Modi tweeted.Saddened by the hospital fire in Nagpur. My thoughts are with the families of those who lost their lives. Praying that the injured recover at the earliest.A few people were also injured in the Nagpur hospital fire that broke out at 8:10 PM, the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-expresses-grief-over-loss-of-lives-in-101617994284657.html
10-04-2021||India||Bombay HC at Goa quashes FIR against musicians for hurting religious sentiments||The Bombay High Court at Goa has asked police to be sensitive in matters concerning complaints of ‘outraging religious freedoms’ especially if freedom of speech and expression was at stake and “shouldn’t rush to register an FIR” or arrest artistes based on a ‘frivolous’ complaint.Upholding the contentions of members of a band of musicians, ‘Dastaan Live’, who were arrested by the Goa Police and charged with Section 295-A (deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code for a song that they performed at the Serendipity Festival of Arts in Goa in December 2019, the high court bench of justices MS Sonak and MS Jawalkar on Friday quashed the FIR against the band members, stating that the police were not justified in registering the case, much less arresting them.“There was no justification whatsoever for the Police Inspector to hurriedly register such an FIR, possibly without even going into the complaint or for that matter the provisions of Section 295-A of the IPC. The Police authorities are expected to be quite sensitive in such matters, because what is at stake is the freedom of speech and expression. Therefore, unless the complaint discloses the ingredients of the offense under section 295-A of IPC, it is not expected of the Police authorities to rush and register an FIR in such cases,” the court noted.Among the songs performed by the band was their rendition of the “Mantra Kavita”, originally composed in 1969 by Vaidyanath Misra (widely known as Baba Nagarjun), a highly acclaimed poet who has received two Sahitya Akademi Awards from the Government of India.However, a complainant K Venkat Krishna alleged that the song “has hurt the sentiments of crores of Indians.”“To my surprise they began chanting ‘OM’, a symbol of my faith in negative narrative and ultimately abusing people chanting ‘OM’ and following to Hindu stream as ‘Ullu ke patta’. They abuse the practice by words with pictures of different walks of life and what they have said and done was blasphemy of my religion and sentiment of hundred crores of India and few million abroad,” Krishna alleged in his complaint, a copy of which he sent to the Prime Minister and the chief minister of Goa.On the next day of their performance, members of the band -- Anirban Ghosh, Sumant Balkrishnan, Shiva Pathak and Nirmala Ravindran -- were called to Panaji police station and were informed that some person had complained about their band and that they were called to the police station to issue an apology.The four persons, including two women, were then placed under arrest. They were eventually released on bail and those who were yet to be arrested secured anticipatory bail.“There was no justification whatsoever to call some of the petitioners to the police station and require them to apologise or to arrest them, no sooner the FIR was registered,” the high court said.“To simply allege that ‘OM’ which is a symbol of the complainant’s faith ‘in negative narrative’ or ‘abusing people chanting OM and followers to Hindu stream as Ullu ke Patta’ is by no means sufficient to spell out the ingredients of Section 295-A of the IPC. Further, to allege ‘blasphemy of my religion and sentiment of hundred crores of India and few million abroad’ also does not spell out the ingredients of Section 295-A of the IPC,” the high court ruled.“The complainant, when he lodged his complaint, had not even bothered to supply the full extract of that composition to the police authorities. Even the police authorities registered the FIR, literally the minute the same was lodged, perhaps, without even bothering to either read the complaint or the provisions of Section 295-A of the IPC. The FIR records that the same was lodged at 13:17 hours on 18.12.2019 and the same recorded also at 13:17 hours on the same date,” the court noted.“The police authorities cannot call citizens to the police station and demand apologies of this nature. As if that was not sufficient, the Police placed some of them under arrest in the late evening, thereby forcing them to seek bail. We think that there was no justification whatsoever for arresting the petitioners who were the members of this band and who have been making such presentations all over the country, unhindered and unmolested,” the high court said.“The Supreme Court has laid down guidelines, which, according to us, were completely ignored by the police authorities. Based on a frivolous complaint, some of the petitioners, who were only members of a band, were incarcerated or forced to seek anticipatory bail,” the HC bench said.“In the complaint, there are not even any allegations of deliberate or malicious intention to outrage religious feelings of any class of persons. In the absence of such allegations, therefore; there was no justification whatsoever to register the FIR and to proceed against the petitioners. The criminal machinery ought not to have been set into motion based upon such a complaint. This was indeed the abuse of the process, because it is apparent that the police authorities have not even taken cognizance of the legal position,” the High Court ruled.“Without even examining the complaint or for that matter the provisions of section295-A, [the police] hurriedly registered the FIR and then proceeded to even arrest some of the Petitioners, possibly because they refused to apologize at the police station. This is certainly not how the Police machinery should act in a matter of this nature,” the high court ruled.The high court stopped short of imposing costs “in the fond hope that the state of Goa and the Goa Police will not act similarly in the future.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bombay-hc-at-goa-quashes-fir-against-musicians-for-hurting-religious-sentiments-101617994455207.html
10-04-2021||India||4 dead in massive blaze at Nagpur's Covid-19 hospital||At least four patients, including a woman, died after a massive fire broke out at the Well Treat Hospital in Wadi area of West Nagpur late on Friday night. The hospital is treating patients of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Four fire tenders were rushed to the spot and it took an hour to bring the fire under control. Names and identities of the deceased are not yet known.According to people familiar with developments, around 27 patients at the hospital have been shifted to the government-run medical college and hospital and Indira Gandhi Medical College in a critical condition.It is believed the fire started on the first floor of the hospital and the smoke further spread to the second floor where 10 patients were inside the Intensive Care Unit (ICU). Of these, the hospital staff managed to rescue six while the remaining four patients died of asphyxiation caused due to toxic smoke.“We can’t comment on the health condition of others now as we are busy shifting the patients to other hospitals,” Nagpur Police Commissioner Amitesh Kumar said.Also Read| PM Modi expresses grief over loss of lives in Nagpur Covid hospital fireBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MLA Samir Meghe, who represents the area, said the cause of the fire is yet to be ascertained. Camping at the site to oversee rescue and relief operations, Meghe pointed out, “Prima facie it appears that a short circuit could have triggered the fire,”Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has directed Nagpur guardian minister Nitin Raut to visit the spot and order an investigation into the accident. District collector Ravindra Thakare, meanwhile, said he had a talk with the civil surgeon and asked him to conduct a probe and submit a report as soon as possible.This incident in Nagpur comes a month after a fire broke out at Mumbai’s Sunrise Hospital where several patients being treated for Covid-19 were killed.Over 6,550 new cases of Covid-19 were reported in Nagpur on Friday while 67 more people succumbed due to the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4-die-after-fire-breaks-out-at-covid-19-hospital-in-nagpur-101617993571631.html
10-04-2021||India||Farm stir: Roads cannot be blocked, causing inconvenience to public, says SC||The Supreme Court on Friday reiterated that protesters cannot block roads and continually inconvenience the public, as it took a grim view of a woman’s complaint that it has been taking her almost two hours, instead of 20 minutes, to travel from Noida to Delhi due to frequent blockades and protests,A bench, headed by justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul, lamented that despite several judicial pronouncements on keeping public roads free, the situation did not seem to improve.Hundreds of thousands of farmers have been camped at Delhi’s borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh since November last year in protest against three controversial central laws that aim to liberalise the farm economy, and traffic at many points, including at Chilla border at Noida, have been diverted, adding significantly to commuters’ travel times.“Many months have gone but the problem is still there. Roads have to be free. You cannot cause continuing inconvenience to others,” the bench, which also included justice Hemant Gupta, told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the Delhi Police.The bench told the S-G, “We are not concerned with how you resolve this issue, whether politically or administratively or judicially. But we have said this before, roads should not be blocked. This is a single mother before us who has to face many problems because of blocked roads.”Mehta agreed with the court’s view, saying the governments of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana should also be present before the bench for a proper resolution of the issue.At this, the bench issued notices also to the two states in the National Capital Region (NCR), seeking their replies before April 19, when the case will be heard next.“We are not concerned with the larger issues, but public roads should not be blocked and this has been repeatedly emphasised by this court,” recorded the bench in its order.On March 26, the top court issued notices to the Centre and the Delhi Police commissioner on the plea of one Monicca Agarwaal who complained that instead of 20 minutes, she ends up spending two hours to travel from Noida to Delhi because of road blockades and demonstrations of all kinds.Agarwaal, who works in an information technology firm, stated in her petition that she needs to commute between Delhi and Noida for work, but said the travel has become a “nightmare” for her.She rued that various directions passed by the top court in several cases, including the Shaheen Bagh protest matter, to keep public roads clear have not been followed. The plea added that the petitioner being a single mother with medical issues was facing harrowing time on account of failure of the authorities in complying with the Supreme Court’s orders. The court in October 2020 termed “illegal” the anti-citizenship law protests held at Shaheen Bagh, holding that protesters could not occupy public ways and spaces indefinitely.Agreeing to examine her petition, the court on March 26 issued notices to the Centre and Delhi Police “to ensure that the road area is kept clear so that the passage from one place to the other is not affected”.On April 8, the Delhi Police submitted its affidavit in the matter, pointing out that Agarwaal’s grievances arise out of the prolonged protests by the farmers’ groups that have gathered at several entry points to the national capital to demand repeal of the three contentious farm laws enacted in September last year.The police claimed it took stern actions against all violators related to the Republic Day tractors’ rally violence this year and was committed to prevent all unauthorised blockades of road. However, the affidavit added, Agarwaal’s problems are due to blockades in Delhi’s neighbouring areas, falling in the states of UP and Haryana, which were beyond the jurisdiction of the Delhi Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/roads-cannot-be-blocked-causing-inconvenience-to-publicsc-101617993375522.html
10-04-2021||India||Tirumala birthplace of Lord Hanuman: Temple board||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) said it will provide historical and epigraphical evidence to prove that Tirumala, the abode of Lord Venkateshwara in Andhra Pradesh’s Chittoor district, is the birthplace of Lord Hanuman.TTD, which administers the temple, is gearing up to release a document in the form of a booklet on April 13, on the day of Ugadi festival (Telugu New Year), to prove that Anjanadri, one of the seven hills of Tirumala, is the birthplace of Lord Hanuman, a spokesperson for the trust said.“We shall bring out the committee report in the form of a booklet to prove that Lord Hanuman was indeed born in the Anjanadri, one of the seven hills of Tirumala, which are part of Seshachalam hill range of Eastern Ghats,” TTD executive officer K S Jawahar Reddy said.In December 2020, the independent trust constituted an expert committee to study the mythological, historical, epigraphical and archaeological evidence that could identify the birthplace of Lord Hanuman.The panel submitted its report to the TTD at a meeting with Reddy on Thursday.“Several studies have been conducted by various other researchers in the past to track the route of Lord Ram based on astronomy. Ram, who travelled from Ayodhya to the South before entering Sri Lanka via Rameshwaram, might have come across Lord Hanuman in Tirumala,” one of the committee members, who did not wish to be identified said.“As per scriptures, Anjana Devi took holy bath in Akasa Ganga, a waterfall in Tirumala hills, and performed tapas (penance) before giving birth to Lord Hanuman,” the committee member added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirumala-birthplace-of-lord-hanuman-temple-board-101617993014907.html
10-04-2021||India||India objects to US Navy operations near Lakshadweep||India said on Friday it has conveyed its concerns to the US over an American warship transiting through the country’s exclusive economic zone (EEZ) without prior consent in what was described by the US Navy as a “freedom of navigation operation”.Though the US Navy has conducted similar operations in Indian waters in recent years, these were not publicised, as it happened in the case of the latest operation on April 7. The US Navy’s 7th Fleet issued a press release that said the freedom of navigation operation (FONOP) by the guided missile destroyer USS John Paul Jones “upheld the rights, freedoms, and lawful uses of the sea recognised in international law by challenging India’s excessive maritime claims”.The strongly worded US Navy release didn’t go down well with the defence ministry or the external affairs ministry, especially at a time when the US and India are working jointly to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific through forums such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, people familiar with developments said, asking not to be named.“The USS John Paul Jones was continuously monitored transiting from the Persian Gulf towards the Malacca Straits. We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the government of USA through diplomatic channels,” the external affairs ministry said in a statement.The Indian government’s stated position on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) is that the convention “does not authorise other states to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state”, the statement added.The US Navy’s release said USS John Paul Jones “asserted navigational rights and freedoms approximately 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent, consistent with international law”.The release noted that India’s position on prior consent for military exercises or manoeuvres in its EEZ or continental shelf was “inconsistent with international law”. It further said the US Navy conducts routine and regular FONOPs and will continue to do so in future, and that such operations “are not about one country, nor are they about making political statements”.The 7th Fleet is the largest of the US Navy’s forward deployed fleets. The US had sent elements of the 7th Fleet to the Bay of Bengal to pressure India during the 1971 war with Pakistan that ended with the liberation of Bangladesh.Every coastal country’s EEZ extends to 200 nautical miles (370 km) from its shores and the country has exclusive rights to all resources in the water, including oil, natural gas and fish. Any military activity in the EEZ requires India’s permission, navy officials said, asking not to be named.“If you have to do anything in our EEZ, you have to notify us and take permission,” Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said in 2019 after a Chinese vessel was repelled after intruding into Indian waters near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.Former navy chief Admiral (retired) Arun Prakash tweeted: “FoN ops by USN ships (ineffective as they may be) in South China Sea, are meant to convey a message to China that the putative EEZ around the artificial SCS islands is an ‘excessive maritime claim.’ But what is the 7th Fleet message for India?”He added in another tweet, “There is irony here. While India ratified UN Law of the Seas in 1995, the US has failed to do it so far. For the 7th Fleet to carry out FoN missions in Indian EEZ in violation of our domestic law is bad enough. But publicising it? USN please switch on IFF (Identification friend-or-foe)!”The development came at a time when the navies of India and the US have just concluded multilateral drills in the eastern Indian Ocean. France, India, the US, Japan and Australia carried out complex maritime drills in the region to enhance interoperability among their navies during April 5-7.The US defense department’s annual freedom of navigation reports posted online show that US warships conducted “freedom of navigation challenges” in India’s EEZ in 2015, 2016, 2017 and 2019. These operations were conducted mainly to challenge India’s “excessive maritime claims”, the reports said. However, no press releases were issued at the time to publicise these operations.In a statement issued on March 10 along with the freedom of navigation report for 2020, the US defense department said American forces “operationally challenged 28 different excessive maritime claims made by 19 different claimants throughout the world”. India wasn’t among the countries listed in the 2020 report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-objects-to-us-navy-ops-near-lakshadweep-101617992954884.html
10-04-2021||India||Supreme Court amused by Centre’s zeal in Italian marines case||The Supreme Court on Friday remarked it expects the central government to act with the same speed in other cases too when it noted the government’s zeal to have all proceedings in India closed against the Italian marines who killed two Indian fishermen off the coast of Kerala in 2012.“We will like it if you act with the same speed in other matters too. Here, (in this case) you are asking for three days. Normally, you ask at least for two weeks or four weeks’ time,” a bench led by Chief Justice of India SA Bobde told solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who represented the Centre.The bench, which included justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, made the comment after the S-G asked for “an earliest possible date” to decide the Centre’s plea for closure of proceedings against the two marines before the top court and a criminal trial pending before a special court in Delhi.On being informed that the compensation of ₹10 crore as agreed upon by the Italian government was yet to be disbursed to the families of the slain fishermen and the injured boat owner, the top court asked Italy to deposit the money with the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA).The bench then added that the MEA will subsequently deposit the compensation in the Supreme Court for releasing it to the victims. While the bench wanted to give the Centre a week to deposit this amount, Mehta asked for a shorter date, saying the MEA will do it within three days of receiving the money and then the matter could be heard immediately after a week or 10 days.The promptness of the government amused the CJI, who told Mehta that he would wish to see the same speed in other cases as well. The S-G responded: “This also depends on the ministry you are dealing with.” The bench then fixed the matter for hearing next on April 19.During the proceedings on Friday, senior advocate Jaideep Gupta, appearing for the Kerala government, informed the bench that the families of the victims have accepted the quantum of compensation. The families of the two deceased fishermen have agreed to a compensation of ₹4 crore each in addition to the ₹2 crore already paid by the Italian government. The injured owner of the boat had also consented to receiving damages of ₹2 crore, said Gupta.Advocates A Karthik and Unni Krishnan appeared for the victims’ families and apprised the bench that they were yet to receive the damages.To this, the bench said: “We are going to ask them to deposit the money in this court. Only then it can be closed. Let the amount come here and then we will disburse it.”During a hearing in August 2020, this bench had said that it will close the proceedings only after the families of the victims are heard and given “adequate” compensation, after it noted that the victims’ families were not parties to the case before the Supreme Court.The court was dealing with an application of the Centre filed in July 2020 wherein it said that all proceedings in India against two marines, Massimiliano Latorre and Salvatore Girone, should be closed since the Union government has accepted the May 2020 decision of the international arbitral tribunal. The tribunal ruled that the marines enjoyed immunity and hence only Italy could try them whereas India was entitled to compensation.After the government was asked to make victims’ families parties to the plea, a compliance affidavit was filed by the Centre in January this year, stating that the Italian government has offered to pay a total of ₹10 crore in damages, which was acceptable to the families as well the Kerala government.Subsequently, the S-G on Monday requested for an urgent hearing of the Centre’s plea and the matter was listed on Friday.The main case pending before the Supreme Court is an appeal filed by the marines against a May 2012 judgment of the Kerala high court, which held that Kerala had jurisdiction to try them. The marines and the Italian government moved an appeal before the top court, which shifted the trial to a special court Delhi in 2013 where it went on till the Supreme Court stayed it in 2015 after taking note of proceedings pending before the Permanent Court of Arbitration (PCA) at the Hague, Netherlands. In the meantime, the marines were allowed to go back home on a personal undertaking by the Italian ambassador that they would come back as and when required.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-amused-by-centre-s-zeal-in-italian-marines-case-101617992774766.html
10-04-2021||India||4 dead, several injured in fire at private hospital in Nagpur: Report||At least four people were killed and several others injured after a fire broke out in a private hospital in Maharashtra’s Nagpur on Friday night, news agency PTI reported.The news agency cited an official saying that the fire broke out at 8.10pm at the hospital in Wadi area of the city. "The fire reportedly started from an AC unit of the ICU located on the second floor of the hospital. The blaze remained confined to that floor and did not spread further," Nagpur Municipal Corporation's (NMC) chief fire officer Rajendra Uchke was quoted as saying.Pained to know about the hospital fire incident at Wadi in Nagpur.Spoke to Nagpur Collector and he told that all the assistance is being provided.Heartfelt condolences to families who lost their loved ones in this tragedy.Praying for speedy recovery of the injured.#NagpurFireUchke said several fire tenders were rushed to the hospital and that it wasn’t treating any Covid-19 patients. "There were 10 patients on the second floor when the fire erupted. While six patients came out on their own, four others were rescued by the fire brigade personnel," he said, according to PTI.Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted to condole the deaths. Fadnavis added that he spoke to the Nagpur collector and all assistance is being provided.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fire-breaks-out-at-covid-hospital-in-maharashtra-s-nagpur-4-dead-101617989292426.html
10-04-2021||NA||Highlights: PM Modi, Amit Shah condole loss of lives in Nagpur hospital fire||Breaching another record, India on Friday reported 131,968 fresh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infections in a single day, which took the active cases tally to 979,608, according to the Union health ministry. More than 9.43 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses have been administered till Friday, the ministry noted. Many states have appealed to the Centre for additional vaccine supply citing shortage.Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said states should observe a 'vaccine festival' between April 11-14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19.Over 133 million people have been affected by the coronavirus disease so far, as per the John Hopkins University Covid-19 trackers. Brazil, with the second-highest deaths from Covid-19, as per the tracker, reported a record of 4,249 fatalities in a single day. The situation in Brazil is on the edge with overwhelmed healthcare and vaccine shortage, reported Bloomberg. The vaccination drive in the US has picked up the pace. Over 175 million doses have been administered to date in the US and at this pace, another three months are estimated to cover 75 per cent of the population, reported Bloomberg.Follow all the updates here:Night curfew imposed in 9 Rajasthan cities amid surge Covid-19 surgeNight curfew imposed in 9 cities-Ajmer, Alwar, Bhilwara, Chittorgarh, Dungarpur, Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota and Abu Road starting from 8pm to 6 am, till April 30. In Udaipur, the night curfew will start from 6 pm to 6 am: Rajasthan GovtRajasthan government informed on Friday that night curfew has been imposed in nine cities including Jaipur, Jodhpur, Kota till April between 8pm to 6am. "In Udaipur, the night curfew will start from 6 pm to 6 am," the state government added.RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat tests positive for Covid-19Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat on Friday tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and has been hospitalised in Nagpur, news agency PTI reported quoting sources. Mumbai: Eligible vaccine beneficiaries only allowed to travel to vaccination centre and back during lockdown, says BMCThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday informed that citizens, who are eligible to get vaccinated, are permitted to travel only to the vaccination centre and back during the Covid-19 lockdown.Maharashtra: Fire breaks out at Covid-19 hospital in Nagpur, 4 deadMaharashtra: A fire broke out at a COVID hospital in Nagpur"Around 27 patients at the hospital were shifted to other hospitals. We can't comment on their health condition now. Hospital has been evacuated," says police pic.twitter.com/YfGd9p4XjhA fire broke out on Friday at a Covid-19 hospital in Maharashtra's Nagpur, news agency ANI reported. "Around 27 patients at the hospital were shifted to other hospitals. We cannot comment on their health condition now. The hospital has been evacuated," the agency quoted the police as saying. News agency PTI reported, citing a fire brigade official, that four persons are dead while several are injured in the fire.Chhattisgarh: Raipur district under Covid-19 lockdown till April 19Chhattisgarh: Raipur district under lockdown from 6 pm today till 6 am on 19th April, in view of rising COVID19 cases pic.twitter.com/LVDpndMxhKThe Raipur district in Chhattisgarh is under lockdown from 6pm on Friday (April 9) till 6am on April 19, in view of the rising number of coronavirus disease cases, reports ANI.Haryana reports 2,994 new Covid-19 casesHaryana has reported 2,994 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths, and 1,970 recoveries in the last 24 hours. With this the number of active Covid-19 cases in Haryana has reached 18,142.The total infection tally in Haryana currently stands at 3,10,504, with 2,89,121 total recoveries. The Covid-19 death toll is currently at 3,241.9,78,71,045 Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India till nowA total of 9,78,71,045 vaccine doses have been administered in India till now, including 32,16,949 vaccine doses that were given today, the central government has informed.Night curfew from 10pm to 5am starting tomorrow in Dehradun municipal limits: U'khand govtUttarakhand Cabinet in its meeting today has decided to impose night curfew in Dehradun municipal limits between 10pm to 5am, says State govt's spokesperson"Night curfew will be implemented from tomorrow following the Cabinet order," says Dehradun DM Dr Ashish SrivastavaThe Uttarakhand state government has said that a night curfew between 10pm and 5am would be imposed in Dehradun municipal limits starting tomorrow, reports ANI.Maharashtra records another highest single-day spike with 58,993 fresh Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 3,288,540Maharashtra reports 58,993 new Covid-19 cases and 301 deaths taking the state's tally to 3,288,540 cases so far and 57,329 deaths.Also, 45,391 people recovered on the day and the overall recoveries reached 2,695,148 patients.Mumbai reported 9,202 new cases and 35 deaths which took the city's cases tally to 501,182 and death toll to 11,916.Delhi records over 8,500 new Covid-19 cases, 39 new deathsDelhi reports 8,521 new #COVID19 cases, 5,032 recoveries and 39 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases 7,06,526Total recoveries 6,68,699Death toll 11,196Active cases 26,631 pic.twitter.com/JMMLWF9Gd8Delhi recorded 8,521 new Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the capital city's cases tally to 706,526 cases and the death toll climbed to 11,196, according to a bulletin from the health department.Active caseload currently stands at 26,631.Gujarat reports 4,541 new Covid-19 cases, 42 deaths in last 24 hours4,541 new COVID19 cases, 42 deaths and 2,280 discharges reported in Gujarat in the last 24 hours; case tally at 3,37,015With 4,541 new Covid-19 cases and 42 deaths in the alst 24 hours, Gujarat's cases tally reached 337,015 cases, reports ANI.Punjab records highest ever single-day spike of 3,459 Covid-19 casesPunjab recorded 3,459 new Covid-19 cases in its highest ever single-day spike, according to a bulletin from the state government. With this, the case tally reached 266,494.Also 56 new deaths on the day, took the death toll to 7,390, data showed.Tamil Nadu logs close to 5,000 new Covid-19 cases, 23 deathsTamil Nadu reports 5,441 new #COVID19 cases, 1,890 discharges and 23 deaths.Total cases: 9,20,827Total discharges: 8,74,305Active cases: 33,659Total deaths: 12,863 pic.twitter.com/mH4CR52SiZWith 5,441 new Covid-19 cases and 23 deaths, Tamil Nadu's cases tally reached 920,827 cases and death toll climbed to 12,863, according to a bulletin from the state government.Mumbai reports 9,200 new Covid-19 cases, 35 related deaths; tally goes past 5 lakh casesMumbai reports 9,200 fresh COVID19 cases and 35 deaths today. The total number of cases in Mumbai rises to 5,00,898; active cases at 90,333 pic.twitter.com/hRoeQ7V2x1Mumbai reported 9,200 new Covid-19 cases and 35 deaths today, taking the city's tally to 500,898 cases and the death toll climbed to 11,909. Active caseload currently stands at 90,333, reports ANI.Mumbai: BMC answers FAQs on what's open and what's not in the latest restrictions announcedHave questions about what’s open and what’s not?Here’s a list of FAQs - issued by the state government.#BreakTheChain #NaToCorona pic.twitter.com/klWckflybUThe Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has issued a list of FAQs about the latest restrictions announced in the city.Goa reports 428 new Covid-19 cases, tally reaches 61,239428 new COVID19 cases, 3 deaths and 159 recoveries reported in Goa today; case tally at 61,239 pic.twitter.com/BVtXoHylcMWith 428 new Covid-19 cases and three deaths, Goa's cases tally reached 61,239. Also 159 people recovered from the disease on the day, reports ANI.With close to 8,000 new cases, Karnataka reports highest single-day spike this yearKarnataka reported 7,955 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike this year. The state also reported 46 related deaths, taking the death toll to 12,813, according to a bulletin from the state government.Uttarakhand reports 748 new Covid-19 cases, 5 deathsUttarakhand reports 748 fresh COVID19 cases, 5 deaths and 327 recoveries; case tally at 1,06,246 including 5,384 active cases pic.twitter.com/01xcF21NQwUttarakhand's Covid-19 tally reached 106,246 cases after the state reported 748 new cases. Active caseload stands at 5,384 cases, reports ANI.Kerala reports fresh spike of 5,063 new Covid-19 casesWith a fresh spike of 5,063 new Covid-19 cases and 22 related deaths, Kerala's case tally reached 1,154,010 cases and the death toll climbed to 4,750, according to a bulletin from the state health department.Gurugram reports 703 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours, tally reaches 68,193#Haryana: Gurugram reports 703 new COVID19 cases and 567 recoveries in the last 24 hours; case tally 68,193 pic.twitter.com/LZy82k8FaMGurugram in Haryana reported 703 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours as the case tally reached 68,193, reports ANI. ₹2,000 fine for not wearing masks for first, second time, ₹5,000 for subsequent offences: Odisha governmentOdisha government has increased the penalty amount to ₹2,000 for not wearing a mask for the first and second times, while subsequent violations of the rule will attract a penalty of ₹5,000, reports ANI.Iran in talks with India for speeding up next consignment of Covid-19 vaccineGiven the cordial relations with India & understanding the rise of new wave of #COVID19 in both countries, we are doing the necessary talks with Indian authorities to kindly expedite sending rest of the consignment which has already been paid for: Iran's Embassy in IndiaIranian embassy in India said that the country is in talks with India for the next consignment of Covid-19 vaccines, for which Iran has already paid, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 2,765 new Covid-19 cases, 11 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 2,765 new #COVID19 cases, 1,245 recoveries, and 11 deaths, in the past 24 hours Total cases: 9,18,597Total recoveries: 8,94,896Active cases: 16,422Total deaths: 7,279 pic.twitter.com/UB6XAzWBIGAndhra Pradesh reported 2,765 new Covid-19 cases and 11 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the state's tally to 918,597 cases and 7,279 deaths, reports ANI.CM Arvind Kejriwal announces closure of all schools in Delhi due to increasing Covid-19 casesकोविड के बढ़ते मामलों के कारण, दिल्ली में सभी स्कूल (सरकारी, प्राइवेट सहित), सभी क्लासेज के लिए अगले आदेश तक बंद किए जा रहे हैं।Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said that due to the increasing number of Covid-19 cases, all schools in Delhi have been closed for all classes till further orders.Johnson & Johnson in discussion with India to start clinical study of Covid-19 vaccineWe are in discussions with the Government of India with the objective of starting a bridging clinical study of our Janssen COVID-19 vaccine candidate in India, subject to local regulatory approvals: Johnson & JohnsonJohnson & Johnson is in discussion with the government of India for starting the clinical study of their Janssen Covid-19 vaccine, reports ANI.Nagpur reports 6,489 new Covid-19 cases, 64 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Nagpur District reported 6,489 new COVID19 cases, 64 deaths and 2,175 recoveries in the  last 24 hours, as per Civil Surgeon Nagpur Total cases: 2,66,224Total recoveries: 2,11,236Active cases: 49,347Death toll: 5,641With 6,489 new Covid-19 cases and 64 related deaths in the last 24 hours, Nagpur's tally reached 266,224 and death toll climbed to 5,641, reports ANI.UP reports 9,587 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths: OfficialUttar Pradesh reports 36 more coronavirus-related fatalities, death toll rises to 9,039; infection tally mounts to 6,63,991 with 9,587 new cases: OfficialUttar Pradesh reported 9,587 new Covid-19 cases and 36 more related deaths according to an official. With this, the case tally reached 663,991 and the death toll climbed to 9,039, reports PTI.Puducherry imposes night curfew from April 10 due to increasing Covid-19 casesNight curfew imposed in Puducherry from April 10 in wake of rising COVID-19 cases: Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai SoundararajanDue to increasing Covid-19 cases in Puducherry, Lieutenant Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan has imposed a night curfew from April 10, report PTI.'Nepal-India continue cooperation to fight Covid-19': Nepal's foreign ministryNepal-India continue cooperation to fight the COVID-19 pandemic.FM @PradeepgyawaliK held a tele-conversation with EAM of India @DrSJaishankar this afternoon.They exchanged views on further strengthening cooperation in the fight against the pandemic, including supply of vaccines.Nepal's foreign ministry tweeted that cooperation with India in fighting the Covid-19 pandemic will continue.The ministry tweeted after the foreign ministers of the two countries held a tele-conversation.Odisha's Covid-19 vaccine in-charge says no shortage of vaccineWe've heard of shortage of COVISHIELD but COVAXIN is given in vaccination centres of Bhubaneswar. There is no shortage as such. We have a certain protocol that people will have to follow. The one who comes first at a centre will be vaccinated first: State' Covid Vaccine incharge pic.twitter.com/ZUuRwT7gAlOdisha's state Covid-19 vaccine in-charge said that Covaxin dose is being administered at the centres in Bhubaneswar and there is no shortage "as such." He also said that who comes first to the centre would be vaccinated first, reports ANI.National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tests postive for Covid-19For a year I did my best to dodge this damn virus but it’s finally caught up with me. I tested positive for #COVIDー19 this afternoon. I’m completely asymptotic. Based on medical advice I’m self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc.National Conference leader Omar Abdullah tweeted that he has tested positive for the Covid-19 disease. "Based on medical advice I’m self-isolating at home & monitoring my parameters like oxygen saturation levels etc.," he said.Gap between active cases, total recoveries increasing: Govt#IndiaFightsCorona:📍 Increasing gap between #COVID19 Recovered & Active cases of India (June 01, 2020 to April 9, 2021)👇#StaySafe #IndiaWillWin #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/FOxHqaf1o0The gap between India's active caseload and the total recoveries so far has been increasing, according to data shared by the government.5 states account for over 73% of country's active casesFive states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 73.24 per cent of India's total active cases. Maharashtra alone accounts for 53.84 per cent of the total active caseload of the country.Russia reports 9,150 new Covid-19 casesRussia on Friday reported 9,150 new Covid-19 cases, including 2,421 in Moscow, taking the national infection tally to 4,623,984 since the pandemic began, reported Reuters.Rahul Gandhi writes to PM Modi on Covid-19 vaccination drive, asks to make it open for allRahul Gandhi urges PM Modi to open Covid-19 vaccination for all age groups. The Congress leader in the letter said it would take years to inoculate 75% of population against the disease.Andaman and Nicobar Islands report 18 new Covid-19 casesThe Covid-19 tally of Andaman and Nicobar Islands rose to 5,149 on Friday as 18 more people tested positive for the infection, a health official said, reported PTI.Arunachal Pradesh reports 12 new Covid-19 casesArunachal Pradesh reported 12 new Covid-19 cases on Friday, taking the tally to 16,873, a health official said, reported PTIChhattisgarh CM gets first dose of Covid-19 vaccineChhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel takes his first dose of the #COVID19 vaccine at Pt Jawahar Lal Nehru Memorial Medical College in Raipur. pic.twitter.com/8704VYuuuvDelhi's Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital suspends non-Covid services amid rise in casesIn view of the surge of Covid-19 patients, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital in Delhi suspended all the non-Covid-19 services with immediate effect till further orders, reported ANI.Over 94 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered so far: Health ministerToday at 9 o'clock, the latest figures suggest that 9,43,34,262 doses have been given to people in India. In the last 24 hours, we've given 36,91,511 doses. Last week we even gave 43 Lakh doses one day, probably the highest given anywhere in the whole world, said Union health minister Harsh Vardhan.Odisha reports 1,282 new Covid-19 casesOdisha reported 1,282 new Covid-19, 228 recoveries and one death on April 8, reported ANI.More than 1.3 million test done for Covid-19 on April 8: ICMR25,40,41,584 samples tested for Covid-19 up to 8th April 2021. Of these 13,64,205 samples were tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)India reports over 131,000 new Covid-19 cases, tally crosses 13 millionIndia on Friday reported 131, 968 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, tally crossed 13 million, according to the Union health ministry.Australia to purchase 20 million additional doses of Pfizer Covid-19 shotAustralia will purchase another 20 million doses of Pfizer's Covid-19 vaccine, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Friday, reported Reuters.South Korea imposes ban on clubs, bars amid fears of 4th Covid waveSouth Korea will reimpose a ban on nightclubs, karaoke bars and other nightly entertainment facilities, authorities said on Friday, after the number of new coronavirus cases surged, fanning fears over a potential fourth wave of outbreaks, reported Reuters.Australia: New South Wales temporarily suspends AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine useAustralia's most populous state said on Friday it has temporarily suspended the use of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine following updated advice from the federal government, reported Reuters.37 doctors of Delhi's Sir Gangaram Hospital test Covid-19 positiveAt least 37 doctors of Delhi's Sir Gangaram Hospital have tested positive for coronavirus, as per the hospital sources on Thursday, reported ANI.90 students of IIT Roorkee test Covid-19 positiveA total of 90 students have tested positive for Covid-19 at Indian Institutes of Technology (IIT) Roorkee in the last few days, said IIT Roorkee media cell in-charge Sonika Srivastava on Thursday, reported ANI.China reports 21 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 21 new Covid-19 cases on April 8, down from 24 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Friday, reported Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april92021-101617929354527.html
10-04-2021||Today's||As a tri-polar nation, India has a critical role in the Arctic||India recently circulated a draft Arctic Paper for public comments. A final document is now awaited. India’s Arctic attention has a brief-but-significant timeline, starting with expeditions in 2007 to the Arctic Ocean; the opening of a research station, Himadri, in 2008, at the international research base at Ny-Alesund in Svalbard, the northernmost island in the world belonging to Norway; and then being granted Observer Status to the Arctic Council in 2013 along with other Asian countries such as China, Japan, Singapore and South Korea.India’s Arctic activities have come on the back of its successful scientific and diplomatic endeavours in Antarctica, the southernmost frozen continent. Closer home, the Hindu-Kush Himalaya mountains, referred to as the Third Pole, with maximum snow and ice accumulation outside the two polar regions, is a critical water store for socio-economic development in India and its neighbourhood.The three poles — the Arctic, Antarctic and the Himalayas — with their breathtaking landscape and permafrost ecosystem are connected through risks and vulnerabilities of changing climate systems and are an intricate part of the global commons. The physical changes in the Arctic are highly likely to impact the Indian monsoon or “tele-connection” as it is described. Likewise, the emissions from the Gangetic plains partly explain the black carbon events witnessed recently in the Arctic.But what skips our imagination is that India is a tri-polar nation, both in terms of its multi-level scientific engagement vis-à-vis the Antarctic Treaty System and the Arctic Council, and its commitment to mitigating climate risks in its neighbourhood. India would do well to leverage the tri-polar geographical expression in its diplomacy, given its own climate vulnerability and its efforts to foster climate-resilient economic development.In fact, the intersection of science and diplomacy, as seen in India’s vaccine outreach, and the soft power projection that India has tried to assiduously build into its foreign policy makes the Arctic an important area to engage in. But unlike the Antarctic, where the legacy of peace and science prevails, the Arctic has politico-strategic challenges and competitive economic and commercial interests with 13% of the world’s undiscovered oil resources and 30% of undiscovered natural gas resources. Vast deposits of strategic metals have also been discovered. As the ice extent declines due to global warming, navigation in the Arctic Ocean will become significantly wider with the potential to become the world’s largest logistics intersections. The opening up of the Arctic in terms of economic opportunity is in India’s interest, but has to be carefully weighed. Rather than engaging in a resource rush, it would be better to draw home new investments in clean energy from the Arctic states. The year 2021 is estimated to be the first time renewable energy will surpass oil and gas as the largest area of spending in the energy sector. India has, over the last five years, built a positive climate image, often stating that its development trajectory will be increasingly green.The Arctic emphasis, thus, should continue to be one of scientific enterprise with efforts to build India’s knowledge profile. Expanding its scientific footprint will certainly require a state-of-the-art polar research vessel. Joint projects on polar research should become part of the bilateral arrangement with the Arctic states such as Russia and Canada. There is already abiding polar science cooperation with the Norwegian Polar Institute.Coincidentally, India and Norway are currently in the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). It is a unique opportunity for the two to align, “human-centric and inclusive solutions”, as India describes its tenure in UNSC, to the impact of the climate crisis on peace and security that Norway desires to raise.For India, the Arctic has a deep civilisational connect. It enshrines a consciousness of human social evolution as a response to the physical environment as Bal Gangadhar Tilak expressed in his work, The Arctic Home in the Vedas (1903). Celebrating international yoga day among the scientists in Ny-Alesund on June 21, the day of the summer solstice, will be a mark of diplomatic symbolism in the High North.Uttam Kumar Sinha works at the Manohar Parrikar Institute for Defence Studies and Analyses The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/as-a-tri-polar-nation-india-has-a-critical-role-in-the-arctic-101618049966302.html
10-04-2021||Today's||The Covid-19 battle needs more transparency||As the daily increase in Covid-19 cases surges past 145,000, leaving the first spike far behind, there are two issues that aren’t getting the attention they deserve. And what makes matters worse is those who should be speaking to us are either silent or not asked the right questions. Consequently, the government is far from forthright whilst independent epidemiologists and virologists are not pressed for answers. In these circumstances, let me see what I can piece together from my research.The first concern is the mutant Sars-Cov-2 variants that are spreading pretty furiously. There are two I want to focus on. First, Maharashtra has a double mutant. Shahid Jameel, one of our top virologists, says one of the mutations, L452R, is similar to what was earlier found amongst minks in Denmark and, thereafter, in the human population in California. It’s more infectious. The other, E484Q, has similarities to mutations found in South Africa and Brazil and is more resistant to the AstraZeneca vaccine. As he euphemistically puts it, this is “clearly worrisome”. How much depends on how far it’s spread. The government says 15-20% of samples genome-sequenced in Maharashtra are of this double mutant variety. However, I’m told by people who know that the percentage is closer to 60. And, not surprisingly, Jameel’s hunch is the double mutant is the primary cause of the surge in Maharashtra, and it will get a lot worse.The other worrying mutant strain is in Punjab. There, 81% of nearly 450 samples genome-sequenced are of the United Kingdom (UK) variant. Jameel says this shows they’re driving the surge. In fact, he believes it’s reached community levels of spread. And this time, it’s not a hunch. It’s the “only logical explanation”.So, though Balram Bhargava, the head of the Indian Council of Medical Research, insists the mutant strains aren’t driving the second surge, there is another credible view. It’s just that we haven’t heard it fully or properly. One more thing: There’s a third mutant in Bangalore — but I know little about it — and none of these strains will be contained within state borders.This leads me to the second issue that needs urgent attention: Genome sequencing. The government says, so far, 11,064 samples have been sequenced. That’s either 0.1% of our total cases or 1.0% of the increase since February. But is it sufficient for a population of 1.35 billion? Absolutely no one says it is. The ideal percentage is five. Britain makes that figure. The United States (US) is somewhere between two and three. At one, we’re 500% below it. A recent report in the Ahmedabad Mirror reveals genome sequencing is happening slowly. Of the 646 samples sent by Gujarat to the National Institute of Virology since mid-February, the results of only 181 were received by March 31. That’s about a quarter. Doctors on the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 panel, speaking on NDTV, have reported similar delays. They weren’t at all happy.So what’s the explanation for these delays? Jameel, who’s also chairman of the government’s Scientific Advisory Committee on genome sequencing, tells me the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) labs are neither short-staffed nor, any longer, under-funded. The problem is local health workers. They often send samples unsuitable for sequencing. Consequently, the right ones get pushed back. This leads to a simple-but-stark conclusion. Until these issues are resolved and sequencing sharply stepped up, we won’t know how far the mutant strains have spread beyond Maharashtra and Punjab. All we’ll have is logical explanations and hunches. I guess we’ll have to live with that for a while but, at least, let the government be more informative. This is not a moment to be economical with the truth.Why? Because only the grim truth will make us return to masks and social distancing. We need to be shaken out of our present complacency. Two more things would help. First, an immediate curb on election rallies and shahi snans. Second, sack health ministers such as Himanta Biswa Sarma who claim “there’s no need to wear masks in Assam”.Karan Thapar is author of Devil’s Advocate: The Untold Story The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-covid-19-battle-needs-more-transparency-101618049548418.html
10-04-2021||Today's||The economic rationale of bank nationalisation||Before the government concludes its discussions with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on privatising public sector banks (PSBs), it may want to study the history of Indira Gandhi’s bank nationalisation — for nationalisation did have its positive outcomes and privatisation can have negative outcomes.It’s not surprising that the nationalisation of 14 banks in 1969 has generally been seen as a politically-motivated decision. At the time, PN Haksar was secretary in the prime minister’s secretariat. He was, in the words of his biographer Jairam Ramesh, “Indira Gandhi’s ideological compass and moral beacon”. She was then fighting a running battle with the Syndicate, a group of veteran leaders who had earlier chosen her to be prime minister, and with her rival, Morarji Desai.Haksar, a former communist, advised her to convert this from a personal to an ideological battle, projecting an image of Gandhi, the progressive, being challenged by reactionaries. Bank nationalisation has been seen as the first major step in this political conversion and its economic justification has been ignored.The pre-nationalised banks had a profit motive, and shared close links with the corporate sector. So it’s not surprising that they had been lending 67% of their funds to industry and virtually nothing to agriculture. In 1969, commercial banks couldn’t lend money to farmers because they were only present in less than 1% of villages. Farmers were unable to get bank loans just when the Green Revolution was getting underway and they needed credit to buy the expensive inputs required to increase output.In 2018, it was estimated that four out of five Indians had a bank account. Had the banks not been nationalised, I don’t think they would have ventured so deeply into unprofitable rural India. But if PSBs are now widely present in the countryside, why have they not been more effective in providing credit to farmers? Why are indebted farmers still dying by suicide? Why are money lenders still able to find borrowers prepared to pay 5% interest per month on a loan?The bureaucratic functioning of banks has been a serious impediment to farmers getting timely loans. Some years ago, in the Karnataka town of Navalgund, a bank manager told me that a farmer had to get certificates that he was free of debt from the nine other banks operating in the town before applying for a loan. As manager, he had to check and sign every transaction. That could involve a thousand signatures a day. When I asked why he alone could sign, he replied: “I have two other officers classified as supervisory but under bank rules, they are not allowed to supervise.”Because PSBs are owned by the government, politicians in power think they are the owners. This has led to two frequent forms of political interference in banking. The first is known as telephone banking, with politicians ringing bank officials with instructions to lend money to their cronies. Second, some politicians have also undermined PSB’s by using them to win votes with loan waivers or by responding to public demand to finance unproductive projects. But it is a myth that PSBs are inherently inefficient, and privatisation is more efficient. If this is not challenged, banking reforms currently being discussed may well cause an imbalance in India’s development even further. If the corporate sector is allowed to dominate banking again, profit will become the prime motive rather than the desire to serve the public. A better solution than privatisation may well be giving PSBs autonomy to reform themselves and function free of political interference. Remember, most East Asian success stories have been underpinned by financial systems effectively controlled by governments, and in the West, governments have had to rescue private banks from bankruptcy. India should think through its approach to public banks.The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-economic-rationale-of-bank-nationalisation-101618049387827.html
