11-04-2021||Other||Night curfew extended to more UP districts||Amid continuing surge in the Covid cases in Uttar Pradesh, the state government on Sunday decided to extend night curfew to more districts, including Agra, Mirzapur, Sultanpur, Sonbhadra, Azamgarh, Ballia, Banda, Azamgarh, Sitapur, Moradabad and Mathura from 9pm to 6am, said a state government officer.Earlier, 10 districts—Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur, Meerut, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Bareilly, Jhansi, Gorakhpur and Ghaziabad—had imposed night curfew to check the spread of the Sars-CoV-2 infection.Chief minister Yogi Adityanath said the state government had decided to impose night curfew in the districts reporting more than 100 fresh Covid cases daily and had more than 500 active cases.According to the data released by the state health and family welfare department, 29 districts reported more than 100 fresh cases on Sunday, while there were more than 500 active Covid cases in 27 districts. A state government spokesperson said the remaining districts were likely to announce the night curfew soon.Agra district magistrate Prabhu N Singh said with the spurt in Covid-19 cases, the district administration had decided to impose night curfew from Monday. This curfew would be from 10pm till 6am and its strict compliance would be ensured, he said. “The night curfew would be operative from Monday till April 20. No permission would be given for gathering of more than 100 people in an open area and 50 in closed premises at public places,” Singh said. Notably, so far there was restriction on a gathering of 200 people in open space and 100 in closed premises. “Certain exemptions have been given in the night curfew. Those involved in health services are allowed movement provided they carry identity card. Passengers coming in trains and buses would use their ticket as pass,” the DM added. The transport on state and national highway would be as usual and petrol pumps and CNG stations would function as per routine. “Staff involved in cleanliness, power supply, water works, roadways and railways employees would be exempted and their identity card would act as pass,” said the district magistrate. “Industrial units will function in strict compliance with Covid -19 protocols and the staff employed will be allowed to move in night curfew,: he added. District magistrate, Mirzapur, Praveen Kumar Laxkar imposed night curfew in that district from Sunday. Mirzapur has 642 active Covid cases.A senior officer said the transport of essential commodities had been exempted from the night curfew. People travelling from or to rail and bus stations from other states will have to show their tickets to be allowed to proceed during the night curfew.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/night-curfew-extended-to-more-up-districts-101618165712801.html
11-04-2021||Other||One Covid death an hour in Lucknow||LUCKNOW: At least one corona patient died every hour in the state capital, according to the 24-hour Covid report that also cited 31 deaths, taking the toll to 1332, highest in the state that has reported 9152 deaths till now. Fresh Covid cases numbered 4444, the highest in one day since the pandemic began. The active cases too touched the peak at 20195. Doctors said majority of the patients who died had co-morbidity. Among new cases were agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi and over two dozen healthcare workers in the city. “I got my sample tested after one of my colleagues tested positive for Covid and my report came positive. I am fine and have isolated myself. People who came in contact with me should isolate themselves and get tested,” the minister tweeted. “Lucknow has reported a total 107412 Covid cases which include 85885 recovered patients and 1332 deaths along with 20195 active cases. The present recovery rate is 79.95%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. The recovery rate has come down in the past 10 days. The recovery rate on April 1 was 94.09% in Lucknow, according to the data from the health department. Keeping in view the rise in Covid cases, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Lucknow has re-started the Covid helpline in which 11 doctors will attend calls from patients. “In all, 11 doctors will attend calls between 10 am and 2 pm. More doctors will join the service to cater to patients in need of consultancy for common ailments,” said Dr PK Gupta, former president IMA, Lucknow who will be available on his cell phone number 9415541789. “Dr Pranjal Agrawal (9415023972) and Dr Pranshu Agarwal (9455553227), Dr Ashutosh Sharma (8418930911), Dr Ankit Katiyar (8808901755), Dr Naeem Ahmad Sheikh (9616633000), Dr Yashpal Singh (8601260267) will also be available to speak to people. Our aim is to give consultancy in a situation where visiting clinics is a risk due to Covid infection,” said Dr Gupta. He said more doctors would join the service in a few days. Testing and admission still a tough task With rise in Covid cases, the test report is taking over two days to come while admission after testing positive for Covid remains a tough task for many patients. Patients who gave samples on April 8 and 9 are still awaiting the report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-covid-death-an-hour-in-lucknow-101618165652631.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi schools shut, but no word yet on teachers’ attendance||Teachers in several Delhi government schools have expressed concerns about reporting to their institutions two days after chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced the closure of all schools following a surge in Covid-19 cases.While the government made it clear that students will not be allowed to come to school for any academic or examination-related work, it did not mention teachers and other staffers.On Saturday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia Saturday said, “I have been getting queries on whether it is compulsory for teachers to go to schools or not. School principals and the staff can decide among themselves on how many teachers will come to school and how many will give lessons online. We are not putting any restrictions on this from our side.”Teachers, however, said this may give rise to uncertainties and create room for confusion. Ajay Veer Yadav, general secretary of the Government School Teachers’ Association (GSTA), said, “It is not a wise decision to let schools take a call on whether teachers should come or not as it may leave room for bias and also for the education department officials to run things in an arbitrary manner. Teachers must be asked to help students prepare for their exams online.”Sant Ram, who is the district secretary of the teachers’ association in west Delhi-A, said there have been several cases of teachers testing positive for Covid-19 after coming in contact with others during academic work. He said teachers must not be asked to come to school at least till the current surge is not brought under control. “Apart from teaching, hundreds of teachers are still doing Covid-related work in airports, religious places, banquet halls, and working with the district administration. They are on night patrolling duty and also have been given election duty for the upcoming gurdwara elections. When the positivity rate in the city has hit 10%, calling teachers to school may prove to be a risk to everyone’s health,” he said.The head of a government school in Rajouri Garden Extension, Sanjeev Gaur said that despite the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA) directives, his school is waiting for an order from the education department. “We have to see what percentage of staff will be allowed to come to school for administrative work. Based on that, we will prepare a roster and exclude those who are on Covid-duty. Since tomorrow [Monday] is a working day, all teachers will come,” he said.A senior education department official said, “Schools will be informed on what percentage of staff have to come in due course of time. Till then, all of them have to come.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-schools-shut-but-no-word-yet-on-teachers-attendance-101618163668594.html
11-04-2021||Other||Virus airborne, high risk groups must stay indoors, CM tells all-party meeting||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath convened an all party meet at the Raj Bhawan here on Sunday amid a renewed spike in coronavirus cases in the state. Governor Anandiben Patel chaired the meeting. While the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) and the Congress attended the meeting, main opposition Samajwadi Party and its ally Rashtriya Lok Dal stayed away. RLD claimed it wasn’t invited. Addressing the meeting, the chief minister said that corona virus had now become air borne ‘to an extent’ and advised high risk groups, including elderly above 60 years of age and children below 10 years to cut all non-emergency outings. “We have appealed to the high-risk category, people above 60 years of age and children below 10 years, to not go out unless essential, as it is being noticed that the infection to an extent has become airborne,” Yogi told the meeting. Blaming complacency for the surge of infections after Covid cases came down post September 2020 and post vaccination, the chief minister said his government was seeking public cooperation in ensuring that Covid protocols were compulsorily followed. The CM also shared his government’s plan to decongest places like vegetable markets which he said would be organised in large open spaces. Rapid and random rapid antigen test, focused contact tracing of each positive person and increasing the number of RTPCR tests as well Covid beds and ICU facility in hospitals were some of the other measures of his government that Adityanath shared with the opposition. The official machinery, he shared, was also being galvanised to mount a massive awareness campaign aimed at sensitising the people against taking the Covid surge lightly. The opposition assured the government of cooperation to help contain the spread of the disease. “The chief minister did say that the infection was airborne and stressed on the need for precautions at all levels,” BSP legislative party leader Lalji Verma told HT after the meeting, in which he also shared suggestions by his party. The BSP’s suggestions largely focused on improving contact tracing, allowing government OPDs in districts to function and ensuring that non-Covid patients weren’t denied treatment amid the focus on checking corona cases. The Congress was represented by party leader Suhail Ansari at the meeting in which the CM sought and got opposition cooperation in his government’s efforts to ensure that people wore gloves and masks while going out and used sanitisers or washed hands with soap each time they touched anything outside. “If we do that we will be able to break the transmission,” Adityanath said, adding cleanliness and sanitisation had begun on a mass scale. The CM later held a video conferencing with officers in each district( especially those reporting maximum cases like Lucknow, Kanpur, Prayagraj, Varanasi and Gorakhpur ) to talk about the new guidelines that allow only a limited gathering even during panchayat polls set to begin from April 15. “We have already decided that only five people would be allowed for campaign and the mass campaign or gathering that earlier allowed up to 200 people has now been halved. If it’s a cramped room where the political campaign is on, then only people half the strength of that room would be allowed entry,” Adityanath said. Yogi will discuss measures to help control Covid-19 with his ministers at Monday’s cabinet meeting in which the suggestions received from the opposition would also be taken up.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/virus-airborne-high-risk-groups-must-stay-indoors-cm-tells-all-party-meeting-101618165473718.html
11-04-2021||Patna||In a case of mistaken identity, PMCH issues death certificate to living Covid-19 patient||Authorities of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) had egg on their faces on Sunday after they issued the death certificate of a living Covid-19 patient and even handed over a body to the relatives, who discovered at the crematorium that it was a case of mistaken identity. PMCH superintendent Dr IS Thakur has terminated the services of a health manager, who was supposed to identify the body with the relatives before handing it over to them. “I have issued a show-cause notice to the nodal officer and ordered an inquiry into the episode to find out those responsible for the lapse. I will take stern action against doctors or any other healthcare worker responsible for this act,” said Dr Thakur. The PMCH had issued the death certificate of Chunnu Kumar, 40, a resident of Barh, who is recuperating from a fracture and has contracted coronavirus. Kumar, who was in the IJ ward, an ICU for Covid-19 patients, was shifted to the adjacent AB ward to make way for a critical Covid-19 patient, Raj Kumar Bhagat, 45, from Purnia, admitted to the hospital in the wee hours of Sunday. Bhagat did not survive long. Though the patients were swapped at midnight, the authorities, however, forgot to make the necessary changes in their medical records. So, when Bhagat died this morning, the hospital authorities took him for Kumar and called his relatives and handed over Bhagat’s body to them. Such is the scare of Covid-19 that the relatives did not identify the body before receiving it at the hospital, but detected it only at the crematorium. Soon thereafter, they disowned the body and reported the matter to the hospital authorities, much to their embarrassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-a-case-of-mistaken-identity-pmch-issues-death-certificate-to-living-covid-19-patient-101618165473183.html
11-04-2021||Other||Now, UP schools to stay closed till April 30, pre-scheduled exams allowed||In the wake of rising Covid cases, the state government on Sunday announced closure of all schools from classes 1 to 12 till April 30. All coaching centres across the state will also remain shut during this period. However, the pre-scheduled exams will take place.The decision was taken by chief minister Yogi Adityanath at a Covid review meeting with senior officials. Earlier, schools were closed on March 24 till March 31. Thereafter, the closure was extended till April 11.The decision to reopen state and private universities besides degree colleges in different districts rests with local authorities depending on the Covid situation. For instance, Lucknow district magistrate Abhishek Prakash has ordered closure of university and degree colleges till April 15.On Saturday, the Lucknow district administration gave a few relaxations to schools by allowing them to call teachers for online classes and other administrative staff for admission and collection of fees. District inspector of schools, Lucknow, Mukesh Kumar Singh said schools were asked to follow Covid guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOPs) strictly. Unaided Private Schools’ Association, Uttar Pradesh, thanked the district administration and other authorities for giving a proper guideline that school office can be reopened for administrative work and teaching staff can be called to school for online classes. Principal, in-charges and coordinators will come to schools to manage the things which cannot be managed from home.Association’s president Anil Agarwal said, “Teaching staff will not be called to school regularly. Teachers will take online classes from their homes for the next two weeks and further decision will be taken as per the situation.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/now-up-schools-to-stay-closed-till-april-30-pre-scheduled-exams-allowed-101618165352520.html
11-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Covid cases soar to 530 in all-time high||The district logged 530 Covid-19 cases on Sunday, in the highest single-day spike since the pandemic’s outbreak in March last year.Despite night curfew, closing of educational institutions and ban on large public gatherings, cases continue to surge in Ludhiana. Compared to 7,294 cases and 115 deaths in March, the district has recorded 4,561 cases and 63 deaths in just 11 days of April, including six casualties on Sunday that took the toll to 1,207.Over the past 16 days, the district has recorded 400+ cases on seven days, including 497 on March 27, trumping the first wave’s highest surge of 464 cases on September 17, 2020.Ludhiana’s case tally now stands at 38,971, of which 3,434 patients are under treatment, while 34,330 have been discharged – a recovery rate of 88%, against the national average of 90%.Those who died on Sunday were a 90-year-old man from BRS Nagar, a 68-year-old man from Uplan village, a 65-year-old man from Jammu Colony, a 64-year-old woman from Jawaddi, a 58-year-old woman from Civil Lines and a 53-year-old woman from Hario Kalan village.Among those who were found positive were three healthcare workers, an undertrial and three teachers, including one each from DAV, Pakhowal, Government Primary School, Harbanspura, and Government Senior Secondary School, Hans Kalan.‘Threat of virus still here’“Contrary to common perception, coronavirus is still very much here. Vaccination does not prevent infection, only lowers its severity. So, it is important that we do not lower our guard and follow Covid appropriate behaviour, such as wearing masks, maintaining distance in public and keeping hands sanitised,” said Dr Anurag Chaudhary, head of the department of community medicine, Dayanand Medical College and Hospital.“People continue to disregard the importance of wearing masks despite the surging cases. While youngsters may remain asymptomatic, they can transmit the virus to the elderly and comorbid people, who are vulnerable to complications,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-covid-cases-soar-to-530-in-all-time-high-101618164878640.html
11-04-2021||Other||Work in Allahabad HC through virtual mode from today||PRAYAGRAJ: As part of the preventive remedial measures against Covid-19, the Allahabad high court will perform judicial work by way of hearing through virtual mode only from Monday. The lawyers are advised to download ‘jitsi meet’ and install the same on their computer/ mobile to attend virtual hearing. The advocates, litigants and clerks to the advocates will not be permitted to enter the high court premises from Monday onwards. In a notification issued on Sunday, the filing of cases/petitions/applications/documents will be done both through e-mode and physical form. The committee for taking preventive and remedial measures and for combating the impending threat of Covid-19 has further resolved that initially as many as 25 courts will be made functional for hearing through virtual mode. However, the number of courts for virtual hearing may increase or decrease as per existing work load (number of cases) and requirement. The registrar (protocol) of Allahabad high court, Ashish Kumar Srivastava further informed that the front office/counters would be established outside the premises of high court enabling the advocates to file their cases in physical form. “A helpline will be made operational by the high court for assisting the advocates in each and every matter regarding filing, listing and other information related to their case”, the notification added. Sanitization schedule would be strictly followed, the notification added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/work-in-allahabad-hc-through-virtual-mode-from-today-101618164692497.html
11-04-2021||Other||Filling work of Ram temple foundation begins||Lucknow: The Ram temple Construction Committee has started filling work of the foundation with the target of completing 1.25 lakh cubic metre ground at Ram Janmabhoomi by the end of September. Champat Rai, general secretary of the Sri Ram Janmabhoomi Tirath Kshetra Trust said on Sunday that filling work of the temple’s foundation had begun. “Around 1.25 lakh cubic metre filling will be carried out by using construction material specially selected by IIT-Chennai,” Rai told media persons in Ayodhya. During this filling process, around 44 layers of 300 mm each will be laid. Thereafter, each layer will be compressed with two kinds of rollers- simple and vibrating. “The vibrating roller will generate vibrations to make the temple’s foundation strong and to ensure maximum compression. After each rolling process, the 300 mm layer is likely to be a compressed to around 250 mm,” said Rai. Nripendra Misra, chairman of Ram Temple Construction Committee was in Ayodhya for a review meeting of the ongoing construction work. The two-day meeting ended on Sunday. During the meeting, engineers of the Larsen and Toubro and Tata Consulting Engineers were also present. The Trust discussed progress of construction work of the past three months and future plan for the next three years. The Trust also discussed development plan for Ayodhya outside the temple’s premises. “We have estimated that around two lakh devotees will come to Ayodhya every day after Ram temple comes up. For these devotees, there must an infrastructure in place. Minute details were discussed which included drinking water facility for them,” said Rai. “It was also decided to tap rain water to fulfill water requirement and recycle drainage water also,” informed Rai. To note, Larsen and Toubro are carrying out construction work of Ram temple. The Tata Consulting Engineers is working as Project Managemt Consultant and assisting Larsen and Toubro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/filling-work-of-ram-temple-foundation-begins-101618164392465.html
11-04-2021||Other||20-year-old dies as SUV overturns, hits wall in Ludhiana||A 20-year-old man was killed after his Toyota Fortuner overturned and crashed into a wall on Chandigarh Road on Saturday night. Police said the deceased, Sanyam Arora, a resident of Kidwai Nagar, was returning home after meeting some friends in Kohara when the mishap took place.While the reason behind the crash has not been ascertained yet, police suspect Sanyam was shooting a video with his smartphone while driving, and hence, couldn’t keep an eye on the road. Inspector Davinder Sharma, station house officer, Focal Point police station, said the impact of the collision killed Sanyam on the spot and completely damaged the SUV. His father, Gagan Arora, a dairy owner, told the police that Sanyam had called them minutes before the mishap and said he will be reaching home soon. The family had recently bought the SUV that Sanyam was driving.The body was handed over to them after autopsy at the Civil Hospital on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/20yearold-dies-as-suv-overturns-hits-wall-in-ludhiana-101618163853665.html
11-04-2021||Other||Trio on bike shoots at petrol pump employee in Ludhiana, robs ₹40,000||Three armed men shot a 26-year-old petrol pump employee in the leg and robbed ₹40,000 in cash on Kohara-Sahnewal road on Sunday evening. According to police, the filling station belongs to the wife of assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Sandeep Wadhera. The injured employee, Sandeep Kumar, has been working at the filling station for the past three years. He was admitted to the ESIC Hospital, where his condition is stated to be stable. Sandeep’s brother Ravinder Kumar told the police that he also got a job at the filling station four months ago. On Sunday evening, they were at work when three men turned up there on a motorcycle to buy petrol. They suddenly brandished a gun and threatened Sandeep to hand over the cash bag to them. When he resisted, the accused shot him in the left leg and fled with the cash bag containing ₹40,000.Ravinder said when they chased the robbers, they again fired shots at them, but they escaped unhurt.After the incident, joint commissioner of police (JCP, Rural) Sachin Gupta, additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, Crime) Rupinder Kaur Bhatti and Focal Point police reached the spot.Bhatti said the accused fired at least five rounds and three shells were recovered from the spot. “The incident has been captured in the pump’s CCTV cameras. We have booked the accused and will nab them soon,” said inspector Davinder Sharma, station house officer (SHO), Focal Point police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/trio-on-bike-shoots-at-petrol-pump-employee-in-ludhiana-robs-40000-101618163673447.html
11-04-2021||Other||Nepalese help, 3 aides rob ₹6 lakh from MC superintendent’s house in Ludhiana||Hired just two weeks ago, a Nepalese domestic help, along with his three accomplices, held his employers captive, and robbed them of ₹6 lakh in cash and jewellery in Model Town on Saturday. Police said the complainant, Avinash Sharma, 45, is a superintendent at Municipal Corporation’s Zone-D office.She told the police that a Nepalese man, Mohan Kumar, was working for her for the past three months ago. However, as he had to visit his native village, he sent over Rajesh Kumar Dhami, also from Nepal, to fill in for him.On Saturday, Sharma said she, along with her husband, Pawan Sharma, and son Deepakar Sharma were home, while Dhami was in the kitchen.Suddenly, three Nepalese men, armed with sharpened screw drivers, barged into their house and restrained them.While two of the masked men started turning the house upside down for valuables, another kept an eye on them.She said Dhami never entered the scene, while the robbers fled with ₹6 lakh in cash, 100gm gold jewellery, two diamond bracelets and two diamond sets.“It was after they left that Dhami came over and pretended that the robbers had assaulted him and tied him up with ropes. Finding his claims suspicious, I confronted him, when he also fled from the house,” Avinash told the police.She said as per the CCTV footage, the robbers stayed inside the house for 15 minutes. Meanwhile, her gardener also turned up and rang the door bell. But the robbers did not allow her to answer the door and waited to escape till the gardener left.A team from the Model Town police station reached the house and initiated investigation.Assistant sub-inspector Pardeep Singh said they had registered a case under Sections 380 (theft in dwelling house), 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master), 454 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking in order to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. He said the accused were captured in the CCTV cameras installed in the house, and they were working to track them down.Easy escapeNotably, the police have no set protocol to verify the criminal record of Nepalese workers even if their employers approach them for police verification. Verification entails writing to the Nepal government through the Union home ministry, which is a tedious process.Besides, the Indian police simply cannot go to Nepal to arrest the accused in case they flee back by crossing the border, which often allows criminals to go scot free.Police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal had previously said domestic help from Nepal should be hired only with a strong reference. Employers should retain their workers’ Citizenship Card issued by the Nepal government and also click their photographs as soon as they join a new job.Employees on the prowlMarch 10: A Nepalese worker made off with ₹6 lakh from a hosiery factory after drugging the cashier and also stole his employer’s scooter in Sunder Nagar January 27: A Nepalese domestic help stole ₹11 lakh in cash and jewellery worth ₹18 lakh from his employer’s house. The employer had not gotten his police verification doneJanuary 2: Employed just five days ago, a domestic help decamped with ₹6 lakh in cash, and gold and diamond jewellery from the house of a hosiery unit owner in Bhai Randhir Singh Nagar. At the time of the incident, the owner was at his factory, while his family had gone outOctober 7, 2020: A Nepalese domestic help, along with his two accomplices, stole cash and jewellery from the house of a hosiery owner in Gurdev Nagar. An elderly woman, along with another servant, aged 11, and a security guard were present at home, while the other family members had gone out for dinner when the crime was executed. The accused had sedated the security guard and injured the childFebruary 12, 2020: An attempt by a domestic help and his three accomplices to drug a Model Town Extension family and rob them was foiled by alert neighbours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nepalese-help-3-aides-rob-6-lakh-from-mc-superintendent-s-house-in-ludhiana-101618163432958.html
11-04-2021||Dehradun||Nepal king Gyanendra reaches Haridwar to participate in Kumbh||Nepal's last King Gyanendra Veer Vikram Singh on Sunday arrived in Uttarakhand's Haridwar to participate in the ongoing Kumbh festivities in the holy city.Nepal's centuries-old monarchy was abolished in May 2008 by the parliament and replaced by a republic where the president was elected as the head of state.During his visit, King Gyanendra met Acharya Mahamandaleshwar Kailashanand Giri Maharaj of Niranjani Akhara at Dakshin Kali Temple and took his blessings.He will offer prayers in the Kali temple and will also take blessings after visiting the seers.King Gyanendra has arrived in Haridwar for the first time on the occasion of Kumbh.Uttarakhand Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat welcomed the arrival of King Gyanendra Veer Vikram Singh, according to Uttarakhand Chief Minister's Office (CMO).In a message, CM said, "Welcome to Devbhoomi Uttarakhand and Haridwar Kumbh. You are blessed by the saints and the Ganges. Take the holy benefit of Aquarius by taking bath."As a representative of CM Rawat, Director General of Information and Public Relations Department, Ranvir Singh Chauhan went to Haridwar and welcomed Gyanendra Veer Vikram Singh by offering flowers on behalf of the Chief Minister, The King thanked the Chief Minister for the gesture.King Gyanendra is scheduled to join the royal procession of Niranjani Akhara tomorrow to take a bath in the Ganges and take the blessings of the saints."I would like to thank Acharya ji for inviting me here today, and I feel that this holy land is a peaceful place. And the relation between India and Nepal will grow stronger," King Gyanendra told ANI."I pray for the well-being of people at the time of the Covid-19 pandemic," he added.This year the Kumbh will be held from April 1 to 30 in Haridwar.In normal circumstances, Kumbh continues for nearly four months but this year due to the Covid-19 pandemic, the duration of the congregation has been curtailed to one month.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/nepal-king-gyanendra-reaches-haridwar-to-participate-in-kumbh-101618161873174.html
11-04-2021||Other||Sikh Jatha to leave for Pakistan to celebrate Baisakhi today||A Sikh jatha comprising 437 pilgrims under the Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and members from other Sikh bodies will leave for Pakistan on Monday to celebrate Baisakhi. The festival is also marked as the Khalsa Foundation Day among Sikhs. In February, the Union home affairs ministry had refused permission to a Sikh jatha to go to Pakistan to attend the centenary event of Nankana Sahib massacre. “The Sikh community was angry over the denial of permission to pilgrims in February, but this time our preparations are complete,” said Kulwinder Singh Ramdas, spokesperson, SGPC. The apex gurdwara body is sending the largest group of pilgrims to Pakistan. Members of the jatha had to submit a negative report of covid-19, which has been made mandatory for crossing the international border. The health department deputed its teams at the SGPC head office to conduct covid tests. Ten pilgrims tested positive and could not be part of the jatha.During the 10-day tour that will end on April 22, the jatha will be part of the celebrations of Baisakhi at Gurdwara Panja Sahib and Hasan Abdal in Pakistan, They will visit Sikhism founder Guru Nanak’s birth place Nankana Sahib, Gurdwara Sacha Sauda and Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib etc.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sikh-jatha-to-leave-for-pakistan-to-celebrate-baisakhi-today-101618162412997.html
11-04-2021||Gurugram||To improve connectivity, GMDA to start more buses from Gurugram to Delhi||With an aim to improve the bus connectivity with the national capital, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will start more buses from the city to Delhi this year, according to the officials on Sunday.Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA, said that the Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited (GMCBL) is yet to decide the exact number of buses to be allotted for the same. “The matter regarding the new bus services to Delhi was discussed during the eighth authority meeting of the GMDA on Friday. The connectivity between the national capital and Gurugram needs to be improved. The GMCBL is yet to decide the exact number of buses that will ply between the two cities, but the bus service will be increased in the current financial year,” Rajpal said.As of now, the GMCBL has over 160 buses available on 29 routes in Gurugram, Faridabad and other nearby cities. The city bus service also has one bus route from Gurugram to Delhi’s Karol Bagh.Commenting on the new bus services in Faridabad, Rajpal said that four routes have been identified, but two routes have some operational issues as there is no U-turn point at Badarpur border, which falls in the jurisdiction of Faridabad. There is an extra toll charge due to the absence of a U-turn. The authorities, in consultation with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) and the toll authorities, are trying to solve the matter. The GMCBL, the NHAI and the GMDA had organised a meeting on this in February.With its focus on increasing public transportation services, the GMCBL had introduced four new routes in Faridabad on February 28. It had also introduced Route 902, which follows the route from NIT bus stand to Bata metro station and back to NIT bus stand (Mudrika) via Hardware Chowk, Bata Metro Station, Dabua Colony, Hanuman Mandir, KL Mehta College on February 22.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/to-improve-connectivity-gmda-to-start-more-buses-from-gurugram-to-delhi-101618162354769.html
11-04-2021||Gurugram||Trio booked for stealing bag containing ₹10 lakh from Palam Vihar club||Three persons were booked for stealing a bag containing ₹10 lakh from a club in Palam Vihar during a wedding function on Saturday, the police said on Sunday.The police said they identified suspects through CCTV camera footage and are making efforts to track them.“We are scanning the CCTV footage and are also quizzing the club staff in a bid to gather more information about the incident. We spotted a person in the footage who is shown picking up the bag (stuffed with cash) and meeting another person in the doorway. However, we still haven’t been able to find out how they escaped the club,” KK Rao, the commissioner of police.The complainant, Manoj Kumar Gupta, a resident of Palam Vihar, said that the intruders took advantage of the situation as all family members were busy with ceremonies. “My mother was sitting on a chair and the bag was kept near her chair. When we called her to bless the couple, she left the bag below her chair and went to the stage. She was shocked to find the bag missing when she returned,” he said.The incident took place around 10 pm, following which the family asked for the CCTV footage and reported it to the police around 10.30 pm. “We zeroed in on a man wearing a red T-shirt, who was seen walking out with the bag,” Gupta said.He said that they tried calling a phone that was kept in the bag, but calls went unanswered. “As the phone has the option of tracking, we followed it and found it near a farmhouse in Bijwasan, but the suspects had fled. The suspects could have been caught if we had not dialled the mobile phone that was kept in that bag,” he said.A CCTV footage of the road shows the suspect handing over the bag to another person who was in an Eeco van, said police.A case was registered at the Palam Vihar police station under Section 380 (theft in dwelling house) of the Indian Penal Code on Sunday morning.The family said that it was not clear how the police failed to ascertain the registration number of the car, as it had crossed the Delhi municipality’s Bijwasan toll that is equipped with high-density cameras.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/trio-booked-for-stealing-bag-containing-rs-10-lakh-from-palam-vihar-club-101618162354211.html
11-04-2021||Gurugram||Man makes extortion calls seeking ₹50 L from sweet shop owner, booked||Police booked an unidentified person on Sunday for allegedly making extortion calls to a Delhi resident, who owns a sweet shop in Chandu village on the outskirts of Gurugram, on April 4. The suspect, identified as Sagar, had demanded ₹50 lakh from the shop owner — Anil Chillar — as protection money.The suspect is “the brother of gangster Akku” from Sardana village.KK Rao, commissioner of police, said that Chillar, who lives in Dwarka, received the extortion calls around 4.30 pm on April 4. “The suspect called Chillar and asked him to share his WhatsApp number. When Chillar did not show any interest, Sagar gave him life threats. He also threatened that he would harm Chillar’s family members if he approached the police... The suspect had generated an international phone number through the Internet to make WhatsApp calls to Chillar... We are suspecting that gangster Kaushal, who has been lodged in Hisar jail for the past few months, is also involved in this case. He was booked in similar cases in the past,” Rao said, adding that police are trying to track the location of the phone number that was used to make the calls.During preliminary investigation, it was found that the number was not issued in India, Rao added.Police said that they received a complaint from Chillar on Saturday. Chillar alleged that he received two WhatsApp calls from an unknown caller, who introduced himself as the brother of gangster Akku, on Saturday. The first phone call was for 28 seconds. Chillar said that he was busy when he received the first call, and he thought someone was pulling a trick on him. But Sagar kept calling him. “The caller said that I’m making good money as my shop has been running well, and he would call me again to let me know where to deliver the ‘protection money’,” Chillar told the police.A case was registered under Indian Penal Code (IPC) sections 294 (obscene acts), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), and 506 (criminal intimidation) at the Rajendra Park police station. Police are also looking into the involvement of insiders and have questioned the staff of the sweet shop.Members affiliated with notorious gangster Kaushal had been involved in several past cases of extortion involving traders and businessmen, according to the police. Police had arrested the live-in partner and close aides of Kaushal in 2020, for their alleged involvement in extortion cases in Gurugram and Delhi-NCR. They received several complaints from traders and businessmen, who complained that Kaushal had been threatening them, and demanding protection money.According to the police, Kaushal used to receive the money collected by his gang members through hawala transactions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-makes-extortion-calls-seeking-50-l-from-sweet-shop-owner-booked-101618162352408.html
11-04-2021||Gurugram||Staff training for statewide wildlife census to start Monday||Officials of the Wildlife Institute of India (WII), Dehradun, will start training field staff in four forest circles on Monday, marking the start of Haryana’s first statewide wildlife census. The census will be conducted by the state forest department in collaboration with experts from WII.As per current plans, 59 beats in the Shivalik forests and 38 beats in the Aravalli forests will be surveyed.ML Rajvanshi, the chief conservator of forests for wildlife in the state, said, “We will start training forest staff in four forests circles; Panchkula, Hisar, Rohtak and Gurugram, for sign surveys, distance sampling and using of an online mobile application that will be used for the census. This is the first time that a statewide wildlife census survey is being conducted both inside and outside the protected areas, the results of which will help us in forming better strategies to manage man-animal conflict in the state.”The forest department officials are aiming to assess the abundance and distribution of major mammalian carnivore population and prey population inside the protected areas. The census will also focus on assessing the abundance and distribution of nilgai and rhesus macaque in a human-dominated landscape outside the protected areas, which will help the forest department in making better strategies to manage man-animal conflict.The wildlife census will be conducted in three phases, starting with training, followed by sign and line transect surveys and finally, camera trapping. As part of the sign survey, forest staff look for signs like scat samples or pug marks to identify areas where a particular species is found. For line transect survey, forest staff visit particular areas and observe the presence and movement of different animals over a given period of time.Rajvanshi said that based on a line transect survey, a range of the number of animals (particularly simians and ungulates) found in the area is noted, which helps in estimating the population of the species.Bilal Habib, a senior scientist with the department of animal ecology and conservation biology, WII, said, “We will first be training the forest staff after which a beat level survey by the staff will be conducted, followed by a camera trapping exercise by the WII team. We have estimated to place around 100 camera traps across forest areas in Gurugram, Kalesar and Morni hills, as we already know that leopards are found in these areas, but if signs are found in other places based on the beat level survey, then those areas will also be camera trapped.”The census will also cover the status of the population of major avian species like peafowl, red junglefowl, and sarus crane in the state. Habib said that the presence of these three species indicate that the forests are in good and healthy condition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/staff-training-for-statewide-wildlife-census-to-start-monday-101618162294269.html
11-04-2021||Gurugram||100 shanties gutted in fire at Manesar||Over 100 shanties and structures storing scrap and plastic waste were gutted in a fire that broke out at a field in Naharpur Kasan, near Sector 6 of Manesar, on Sunday afternoon. No injuries were reported in the incident. Officials of the fire department said they were notified about the incident at 11.51 am, following which it took 11 fire tenders 90 minutes to douse the blaze. The fire broke out when a resident was cooking food on a gas stove and it quickly spread due to lack of boundaries between structures, said officials.IS Kashyap, assistant divisional fire safety officer (ADFSO) said that by the time the first batch of fire tenders reached the spot, all the shanties were gutted. “The shanties are located in a field, next to agriculture lands, with no buildings in close proximity. As it was an open space, the wind speed was relatively strong and along with sporadic bursting of LPG cylinders stored inside shanties, the blaze was aggravated further. Three fire tenders, two from IMT Manesar and one from Honda, had reached the location within 15 minutes after the call was received. However, by then, all 100-110 shanties were gutted,” said Kashyap.The IMT Manesar fire station, the closest fire station, is located seven kilometres from the spot, while the Kherki Daula toll is around nine kilometres from the spot. Kashyap said that the main occupation of the habitants of the shanties was primarily storing and selling scrap and plastic waste. He said that just before the arrival of the first batch of fire tenders, a team from Kherki Daula police station reached the spot and evacuated the locals.“The fire broke out when one shanty habitant was cooking lunch on a gas stove and it quickly spread to shanties nearby. Besides the fire tenders from IMT Manesar and one from Honda, two fire tenders each were sent from Sector 29 and Sector 37 fire stations, while one fire tender each was sent from the Udyog Vihar and Bhim Nagar fire stations as well,” said Kashyap.Kashyap said that it took the fire department officials around 90 minutes to douse the blaze and by 1.30 pm, all fire tenders left the spot. A similar fire also broke out in shanties located in Nathupur village on April 3. Over 180 structures were gutted and no injuries were reported in the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/100-shanties-gutted-in-fire-at-manesar-101618162293559.html
11-04-2021||Gurugram||Daily Covid-19 spike breaches 1,000 mark, positivity rate at 10.5%||As many as 1,084 new Covid-19 infections were recorded on Sunday, marking the first time the daily spike has breached the 1,000 mark this year, taking the total case tally to 70,141 in the district, according to the health department data.Officials of the health department said that they are monitoring the situation and taking steps to reduce the positive rate, which was 10.5% on Sunday, over double the 5% limit stated by the World Health Organisation (WHO) that indicates that the spread is under control.“We have identified areas where the cases are rising and we will increase antigen testing in these areas for surveillance. A majority of these are in gated communities, where a number of containment zones have already been notified. Our focus is to keep the positivity rate lower than 5% and more tests are being carried out to isolate the infected persons,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.Yadav also indicated that given the surge in infections, they will recommend increasing the micro-containment zones, which are at 61 at present. As per the health department data, more than half of these zones are located in upscale condominiums on Golf Course Extension Road, Sohna Road and Southern Peripheral Road.With the latest spike in daily infections, the number of active cases in the district reached 5,549. However, no Covid-related deaths were reported on Sunday, while 584 patients recovered on the day, taking the total recoveries to 64,223.“We will increase testing, vaccination and also constitute joint teams to enforce Covid-19 safeguards, such as wearing masks, social distancing and avoiding large gatherings,” said Yadav.The Haryana government on Saturday had announced the closure of schools till April 30 and directed the formation of joint teams for enforcement of safeguards.Till Sunday, 369 people died due to the Covid-19 infection in the district. Officials further said that of the 5,549 active cases, 5,165 patients were in home isolation. In the past 24 hours, the health department collected 4,055 samples for testing.The Haryana health department said that it had administered 113,917 Covid-19 vaccine doses on Sunday, with 2,469,233 doses administered across the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-covid-19-spike-breaches-1-000-mark-positivity-rate-at-105-101618162292397.html
11-04-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination drive starts at malls||The health department started vaccinating residents at shopping malls on Sunday, as part of its plan to expand the vaccine outreach on weekends by setting up session sites that witness heavy footfall, officials familiar with the matter said. Two session sites were set up by the health department, at the Ambience Mall on the Delhi-Gurgaon Expressway and City Mall on MG Road, on Sunday.Although the data on the number of people vaccinated at the malls was not available immediately, health department officials said they were equipped to provide 100 jabs, each.“On Sunday, two session sites were set up at two of these malls and by the next weekend, more malls and commercial complexes across the city will be covered. We are trying to take vaccination to the people as a large part of the working population is not able to visit hospitals on weekdays,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer.The department is also working out the modalities to start vaccinations and Covid-19 tests at Metro stations, said officials.Next weekend, the health department said that more such vaccination sites will be set up in malls on Sohna Road, Golf Course Road, MG Road and also in Old Gurugram. “The city health department has been constantly innovating in collaboration with district administration to expand the vaccination outreach. We are, perhaps, the first in the country to set up vaccination in malls, condominiums, offices and industrial units,” said Yadav.He also said that city had an adequate supply of Covid-19 vaccines and they were regularly restocking the supplies.On Sunday, 9,825 beneficiaries over 45 years of age were inoculated. Officials also said that today despite it being a Sunday, the department managed to vaccinate almost 10,000 people as part of the ‘tika utsav’, which commenced on Sunday. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said states should observe a ‘vaccine festival’ or ‘tika utsav’ between April 11-14 to inoculate the maximum number of eligible beneficiaries against Covid-19.The vaccinations were carried out at 115 session sites, of which 60 were at government facilities while the rest were at private hospitals. The total number of people vaccinated in the city stands at 251,000, said health officials, adding that they expect to cover at least 30,000 more beneficiaries in the next two days.Overall, the state administered 113,917 vaccine doses to beneficiaries, as part of the ‘tika utsav’. Additional chief secretary, health, Rajeev Arora said that a total of 2,469,233 vaccine doses have been administered in the state so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-drive-starts-at-malls-101618162292971.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||J&K records 915 Covid cases||Jammu and Kashmir recorded 915 infections on Sunday, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1,38,390, health officials said. Over the last five days, J&K has been recording around 800 cases, the highest daily count in six months. The UT also recorded five fresh fatalities, all of them in Kashmir, taking the death toll to 2,034. Of the new cases, 627 were from Kashmir division and 288 were from Jammu. J&K had an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020.Officials said with 362 cases, Srinagar has the highest number of new infections, followed by 192 in Jammu, 111 in Baramulla, 48 in Reasi and 38 in Kupwara. Six out of 20 districts reported single-digit cases while no case was reported in Kishtwar. The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily since March, reached 7,335, officials said. Since February 9, when active cases were at the lowest at 593, the UT has added 6,742 active cases in two months. As many as 1, 29,021 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 93.23 % from the highest of around 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.50 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union territory so far. In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths. The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jkrecords-915-covid-cases-101618162112927.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Visitors from 7 states will need Covid -ve report to enter Himachal after April 16||A reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) negative report will be mandatory for those visiting Himachal Pradesh from seven high-caseload states after April 16, said chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday. Those visiting the hill-state from Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh must furnish a Covid negative report not older than 72 hours. “Tourists have not been banned from visiting the state. However, hotel owners and tourists must strictly adhere to standard operating procedures (SoPs),” said the CM. Thakur, who was presiding over a meeting of state officials to review the situation due to a sharp spike in virus cases, emphasising on testing, tracing and treatment with effective surveillance of micro-containment zones. He also directed officials to increase the pace of testing and achieve the target of 70% RT-PCR tests.He said the state health department must also take steps to increase bed capacity in order to meet any eventuality. “The virus is spreading rapidly, which is a major concern,” he said. In the last 45 days, the state has reported over 10,690 new cases and 120 deaths.Can visit temples but no jagrans, bhandarasThakur said devotees can visit temples during Navratri. However, organising ‘langars’, ‘bhandaras’ and ‘jagran’ had been banned. Pilgrims must adhere to social distancing norms and use face masks. The CM said no overcrowding would be allowed in buses and other public transport and private vehicles. Wearing of face masks even in the vehicles must be strictly enforced and action must be taken against those who flout guidelines. He said people’s negligence had resulted in a sharp resurgence in Covid cases across the state. Himachal records 570 virus cases
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||After shawls, Kullu’s woollen sarees steal the limelight||Around 78 years after Hindi film actress Devika Rani commissioned the first Kullu shawls and catapulted them to fame, designer woollen sarees from the Himalayan valley have stolen the limelight and given the artisans another means to eke out a living amid the pandemic. Kullu shawls play a significant role in shoring the economy of the valley. It is estimated that around 30,000 people work part-time and about 15,000 people earn their livelihood by working full-time on weaving the distinctive shawls. Almost every household in Kullu has a handloomIn 1942, when Devika Rani, the daughter-in-law of celebrated Russian painter Nicholas Roerich, came to Kullu, she took an active interest in the looms and it was at her request that Sheru Ram of Banontar village fashioned the earliest urban-sized shawl. Inspired by Sheru Ram, Urvi Dhar started manufacturing the shawls commercially.Providing a fillip to the economyHowever, now hoping to give a fillip to the economy, a young Dehradhun-based textile designer Deshna Mamgain, 27, has collaborated with local weavers of Bodh Shawls to produce a unique range of woollen designer sarees.“I came across Kullu’s beautiful craft and cultural heritage when I was assigned a project on the Kullu shawl. I initiated a market survey in January and got a first-hand account of the difficulties being faced craftsmen. They were facing a stiff competition from cheap imitation woollen shawls being produced in Panipat, which were also being branded as Kullu shawls,” she said.This year, the ministry of textiles had sanctioned a project for training and skill development of the local artisans in Kullu’s Shamshi village, as a part of which Deshna had worked on new designs and the manufacturing of sarees. Around 30 women were trained in weaving shawls. Designs capture essence of Himachal“I realised that a lot of work has already been done on the Kullu shawls, which are famous all over the world for their designs. Therefore, I came up with the idea of the saree that has been a part of the Indian wardrobe for ages. These sarees are unlikely to go out of vogue. I have used auspicious colours and patterns for the saree. My designs have the essence of Himachal. The patterns are inspired from the local fauna and flora, including pine trees, bodhi flower, sheep, deer and rhododendron flowers,” says Deshna, adding that the iconic Kullu patti can be seen on the saree border. The exquisite pieces that span 5.5m and come with a blouse piece start at ₹4,000. “The weaving is so fine and soft that they can easily be worn by any age group. A wide variety of designs and patterns are available,” says Chime Angmo, general manager, industries department, Kullu.“ There is high demand for woolen sarees in winter across India and the new designs will boost the local economy,” she said.The government is likely to encourage the other shawl weavers to manufacture Kullu sarees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/after-shawls-kullu-s-woollen-sarees-steal-the-limelight-101618160793883.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||3-tier surveillance in Kangra to curb virus spread||Amid a spike in coronavirus cases in Kangra, the district administration has initiated a three-tier comprehensive monitoring and surveillance system to contain the virus and improve the pace of testing, tracing and isolating patients and their contacts.Kangra one of the worst-hit districts in the state and has recorded over 1,100 infections in 10 days along with 21 deaths. Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said, “A sudden spike in cases has been reported in the district with around 100 cases being detected daily.”Under the first level, the district surveillance officer will share data pertaining to Covid patients with the district disaster management authority on a daily basis, which the integrated district Covid control room will segregate according to sub-division and share it with the concerned sub-divisional Covid control room, sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) and other authorities.Any violation of home isolation will also be shared through the same process.In the second level, all SDMs will establish an integrated Covid control room comprising personnel from revenue, police, block development office and block medical office. They can requisite human resources from any department, as needed.The sub-divisional Covid control room on receiving details of patients from district authorities will ensure the contact tracing of the patients with the help of police personnel on the same day. The details of patients and their primary contacts will be shared with the panchayati raj institutions (PRIs), urban local bodies (ULBs), Asha workers, block development officers and block medical officers who will ensure home isolation of patients and their primary contacts.The sub-divisional Covid control room will make calls to patients thrice a day to enquire after their health and in case of a medical emergency will bring it to the notice of health department for further assistance.The sub-divisional control rooms will also maintain the daily data of Covid positive patients, primary contacts and their home isolation, distribution of essential medicines, shifting of patients to treatment facility, recovered patients and death reported.At level three, panchayat, ULB representatives, secretaries and Asha workers will surveillance and in case of violation report the matter to the concerned control room, sector officer and sub divisional magistrate.In case, a home isolated person is in urgent need of medicines or utilities they may inform the sector officers directly or through the PRI, ULB member, or Asha worker concerned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3tier-surveillance-in-kangra-to-curb-virus-spread-101618160313870.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra lockdown likely after April 14, says health minister Rajesh Tope||Maharashtra may impose a complete lockdown from April 14 across the state, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday after chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with senior officials to discuss the guidelines for the restrictions. Majority of the health experts, who attended the state Covid-19 task force meeting, were of the view that the state needs to impose lockdown for at least 14 days.“The duration of the lockdown and how to handle its economic fallout was discussed during today's meeting. The task force is of the view that the prevailing coronavirus situation in the state is such that a lockdown is required," Rajesh Tope said according to news agency PTI. Tope also said that setting up of an oxygen generation plant in the state was also discussed during the task force meeting.Also read | Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategy"CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray in a meeting with the State Task Force discussed the availability of oxygen & beds, use of Remdesivir, treatment protocols, increase in capacity of facilities, imposition of restrictions & fines for violating COVID protocols,” the chief minister's office (CMO) said in a tweet.CM Uddhav Balasaheb Thackeray in a meeting with the State Task Force discussed the availability of oxygen & beds, use of Remdesivir, treatment protocols, increase in capacity of facilities, imposition of restrictions & fines for violating COVID protocols.Maharashtra’s medical education minister Amit Deshmukh, state’s chief secretary Sitaram Kunte and others also took part in the meeting. Thackeray is scheduled to hold another meeting with the finance and other departments on Monday and he will also discuss the lockdown in the cabinet meeting scheduled later this week.On Saturday, Uddhav Thackeray indicated that a strict lockdown will be clamped in Maharashtra amid the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases during an all-party meeting to discuss the pandemic situation in the state. The government has already announced a slew of restrictions, including a weekend lockdown, night curfew and prohibitory orders for the day time across the state. These restrictions will continue till April 30.Before Tope, minister Aslam Sheikh said all stakeholders agree there is a need to impose a lockdown in the state. “In today's meeting with the state Covid-19 task force, everyone was of the view to impose lockdown in the state. SOPs and guidelines for it will be discussed,” Aslam Sheikh was quoted by news agency ANI as saying.On Sunday, Maharashtra reported 63,294 new Covid-19 cases, in the highest spike since the pandemic began last year, taking the tally to 3,407,245. The state’s death toll has gone up by 349 to 57,987. Maharashtra is among the five states which cumulatively account for 70.82 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases, which breached the 1.1 million mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic last year, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. The health ministry said that Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57 per cent of the country’s total active caseload.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-lockdown-likely-after-april-14-says-health-minister-rajesh-tope-101618157567673.html
11-04-2021||Pune||DoD agrees to give land along old Pune-Mumbai highway to PMC, MahaMetro||The Pune district administration’s proposal to hand over a piece of land in the Yerawada area to the department of defence (DoD) and in return acquire the defence land near Khadki along the old Mumbai Pune highway for the Maha-Metro and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) project has received an approval from the department of defence. If the deal is carried out successfully, the pending issue of the road widening of the old Mumbai-Pune highway will be resolved. After a final approval from the state government, the Pune Metro will start work on the 800 meters stretch between All Saints high school junction to Kadhki Railway Gate No.20. On the stretch of the highway in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limit from the Khadki railway gate to All Saints high school junction of Pune Metro, the work had hit a roadblock due to the lack of road width. PMC highlighted serious traffic problems if Pune Metro construct pillars at the centre of the highway. The Maha-Metro was trying to resolve the issue at a higher level. Pune divisional commissioner, Pune district collector were discussing with the department of defence and the estate department to find a solution. Finally, the Pune district collectorate proposed to offer an equal value of land that was accepted by the department. Dr. Jayashree Katare, resident Pune district collector said, “The defence has shown a positive response to hand over the land to the MahaMetro and PMC near Khadki area for road widening. A piece of land will be handed over to defence in return which they have already possessed for their work. There are few lands which defence has already used for their purposes, but they will choose one of them which will be handed over.” Hemant Sonawane, general manager of Maha-Metro said, “Defence has demanded equivalent land located in Yerawada area in exchange of land required for Metro work and road widening along the old Pune-Mumbai highway near Khadki railway station. Pune Divisional Commissioner has sent a proposal to give equal value land to defence.” He further said, “Defence has a piece of state government land on lease in Yerawada which they want. If the state approves, MahaMetro will get the land near Khadki area.” Deal to save PMC’s ₹127 crore According to PMC road department officials, “The PMC was pursuing defence land for road widening of old Mumbai-Pune highway to complete the stretch of the Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) from Harris bridge to the Patil Estate area. The PCMC has already completed BRTs roué in their jurisdiction up to Harris bridge, due to the lack of road widening, it is in an incomplete stage.” “Now, the Pune divisional commissioner has agreed to give an equal value of land of 10.76 acre to the d3efence which the PMC and Metro will use for their project work. It costs ₹127 crore as per government valuation, it means there is no need to give ₹127 crore to defence,” he added. Lalit Bode, PMC executive Engineer of road department said, “The issue of land will be solved soon and PMC will be able to complete the BRTS stretch. After completing BRTS on old Mumbai Pune highway, commuters will travel past from PCMC to PMC BRTS corridor up to COEP fly over without any hurdle.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dod-agrees-to-give-land-along-old-pune-mumbai-highway-to-pmc-mahametro-101618158152259.html
11-04-2021||Kolkata||Behave, or face more Sitalkuchi-like killings: Dilip Ghosh's warning in Bengal||West Bengal BJP chief Dilip Ghosh on Sunday courted fresh controversy by saying that more Cooch Behar-like killings may happen in the next phase of assembly elections if "naughty boys like the ones who died in Sitalkuchi" try to take the law into their hands.Strongly reacting to the BJP leader's statement, TMC demanded his arrest while the CPI(M) said the comment "unmasks the saffron party's fascist face"."Naughty boys received bullets at Sitalkuchi. If anyone dares to take the law into his hands, this will happen to him also," Ghosh said without elaborating on the phrase 'naughty boys'."The naughty boys, who had presumed that the rifles of the central forces were just for a show during election duty, will not dare repeat the same mistake after seeing what happened in Sitalkuchi," he said, while addressing an election rally at Baranagar in North 24 Parganas district.Watch me live from Pragati Maidan, Baranagar:https://t.co/IeUUOUknAZFour persons died as CISF personnel opened fire after some people "attempted to snatch their rifles" while voting was underway in Sitalkuchi assembly constituency area in the fourth phase on Saturday."On April 17 (date of fifth phase of polling) as well, the central forces will be at the booths. Sitalkuchi-like incidents may happen if people try to take the law into their hands," he said.His comment triggered protest with TMC demanding his immediate arrest."We demand his immediate arrest for making such an inflammatory statement which will encourage trigger happy forces and threaten the safety of voters," TMC MP Sukhendu Sekhar Roy told reporters.Left Front leader Sujan Chakraborty, also the CPI(M) candidate in the Jadavpur seat, said, "Dilip Ghosh is making irresponsible statements. His comment unmasks the fascist face of the BJP."Ghosh had earlier made several controversial statements, triggering political storms and public outrage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/behave-or-face-more-sitalkuchi-like-killings-dilip-ghosh-s-warning-in-bengal-101618157128752.html
11-04-2021||Ranchi||Ranchi: Cremation machines develop snag due to ‘overburden’||Over a dozen Covid-19 infected bodies were in line for cremation at Muktidham in Ranchi’s Harmu area after two gas-based cremation machines developed technical snag due to “overburden” on Sunday, officials said.Acting fast, the district administration directed Ranchi Municipal Corporation (RMC) that manages the crematorium to rectify the snag at the earliest. RMC chief executive officer Mukesh Kumar said, “Our technical team is working on its rectification. The machines, that were earlier running uninterrupted, developed snag due to pressure.”The crematorium was being used to dispose of infected bodies while following Covid-19 protocol. According to officials, the crematorium was overburdened due to increasing Covid casualties.RMC was also arranging an alternative to dispose of the bodies through a conventional method. “A team has been deputed to clean and make arrangements of lightning at alternative cremation ground to clear the pendency. Since pressure is rising, we cannot rely on the machines only,” he said. Ranchi recorded 36 deaths due to Covid-19 between April 1 and 10, while 5,841 cases were detected during this period. The district saw five deaths on Saturday alone. Meanwhile, the Ranchi administration, in association with Railway authorities, set up a special Covid-19 testing camp for passengers coming from Mumbai in Lokmanya Tilak-Ranchi superfast special train, which arrived at Ranchi railway station on Sunday afternoon. However, to officials’ surprise, only 32 passengers alighted from the train against the 180 passengers, mostly migrant workers, who were scheduled to arrive.On the other hand, the passengers claimed that all seats in the train were occupied when it started from Mumbai. Majority of the passengers alighted at Gomoh and Bokaro stations to avoid Covid test at Ranchi station, they claimed.Chief public relation officer (CPRO), Ranchi rail division, Neeraj Kumar said, “As many 32 passengers arrived at Ranchi station from the train. Covid testing centre has been set up on the platform and all the passengers underwent the test.”When contacted, officials in Ranchi rail division said the train did not stop anywhere after it departed from Bokaro.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/ranchi-cremation-machines-develop-snag-due-to-overburden-101618157852180.html
11-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand: Over 2 million beneficiaries inoculated||The state on Sunday achieved the feat of inoculating over two million people with the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine, a milestone achieved 85 days after the nationwide launch of the mass vaccination programme, according to the state health department’s bulletin.While the state took 67 days to inoculate cross the 1 million-mark, it completed the task of immunizing another one million citizens in just 18 days.On Sunday, as many as 80,517 people took the first jab taking the tally of total number of beneficiaries to 2.06 million (2,069,446), according to bulletin released on April 11.However, health minister Banna Gupta, slammed the central government on social media for not extending adequate help to states. Taking to Twitter on Sunday, Gupta said, “People are dying; hospitals are facing paucity of beds. Vaccines are not being provided to states. Centre is not extending any help. How celebration (vaccine festival to be observed between April 11-14 as called by Prime Minister Narendra Modi) can be observed amid deaths and mourning. Stop playing politics over deaths. Modi Ji, stop finding opportunities amid crisis.”The minister also talked to his Union counterpart Dr Harshvardhan over phone, requesting to make available to the state some vital medicines needed for treatment of Covid-19 patients.Gupta informed the Union health minister that Jharkhand was facing acute shortage of medicines such as Tocilizumab injection, Remdesivir and other drugs urgently needed for treatment of Covid-19 patients. He also informed the central minister about shortage of vaccine in the state.Since the beginning of nationwide mass vaccination drive on January 16 till February 26, the state has vaccinated as many as 304,194 beneficiaries, that comprise only health care workers and frontline workers.However, the second phase of the vaccination drive was launched on March 1 under which certain other priority groups were included for inoculation.From April 1, the Centre allowed vaccination of people above 45 years of age.The state has so far inoculated 193,642 health care workers and 237,410 frontline workers and 1,638,394 citizens aged above 45 years. As many as 300,492 beneficiaries have also taken the second dose.The state on Sunday sent 5,901 untested samples, piled up in different state laboratories, to Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Bhubaneswar for Real Time Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) test.The state was currently reeling under huge backlog of untested samples.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-over-2-million-beneficiaries-inoculated-101618157792119.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Mumbai reports surge in daily Covid-19 cases with 9,989 fresh infections||Mumbai on Sunday reported 9989 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) taking the tally in the financial hub to 520,214, according to data shared by the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC). With 58 fatalities in Mumbai, the city’s death toll has risen to 12,017, the civic body data also showed. Mumbai witnessed a rise of 659 Covid-19 cases after 9,330 infections on Saturday. The city currently has 92,464 cases of Covid-19—a rise of 2757 infections compared to the 89,707 active cases reported on Saturday.The rate of recovery remained at 79% as 8554 people recovered from the disease taking the tally of recovered people to 414,641. Mumbai also increased its number of tests conducted over the last 24 hours as 52,159 people were tested as compared to 48,749 tests conducted on Saturday. The doubling rate of Covid-19 has risen to 35 days.Mumbai is among the 10 districts along with Pune, Thane, Nagpur, Bengaluru Urban, Nashik, Delhi, Raipur, Durg and Aurangabad which account for 45.65 per cent of the total active cases in the country. Mumbai added nearly 100,000 fresh cases within the last 12 days. The city is currently under a weekend lockdown imposed by the government in a bid to check Covid-19 cases.The Maharashtra government will take an appropriate decision regarding imposing a lockdown in the state after April 14, health minister Rajesh Tope said on Sunday. He said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold another round of meetings with stakeholders to decide the standard operating procedures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mumbai-reports-surge-in-daily-covid-19-cases-with-9-989-fresh-infections-101618157429630.html
11-04-2021||Patna||Patna University likely to postpone exams as V-C, two professors test +ve||Panic gripped Patna University (PU) premises after vice-chancellor Girish Kumar Chaudhary tested Covid-19 positive on Saturday.Besides, two professors of Magadh Mahila College and one of Patna Science College have also been tested Covid-19 positive. Following the incident, students seemed worried over their coming exams and health safety of hostel students.Nishant Kumar, vice president of Patna University Students’ Union, raised concern on students’ well-being amid rapidly rising Covid-19 cases.He said, “We demand Covid-19 test of all such students and staff who came in close contact of the V-C in past three days. The varsity administration should identify such people and conduct Covid-19 test at the earliest, else they will spread the virus. Besides, we also demand exam postponement considering health safety of students.”PU has scheduled final exam of third-year students from April 27. Officials shared that they have heightened Covid-19 preventative measures to curb the transmission of virus.PU’s registrar Col Manoj Mishra said, “We have asked those staff who have shown mild symptoms to go for Covid-19 test. We are coordinating with the district administration for conducting test of all staff. We have thoroughly sanitised the university campus. Security personnel are vigil to ensure all entrants wear face mask and maintain social distancing.”“As a part of Covid-19 protocol, we have already restricted entry of general visitors. Working hours for professors and staff will be curtailed”, he added.PU has already instructed its students to fill exam forms through online mode rather physically visiting the college campuses.When asked about decision on final exam, Mishra said, “We are considering to postpone the final exam of third year students by a week or 10 days. However, the decision has not been finalised yet.”Recently, 22 students of Indian Institute of Technology, Patna (IIT-P) also tested Covid-19 positive.Meanwhile, Patliputra University and Nalanda Open University has also restricted entry of students and guardians for routine work till April 18 in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/patna-university-likely-to-postpone-exams-as-v-c-two-professors-test-ve-101618157732189.html
11-04-2021||Patna||Bihar awaits new action plan on climate change||The state government may have allocated huge amount for ‘Jal Jivan Haryali’ scheme, however, it is going too slow to frame a comprehensive action plan to deal with the issues of climate change and its devastating impact on natural resources. Chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar, during the conclave of eastern zone states on climate change, had in 2018 termed the issue crucial for Bihar particularly in view of continued decline in rains and asked the department of forest and environment to get a climate action plan in place so that emission of greenhouse gases could be curtailed significantly. He had also favoured setting up of a fully equipped climate change cell in the department. Although a separate cell to deal with climate change issues was set up within the forest and environment department in 2019, its technical wing (a unit of the cell that comprises technical staff, analysts and researchers) is yet to be constituted for want of recruitment of suitable candidates. Climate cell wing head Santosh Tiwari said that recruitment process was hampered due to outbreak of Covid-19 pandemic. Moved by the CM’s resolve, the department of forest and environment, which got added with climate change mandate on the Centre’s direction in the light of Paris declaration at the United Nations conference of climate change in 2015, teamed up with the United Kingdom government agency, Department for International Development (DFID), and prepared the five-year action plan for climate change (2020-25). The DFID had submitted the draft action plan by 2019-end to the state government, suggesting various strategies, including plans to strengthen agricultural value chain to ensure handsome return to farmers of their produce, de-siltation strategy of Kosi to enhance water retention capacity, development of agriculture-based industries, productive use of rivers’ silt, promotion of bamboo farming, etc, to help people tide over the climate challenges. But the same was not approved by the government and was later withdrawn. Principal secretary of the department of forest, environment and climate change Dipak Kumar Singh said the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) had been tasked to prepare the action plan on climate change. “We hope to get the action plan by the year-end,” said Singh. The proposed plan aims to make Bihar carbon neutral state by 2040,” said an official. Climate expert Abhishek Pratap said the state government lacked institutional framework to implement the action plan and empower its machinery to act diligently. “Framing of policies or plans will not help until followed up with action.” “The state might not be grappling with climate crisis had it been woken to the issues of conservation of environment earlier,” said Pratap.BOXProgress so farDFID submitted draft action plan on climate change to state government in 2019State forest and climate change department set up special wing on climate change in 2019Bihar govt signed pact with UNEP for climate resilience and carbon check strategy in 2021Proposed action plan, being framed by UNEP, will aim to make Bihar carbon neutral by 2040.Kosi de-silting, strengthening of agri value chain, proposed by earlier plan, remain non-starter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-awaits-new-action-plan-on-climate-change-101618157672226.html
11-04-2021||Other||SHO lynching case: Seven cops axed for dereliction of duty||Inspector general of Police (IG), Purnia range, Suresh Choudhary on Saturday evening suspended seven policemen, including a circle inspector, on the recommendation of Kishanganj superintendent of police (SP) Ashish Bharti, on charges of dereliction of duty.The seven policemen allegedly left station house officer (SHO) Ashwani Kumar alone on-site when a mob attacked them during a raid in West Bengal’s Pantpada, killing the SHO on the spot.The suspended policemen have been identified as Raju Sahni, Akhileshwar Tiwari, Pramod Kumar Paswan, Ujjawal Paswan, Sunil Choudhary, Sushil Kumar along with circle inspector Manish Kumar. SP said that departmental action will be initiated against them. Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish said that the Bengal police has registered a case under Sections 147, 148, 149 (all three related to rioting and mob lynching), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty) and 302 (murder) of the IPC at Golpokhar police station. Kishanganj police have also lodged a case under Section 394 (person voluntarily causing hurt in committing robbery) of the IPC. The SP said that so far, seven persons including main accused Firoz Alam, have been arrested and raids are still being carried out to arrest the rest of the accused.Given the spurt in bike theft incidents, Kishanganj SP had directed the police officers of all police stations of the district to carry out extensive raids to arrest the gang members.SHO Ashwani Kumar of1994 batch was a resident of Jankinagar in Purnia. He was survived by his wife Meenu Sneh Lata and three children.Meanwhile, unable to bear the pain of loss, mother of the SHO passed away on Sunday morning.Bodies of both the SHO and his mother were consigned to flames in their native village at Panchu Mandal Tola with full state honours in presence of senior police, administrative officers and hundreds of people on Sunday afternoon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sho-lynching-case-seven-cops-axed-for-dereliction-of-duty-101618157612146.html
11-04-2021||Patna||PMCH issues death certificate to alive Covid patient||Authorities of the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) earned an egg on their faces on Sunday after they issued death certificate of an alive Covid-19 patient and even handed over a body to the relatives, who discovered at the crematorium that it was a case of mistaken identity. PMCH superintendent Dr IS Thakur has terminated the services of a health manager, who was supposed to identify the body with the relatives before handing it over to them. “I have issued a show-cause notice to the nodal officer and ordered an inquiry into the episode to find out those responsible for the lapse. I will take stern action against doctors and any other health care worker found responsible for the act,” said Dr Thakur. The PMCH had issued death certificate of Chunnu Kumar, 40, a resident of Barh, who is recuperating from a fracture and has contracted coronavirus. Kumar, who was in the IJ ward, an ICU for Covid-19 patients, was shifted to the adjacent AB ward to make way for a critical Covid-19 patient, Raj Kumar Bhagat, 45, from Purnia, admitted to the hospital in the wee hours of Sunday. Bhagat did not survive long. Though the patients were swapped in the midnight, the authorities, however, forgot to make the necessary changes in their medical records. So, when Bhagat died Sunday morning, the hospital authorities took him for Kumar and called his relatives and handed over Bhagat’s body to them. Such is the scare of Covid-19 that the relatives did not identify the body before receiving it at the hospital, but detected it only at the crematorium. Soon thereafter, they disowned the body and reported the matter to the hospital authorities, much to their embarrassment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/pmch-issues-death-certificate-to-alive-covid-patient-101618157492134.html
11-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: No dearth of trains, seats for rail passengers, says GM NCR||Amidst the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country and reports of migrant workers once again making a beeline to return homes, general manager of North Central Railway (NCR) and North Eastern Railway (NER) Vinay Kumar Tripathi has made plain that there is no crisis of availability of seats in trains and there are 82 pairs of originating and terminating trains over NCR which include 49 reserved and 33 unreserved trains. “Apart from these, there are also 272 pairs of passing through trains with a scheduled stoppage over different stations of NCR. Adequate services are available between Mumbai and stations of NCR in form of originating trains like 01103/04 and 02199/200 Jhansi-BDTS Tri-weekly, 02293/02294 Prayagraj-LTT Duranto express Bi-Weekly, 02129/02130 Prayagraj- LTT Bi-Weekly, 04151/04152 Kanpur-CSTM weekly holiday special, 02243/02244 Kanpur-BDTS Weekly Express and 02161/62 Agra Cantonment-LTT weekly Express,” he said during a virtual interaction with media persons. The interaction was regarding railway arrangements convened to counter rumours being spread about the lack of seat availability in different trains. The GM said that in addition to these trains, 25 pairs of passing trains connecting the Mumbai region are also serving the NCR region. Sharing Covid-related additional arrangements made by NCR, Tripathi said that all major stations were equipped with facilities like auto-scanner, social distancing arrangements etc. Necessary thermal checking etc as prescribed by the state government is being done at stations. Innovations like contactless ticket checking arrangements, Baggage sanitization, Covid-19 kit sale point, kiosk etc have also been provided at all major stations of NCR, he added. The GM also urged passengers to follow the necessary Covid-19 protocol while travelling in trains and support the railwaymen in performing their duties. He said that there was no dearth of services to passengers and for any authentic information related to rail journey, reservation, availability etc. Passengers can connect through the All India Helpline No-139 or Rail Madad website for all information, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-no-dearth-of-trains-seats-for-rail-passengers-says-gm-ncr-101618157372119.html
11-04-2021||Lucknow||Committee to formulate work plan for development of ‘Poorvanchal’||A sub-committee of the state cabinet led by minister for finance Suresh Khanna has been constituted to formulate a work plan in next three months for all round development of ‘Poorvanchal’, considered to be one of the most backward regions of UP. The panel is scheduled to hold its first meeting here on April 12, 2021. “A formal order to set up the cabinet sub-committee has been issued early this month following the cabinet’s decision in this regard. We have scheduled the first meeting of the committee for April 12 and hope to have its recommendations along with the work plan in three months,” said a senior officer. As UP will go into election mode for 2022 assembly polls in the next few months, the state government will obviously like to ensure that necessary groundwork is done for the implementation of the recommendations of the committee and the work plan before the polls. The state government proposes to bring about considerable improvement, mainly on the mother and child care front and in quality of education by achieving 100% literacy rate in the region. The committee is likely to work on setting up women self help groups (SHGs) and involve them in the region’s development along with ensuring training and development of skills of the youth. The committee has also been tasked with bringing about improvement in per capita income of people from agriculture and agriculture produce. A five-term MP from Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat chief minister Yogi Adityanath has been holding discussions at various levels to bring about development in the eastern region of UP. In this regard, the state government had asked the Gorakhpur University and the state planning department to hold a webinar in the region. The Deen Dayal Upadhyay Gorakhpur University, Gorakhpur and state planning department jointly organised the webinar in Gorakhpur from December 10 to 12, 2020. Speaking at the inauguration session of the webinar, Yogi had said that east UP region remained in neglect over the years. He said the ‘poorvanchal’ region had all the natural resources needed for development and a committee should be constituted to formulate a work plan on the basis of recommendations made at the webinar. Besides having minister for finance Suresh Khanna as chairman, the committee will have minister for agriculture Surya Pratap Shahi, minister for medical and health Jay Pratap Singh, minister for rural development Rajendra Pratap Singh (Moti Singh), minister for micro small and medium industry, NRI, investment and export promotion Siddharth Nath Singh, minister for jal shakti Mahendra Singh, minister of state for PWD Chandrika Prasad Upadhyay and economic advisor to chief minister of UP KB Raju. Additional chief secretary, state planning department, Kumar Kamlesh will be member secretary of the sub-committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/committee-to-formulate-work-plan-for-development-of-poorvanchal-101618157252307.html
11-04-2021||Other||12,590 fresh Covid cases and 16 deaths in Pune district||PUNE Pune reported a spike in new Covid-19 cases a day after of reporting a slight dip. On Saturday, Pune district saw 9,822 new Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, this count went up to 12,590 cases. Also, 16 more deaths were reported in 24 hours by the state health department. Pune district’s progressive count went up to 0.651 million Covid-19 cases, of which 0.533 million have recovered and 8,658 were declared dead. Over 0.109 million active cases are undergoing treatment in hospitals, or are in home isolation.Pune rural reported 3,276 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the count to 1,49,165. With six more deaths, the death toll went up to 2,301. Pune city reported 6,923 new Covid-19 cases which takes the total number to 3,39,359. With seven more deaths, the toll went up to 4,887. PCMC reported 2,391 new cases, which takes the final count to 1,63,062 and with three more deaths, the toll went up to 1,418. Pune’s vaccination saw a dip on Sunday as less than 50,000 people got the jab. Of the 45,331 beneficiaries who got the vaccine, 22,418 people got the vaccine in Pune rural, PMC saw 11,485 vaccinations and PCMC saw 11,428 vaccinations. Of the 45,000 vaccinations, 44,437 got Covishield and 894 got Covaxin. The vaccination was conducted at 381 sites||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12590-fresh-covid-cases-and-16-deaths-in-pune-district-101618157192063.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports 63,294 Covid-19 cases in biggest daily surge since onset of pandemic||Maharashtra, which has been witnessing a surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), recorded 63,294 infections on Sunday, taking the tally to 3,407,245, the state’s health department bulletin showed. The state reported a rise of 7,883 cases from Saturday’s count of 55,411 Covid-19 cases. The state also recorded 394 related fatalities, which took the death toll to 57,987. The case fatality rate is currently at 1.79%. Maharashtra’s surge in the number of Covid-19 cases comes in the backdrop of 263,137 tests done in the last 24 hours. The current number of active cases in Maharashtra is 565,587. The state's tally of recovered people reached 2,782,161 as 34,008 recovered over the period of last 24 hours./Mumbai reported 9,986 cases on Sunday, registering a marginal spike in the number of fresh cases. The financial hub reported 79 deaths in the last 24 hours.Nagpur, Pune, Aurangabad, Nashik, Mumbai and Thane continue to be badly affected by Covid-19 are among the districts contributing the most number of cases to the national caseload.The Centre on Sunday pointed out that the high-level teams deployed in 30 districts of Maharashtra reported severe reluctance among citizens towards following Covid-19 appropriate measures. It also said that districts like Aurangabad and Pune, which have reported a continual surge in cases, are facing issues with connection to hospitalisation.The Maharashtra government is planning to impose a lockdown to arrest the surge in cases. A consensus regarding the lockdown was reached during an all-party meeting on Saturday and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held another meeting with stakeholders on Sunday to work out the modalities of the lockdown in Maharashtra. The decision on the duration of the lockdown is likely to be announced soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-reports-another-daily-spike-in-covid-19-cases-with-63-294-infections-101618152957886.html
11-04-2021||Other||Pune’s oxygen demand goes up by 359% in less than three months||PUNE As the number of Covid019 cases continue to rise, so has the demand for oxygen in the district.While Pune earlier did provide oxygen supply to the district, under the current circumstances the surge in demand means that Pune needs oxygen supply from nearby districts now. The demand for oxygen has gone up by 359% in the district from January to April. The number of critical cases continues to rise, adding pressure on hospital infrastructure. The demand for oxygen in the Pune district and Pune division has gone up drastically in the past three months. While the demand was about 67.5 metric tonnes, as of January 22, it went up to 310.46 metric tonnes as of April. This is a 359% of rise in the district. In Pune division, comprising five districts, oxygen demand has gone up by 294% from January to April.As of April 7, the district had of 84,357 active cases, 62, 931 in home isolation and 13,741 in non-oxygen isolation beds. A total of 7,685 are critical patients in the district. These 7,685 needed oxygen beds or ICU beds. Of the 7,685, 5,352 needed oxygen beds, 1,574 needed ICU beds without ventilators and 759 needed ventilators. Earlier, health minister Rajesh Tope had said that if need be, industrial units consuming higher proportions of oxygen would be shut down to cope up with the demands of Covid-19 patients. Deputy CM Ajit Pawar said, “In a meeting with state chief ministers, the Prime Minister said that a Jindal oxygen plant which is in Raigad would be supplied to meet the city’s needs. Sassoon hospital has got an oxygen supply machine donated by Atlas Copco which will help to maintain the supply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-oxygen-demand-goes-up-by-359-in-less-than-three-months-101618155031944.html
11-04-2021||Kolkata||TMC stages protests across West Bengal over Sitalkuchi killings||The Trinamool Congress on Sunday said its workers staged thousands of demostrations across West Bengal in protest against the killing of four people in firing by CISF personnel during polling in the fourth phase.At least 11,700 demonstrations were held in south and north Bengal where TMC activists wore black badges and demanded the resignation of Home Minister Shah, naming him as the conspirator of the incident, senior party leader Sukhendu Sekhar Roy said here.Four persons died on Saturday in Sitalkuchi area of Cooch Behar when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who "attempted to snatch their rifles", the police had said.In Kolkata, TMC leader and minister Sashi Panja led protest rallies in Esplanade area, as participants lit candles and converged in front of Mahatma Gandhi's statue.Similar demonstrations were also held in Taldangra in Bankura, Canning in South 24 Parganas and in Hooghly district, TMC sources said.The deaths have set off a political firestorm in West Bengal, with the ruling TMC and challenger BJP blaming each other for the violence.Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has said a CID probe will be instituted into the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/tmc-stages-protests-across-west-bengal-over-sitalkuchi-killings-101618154119025.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra lockdown: All on board, guidelines to be discussed, says minister||Maharashtra minister Aslam Sheikh said on Sunday all stakeholders agree there is a need to impose a lockdown in the state, which has the highest number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in the country. Aslam Sheikh’s comments came a day after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray hinted at the possibility of a strict lockdown in the state amid the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases. Uddhav Thackeray during an all-party meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state also pointed out that lives need to saved and that the government will have to clamp strict restrictions to break the chain of transmission.“In today's meeting with the state Covid-19 task dorce, everyone was of the view to impose lockdown in the state. SOPs and guidelines for it will be discussed,” Aslam Sheikh was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Thackeray will also hold a meeting with other stakeholders over the next few days and the decision on the duration of the Maharashtra lockdown may be announced soon. The government may impose the lockdown in Maharashtra at least for two weeks.Also read | Uddhav Thackeray says difficult to trace Covid-19 in second wave. Then explainsThe Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday that Maharashtra is among the five states cumulatively accounting for 70.82 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases, which breached the 1.1 million mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57 per cent of the total active caseload of the country, the health ministry said.Uddhav Thackeray said at the all-party meeting said that his government will address the issues of the livelihood of the poor, labourers and daily-wagers, which was highlighted by leaders of oppostion parties. “The number of patients is increasing so fast that if we do not decide on a lockdown today, a lockdown-like situation will automatically arise tomorrow. Today the situation is getting worse. We are also constantly considering Covid-19 task force experts in the state,” he was quoted as saying in a statement by the chief minister’s office (CMO).Also read | Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategyMaharashtra recorded 55,411 new cases on Saturday, a day after the state went under a weekend lockdown, which began at 8pm on Friday and it will continue till 7am on Monday. The curbs will continue till April 30. The state recorded the highest single-day surge since the beginning of the pandemic on Wednesday with 59,907 Covid-19 cases and recorded more than 58,000 infections on Friday as well.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-lockdown-all-on-board-guidelines-to-be-discussed-says-minister-101618153753048.html
11-04-2021||Other||Car looted in Amritsar after assaulting occupant||Three unidentified miscreants looted a car after assaulting its occupant, a lone man, with sharp-edged weapons outside a private hospital on the Circular Road during the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday. There was some cash and two mobile phones in the car, the victim has claimed. The incident took place about 1am, when the victim, Amritpal Singh of Mohali, was waiting in his Maruti Suzuki Swift outside the hospital. His new-born son is admitted to the hospital. “I work as a guard in Dubai. I had come back recently as my wife Navneet Kaur was pregnant. We were blessed with a son a few days ago, but our new-born was readmitted to hospital, as he was ill,” said Amritpal, adding, “On Saturday night, I was in my car when three men approached me and asked for my car key. I resisted this attempt. The accused, who were armed with sharp-edged weapons, assaulted me and made off with the car.” The crime has been captured in a closed circuit television (CCTV) installed outside the hospital. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), investigation, Harminder Singh said the accused had been identified. A case under Sections 379-B (theft by force) has been registered against unidentified persons.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/car-looted-in-amritsar-after-assaulting-occupant-101618154013681.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Man arrested for illegal sale of Remdesivir||Pune police’s crime branch arrested a 22-year-old man for alleged black marketing of anti-viral-drug – Remdesivir.  The operation was carried out on Sunday jointly with the help of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Earlier on Saturday, four people were arrested by Pimpri-Chinchwad police after they were found to be selling the much sought-after drug for Covid-19 treatment at an exorbitant rate.The two actions – one by Pimpri-Chinchwad and another by Pune police – comes on the backdrop of an acute shortage of the drug as relatives of Covid-19 patients who are admitted to hospitals are running pillar to post to get the vials of the drug.“We received information that a person is involved in the black marketing of Remdesivir drug and selling the medicine at an exorbitant price. As per the information, we sent a decoy customer and held a 22-year-old man in Trimurti Chowk in the Datta Nagar area,” said Srinivas Ghadge, deputy commissioner of police (crime). He added that the person has been arrested under relevant sections of the essential commodities and drug and cosmetics act.“We have formed 10 teams of the crime branch and a drive against black marketing of the drug has been initiated in the city,” he added.Ghadge said that some more people are likely to be arrested in the present case. Following the shortage of the antiviral drug, Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh issued an order stating hospitals to provide the injection to the patients and not ask family or relatives to buy the drug. The order has been issued to prohibit the black marketing and stocking of Remdesivir. “To ensure the smooth supply for sale, purchase and distribution, this order has been given to the concerned establishments,” the order issued on Saturday stated. Hospitals are asked to place the order of Remdesivir to the supplier keeping the requirement for three days in mind. Suppliers will have to provide the daily sale report of the drug including hospital name, associated chemists name, bills, total sale to Pune Food and Drug Administration (FDA).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/man-arrested-for-illegal-sale-of-remdesivir-101618154011929.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Villagers unwilling to attend in-person hearing on PMC merger due to Covid risk||The state government has set the final hearing date for the proposed merger of 23 villages in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits on April 19 and 20. However, villagers have expressed inability to attend an in-person hearing in view of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown. Pune divisional office has received a total of 491 suggestions and objections from the 23 areas that are to be merged in the PMC limits. Around 400 people raised objections while opposing the proposed merger stating that PMC failed to provide basic facilities to previously merged villages. As per the state government notification, the process to invite suggestion and objections began on December 22, 2020 and ended on January 22, 2021. The state gave a month’s period for raising suggestions and objections. In the last one week, more than 400 people registered their objections in the Pune divisional office at the revenue department. After almost four months, the state government scheduled a hearing on April 19 and 20. Pradeep Thengal, deputy commissioner, municipal administration, Pune division has issued an order on Friday. He has mentioned in the order to conduct a final hearing based on the application received. Sus, Kopre, Narhe, Vadachiwadi, Nadoshi, Kirkirwadi, Holkarwadi, Manjari Budruk, Kolewadi, Wagholi, Nanded village hearing will be conducted on April 19 April and Pisoli village will have to register their opinion on April 20. Sanjeev Kumar Patil, chairman Wagholi Housing Societies Association (WHSA) said, “It is a very difficult situation to attend physically. We have not received the venue and timing till date. If it is a physical one, we will not attend it. We will request the administration to conduct an online hearing. If it is not possible, then the administration will have to make a decision of merger on the background of Covid-19.” Pradeep Thengal, deputy commissioner, municipal administration, Pune division said, “Most of the villagers are not technically sound enough to conduct online hearings. The numbers are less, so, we will arrange a temporary pandal on open ground at Pune divisional office premises. We will follow social distancing and other norms.” “On the background of the Covid-19 situation and lockdown, it is not possible to attend a hearing which has been scheduled on April 19 and 20. It is very risky,” said Shrirang Chavan, president who had filed a PIL for merger of villages in the Bombay High court. -------------------------------------------------------- Name of the villages and applications- Sus (1), Kopre (1), Narhe (1), Vadachiwadi, (1) Nadoshi,(1) Kirkirwadi (1), Holkarwadi (2), Manjari Budruk (5), Kolewadi, (5),Wagholi (5), Nanded (68) Pisoli ( 389)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/villagers-unwilling-to-attend-in-person-hearing-on-pmc-merger-due-to-covid-risk-101618153891915.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Lockdown fear looms on Gudhi Padwa, low-key celebrations expected||The Gudhi Padwa celebrations will be cut short this year in Pune with rising Covid-19 cases, a weekend lockdown in place and restrictions on movement throughout the week. Gudhi Padwa is an auspicious day for Maharashtrians marking the start of the New Year, it will be celebrated on April 13, 2021. “The sombre mood was set by the lockdown announcement over the weekend and the increasing number of Covid patients is alarming enough for us to not invite relatives home this year,” said Vaishali Patkar, resident of Aundh. “On Gudhi Padwa, we prepare juice of neem leaves and every family member drinks it. Likewise, I will prepare neem juice and puranpoli. If the nursery is open, we will purchase neem and tulsi saplings,” she added. Usually, Gudhi Padwa is a day of auspicious beginnings and people buy new vehicles, clothes or gold and silver, but this year due to the pandemic, this is the second year that the sales have been affected. Sanjay Sasane, deputy regional transport officer, said, “This year there are zero new vehicles for registration at the Regional Transport Office (RTO), the only vehicles which are on bank loans and have not been cleared are for registrations, otherwise there have been no sales of new vehicles, four or two-wheelers.” In terms of gold and silver, the jewellers have given up on this month and are targeting Akshaya Tritya which is on May 14, 2021. “The status of the lockdown is very unclear, and sales have been affected by about ₹20- 30 crore a day. Gudhi Padwa and this month are usually most auspicious for weddings and other functions but with unclear status, we are at a standstill as there is no clarity about a lockdown. We have mentally prepared to forget this month and look at May for better responses,” said Saurabh Gadgil, PN Gadgil jewellers. Sweets play a major role on festive occasions, but the lockdown has dropped the sales figures for sweets as well. “Gudhi Padwa is a complete failure. A consecutive second year where sales won’t be more than 25 per cent of the conventional number, people can’t step out. Shrikhand is the biggest mover across Maharashtra for us. Normally we would sell through our own stores, express stores and distribution channel and supermarkets. Last year, we had projected about 12-13% growth on total volumes but fell short by 50% due to the lockdown. Similarly, this year too all channels are closed, and volumes are again down. Fearing lockdown, dealer sentiment has also been conservative in stocking. Unfortunately, unlike other products that can be sold online, Shrikhand needs a frozen chain and it’s difficult to maintain it on the last mile, so deliveries also have limitations,” said Indranil Chitale of the Chitale group. Atharva Gadve, of Kaka Halwai also had similar sentiments with the response to sweets. “Usually, pedas or barfis are our fast-selling products on Gudhi Padwa, people buy new vehicles and usually celebrate with sweets, but this year we have suffered a 90 % loss,” he said. Flowers play a major role during this festival with the demand for marigold flowers, but according to the president of the Akhil Pune Phool Bazaar Adate Association, this year could affect the flower business. “We are waiting for the chief minister to give clarity about lockdown, for the business to begin. There are ample flowers in the market but if lockdown is announced it will be a major loss and waste of flowers,” said Arun Haribhau Veer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/lockdown-fear-looms-on-gudhi-padwa-low-key-celebrations-expected-101618153831923.html
11-04-2021||Patna||INTACH writes to Bihar CM Nitish Kumar to save 130-year-old Khuda Bakhsh library||INTACH has appealed to Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar to spare the demolition of the front portion of the 130-year-old Khuda Bakhsh Library, saying razing of any part of the celebrated institution will be a "monumental loss of heritage" for not just Patna but the entire world.In a letter to the chief minister on Saturday, the Patna Chapter of the Delhi-based NGO, has also fervently appealed to not demolish fully or partially any other heritage buildings that may fall on the route of a proposed elevated corridor on the historic Ashok Rajpath, from Kargil Chowk to NIT More."The razing of any portion of Khuda Baksh Library will be a monumental loss of heritage for not just Patna, but the entire world, and it will eclipse the glory of this institution forever," reads the letter.According to the proposed elevated flyover project, to be built from Kargil Chowk to NIT More, spanning a little over 2 km only, a large number of heritage buildings and their front yards are set to face the axe, including the iconic Curzon Reading Room of the Khuda Bakhsh Library and its front garden, said J K Lall, Convener of INTACH Patna Chapter."In our letter, we have requested the chief minister to reconsider the decision, as it is the iconic legacy of Patna and rest of the country. It is an institution of national importance, a bibliographic delight and an architectural jewel of our city. We have also proposed alternative to the government to divert the traffic," he said.The library, started in 1891 by eminent personality Khuda Bakhsh Khan, a bibliophile from Bihar who had painstakingly built the collection, is a jewel of art, culture and academia.The historic library was built and dedicated to the city by its founder as a "gift to Patna". Thousands of rare books and priceless bejewelled manuscripts, including Tarikh-e-Khandan-e-Timuriyah, Shahnama and Baburnama, are housed in this veritable treasure trove which attracts scholars and admirers alike from around the world.Tarikh-e-Khandan-e-Timuriyah is a rare manuscript and bears the handwriting of Mughal emperor Shah Jehan, which was also sent for inclusion in the UNESCO Memory of the World Register. Diwan-e-Hafiz had handwriting of Mughal rulers Jahangir and Humayun, according to Shayesta Bedar, the current director of the library."Khuda Bakhsh Library is a national heritage, it is our priceless legacy. Besides, the entire facade will be disturbed and defaced. Development is important, but not at the cost of our heritage. We hope the government will listen to our appeal and of general people too, who are asking to not cause any harm to the heritage," she said."The historic Curzon Reading Room and the whole front garden of the library are to be dismantled according to the plan of the corridor. We cannot allow this," she said.The 116-year-old reading room built in 1905 is a celebrated icon of the library and has served the peope of Patna and rest of Bihar for over a century. Its facade also bears the name of the library -- Khuda Baksh Oriental Public Library 1891-- telling the story of the creation of this iconic institution."And, Curzon Reading Room is a pride possession of the library too. It was built in memory of the visit of Viceroy Lord Curzon in 1903. Demolishing it will practically mean erasing a legacy," Bedar said.Ever since the matter has surfaced, the proposal has faced widespread protests from various quarters, including many scholars, historians, litterateurs, retired professors and bureaucrats. Bihar Legislative Assembly Library Committee chairman and MLA Sudama Prasad visited the library on Saturday, Bedar said."An NOC (no objection certificate) was sought from us for the elevated corridor construction. We wrote back to the Patna DM early this month, appealing to spare the heritage and suggested alternative routes," she said.Located in the heart of the Ashok Rajpath, the library is situated in old Bankipore area of Patna and has many famed visitors in its history of 130 years.Eminent personalities from Mahatma Gandhi to Jawaharlal Nehru, presidents and prime ministers and other heads of state of many countries, viceroys and governors, have visited this illustrious institution over these eventful years.Ashok Rajpath is studded with celebrated educational institutions, from Patna College (1863) to Patna Science College (1927), Patna University (1917) and its iconic Wheeler Senate House (1926), Bihar Urdu Academy, Patna Medical College and Hospital (1925), Bihar Young Men's Institute (1911), B N College (1889), St Joseph's Convent (1853) and its old chapel and graveyard, all on the northern side facing the historic road, named after the great King Ashoka, who ruled from the beautiful city of Pataliputra, Lall said."Demolishing Khuda Baksh Library even partially, will be a grave mistake, and the heritage front of other iconic buildings, and hence of this historic face of Patna, would also be sullied forever, if this project is allowed to go through," the INTACH said."As a solution, we humbly suggest that since the Ganga Drive is already under construction, and links roads are proposed at various intervals, and as reported, at a site neighbouring AN Sinha Institute campus and Krishna Ghat, so traffic can be diverted trough these link ways," the letter reads.The Indian National Trust for Art and Culture (INTACH) had earlier opposed the demolition of the Dutch-era Patna Collectorate, which the Bihar government had proposed to demolish in 2016. The Supreme Court had given a stay on its razing last September after the NGO went to the court.All old heritage buildings of the PMCH, including those facing Ashok Rajpath, have already been proposed to be demolished for a new modern hospital complex, triggering protest from many quarters. PTI KND SRY||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/intach-writes-to-bihar-cm-to-save-130-year-old-khuda-bakhsh-library-101618153055637.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Students appearing for board exams stressed over uncertainty||Class 10 and 12 students are undergoing tremendous stress as they await a decision by the state government on holding the board examination amidst rising Covid cases and a possibility of a total lockdown. If no changes are made, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Certificate (MSBSHSE), is scheduled to conduct the board exam for Classes 10, 12 beginning from April-end. Due to the rise in Covid cases, Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad issued an order promoting all students from Classes 1 to 9 and 11 to the next academic year without conducting an examination. However, the decision is pending for Classes 10, 12. Sampada Waghmare, a student of Class 12 appearing for the board exam said that she is preparing for the exam but is anxious about the rising Covid cases. “I want to pursue law after Class 12. My Common Law Aptitude Test (CLAT) examination is scheduled in the month of June. If the board exams are conducted now there will be a high risk of Covid and if they are conducted later, I will have to give more time for the Class 12 exam and my preparation for the competitive exams will take a back seat. This situation is causing a lot of stress to me right now. I have not applied for the Maharashtra state Common Entrance Test (CET) but my other friends have. They are in a similar situation,” said Waghmare. Sakshi Patil, a Class 12 student who is appearing for the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) for engineering said two papers have been done so far. “I have been preparing for both exams, JEE and the boards simultaneously. It is very stressful to know that the board exam may get postponed. At the same time, if it is conducted now, there is a threat of Covid-19. If the exam is postponed, it may clash with the JEE papers. There is a lot of stress around his issue and I am not able to focus on the studies because of this,” said Patil. Prabhat Kelkar, father of a Class 12 student whose son is appearing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) said students are stressed due to the uncertainty. “My son, Ashwin has worked very hard the whole year. The students had to adjust to online education from school and also from coaching classes. This past year has been a challenge but now with the uncertainty of the examination students are stressed and their morale is down. The board should take the decision soon so that students can focus on competitive exams with more clarity,” said Kelkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/students-appearing-for-board-exams-stressed-over-uncertainty-101618153711891.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Back to square one: Lockdown fear brings back memories of struggle||The 2020 lockdown announced in March last year forced many people to take up alternative career options, and now a second lockdown takes them back to square one. Sayali Shinde, who was working as a physical education teacher in a private school in Aundh has not received salary since June 2020. The school sent a letter to Shinde saying she has been put on non-essential position which meant Shinde’s service was not required by the school. Shinde decided to wait a few months to let things normalise but with school not restarting in full strength, she has preferred to move ahead to explore other options. From January 2021, Shinde gave a serious thought to starting a business and after doing research she decided to sell herbal products from her home. “I have a six-year-old son, although my husband is earning but living in a city like Pune you need to provide financial support to the family, so I decided to start a business of selling herbal products online and offline (homecare and personal care products),” said Shinde. Using social media in a proper way helped Shinde to get her first client. “Whatsapp status has a big craze so I used that space for marketing my products. I did not have money to run an advertisement campaign, so this is a very good option as people keep on following status updates,” added Shinde. New restrictions and threat of new lockdown have puzzled Shinde again as things remain uncertain with the old profession and also it puts hurdles on expansion of her new business. “The situation is again wait and watch, another blanket lockdown will take us back to square one. I hope a middle ground is found out so that we do not have to deal with issues like last year,” Shinde said. From PT teacher to trainer Renuka Gaopande – was happy taking physical training classes for children until the 2020 lockdown forced her to change the profession. With a degree of Master’s in Physical Education under her belt, Gaopande decided to offer physical training classes to women online and offline. “Since the school does not want my service currently, I cannot continue waiting for them as we don’t know when the school will restart again. I decided to start taking fitness classes for women instead,” said Gaopande who started classes with only one client but now has eight clients for offline classes and many others for her online classes. Gaopande currently gives a high intensity interval training (HIIT) program to ladies but now has plans to add varieties of training to her class. HIIT is especially for those who have less time to train and now I have started getting clients who want advance courses, so the plan is to focus on expansion. With cases rising, Gaopande has again stopped physical classes but online classes will continue. “Charges are more for offline classes and we cannot earn the same in online classes. I hope cases are reduced so we don’t have to face another lockdown,” added Gaopande.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/back-to-square-one-lockdown-fear-brings-back-memories-of-struggle-101618153651947.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Fourth warmest March since 1901: IMD||The month of March in 2021 has been the fourth warmest since 1901 for Central India which includes Maharashtra, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD). Across India, March was also the third warmest in the last 121 years. As per data shared by the weather department, the monthly mean temperature reported this time was 26.30 degrees Celsius and the normal monthly mean temperature was 25.06 degrees Celsius which means March this year was warmer by 1.24 degrees Celsius. For Central India, which includes Maharashtra, the weather department said the monthly mean temperature was 1.32 degrees Celsius more than normal temperature, that is, 26.60 degrees Celsius. The actual monthly mean temperature reported was 27.92 degrees Celsius. As per IMD officials, this year March was warmer for Central and peninsular India as compared to other parts of the country. Pleasant weather in Pune Pune on Sunday consecutively experienced cloudy weather giving a respite from the heat; however, no rainfall was reported on Sunday. Due to the cloudy weather and cooler winds, Pune on Sunday reported a day temperature at 36.7 degrees Celsius which was cooler than normal by 0.8 degrees Celsius. The night temperature was reported at 22 degrees Celsius which was 2.4 degrees Celsius warmer than normal. “Partly cloudy weather along with thundery activity and lightning is forecasted in the city until April 14. The day temperature will go as high as 38 degrees Celsius and the night temperature will be around 20 to 22 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials. Most parts of Maharashtra will continue to have cloudy weather along with thunderstorms and lightning until April 14. On Sunday, the highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 41.3 degrees Celsius at Jalgaon and the lowest minimum temperature reported was at 17.5 degrees Celsius at Mahabaleshwar. Mahabaleshwar also recorded 1 millimetre rainfall on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fourth-warmest-march-since-1901-imd-101618153591949.html
11-04-2021||Other||At 105, Moga woman takes first shot of corona vaccine||Kartar Kaur, 105, of Moga’s Bhinder Khurd village, received her first shot of the coronavirus vaccine along with her 80-year-old son, Harvinder Singh, on Sunday and urged people not to hesitate and get themselves vaccinated. Her grandson and former councillor Manjit Singh Mann organised the camp in ward number 3. Around 200 people were vaccinated at the camp. “I believe that the vaccination will keep the fatal disease at bay. I advise people to follow all coronavirus-related guidelines. There is no adverse effect on my health,” Kaur said, after taking the jab.“The spirit of Mata Kartar Kaur is inspiring. I appeal to all eligible people above 45 to get rid of their hesitancy and get themselves and their families vaccinated,” said Moga deputy commissioner Sandeep Hans. The DC added in Moga district, the vaccination drive is being carried out at all civil hospitals, community health centres and 91 health and wellness centres. Punjab has witnessed a surge in the number of coronavirus cases in recent weeks. Till Saturday, the state had reported around 2.7 lakh cases and 7,448 deaths. Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh has also requested the Centre to provide additional vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-105-moga-woman-takes-first-shot-of-corona-vaccine-101618152752745.html
11-04-2021||Other||Major city projects - Metro, 24x7 water supply - likely to be hit by labourers leaving city||PUNE Amidst of the Covid-19 pandemic and lockdown, labourers have begun rushing to their hometowns, which affects the city’s big projects like Pune Metro and 24x7 equitable water supply. There is a fear among labourers working in different development projects, as well as in construction, that a lockdown is imminent. Pune MetroThere are 2,800 labourers working on the Pune metro project. Most are from Jharkhand, West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.Due to the lockdown last year, the Metro work was hampered. The deadline was rescheduled. Last year, the Pune metro rail administration tried hard to stop these workers from going home, but as the government had started special trains for them, they registered their names and returned to their native places.Hemant Sonwane, general manager of Maha-Metro said, “At present, we are talking to labourers and counselling them. We are taking care of labourers by providing medicine to them. We have also started to vaccinate those above the age of 45.” He said, “Last time, work was hampered as labourers returned home. Right now, there is no such restriction on Metro work.”24x7 water supply projectPMC contractors are also facing a problem due to labourers returning home. The 24x7 water project work is going on in the city. The project has already been delayed due to last year’s lockdown.Nandkumar Jagtap, superintendent engineer of the water supply department and person handling the 24x7 water project, said, “Due to lockdown fear, some labourers are returning to their native places. The situation is tricky. We cannot predict what happens next. However, we experienced last time that if one or two labourers decide to go, it create panic in the entire unit. We are trying to convince them and take necessary care to retain them.” PMC initiated the 24x7 water supply project at the cost of ₹2,550 crore to solve the water problem of the city. It raised ₹200 crore through bonds and also levied water charges. It has set a deadline of five years to complete the project. It was approved in February 2018 and work started in December 2018. PMC allotted the work to L&T and Jain Irrigation.Construction There are 80,000 construction workers in the city. Some of them have already gone to their hometowns. Most are from Bihar, Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Chattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh.The Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association (Credai) has written to the state government to allow construction workers to work on all nearby sites. The letter sent on the basis of state government’s new guidelines on continuation of construction activity had said they should be restricted to one site only.Credai has confirmed that labourers are returning home.Shantilal Kataria, national vice-president, Credai and managing director of Aditya Builders, said, “Labourers are returning to their native places. We are requesting labourers to stay at work but peer and family pressure force workers to return their native places.”He added, “This year people are more under pressure as the situation is different. We have requested the state government and Pune municipal commissioner to allow workers to go to nearby sites. We have only 50 days to complete our outdoor construction activities before the monsoon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/major-city-projects-metro-24x7-water-supply-likely-to-be-hit-by-labourers-leaving-city-101618149811721.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sonu Sood made brand ambassador for Punjab's Covid-19 vaccination programme||Actor Sonu Sood has been made the brand ambassador for Punjab's anti-coronavirus vaccination programme.During the coronavirus-induced lockdown last year, the actor had helped migrants reach their home states.Sood catapulted to the national spotlight for feeding thousands of underprivileged people amid the COVID-19 pandemic.He was viewed as a messiah of sorts for migrants.Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday made the announcement, a day after his meeting with the actor who called on him at his residence."Happy to share that actor & philanthropist @SonuSood will be the Brand Ambassador of our #Covid19 vaccination drive. I thank him for supporting our campaign to reach out to, and protect, every Punjabi, and appeal to all to get vaccinated at the earliest," the chief minister tweeted.Singh said there is no one more ideally suited to inspire and influence people to take the vaccine."There is a lot of hesitancy among people here in Punjab. Sonu's popularity among them, and his exemplary role in helping tens of thousands of migrants reach safely home since the pandemic broke out last year, will help counter their reservations," he said in an official statement here."When people hear this 'Punjab da puttar' talk about the benefits of the vaccine, and how safe and essential it is, they will believe him. Because they trust him,” he added.Sood said he was happy and honoured to be appointed the brand ambassador for the vaccination programme."I feel blessed to be playing any part in this huge campaign of the Punjab government to protect the lives of the people of my home state," he added.On the occasion, the actor presented to the chief minister his book 'I am no Messiah', which he says captures his experiences of his journey from Moga to Mumbai."I truly believe I am no saviour. I am just a human being playing my own small part in the big plans of God. If I can, in the process, touch any lives in any manner, I can only say – God has blessed me, he is guiding me to fulfil my duty," Sood said in another statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sonu-sood-made-brand-ambassador-for-punjab-s-covid-19-vaccination-programme-101618148835904.html
11-04-2021||Other||Lockdown fear sees labourers take trains, buses out of Pune back to hometowns||Pune – The fear amongst workers and labourers has increased that the state government is planning to impose a strict lockdown soon. There has been massive rush seen at the Pune railway station and also at private luxury bus depots in and around Pune over the last few days. Mostly these labourers come from North India and in last few days there has been a drastic increase in the number of passengers going towards North India from Pune railway station.Several migrant workers who had returned to Pune at construction sites have now again started going back to their villages. It is the same with small scale industries in and around Pune, where labour fears lockdown and are going back to their hometowns.“Me and my family are returning back to Bihar by railways, as there might be a lockdown in Maharashtra and we do not want to suffer like last year. So I booked tickets for my family and am now returning back,” said Gayaram Pande, a labour contractor traveling from the Pune railway station on Sunday. Another worker Mahesh Sitane said, “I am working in a small factory in the Chakan area, but as there are new restrictions in Pune, no work orders were coming. So our owner stopped work at the factory from the last one week, and now we do not know when it will open. I am planning to return back to Karnataka and have booked a private tourist bus ticket for Tuesday night.”Talking about the passengers travelling towards North India, Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson, said, “We have given additional special trains to Bhagalpur and Danapur cities in Bihar. As there is a heavy rush of passengers going towards North India, these new special trains are been given by the Railways. In last couple of weeks there has been a considerable increase in the number of daily passengers travelling by various trains from Pune towards North India.”“These special trains are fully reserved and advance reservation is necessary for passengers. People with confirmed tickets only can travel and they are requested to follow all the Covid norms and safety precautions while travelling,” he added. Both the trains, Pune – Bhagalpur special train (train no. 01427) and Pune-Danapur Special Train (train no. 01429) will depart from Pune on April 12, 16 and 20. Sagar Abnawe, owner of Mahalaxmi tours and travels said, “We are getting bookings mostly for out of Maharashtra cities, including Bengaluru, Hyderabad, Jaipur, Indore and some cities in Gujarat. People want to go out of the state, maybe it is because of the lockdown fear.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lockdown-fear-sees-labourers-take-trains-buses-out-of-pune-back-to-hometowns-101618147951603.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi sees record 10,774 new Covid-19 cases; tally over 720,000||Fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) broke all records in Delhi on Sunday, as the city saw its infection tally rise by more than 10,000 cases for the first time since the beginning of the pandemic. There were 10,774 new infections in Delhi on Sunday, according to the health department, which have taken its caseload to 725,197.There were 48 more fatalities in the national capital due to the viral disease, the health department’s bulletin also showed, taking its death toll to 11,283 or 1.55% of the total Covid-19 cases. More than 5,158 people also recovered during the same period and now the Capital’s tally of recovered people stands at 679,573 and the recovery rate at 93.70%.The number of active caseload, meanwhile, mounted to 34,341, an increase of 5,568 cases.The active caseload also mounted to 34,341, an increase of 5,568 Covid-19 cases.The bulletin also showed that 114,288 tests were conducted in Delhi in the last 24 hours, as against 77,374 a day ago. Hence, the cumulative positivity rate, or the proportion of samples that test positive, fell to 9.43%, down from 10.20% on April 10, which was the first time since November 24, 2020, that the cumulative positivity rate was in double digits. Total 76,954 RT-PCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, while the corresponding figure for Rapid antigen tests was 37,334. In all, 15,558,243 samples have been tested in Delhi for Covid-19 thus far.Addressing a virtual press conference earlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal urged people to stay at home “as much as possible.” Talking about recently-imposed curbs on cinema halls, bars, restaurants, buses etc, Kejriwal said while the government was not in favour of a lockdown, there was “no other option.” Remarking that Delhi’s home isolation facilities are the best, the chief minister said, “Don’t get hospitalised if your case is not severe. You can be treated in home isolation too. We will send teams to your homes.”Also Read | Delhi's situation worrying, 4th wave dangerous, says Kejriwal as Capital records over 10k new Covid-19 casesDelhi is already under a daily night curfew till April 30, while the high court has made it mandatory for masks to be worn even if there is only one person inside a car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-sees-record-10-774-new-covid-19-cases-tally-over-720000-101618147365943.html
11-04-2021||Noida||Fire breaks out at village in Noida. 2 children dead, around 150 shanties gutted||A major fire broke out in a village in Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Sunday, leaving two children dead and destroying around 150 shanties, police said.The fire broke out around 1 pm in the JJ cluster near Behlolpur village under Phase 3 police station limits, according to officials."Around a dozen fire tenders were deployed at the sight to control the blaze. The fire has been controlled now but due to wind there is still smoke left," Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, Harish Chander said."Around 150 shanties got destroyed in the fire and the bodies of two children have been recovered. The exact cause of the fire is being ascertained," he said.Police and fire safety officials were at the spot overseeing the operation, he added. Other details were awaited.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/fire-breaks-out-at-village-in-noida-2-children-dead-around-150-shanties-gutted-101618147180841.html
11-04-2021||Other||Relatives’ hunt for Remdesivir continues on Sunday, despite order directing hospitals to provide drug to patients||PUNE Despite the district administration’s orders for hospitals to supply the Remdesivir drug to patients, relatives of Covid patients continued to search for availability of the drug on Sunday.Many relatives of Covid patients had come to Poona hospital on Sunday in search of to get Remdesivir. They claimed that the concerned hospitals cited the unavailability of Remdesivir and told them to get it. On the other hand, the Pune district collector has set- up a control room at the collector’s office to monitor and regulate the supply, purchase and sale of Remdesivir. The Pune Zilla Parishad is also going to supply Remdesivir directly to hospitals.Swati Shinde, the niece of a Covid patient, who had come to Poona hospital to buy Remdesivir, said, “I have been roaming the entire city to get this injection. I had even gone to PCMC. My uncle is hospitalised in Morya hospital in Wagholi. They have prescribed eight vials of Remdesivir. I have been looking for this injection for the last three days. Now I have come here to see that they have displayed a board of non- availability of the drug. The hospital said they don’t have stock.” Vikram Chavhan was also trying to get the injection. “My uncle is hospitalised in Pawar hospital in Balajinagar and since Saturday I have been trying to get this injection. I read that hospitals are supposed to provide the drug, but they said it is not available with them,” Chavhan said. The administration of Pawar hospital and Morya hospital did not respond to questions about the availability of Remdesivir. Explaining the position of the private Covid hospitals, Dr Vinod Bharati from Rising Hospital in Kharadi, said that treatment of patients cannot be stopped if hospitals don’t have the stock. “We had placed an order for Remdesivir on Friday and still haven’t got it. If a patient needs that dose then the hospital will have to ask the relatives to get it. If a hospital doesn’t have stock, treatment cannot be delayed. The problem will be solved if there is smooth supply,” said Dr Bharati. FDA joint commissioner S B Patil said that by Monday the supply to hospitals will be smooth. Control roomPune district collector has set up a control room to regulate the supply, sale and purchase of Remdesivir. This control room is open 24/7, even on holidays. Control room toll free numbers : 020-26123371/ 1077||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/relatives-hunt-for-remdesivir-continues-on-sunday-despite-order-directing-hospitals-to-provide-drug-to-patients-101618146451539.html
11-04-2021||Bangalore||Covid-19 cases may peak in Karnataka by May 1st week: Health Minister||Amid a spike in coronavirus cases in the state, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said that the experts have warned of peak in infections by the first week of May. The Minister also said experts have been asked to submit a report, based on which the government would take appropriate measures in the days to come. "According to experts any wave will be there for 80 to 120 days, we have to be careful till May end, as this is just the beginning," Sudhakar said. Speaking to reporters after meeting with the technical advisory committee (TAC) and expert committee on Covid-19 constituted by the government, he said the infections may peak during the next two to three weeks by May first week and decline by the end of that month. "They (experts) have given several suggestions and I have asked them to submit in a report format, which I will discuss with the Chief Minister and other senior Ministers and officials. The suggestions are with scientific evidence, based on which the government will take necessary measures in the days to come," he added. Noting that experts will not be giving any suggestions that will hamper the economic activities, the Minister said but they have asked us to control people from gathering at places for various reasons, at any cost. Not wanting to give any direct answers to a question about suggestions by experts regarding lockdown, he merely said a detailed report has been sought from them, which will be discussed at the government level and a decision will be taken. Asked about extending the corona curfew to other districts, he said it is premature as the curfew has come into effect since last night, and only after analysing for three to four days, it will be looked into. Following the video conference with PM Narendra Modi, Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Thursday had announced a a curfew between 10 pm to 5 am in seven district centres of the state along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19. Director of Jayadeva Institute of Cardiology and member of the TAC Dr C N Manjunath said Bengaluru alone may report 15,000 to 18,000 cases a day by May 15, as per the provisional estimates. "Of 7,000 fresh cases that the state is reporting, lion's share is from Bengaluru. By May 15 there are chances of it increasing as per the mathematical projection. Bengaluru is reporting in the range of 5,500 to 6,000 cases, and as per provisional estimate, the city alone may report 15,000 to 18,000 infections and we need to be prepared for it," he said. Infections are increasing among youths between 20-40 years of age. He said if Covid has to come under control, public cooperation is important, and enforcement of restrictions where people gather in large numbers is utmost important. Citing inputs offered by experts on the trajectory of the infection in the days to come, Sudhakar said when the cases peak, the number of people requiring hospitalisation or in need of bed will increase, also we will have to strictly monitor those in home isolation. The experts have most importantly advised about procuring certain medicines from now itself and supplying them to private hospitals too, also about strengthening telemedicine, tele ICU and triaging, he said. Pointing out that Ugadi and other festivals are coming up and people will travel to their native place from Bengaluru and may carry the virus along with them, Sudhakar said experts have stressed on the need for it to be checked. "We will not get to know about the spike and spread immediately, we will get to know after about 10 days as it happened during the first wave. Inter-state travels have to be monitored very strictly according to experts," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/covid19-casess-may-peak-in-karnataka-by-may-1st-week-health-minister-101618145846845.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Ramzan food walks: Go solo or in small groups, prefer city foodies||‘Are you doing a solo or a group walk’, ‘How crowded is Old Delhi at present?’ are some of the questions that heads of popular food groups are answering these days, as they take in queries for Ramzan food walks in Old Delhi, amid the fresh rise in Covid 19 cases. From an increased interest in solo walks to demand for more intimate groups, foodies, this Ramzan (starting 12 April 2021), are opting to keep it a low-key affair, to be safe and yet indulge in pleasures of the palate. Night curfew is tricky“Since Ramzan is all about eating post dusk and pre dawn, it’s going to be a tricky affair with the night curfew in place, and Sehri happening at the same time,” opines Shivendu Mittal, from Gurgaon Foodies, who is planning a few walks during Ramzan. “I’m getting requests from single individuals and couples, and we’ll be planning a few food walks exclusively for them during this time. But, it’s only going to be post Navratri. If I allow everybody, the group can become as large as 30 people. Since the eateries in Old Delhi are very small, even if I go with a group, it will have less than six people,” adds Mittal. Prabhjot Singh, from a food group named Foodkars, says he’s yet to finalise the location for Ramzan walks that will be either Jama Masjid or Nizamuddin. “Since there‘s a night curfew, people are a little worried this time around to venture out far. So, we’ll only plan walks with closed members from the community. And it’ll be surely after Navratri,” says Singh. Going solo has pros Paushali Lass, a food entrepreneur from Germany who has grown up in Delhi, opted for a solo food walk during the pandemic. She says, “My main reason for doing a solo walk was that I wanted to get inspiration for myself, and that I wasn’t seeking a touristy experience. Going solo had the great advantage that I was given individual attention, and my ever curious mind could ask tons of questions, which the walk conductor very kindly answered. It was also the right thing to do during a pandemic as there was less of an issue of maintaining social distance with any other tour participant. He was also very careful with all safety precautions and we sanitised our hands ever so often. All in all, a great experience and I will be back for more.” Anubhav Sapra, from Delhi Food Walks, concurs that the walks this year will be for smaller groups, and adds: “We recently conducted a walk for a solo person in Kamla Nagar. She booked another walk in CR Park... Whether the walk is for one person or a group, it takes four hours in total. And for a food walk, you need people to stand close to each other. Gol gappe bhi kha rahe hain, kebab hi kha rahe hai, so one can’t expect ki 10 logon ko dur dur khada karo kyunki jagah hi kitni hoti hai!” Food is good, but place is crowded“Obviously Old Delhi is the most crowded in the city!” says Ramit Mitra, from DelhiByFoot, while answering one of the queries over phone. When asked about his plans, he adds, “We’ve got enquiries from solo, bunch of friends, and small groups. But the crowds at Old Delhi are discouraging most people who are enquiring. We tell them ‘It’s your choice’ but do assure that food is clean and hygienic. I feel there would be barely any walks this year for Ramzan, and know that it’s a big hole in the whole set of walks in our annual calendar!” For Pawan Soni, who runs the foodie group called Gurgaon Food Freak, there’s not much option but to take in requests for solo people for Ramzan walks near Jama Masjid. “Given the volume of people and the increasing Covid cases, we’ll be in an uncontrolled environment where many people won’t be wearing masks and we’ll also have to pull down our masks to eat. So, it looks like we’ll either totally avoid the Ramzan walks this year or will go in groups of just four to five close members. The night curfew is another factor that might impact us all together. There have been a few requests so far, and as soon as we announce on the group that we are going for a walk, many more interested will surely join in!” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ramzan-food-walks-go-solo-or-in-small-groups-prefer-city-foodies-101618145977407.html
11-04-2021||Other||Spike in passengers flying out of Pune as Covid restrictions kick in||PUNE There has been a considerable rise in the number of passengers travelling out from Pune via air. On an average, daily, 4,500 to 5,000 passengers depart from Pune to various parts of the country from the Lohegaon airport. On April 9, 6,007 passengers flew out from Pune, the highest single-day figure for April so far. The Airport Authority of India (AAI) is taking strict safety precautions at the Pune airport for passengers.As per data shared by AAI Pune, on April 1 the arriving passengers were 4,434, which then remained constant throughout the week. Departing passengers have seen a gradual increase, with 5,560 passengers leaving on April 1; and 6,007 passengers departing on April 9. Speaking anonymously, an AAI official at the arrivals lounge at Lohegaon airport said, “As Covid cases surge in Pune, air traffic, especially the outgoing passengers, is on the rise for the last 10 days. Daily it is touching 5,000, with over 50 on an average flight from the airport. We are taking all the safety precautions at the airport and follow Covid protocols given by the central government.”Usually the daily schedule of arrivals and departures from the Lohegaon airport starts from 8 am and goes on till 7 pm. There is flight movement to and from destinations like Chennai, Bengaluru, Ahmedabad, Delhi, Patna, Kolkata, Lucknow, Bhubaneshwar, Hyderabad, and Kochi.Manjeet Singh, a post graduate student, said, “I returned to Lucknow two days back via a flight, as the situation is getting worse here. Already our college classes were online, so it was better to go back to my hometown and study from there rather than staying in Pune.” Another passenger, Smita Baneerje, who is planning to go back to Kolkata, said, “I have booked my air tickets for April 14 to go back to home. I had taken leave for 15 days from my job and if necessary I will work from home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spike-in-passengers-flying-out-of-pune-as-covid-restrictions-kick-in-101618145791523.html
11-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh sees record rise of 15,353 Covid-19 cases, tally nears 700,000||Uttar Pradesh, where daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) have been on the rise in the last few days, witnessed another record spike on Sunday, as the state saw its infection tally increase by more than 15,000 for the first time. With the latest rise, Uttar Pradesh’s caseload has gone up to 692,092.Also Read | Uttar Pradesh has more active Covid-19 cases than Kerala; 60,000 new infections reported since April 1“There were 15,353 fresh cases in Uttar Pradesh in the last 24 hours and the active caseload has risen to 71,241,” Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary (health), said. Recovered cases, according to the official, have risen to 71,241, while total recovered cases are at 611,622. The number of vaccine doses administered against the viral disease has risen to 8,515,296.According to the health department, 67 more people succumbed to Covid-19 on the day, taking the state’s death toll to 9152. Nearly 50% of the deaths were in the capital city of Lucknow, which logged 31 fatalities.On Saturday, 12,787 new coronavirus disease cases were detected in the state--the highest in a single day, before being surpassed by the one on Sunday.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday Uttar Pradesh is among 10 states which have contributed nearly 81% of the 152,879 cases registered by the country in the last 24 hours. The state’s contribution was the third highest after Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh respectively.The state government has introduced several curbs to contain the spread of the pandemic. On Sunday, the education department announced the closure of all government and private schools for Classes 1 to 12, till April 30. Last week, a night curfew was announced for 10 districts, including Lucknow, Varanasi, Kanpur and Prayagraj, till the end of the month. A night curfew has also been ordered in all the districts whose caseload of active infections is more than 500.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-sees-record-rise-of-15-353-covid-19-cases-tally-nears-700000-101618143823408.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||On Day 1 of Tika Utsav, Delhi vaccinates over 1 lakh people amid record Covid-19 surge||In a first, Delhi on Sunday vaccinated more than 100,000 people as the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) set up several temporary vaccine camps across the city – over and above the 739 permanent vaccine sites -- to mark the beginning of Tika Utsav, a senior official in the office of Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal said.Tika Utsav is a four-day long drive, endorsed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, which is aimed at vaccinating the maximum number of eligible people against Covid-19 amid a surge in cases in the national Capital..Locations in Delhi in which temporary vaccine camps were set up on Sunday include the administrative building of a central university, a bus depot, the office of an education board and a five-star hotel, the senior official said.“After having put the required regulations, related enforcement measures and the ramping up of the supporting medical infra in place in consultation with the CM, under the aegis of DDMA, the lieutenant governor (L-G) has been keenly overseeing the observance and implementation of the ‘Tika Utsav’ from 11th-14th April in the Capital,” the senior official said.Baijal is the chairperson of the DDMA, while chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is its vice chairperson.The official further said, “An all-out mobilisation was the main thrust of Tika Utsav and accordingly a specially focused effort was made by officials which resulted in Delhi crossing the one lakh per day vaccination figure for the first time. Workplace vaccination was also started today as part of ‘Tika Utsav’ and was carried out at several locations in the city.”Other than that, vaccinations continued in the 739 permanent vaccine sites across the city. The drive is currently open for all people aged 45 years and above. Government records showed that Delhi has so far vaccinated around 1.7 million people in the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-day-1-of-tika-utsav-delhi-vaccinates-over-1-lakh-people-amid-record-covid-19-surge-101618144352243.html
11-04-2021||Other||Cancellations hit tourism industry hard as Covid uncertainty takes its toll on bookings||PUNE With Covid cases surging and new restrictions in place, the tourism industry is bracing itself for another lost season. March-June is peak season for tour operators. Last year there was a lockdown during this time and this year, a similar situation is in place. Due to an anticipated lockdown, many pre- scheduled tours for April have been cancelled. “I had six scheduled tours in April, but because of this current uncertain situation I had to cancel. These tours were to Kashmir. People are ready to travel, but the uncertainty of the government decisions is holding them back. They fear lockdown. Also, mandatory Covid tests for travellers has created confusion. People have cancelled trips in April. There is still a lot of uncertainty for May. Because of the Covid situation the whole chain of tourism industry has been affected,” said Ajit Takalkar, tour operator, Pravas - the Journey Tour Company. Tour operators say that only five-10 % of pre-Covid bookings were done this year. “I had planned a trip with my family in May to Kashmir. Covid cases have been increasing exponentially lately. We decided to cancel it and go when the vaccine is available for everyone. Also, the government decisions have been changing on a day-to-day basis. We don’t want to get stuck. We decided it would be better to travel when there is some clarity and situation stabilises,” said Pratik Arsade, a tourist from the city who was willing to visit Kashmir. “Everyone in the tourism industry has been hit because of this pandemic. Agents, transporters, hoteliers, guides everyone is affected. Many flights have been rescheduled. It has become difficult to coordinate in these uncertain times. We haven’t received any help from the government. Uncertainty has hit this business,” said Vijay Mandlik, tour operator and a member of Association of Domestic Tour Operators of India.Weekend lockdowns at an MTDC resortGiven the Covid restrictions, many prefer nearby sites for family outings. Many also prefer to spend the lockdown weekends at resorts in the hills close to Pune. “Bookings and visits are comparatively less, but we are getting a good response for weekend bookings since the weekend lockdown was declared. We are providing the facility of work from nature. Wifi connection is provided. Also, though restaurants are closed, room service is provided. Many prefer to spend the weekend locked down in MTDC resorts with proximity to nature,” said Deepak Harne, regional manager, Maharshtra Tourism Development Corporation Pune.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cancellations-hit-tourism-industry-hard-as-covid-uncertainty-takes-its-toll-on-bookings-101618141471308.html
11-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan ACB arrests 2 revenue board officials, middleman, more arrests likely||The anti-corruption bureau (ACB) arrested two Rajasthan Administrative Services (RAS) officers serving as revenue board members and recovered ₹80 lakh in cash during Saturday night raids on their houses, said officials. This is the seventh case of corruption among senior RAS officers to have come to light in the past four-months “About ₹80 lakh cash has been found during searches at the house of Meharda and Sharma, located in Vaishali Nagar, Bapu Nagar, Jaipur. Shashi Kant, a broker in the case, has also been arrested under the relevant Sections of Prevention of Corruption Act,” said ACB director general BL Soni. He identified the arrested officers as BL Meharda from the 1996 batch and Sunil Sharma from the 1994 batch. HT has learnt that some other officials could also be involved in the bribery case. The Board of Revenue is the chief controlling revenue authority and the highest Revenue Court of Appeal, Revision and Reference in Rajasthan. It has wide powers and control over all subordinate courts.Sameer Singh, ACB superintendent, Ajmer, said the team acted on intelligence that both the officials in the revenue board, based in Ajmer, took bribes to settle revenue-related matters via agent Shashi Kant. “The Intelligence Wing of the ACB was getting complaints for a long time after which the searches were carried out. Their offices based in Ajmer have also been sealed,” Singh said.Senior journalist Tribhuvan said, “The ‘desire system’ created by the political leaders has added wings to the corruption in the bureaucracy. The corruption which was crawling is now running because of the too much involvement of the ‘desire’ system. If ACB is empowered with more powers including technical, the agency can work even better.” The desire system in Rajasthan refers to the culture of recommending postings of officials in specific areas and associated favouritism.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-acb-arrests-2-revenue-board-officials-middleman-more-arrests-likely-101618141351835.html
11-04-2021||Dehradun||Haridwar all set for second royal bath of Maha Kumbh on Monday||Haridwar is all set for the second royal bath of Maha Kumbh, which will be held on Monday under the Covid-19 protocols amid the alarming situation of coronavirus cases in Uttarakhand.Speaking to ANI, Inspector-general of Police, Haridwar Kumbh Mela, Sanjay Gunjyal said, this year the second and the third royal bath will be held with the interval of one day."The first bath was held on March 11 on the occasion of Mahashivratri, while the second will be held on April 12 and on April 14, the third royal bath will be taken by the 13 Akhadas," the IG said on Sunday.The IG also informed that the processions of the 13 Akhadas will be carried through highways where no vehicular movement will be allowed."There will be zero-zone on the highway and no movement of vehicles will be allowed in the route except the procession," he said.In Bramha Kund, common devotees will be allowed to take bath till 7 am but after that, no one will be allowed as the place will be reserved for the Akhadas. The royal bath continues till the evening.Whereas other devotees are allowed to take Holy dip on other ghats, he added.Uttarakhand reported 1,233 new Covid-19 cases, 317 recoveries and three deaths on Saturday. The total number of the cases stand at 1,07,479 till Saturday.The active cases in the state were 6,241 till Saturday, while the death toll was 1,752. Total recoveries in the state were 97,644.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/haridwar-all-set-for-second-royal-bath-of-maha-kumbh-on-monday-101618140886793.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Over 200 Delhi jail inmates vaccinated against Covid-19 so far||Around 200 eligible inmates of the three jails in the national capital have been vaccinated against the novel coronavirus so far, and none of them has reported any adverse events, officials said on Sunday.A total of 326 inmates in the Delhi's prisons are above 60 years, and over 300 in the 45-59 age bracket with comorbidities. These two categories are eligible for vaccination in the ongoing nationwide drive.Earlier, the Delhi Prisons Department had set up a Covid-19 vaccination centre inside Tihar Jail to vaccinate the inmates. It was set up in the central jail hospital at jail number 3, they said.Director General (Prisons) Sandeep Goel said, "Around 160 inmates in Tihar jail and around 40 in Rohini and Mandoli jails have been vaccinates so far."The vaccination drive for prison inmates started on March 18. The officials said they are sending inmates of Rohini and Mandoli jails to the nearest government vaccination centre under police protection for taking jabs.According to a senior jail official, the family members of eligible inmates were asked to send the required documents through WhatsApp to jail officer's mobile number for the vaccination process."We spoke to the families of the inmates… asked them to send the documents required for the registration through WhatsApp and then vaccinated them," a senior jail official said.None of the inmates who has received the jab reported any complications, the official said.On March 1, the second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive began in the national capital. In the first phase, starting January 16, over 3.6 lakh beneficiaries comprising healthcare workers and frontline workers, were vaccinated in Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/over-200-delhi-jail-inmates-vaccinated-against-covid-19-so-far-101618140940981.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Your space: Steps needed to curb Covid spread||Pune city has reported record rise in Covid cases despite the implementation of curfew. While the authorities are conducting mass vaccination campaigns, what other steps should be taken to check the spread of the deadly virus? Expand vaccination campaign Mass vaccination is the best way to control the pandemic. Of course, masks and social distancing are the first line of defence. The measures that need to be taken include age should be lowered for vaccination as the spread is mainly from the young population; vaccination should be decentralised as states can take the decisions based on the situation in their region; fine should be imposed in public places, malls and shops for not wearing masks instead of imposing it on cars and two-wheelers; If lockdown like situation is necessary, then at least staggered timings should be allowed for businesses to function as personal economy has already crashed for most people. People cannot survive another lockdown. Ankit Rungta Wake up Pune... From chaos to strict lockdowns last year, 2021 felt like waking up after a long nightmare. But it’s high time we pinch ourselves out from a world of wishful thinking and face some harsh realities. Our city is witnessing an alarming spike of Covid infections again. Unfortunately, the spread is way ahead as compared to last year. Please remember that vaccines only work as a shield and boost your natural immunity to fight against the virus more effectively. So, don’t expect the vaccine to save you from infection if you do not follow basic social distancing rules and avoid taking precautions. Even if the government does a 24-hour vaccination drive to reduce the infection spike, it will only show effect if people avoid going out unnecessarily. Lastly, please do not fall prey to spreading rumours and delay getting vaccinated. So, everyone should correct themselves by learning from past experiences and contribute to bringing the infections down. The simplest solution would be to stop blaming our government for everything and practice self-restraint as a first choice. Rahul S Upadhye Increase awareness about the virus The scenario has been changed. Many people have lost their job, their beloved, their business and, most important, their hope from the authorities. If we are looking for a good ambiance of society, the government should not put lockdown on people and should not shut businesses. Let the market open and increase awareness among the public. Eventually everyone has its own value of life. Nobody wants to get infected and die because of the deadly virus. Media can play a big role in it. Amol Patil Strictly follow safety norms I think it’s no more about what steps authorities are taking. It was always and it is still about each individual citizen following the protocols. Even now with so many cases, we see people without masks, or not wearing the masks properly on the streets. This needs to be stopped. Aditya Gund People least bothered about safety norms Night curfew is nothing but a big joke especially in our area. I have not noticed any police patrolling now as they used to do it diligently earlier. Late-night group discussions are still going on as normal, drunk guys swearing at each other at the top of their voice and fighting at odd hours, parked autos being used for notorious activities throughout the night. Vehicles freely plying on the roads. What night curfew are we talking about here? Throughout the day, people roaming around in numbers, without bothering to leave alone wear their masks, they do not even carry them along! Shops/stores being crowded, rampant indiscipline and mismanagement at medical centres, Covid testing facilities in hospitals. How does one save oneself from all this? It’s this mess that once sorted will surely get the cases down. Lockdown will only aggravate the desperation in public eyes leading to various other problems. Jayesh Kale Penalise violators The only thing that should be strictly followed is social distancing and it is not seen in Pimpri-Chinchwad. There is no law and order to see if social distancing is practised in crowded markets. Taking fine is not the option as people need to be punished. There are cases of violators not being given fine receipt. This is wrong. People are suffering because of the reckless behaviour of certain citizens. The economy is hit. Officials should impose severe punishment on those not following rules. Sheetal Jain Effective steps needed to check virus spread The virus spread can be stopped, but only with harsh steps. Human interaction and travel must be reduced by the authorities keeping a strict check on the movement of population. The lockdown needs to be accompanied by aggressive testing with over 70 per cent rate accounting for RT-PCR. In addition to this, there has to be compulsory quarantining and effective contact tracing. Ambulatory services should be increased. Work from home for whoever possible, especially IT and ITES companies, should be enforced and observed and companies should be penalised for violating rules. Neha Rathod Vaccinate all by following the poll method Just like arrangements are made during the polls to set up booth/ballets and other facilities and election is conducted in one day, by using the same techniques each and every person should be vaccinated. As per the current situation, all 60+ years people are vaccinated. The remaining population can be given the jab by setting up spots/centres and the state can be covered in a single day. Sagar Shirbhate Impose lockdown only in affected areas Albeit a curfew has been imposed in the city, carelessness is rampant during the day. Basic measures such as wearing masks and social distancing are not being followed. In my opinion, the authorities should target to discipline people and ensure that basic safety norms are being followed. The curfew has reduced the working hours of businesses, which has resulted in crowding during the day. Although easier said than done, the authorities should focus more on enforcing masks. Another idea is imposing stricter lockdowns, but in smaller areas where cases are peaking. This will not only help in curbing the spread of the disease, but also allow life and business to continue as usual in unaffected areas. Aditya Puranik Jab possible spreaders first While the government has taken several necessary steps to curb the coronavirus cases that are increasing by the day, I feel it is extremely important to vaccinate the ones who interact with numerous people on a daily basis such as shopkeepers, local vendors, cab drivers, hawkers and delivery agents. As the new restrictions are in place, it is crucial to help small businesses, workers and labourers in order to protect their livelihood without putting any lives at stake. Every citizen should do the responsible thing and get vaccinated at the earliest. The vaccination process, as mentioned earlier, should be prioritised for people who identify as the point of mass contact. Sadaf Sultana Civilians should be responsible and vigilant The authorities should run awareness campaigns in slum areas of the city in a bid to educate people about the deteriorating situation, explaining the reason behind the restrictions that are in place and how dangerous the situation of the ongoing pandemic is. They should also set up more Covid screening centres in these areas as they are densely populated and encourage the masses to register for the vaccine. The onus to curb the spread is not just on the authorities. Civilians should also be responsible and vigilant. The act of loitering around unnecessarily should not be encouraged. Everyone should stay indoors for their own well-being and not wait for the arrival of the police patrol to dart inside. If we really want to curb Covid spread, the lockdown like previous year will not work this time. Last year everything about Covid-19 was new to people and they responded to it as a good citizen. Zeba Sayed||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/your-space-steps-needed-to-curb-covid-spread-101618140153722.html
11-04-2021||Other||Violence after Tripura tribal council polls result, prohibitory orders imposed||Within a few hours of the declaration of Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council ( TTAADC) polls on Saturday, the state administration imposed prohibitory orders at different places due to sporadic incidents of post-poll violence. “ ...immediate prevention and speedy remedy are desirable and that there is sufficient ground for imposing restrictions on movement in Mohanpur Sub-division and Jirania Sub-division of West Tripura District to prevent danger to human life, public property and tranquillity,” read the order signed by West district magistrate Dr Shailesh Kumar Yadav. The West district administration imposed Section 144 CrPC at Mohanpur and Jirania subdivisions of West district for 24 hours till Sunday. The order came after reports of sporadic violence at the two subdivisions came after poll results. The police have apprehended worsening of the situation if the required action is not taken immediately. Also read: Former Tripura Congress chief led alliance wins territorial council pollsSimilarly, Khowai and Gomati district administrations have imposed the prohibitory order due to apprehension of movement of miscreants to disturb peace in their respective districts. Khowai district magistrate Smitha Mol imposed prohibitory order at Tulashikhar RD block, Padmabil RD block, Uttar Maharani, Laksha Chandra Para and Duski areas for five hours from Saturday to April 13.Gomati district magistrate imposed Section 144 on Saturday till 6 am on April 12.“ ....there shall not be any assembly of five or more persons at areas mentioned in the schedule below, with or without arms or substances. This order shall come into force w. e. f 21.00 Hours on 10th April 2021 up to 5.00 hours on 13th April 2021,” read a notice signed by Khowai district magistrate Smitha Mol. Gomati district magistrate Dr TK Debnath, in a notice, said, “... there are sufficient grounds to impose restrictions under Section 144 Cr.PC for ensuring peace, tranquillity by preventing designs of anti-social elements and activities of associations inimical to safety and security of the general public... under section 144 Cr.PC, I hereby impose following restrictions w. e. f. 10/04/2021at 09 PM to 12/04/2021 at 06 AM within the entire area under Gomati District”. The prohibitory order restricted assembly of more than five persons with or without arms in these areas. The order would not be applicable for state police, paramilitary personnel, patients, and government employees. Violators would be charged under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. The ruling BJP sought immediate deployment of police personnel in order to safeguard their party activists and their properties. They alleged that some antisocial elements threatened their party activists and destroyed several party offices, shops, establishments in different areas of the state soon after the declaration of the TTAADC poll results. BJP president Dr Manik Saha said,” Many of our party offices are ransacked by the anti-social elements. Our party workers were threatened with dire consequences. We requested the director-general of police to arrange effective enforcement of law and order to maintain peace.” CPM veteran leader and former deputy speaker Pavitra Kar said,” We don’t support any kind of violence. Actually, the state witnessed the culture of poll-violence after tthe BJP and the IPFT formed government in 2018.”Royal scion Pradyot Kishore Debbarma-led TIPRA Motha won the TTAADC polls securing 18 seats out of 28 elected seats. The BJP got 9 seats and one seat was bagged by an independent candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/violence-after-tripura-tribal-council-polls-results-prohibitory-orders-imposed-101618139553157.html
11-04-2021||Kolkata||Bengal's Sitalkuchi village plunges in gloom as firing victims taken for burial||A pall of gloom prevailed at Jorepatki village on Sunday as the bodies of four persons, who died when CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, were taken for burial by the bereaved families.Wreaths were laid on the bodies, draped in Trinamool Congress flags, by the party's district president Partha Pratim Roy at a ground near the school premises where the incident of firing had taken place.The four people who were killed in CISF firing during the fourth phase of polling at a booth in Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar district on Saturday hailed from the village.Wearing black badges, villagers and relatives of the deceased went around the village with the bodies to protest the deaths. Tension was palpable in the area as people holding black flags walked in a procession with the bodies.Claiming that the central forces opened fire on people, who were standing in a queue outside the booth at Jorepatki school, the villagers demanded justice and action against those responsible for the incident.Earlier in the day, Mamata Banerjee spoke to kin of the deceased over phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-sitalkuchi-village-plunges-in-gloom-as-firing-victims-taken-for-burial-101618139141630.html
11-04-2021||Lucknow||Amid surge in Covid-19 cases, UP closes schools for Classes 1 to 12 till Apr 30||The Uttar Pradesh government on Sunday announced all government and private schools for Classes 1 to 12 along with coaching centres will remain closed till April 30. The decision was taken due to the surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. The state government said exams will be conducted according to schedule and that all teaching and non-teaching staff will continue attending their respective institutions.Uttar Pradesh recorded its highest single-day surge of Covid-19 cases on Saturday when the state recorded 12,787 fresh infections, which took its tally to caseload to 676,739. The state capital of Lucknow also reported a record rise in cases as 4059 new cases to the state’s active Covid-19 case tally to 102,963.Uttar Pradesh joins Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, which have ordered schools to be closed for most of April amid rising Covid-19 cases. All educational institutions in Himachal Pradesh will remain closed until April 21, the state government announced on Friday. Madhya Pradesh also ordered the closure of schools till April 15 but is likely to extend the date as several districts will remain under lockdown till April 22 as the state witnesses a surge in Covid-19 cases.Rajasthan government suspended schools for Classes 1 to 9 at schools from April 5 to April 19 and also suspended classes in colleges barring only final-year students, who will be allowed to take practical exams following prior approval from their parents. Schools were closed in Chhattisgarh on March 22 and the government has not conveyed any date for the reopening of the schools.The Jharkhand government closed schools allowing only online classes but permitted students of Class 10 and 12 to attend classes after receiving prior permission from their parents. The Bihar government on Friday ordered the closure of schools because of the surge in the cases of Covid-19 as chief minister Nitish Kumar deferred opening them until April 18. The Haryana government has closed schools till April 30 for students till Class 8. The Delhi government also ordered all schools to be shut due to a rise in Covid-19 cases until further orders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-up-closes-schools-for-classes-1-to-12-till-apr-30-101618137923500.html
11-04-2021||Patna||Bihar ramps up Covid-19 vaccination as part of 'Tika Utsav'||As 'Tika Utsav' was announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to intensify the fight against Covid-19, Bihar has ramped up its efforts to increase inoculation and the state authorities have urged people to get themselves vaccinated during the four-day programme.A 'Tika Utsav' or vaccine festival is organised in the country from today to inoculate a maximum number of eligible people against the coronavirus amid a worrying surge in cases."On the birthdays of two great personalities: Jyotirao Phule and Dr BR Ambedkar, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has begun this vaccination drive against coronavirus. During this festival, a larger number of people will be vaccinated, especially the underprivileged," Santosh Kumar from Gardiner Road Hospital, Patna said."In order to maintain social distancing, we have created three different vaccination booths within the hospital along with proper water facilities and sitting areas for the people," he added,Earlier today, Prime Minister Narendra Modi in a tweet said: "We are going to begin 'Tika Utsav' today nationwide. I urge countrymen to abide by four things - assist those who need help getting inoculated, help people in Covid-19 treatment, wear masks and motivate others and if someone tests positive, create a micro-containment zone in the area." According to the Union health ministry, Delhi has 26,631 active cases in the national capital. In the highest single-day spike, India reported more than 1.52 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. This is the fifth consecutive day when more than one lakh cases have been reported in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-ramps-up-covid-19-vaccination-as-part-of-tika-utsav-101618136311201.html
11-04-2021||Kolkata||Fake job outlets spreading via social media in Kolkata, cops issue warning||The Kolkata Police has in the last month arrested as many as seven people in connection with fraud job portals duping young job-seekers with fake assurances of lucrative work opportunities abroad, a report by Hindustan Times’ Bangla outlet has said. The Kolkata Police headquarters at Lalbazar has issued a warning against such fraud portals and websites that are getting increasingly common in the city, the report added.According to the police, these scamsters earlier used to lure in potential job-seekers with fake assurances of government jobs in various central and state government-related public services. However, since people have grown more aware of spotting fake government job offers, these counterfeit job rackets have now started using prospective jobs in the private sector, often promising lucrative salaries within the country or abroad, as bait. In March, a number of 'tech-savvy' youngsters fell prey and lost lakhs worth of money to these scams that use social media to propagate these fraud portals.The Kolkata Police have asked citizens, especially the youth, to be on the lookout for such fake job outlets, which usually ask for money from the applicants after conducting a perfunctory 'interview’, according to the report. According to a Kolkata Police official, the report said, that such money transfer requests, on the pretext of 'security deposit' or 'medical exams', often serve as red flags for spotting these fraud outlets, since very rarely do any actual job portals ask for so. The police have urged applicants to not send money willingly to these outlets, even if their websites seem very real, as they may even send counterfeit offer letters to drive in the scam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/fake-job-outlets-spreading-via-social-media-in-kolkata-cops-issue-warning-101618132778989.html
11-04-2021||Patna||Bihar dumps action plan on climate change, waits for newer version||Chief minister Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government may have allocated a huge budget to ‘Jal Jivan Haryali’ scheme - an ambitious programme to fight the unpredictability of weather - but it is going too slow to frame a comprehensive action plan to deal with the issues of climate change and its devastating impact on natural resources. While experts blamed the lack of an institutional framework for the implementation of the action plan, others said the Covid-19 pandemic dampened many efforts. Principal secretary, department of forest, environment and climate change, Dipak Kumar Singh, said that the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) had been tasked to prepare the action plan on climate change. “We hope to get the action plan by the year-end,” said Singh. The proposed plan aims to make Bihar a carbon-neutral state by 2040,” said an official. Chief minister Nitish Kumar, during the conclave of eastern zone states on climate change in 2018, termed the issue crucial for Bihar, particularly in view of the continued decline in rains, and asked the department of forest and environment to get a climate action plan in place so that the emission of greenhouse gases could be curtailed significantly. He had also favoured setting up a fully equipped climate change cell in the department. Although a separate cell to deal with climate change issues was set up within the forest and environment department in 2019, its technical wing (a unit of the cell that comprises technical staff, analysts and researchers) is yet to be constituted for want of recruitment of suitable candidates. Head of the climate cell wing, Santosh Tiwari, said that the recruitment process was hampered due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Moved by the CM’s resolve, the department of forest and environment, which got added with climate change mandate on the Centre’s direction in the light of Paris declaration at the United Nations conference of climate change in 2015, teamed up with the United Kingdom government agency, Department for International Development (DFID) and prepared the five-year action plan for climate change (2020-25). The DFID had submitted the draft action plan by 2019-end to the state government, suggesting various strategies, including plans to strengthen the agricultural value chain to ensure a handsome return to farmers of their produce, desiltation strategy of Kosi to enhance is water retention capacity, development of agriculture-based industries, productive use of rivers’ silt, promotion of bamboo farming, etc, to help people tide over the climate challenges. But the same was not approved by the government and was later withdrawn. Climate expert Abhishek Pratap said that the state government lacked an institutional framework to implement the action plan and empower its machinery to act diligently. “Framing of policies or plans would not help until followed up with action. The state might not be grappling with climate crisis had it been woken to the issues of conservation of environment earlier,” said Pratap.• DFID had submitted a draft action plan on climate change to the state government in 2019• State forest and climate change department set up a special wing on climate change in 2019• Bihar govt signed MoU with UNEP for climate resilience and carbon check strategy in 2021• Proposed action plan, being framed by UNEP, will aim to make Bihar carbon neutral by 2040• Kosi desilting, strengthening of agri value chain, proposed by earlier plan, remain non-starter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-dumps-action-plan-on-climate-change-waits-for-newer-version-101618134151529.html
11-04-2021||Bhopal||Possibility of lockdown in Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan weighs in||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday imposing a lockdown is not a solution to control the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, which reported a record spike in infections on Saturday taking its tally over 332,000. “A lockdown is not a solution to Covid-19. Whatever restrictions have been put in place at the local level is a corona curfew and not a lockdown. Essential services are unobstructed in the state," Chouhan said, according to news agency ANI.Shivraj Singh Chouhan also said his government is making “relentless efforts” to fight the pandemic and sought support from the people of the state. "If we have to combat the infection, we have to be aware first," he was quoted as saying by ANI.Also watch | Shivraj Singh Chouhan declares 60-hour weekend lockdown in all MP citiesChouhan said on Saturday the number of active Covid-19 cases, which currently stands at 32,707, in the state might reach 100,000 by the end of April. "The way there is a spike in coronavirus infection cases, the number of active cases in Madhya Pradesh may reach one lakh by the end of this month. We will try to stop this in the middle as we have started adopting some measures, including lockdown," the Madhya Pradesh chief minister told reporters.Rising Covid-19 casesMadhya Pradesh reported 4,986 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, the state's highest single-day spike, which have pushed its infection count to 332,206, said an official.The state’s death toll rose to 4160 after 24 Covid-19 patients succcumbed in the last 24 hours, the official said. Madhya Pradesh has added 36,695 cases and 174 deaths to its tally in April so far. The Covid-19 caseload in Indore stands at 77,592, followed by 57,334 infections in the capital city of Bhopal."With 912 new cases, Indore's caseload went up to 77,592 and Bhopal's rose to 57,334 with the addition of 736 cases. Indore reported five deaths during the day, taking its toll to 994. Bhopal's toll rose by one to touch 645. Indore and Bhopal have 7,425 and 5,088 active cases respectively," an official was quoted as saying by PTI.Measures against coronavirus diseaseOn Saturday, Madhya Pradesh announced several measures, including lockdowns in several districts, to contain the rising cases of the coronavirus disease. The lockdown was extended till April 22 in Jabalpur city and Balaghat, Narsinghpur and Seoni districts. Madhya Pradesh’s additional chief secretary (home) Rajesh Rajora said that collectors in these districts will soon issue orders related to the lockdown.“The lockdown will be in force in Indore city, Rau, Mhow, Shajapur city and some districts like Ujjain, Barwani, Rajgarh and Vidisha till 6am on April 19. Lockdown will be in force from April 12 till the morning of April 22 in Balaghat, Narsinghpur and Seoni districts as well as Jabalpur city, and orders under section 144 of CrPC will be issued by respective collectors soon,” Rajora was quoted as saying by news agency PTI.Also read | Indore lockdown: 3-hour relaxation to buy essentials, people visit marketsBharatiya Janata Party (BJP) lawmaker Shankar Lalwani said the lockdown in Indore, which was initially scheduled to end on Monday, April 12, has now been extended till 6am on April 19. Lalwani said vegetable and milk shops in the city will remain open from 7am to 10pm and that grocery and medical stores will also remain open during the lockdown. The BJP leader said Indore’s situation is worrisome as compared to other cities and districts in the state. "Home isolation has been encouraged because last time when we did home isolation then around 3,000 people were able to avail facilities. We will issue a protocol for who should be home isolated and who should be hospitalised," he said, according to news agency ANI.Covid care centres, RemdesivirThe government has also ramped up other ways to tackle the viral disease. Chouhan said on Saturday the state government has decided to open Covid Care Centres in all the districts due to the rise in cases, adding that officials in Bhopal and Indore are trying to identify buildings, where such facilities could be set up. The supply of oxygen for medical purposes has been maintained in the state, he added. The state government is also making arrangements for ventilators, he said. "We will soon get 350 ventilators from the Centre," Chouhan was quoted as saying by PTI.A senior Madhya Pradesh official on Sunday that said a sizeable batch of Remdesivir, a drug considered useful in the treatment of the infection, has arrived and will be distributed to medical facilities as per requirement. "A total of 4,000 vials have been received in Indore on Saturday. They will be supplied to government medical institutions as per requirement. An additional 4,000 vials have been received for use in private medical facilities," P Narhari, an official with the MP Food and Drug Administration, said on Sunday.Also read | India records over 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases: Here are 10 worst affected statesAccording to the Union ministry of health and family welfare, Madhya Pradesh is among the 10 states—Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan—which have shown a steep rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases. These 10 states account for 80.92 per cent of the new infections reported in a span of 24 hours, the health ministry added.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/possibility-of-lockdown-in-madhya-pradesh-shivraj-singh-chouhan-weighs-in-101618133191669.html
11-04-2021||Bhopal||8000 Remdesivir vials have arrived, says Madhya Pradesh official as cases surge||Amid a surge in coronavirus cases and a clamour for Remdesivir, a drug considered useful in the treatment of the infection, a senior Madhya Pradesh official on Sunday said a sizable batch of the drug has arrived and will be distributed to medical facilities as per requirement.Several areas in the state are witnessing people queueing up outside medical stores for the drug, with some of them, agitated at not getting it, blocking a road in Indore for a brief while on April 9."A total of 4,000 vials have been received in Indore on Saturday. They will be supplied to government medical institutions as per requirement. An additional 4,000 vials have been received for use in private medical facilities," P Narhari, Controller, MP Food and Drug Administration, said on Sunday."It expected that 10,000 vials, 5,000 each for private and government hospitals, will be received on Sunday," he added.Madhya Pradesh recorded 4,986 fresh coronavirus cases on Saturday, its biggest single-day spike, which pushed the infection count to 3,32,206.The caseload in Indore stands at 77,592, followed by 57,334 in capital Bhopal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/8000-remdesivir-vials-have-arrived-says-madhya-pradesh-official-as-cases-surge-101618132427001.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Eligible kin vaccinated, can apply for rebate in property tax: North Delhi mayor||The owner of a residential house and his or her eligible family members who have received anti-coronavirus vaccine can apply to avail additional rebate in payment of property tax, North Delhi Mayor Jai Prakash said on Saturday.The mayor said a circular was issued on Friday in anticipation of approval of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation."According to the circular, owners or taxpayers of residential properties only, will have special incentive of getting a further rebate of 5 per cent in payment of property tax, over and above the 15 per cent rebate enjoyed on timely payment of the annual tax if they are eligible for vaccination and vaccinated, and so are their eligible family members," he said.Such owners will have to furnish copies of vaccination certificates of all members to avail the scheme, which is applicable with immediate effect, the circular said.It is available only till June 30, the mayor said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/eligible-kin-vaccinated-can-apply-for-rebate-in-property-tax-north-delhi-mayor-101618132618058.html
11-04-2021||Jaipur||2 Rajasthan police constables killed in firing by suspected drug peddlers||Two Rajasthan police constables were killed in two incidents of firing by suspected poppy husk smugglers in Bhilwara on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday, said police officials. The incidents of firing took place four hours apart at police barricades at Kotdi and Raika respectively. The accused have not been arrested so far.Vikas Sharma, superintendent of police (SP), Bhilwara, said barricades were put at Kotdi police station area first following intelligence input of movement of suspected drugs peddlers.“The Kotdi police received input that a good quantity of poppy husk was being smuggled in a SUV and some cars were escorting it. Around 10.45 pm barricading was done near Charbhuja Nath Crossroads, where four policemen were present for checking. Some ten minutes later, four cars in a row arrived at the barricade. When one of our constables, Omkar Singh Raika (21), approached the car for checking, one of the occupants started firing. Four bullets were fired at the constable and other policemen before the suspect escaped,” he said.One of the four rounds hit Raika on the chest; he was rushed to the hospital but declared brought dead. Later, barricading was done across all the important points of the city, he added.“There were probably seven to eight accused in four cars. At 2.45 am early Sunday, the same four vehicles crossed a police patrol near the barricade put up at Rayla police station area on the Ajmer state highway. Both the accused and the police exchanged multiple-rounds of fire, resulting in constable Pawan Chaudhary, in his twenties, getting hit above the waist by a bullet. He died while he was being taken for treatment,” added Sharma.Superintendent of police (SP) Vikas Sharma and inspector general of police (IGP) Ajmer range S Sengathir visited both the incident spots and are presently camping in Bhilwara. All police stations of the district were put on alert at night. On Sunday afternoon, officials of the special operation group (SOG) also reached the spot.Another police official familiar with the developments said, “The vehicles have moved towards Beawar in Ajmer. Police teams are camping in Rajsamand, Bhilwara and Ajmer. Intelligence has been gathered from Chittorgarh and Pratapgarh, hotbed of opium cultivation and poppy-husk smuggling. One of the cars used by the suspects was found abandoned near Rayla. It had multiple fake number plates. We will catch the accused soon.”Rashtriya Loktantrik Party convener and Nagaur MP Hanuman Beniwal said the strict action must be taken for the “pure intelligence failure” of Bhilwara police and the state government. He also met the relatives of the killed police personnel and demanded immediate relief from the state government.“At present there are a dozen ministers and 40 MLAs of Rajasthan government in Bhilwara district. Apart from this, many ministers and MPs of the Central government are also roaming here. Despite this, the police machinery of Bhilwara district has been negligent,” said Beniwal referring to the ongoing campaigning by political leaders for the April 17 assembly by-polls on the Sahara assembly constituency in Bhilwara.State Congress spokesperson Archana Sharma said “opposition and Beniwal were doing politics over the issue. However, the accused will not be spared.”In Rajasthan, the Central Bureau of Narcotics has allowed regulated opium cultivation in two districts of Chittorgarh and Pratapgarh. Smugglers trade in poppy husks known as ‘Doda’, which is leftover once the milk has been extracted from the plant. In northern and western Rajasthan, ‘Doda’ has a big market among labourers, daily-wage workers, truck drivers and farm workers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/2-rajasthan-police-constables-killed-in-firing-by-suspected-drug-peddlers-101618132711479.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Badal wants CM Amarinder resignation, accuses him of aiding BJP||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday said Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh should resign for compromising the interests of the state by being hand in glove with the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Centre in punishing the farmers protesting against the three agricultural laws.The SAD president who was addressing a press conference when queried also disclosed that the Punjab and Haryana high court order quashing the SIT formed by the Congress government in the Kotkapura police firing case had made it clear that the chief minister was not interested in finding the guilty but was using the case to implicate the Badal family. He said it was now clear that the SIT was formed to indulge in political vendetta.Stating that the chief minister had sold off the interests of the State to the BJP, Sukhbir Badal said "forget fighting for the rights of the State, Capt Amarinder does not even raise the issues affecting the people of the State with the central government".He said the chief minister had time and again agreed with all the anti-farmer steps taken by the central government.Badal said the Kisan Andolan would not have started if CM Amarinder had taken prompt action when the Agricultural Ordinances were being framed.He said at that time the chief minister was part of the committee in which the Ordinances were discussed."Later when an opportunity arose to repeal the three Agricultural Acts in the Punjab assembly the chief minister proposed amendments in the Acts instead of rejecting them altogether," he said.Badal said recently the chief minister indulged in a drama of opposing the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) scheme which he had agreed in writing to implement from this year."Amarinder even assured farmers and 'arhatiyas' that the scheme would not be implemented in Punjab but the ministerial team led by finance minister Manpreet Badal meekly surrendered before the centre in its meeting with Food and Public Distribution minister Piyush Goyal," he said in a press release.He said the chief minister had similarly also surrendered before the centre on the issue of seeking rightful compensation of ₹800 crore to the State on account of Rural Development Fund (RDF)."It is the State's right to impose taxes and the chief minister should not allow the centre to infringe on the State's powers in a federal set up," he said.He also castigated the chief minister for not opposing the increase in fertilizer prices, stating the latter's unholy tie-up with the BJP government was affecting the very livelihood of the farming community.Badal said it was a matter of record that the chief minister had not met the Prime Minister even once to get the problems of the farmers resolved."Punjabis have been left to their plight. In such a situation Amarinder has lost the moral right to continue in his chair. He should resign immediately," he added.Badal also appealed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to hold a meeting with farmer organizations and resolve all their grievances including repealing the three Agricultural laws.He also demanded that the Congress government take appropriate measures for the smooth procurement of wheat.He said the seizure of three truckloads of wheat brought from outside the State yesterday indicated that like during the last paddy season, Congress ministers would also bring cheap wheat from outside the State to be procured on MSP here. "We will not allow such malpractices and will oppose them tooth and nail", he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/badal-wants-cm-amarinder-resignation-accuses-him-of-aiding-bjp-101618131404933.html
11-04-2021||Patna||Bihar: Half of Muzaffarpur district faces acute water crisis||Almost half of the population of Muzaffarpur is facing acute water crisis as the water level in the district has gone down by 25 to 30 feet from the normal level.The people from eight out of the total 17 blocks have to roam from one water source to another in search of water as even hand pumps in the area have gone dry or draw water with a lot of difficulty.The condition is worse in areas situated along the rivers passing through the district, especially Burhi Gandak. Even under the limits of Muzaffarpur Municipal Corporation, five to six wards are reeling under acute water shortage.Sarita Devi (45) of a village under the Sakra block in eastern part of the district says the condition is same with the start of summer every year. “We have become used to of this situation for the last 10 years. We have approached officials in the block and the district, to no avail,” she says.Surendra Kumar (52) of Muraul block says it gets worse in peak summer. “It is just the start of the April. You can imagine the situation we have to face in May and June before the onset of monsoon,” he says, adding that it was surprising since the region saw plenty of rainfall, much above normal, last season.“Hand pumps have been running dry since mid-March,” he says.David Dwivedi, executive engineer of public health and engineering department (PHED), agrees the problem is serious. “We did a survey in mid-March and found that the water level has dipped by 25 to 30 feet in eight blocks of the district. It will go down further to 40 feet. We have alerted officials from our department at the block level to start a survey of hand pumps, which have gone dry. They have been asked to set up a team, which will visit door to door to carry out repairing works of such pumps,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-half-of-muzaffarpur-district-faces-acute-water-crisis-101618131380313.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra to set up control rooms for smooth supply of Remdesivir||The Maharashtra government has decided to set up district-level control rooms to ensure smooth supply of Remdesivir injections and prevent hoarding and black-marketing of the drug, officials said on Sunday.Remdesivir is considered a key medicine in the fight against Covid-19, especially in adult patients with severe complications.The state is facing multiple issues pertaining to the drug, like demand-supply gap, its hoarding and black-marketing by stockists and pharmacy shops, unaffordable prices and irrational prescription by some doctors.Maharashtra's health services commissioner Ramaswami N, in a letter dated April 9, has written to all district collectors in the state to set up control rooms to streamline the supply of the key anti-viral drug.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray recently reviewed the situation with state Health Minister Rajesh Tope, Medical Education Minister Amit Deshmukh, Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Minister Rajendra Shingne and Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde.The government has asked authorities to cap the price of Remdesivir between ₹1,100 and ₹1,400 per vial and urged about a dozen pharmaceutical companies manufacturing the drug to ramp-up its production and lower its MRP (maximum retail price).It has also asked the health services commissioner to put in place a separate mechanism to streamline the supply of Remdesivir, in the wake of a rise in its demand due to a surge in Covid-19 cases.Ramaswami, who is also the state's mission director of the National Health Mission, has directed the FDA to contact the state-level control room and take appropriate action, if needed, in case of any issue regarding the supply of the medicine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-to-set-up-control-rooms-for-smooth-supply-of-remdesivir-101618126289774.html
11-04-2021||Bangalore||PM suggest Yediyurappa to focus on micro containment zones to control Covid||Karnataka Chief Minister B S Yediyurappa on Sunday said Prime Minister Narendra Modi has suggested focusing on micro containment zones to contain the spread of Covid-19 infection in the state.The Chief Minister who spoke to the Prime Minister Sunday said that the latter also appreciated the state government's efforts."Spoke to Hon'ble Prime Minister Shri @narendramodi ji and apprised him about the measures being taken in the state to mitigate second wave of pandemic. PM appreciated the government's efforts and suggested to focus on micro containment zones to contain the spread of infection," Yediyurappa tweeted.Following the video conference with Modi, Yediyurappa on Thursday had announced a corona curfew between 10 PM to 5 AM in seven district centres of the state along with Manipal, from April 10 to 20, aimed at controlling the spread of Covid-19.The state has seen a spike in Covid cases since the beginning of this month and is reporting nearly 7,000 fresh cases per day for the last couple of days.As of last evening, the total number of active cases in the state stood at 61,653.The Chief Minister also appealed to the people, those eligible, to get vaccinated."Vaccine is the biggest weapon available to us in this battle against Covid-19. I urge all eligible citizens to get vaccinated and also encourage people around you to get vaccinated. Let us continue to stay protected by wearing masks and following social distance," he said in another tweet.As suggested by the Prime Minister at Thursday's videoconferencing with various Chief Ministers, the state government is organising vaccination drives from April 11- Jyotiba Phule's birthday till April 14- Ambedkar's birthday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/pm-suggest-yediyurappa-to-focus-on-micro-containment-zones-to-control-covid-101618125728788.html
11-04-2021||Indore||Indore lockdown: 3-hour relaxation to buy essentials, people visit markets||District administration has allowed Indore residents to go to the market for essentials like groceries and milk in the 7 am to 10 am window.Today, though people went out to buy the daily supplies, no crowd was seen in the market."The leniency window must be extended. This will prevent the market place to be crowded. Rich people stock up but what about the poor like us who have to earn and then eat daily. The prices are also going up due to the lockdown," a local woman said."The need to impose a lockdown suggests the failure of government in curbing the spread of the infection. Lockdown is not a solution for anything. Businesses are already suffering, I myself am a businessman and know how hard the year has been for us," Sanjay Gupta, a local resident, said."The lockdown seems to be an attempt to cover up their failures. I also don't see any logic in giving relaxations so early in the morning," Gupta added.Another local Ramesh lauded the government's decision to impose the lockdown and hoped it would control the spread of the infection immensely."If people get enough time to buy their daily essentials, the decision is good," Ramesh said.Naushad, a shopkeeper, complained that the relaxation time is too short."If we sell during these three hours, when will we go to refill our stock. There must be relaxations twice daily," he said."Prices are increasing in the wholesale market, we are getting goods at higher prices, but customers accuse us of black marketing, it is better that we keep the shops closed," Naushad lamented.The lockdown currently underway in Indore, which was initially scheduled to end on Monday, i.e. April 12, has now been extended till 6:00 am on April 19, said BJP MP Shankar Lalwani.Lalwani said this was decided in a meeting of the Indore District Crisis Management Committee chaired by Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday.He further said that vegetable and milk shops in the city will remain open from 7:00 am to 10:00 pm, adding that grocery and medical stores will also continue to remain open during the lockdown.Lalwani said that the situation of Indore is worrisome as compared to other cities and districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-lockdown-3-hour-relaxation-to-buy-essentials-people-visit-markets-101618125299925.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||AAP calls for ‘vaccine nationalism’ to control worst wave of Covid-19 till now||Aam Aadmi Party's Raghav Chadha on Saturday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi regarding the urgent need for “vaccine universalisation and vaccine nationalism.” He also urged the government to reassess its vaccination policy and include younger citizens in the inoculation drive.“I urge the Government of India to adopt `Vaccine Nationalism', and prioritise vaccinating the entire 135 crore in India before earning trivial international laurels. Do not let vaccination centre shut while doses are being flown out of the country,” Chadha wrote to the Prime Minister in the letter cited by news agency ANI.The AAP leader accused the Centre of prioritising the international community over Indian citizens in terms of providing the vaccines. He claimed that the nation is facing an acute shortage of Covid-19 shots with thousands of vaccination centres being shut for want of doses. “Several states have run out of stocks of vaccines and remaining states have stocks left only for 3 to 5 days,” Chadha said.The AAP legislator wrote that the central government claims that Pakistan has only exported terrorism to India and yet, “we are exporting life-saving vaccines to Pakistan.”The Vice Chairman of Delhi Jal Board reiterated his party's request to open vaccination for all adults as opposed to making only the elderly, more vulnerable, and frontline workers eligible for the shot in the first three phases of the Covid-19 immunisation programme.The AAP leader added that while other nations were stockpiling jabs for their own citizens, India, despite being a manufacturer of world class vaccines, is gleefully exporting it. “We need vaccines now more than ever, as Governments successively impose further and further restrictions on free movement in their States in a desperate bid to contain what is potentially the worst wave of Covid-19 till now,” he wrote in the letter to PM Modi.As in the current phase all those above 45 years of age can get the vaccine, Raghav Chadha wrote, “While adopting Vaccine Nationalism, please also keep in mind 'Vaccine Universalisation'. I appeal to Government of India to not regard youngsters as expendable collateral damage in the Government's diplomatic moves. The Fundamental Right to health is not the reserve of just the old and the ailing.”Raghav Chadha wrote to the Prime Minister a day before the nation kick-started the ‘Tika Utsav’ (vaccination festival) to inoculate as many eligible citizens as possible over the next four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aap-calls-for-vaccine-nationalism-to-control-worst-wave-of-covid-19-till-now-101618123590958.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi breaks all records in daily Covid-19 cases, Kejriwal rules out lockdown||National capital Delhi broke all records in number of Covid-19 cases recorded in a 24-hour span, when 10,732 fresh infections were recorded on Sunday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal termed this as a serious situation and urged the people of Delhi to be careful."Today, in a 24-hour span, Delhi recorded 10,732 cases. This will be published in the health bulletin which will be released in the evening. This shows how rapidly Covid-19 has spread in the national capital," Kejriwal said at a press conference."Till mid-March, Delhi was reporting less than 200 new cases of the infection in a 24-hour span. Yesterday, it recorded 7,897 new cases. Before that, the number was over 8,500," he added.The situation is worrying, the chief minister said, adding that the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government is keeping an eye on the situation. Kejriwal once again ruled out a lockdown, saying it should only be imposed if the hospital system collapses.On November 11, 2020, Delhi recorded 8,593 infections, which was the highest single-day spike in the national capital till now.Delhi is among the 10 states and union territories (UTs) which have been showing an upward trajectory of daily new Covid-19 cases. The Union health ministry said that these states account for more than 80% of new cases.Delhi's positivity rate - proportion of samples that test positive - has reached 10.21%, more than double the World Health Organization's (WHO) acceptable limit of 5%. WHO experts said that positivity rate of more than 5% shows that the infection is becoming unmanageable.The city recorded 77,374 tests on Saturday as compared to 89,334 tests conducted daily on average over the last seven days. The daily number of tests crossed the 100,000 mark twice within the week.The Delhi government has prohibited all types of gatherings, reduced size of weddings and funerals, and halved the capacity of public transport as part of restrictions to control the spread of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-breaks-all-records-in-daily-covid-19-cases-kejriwal-rules-our-lockdown-101618123575013.html
11-04-2021||Bangalore||K'taka: RTC employees strike enters 5th day, bus services continue to be hit||Bus services remained largely hit across Karnataka on Sunday too, as strike by employees of the road transport corporations on wage related issues, entered its fifth day.With a stalemate between the government and employees of the four transport corporations in the state, over their demand for wages as per the 6th Pay Commission continuing, majority workers did not turn up for work, resulting in buses remaining off road, affecting commuters.Amid threats of tough action, "no work no pay", few RTC employees have returned to work and are operating buses on some routes in the city, along with police escort, and similar reports are emerging from few other places in the state, officials said.Though the number of commuters waiting for buses at bus stands remained scarce, today being Sunday, those wanting to travel to their native for celebrating Ugadi on Tuesday are affected.Private buses, mini buses, maxi cabs and other passenger transport vehicles, whom authorities have roped in to manage the crisis and help commuters, were seen providing services to passengers in different parts of the city and the state.People were using their own vehicles or were seen using cabs, Metro and autorickshaws, especially in the city areas.Metro has increased the frequency of its services between 7 AM and 9 PM.RTCs that have been warning employees about continuing with the strike, have started taking actions against trainee employees and are issuing notice for absence from work.Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) said it has decided not to consider requests for inter corporation transfers of employees who are instigating, threatening colleagues for strike and are hindering bus services, thereby causing inconvenience to the public.Also employees who have been given such transfers, have been warned that it will be cancelled and that they will be posted to their original place on failing to attend duty immediately, KSRTC tweeted.Citing inconvenience caused to the public and that the strike was against provisions of the industrial disputes act, the Labour department on Friday had issued an order banning the strike.The dispute has been referred to the industrial tribunal, Bengaluru for adjudication, it had said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/ktaka-rtc-employees-strike-enters-5th-day-bus-services-continue-to-be-hit-101618123326719.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Anil Deshmukh's staff questioned by CBI in probe over Param Bir Singh’s allegations||Former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s staff was on Sunday questioned by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with corruption allegations levelled against him by ex-Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.The members of Deshmukh's staff who have been questioned by the federal investigation agency are his personal assistants (PAs) Palande and Kundan.Param Bir Singh alleged in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray that Anil Deshmukh told Sachin Vaze, Mumbai Police officer arrested in Mukesh Ambani bomb scare case, to collect ₹100 crore a month from restaurants and bars in Mumbai. The former home minister has denied the allegations. He resigned on April 5, hours after the Bombay high court ordered a federal probe into allegations against him.The Maharashtra government and Anil Deshmukh filed a plea against a CBI probe in the Supreme Court, which was dismissed by the top court saying the allegations against the former minister are serious and require a CBI probe.The CBI team, which is in Mumbai to conduct a preliminary enquiry into the allegations as directed by the Bombay high court, on Friday also recorded the statements of a bar owner and Sachin Vaze. The officials of the central agency visited the office of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) to record Vaze’s statement the third day in a row, following which Vaze was sent to judicial custody by the special NIA court.“The owner of a bar and restaurant in Kandivali area was questioned twice by the NIA and his detailed statements were recorded when the agency learnt that he was allegedly collecting monthly collection (money) from other restaurant owners on behalf of a former police officer,” a senior NIA official told HT.“[The bar owner’s] statement was recorded to corroborate the allegation made by Singh,” a CBI official said, refusing to elaborate. The agency we will also record statements of other bar owners to verify the facts, an official said.The federal agency also recorded Param Bir Singh’s statement on April 8, a day after Sachin Vaze tried to submit a letter to the special court in which he stated that Anil Deshmukh and state transport minister Anil Parab had asked him to extort money from businessmen and establishments.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/anil-deshmukh-s-staff-questioned-by-cbi-in-probe-over-param-bir-singh-s-allegations-101618120283180.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Police officer Riyaz Kazi arrested by NIA, agency says he helped Sachin Vaze in Antilia bomb scare conspiracy||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested Mumbai Police officer Riyaz Kazi in connection with the Antilia bomb scare case. The agency said that Kazi helped Sachin Vaze, who has already been arrested by the NIA in the same case.Like Vaze, Kazi was also an Assistant Police Inspector in the Crime Intelligence Unit. Sachin Vaze is also being investigated in connection with the death of Thane businessman Mansukh Hiran, who was fund dead in a creek on March 5.Hiran’s Scorpio was allegedly used by Vaze to plant explosives outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence Antilia on February 25. He was arrested by the NIA on March 13.The NIA took over both the cases last month from the Maharashtra Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) last month, following orders from the Union home ministry.It has recorded the statements of more than 40 people, including former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and two deputy commissioners as well as a dozen cops from the crime intelligence unit, in connection with the Antilia case.Singh was transferred from his role as Mumbai's police commissioner for his handling of the case.Two people have also been arrested in connection with Hiran's death.Vaze planted the explosives in front of Antilia allegedly to prove his worth to Mumbai Police. Vaze was suspended for three years, from 2004 to 2007. He left the police in 2007. He was reinstated in 2020.Vaze, who has been suspended, has denied any wrongdoing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-police-officer-riyaz-kazi-arrested-by-nia-agency-says-he-helped-sachin-vaze-in-antilia-bomb-scare-conspiracy-101618120581875.html
11-04-2021||Lucknow||No more than 5 people allowed at a time to enter religious places in UP||In view of the surge in Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath on Saturday directed officers to ensure that no more than 5 people are allowed to enter a religious place at a time."The state has better resources and experience to contain the spread of Covid-19. Covid management should be used effectively. Integrated command and control centres are installed in all districts which should be used optimally and effectively to combat pandemic," Adityanath said.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister directed officers to ensure that no more than 5 people are allowed to enter a religious place at a time.The Chief Minister said that movement in the containment zones should be strictly prohibited. Along with this, the doorstep delivery system should be effectively operated to provide the necessary materials to the citizens in the Containment Zones. This action should be monitored through an integrated command and control centre. He directed to make monitoring committees active and said that monitoring committees should also be taken for movement control in the Containment Zones.Meanwhile, Moradabad Municipal Corporation on Sunday night conducted a sanitation drive at public places during night curfew."The drive is being conducted at the railway station, bus stand, markets and other places that see high footfall during the day," said Corporation Commissioner Sanjay Chauhan.The Uttar Pradesh government has ordered 50 per cent work-force in government and private offices in 4 districts in the state including Lucknow Kanpur, Prayagraj and Varanasi, in view of the rising Covid cases. The remaining 50 per cent of staff will work from home.India on Saturday reported 1,45,384 new Covid-19 cases which is the highest daily spike in cases since the outbreak of the pandemic. The single-day rise in coronavirus cases crossed the one lakh mark for the fourth consecutive day.As a sign of relief, India has scaled another peak in its effort to contain the Covid-19 virus with the administration of more than 100 million (10 crores) vaccines to its citizens. The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 10,12,84,282 as per the provisional report 08:00 pm today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/no-more-than-5-people-allowed-at-a-time-to-enter-religious-places-in-up-101618115374510.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra class 10, 12 exams: Misinformation being circulated, warns minister Varsha Gaikwad||Maharashtra education minister Varsha Gaikwad on Sunday said some misinformation about the exams of class 10 (SSC) and 12 (HSC)are being circulated on social media, with a morphed image of her Twitter handle, which claims that the government has decided to cancel the exams. The morphed tweet also claimed that instead of exams, students will have to create an assignment and submit in their respective schools. Dismissing this as misinformation, the minister urged students to only trust verified information.Beware! I've got to know that some morphed images of my twitter handle are being circulated to spread misinformation about exams. Only trust information from official handles and platforms. Please do not fall for any kind of misinformation. pic.twitter.com/VOjslleWANAmid the ongoing pandemic situation, as fresh restrictions in Maharashtra are expected anytime soon, students are worried about class 10 and 12 examinations, while the government has cancelled the exams for classes 9 and 11. The Maharashtra SSC, HSC exams are scheduled to begin on April 29 and 23, respectively. But till April 30, the state is under several restrictions, including weekend lockdowns. The minister earlier said she was consulting all stakeholders and a decision in this regard will be taken soon.Maharashtra minister Aaditya Thackeray too assured students on social media sating that the government's decision will not put students' lives, careers at risk.She is having larger consultations with all concerned boards for best possible solutions. To all the worried parents and students, I appeal not to panic or worry. The Govt and Minister @VarshaEGaikwad ji are working to ensure student lives, as well as careers, are not put to risk"We have been receiving messages from students of 10th & 12th about their concerns with regards to covid and examinations. I have been discussing with & conveying them all to Min@VarshaEGaikwad ji who has the safety of students as top most priority, along with their careers," the minister tweeted.The education minister is also having larger consultations with all concerned boards for best possible solutions, Thackeray wrote.The government postponed the Maharashtra Public Service Commission examination, which was scheduled for April 11. It has been decided that the age mentioned by candidates in the form will be considered whenever the exam is held next.Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray held an all-party meeting on Saturday where a stricter and longer lockdown was discussed. A consensus on the need for a lockdown was reached. On Sunday, the Chief Minister will meet the Covid-19 task force of the state, where the issue will be raised again. Though examinees will be exempt from fresh restrictions, whether exams should be conducted amid the unprecedented surge of Covid-19 cases in the state is the question facing the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-class-10-12-exams-misinformation-being-circulated-warns-minister-101618118517168.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Baisakhi: The festival of food and gratitude||Festivals are incomplete without food. Preparing an exquisite menu for the guests and exchange of goodies is a custom for Indians, be it during Holi, Diwali, Dussehra or seasonal festivals such as Baisakhi. Majorly, celebrated in north India, Baisakhi marks the beginning of the New Year for the Sikh community and Punjabis. The day holds a special importance for farmers, as it marks the time of harvest of rabi (winter) crops. The festival is celebrated throughout the country with different names.“Farmers celebrate this day by thanking mother earth for good harvest. In Punjab, they wear new clothes and visit gurdwara. Gifts are exchanged and ‘Guru ka langar’ is organised where everyone in the community would come together and share a meal. Kada prashad is distributed in gurdwaras and dishes such as sarson ka saag, makki ki roti, maa ki dal (kaali dal), meethe peele chawal are cooked,” says chef Sanjay Vij, executive chef, Vivanta Surajkund. However, with time, some traditional recipes have been lost in transition. “The tragedy of partition not only affected the people but also the cuisine. Dishes like chaati da kukkad, ghee ki sabji, roh (sugarcane juice) di kheer, alsi pinni, among others, never travelled to India and were lost with time. Probably because there was no scripted record for these dishes and were mostly family heirloom dishes,” shares Vij.Indeed, efforts are being made to reintroduce some of these delicacies during this festive period. With such revival in mind, Ikk Punjab restaurant in Delhi has organised a food festival this Baisakhi. “There were lots of dishes which were common in undivided Punjab but since have disappeared. Lahori kukkadi chargha, panner multani rahra masala, mottiyan wali makki, adraki gobhi masala and kunna gosht were popular pre-partition but not anymore. We want to make people aware about them this year,” says Naresh Kotwal, chef from the restaurant. Culinary expert and chef Reetu Uday Kugaji, feels that revival of such dishes has already been happening over the years. “Thanks to the chefs and food lovers, some of them are already popular. Phulkari pulao that resembles phulkari art is one of them. Prepared with four types of fragrant rice, it’s a vibrant recipe,” shares Kugaji. Elaborating on her food recommendation for the festival she adds, “Gur da halwa, chawal di kheer, badam di kheer, kesari phirni, langar wali dal, pakode wali punjabi kadhi with chawal, pindi chole and mango lassi are dishes one should try during this festival.” On this day, people also dress up in shades of yellow and orange. “The same influence can be seen in their food. If you are in Punjab around this time kadhi pakoda with steamed rice, meethe peele chawal, maa ki daal, meetha gujiya is something that shouldn’t be missed. I look forward to my favourite fresh green chana curry which is prepared during this time of the year,” says chef Tanvi Goswami, who reminisces her childhood memories of travelling to Jammu to celebrate the festival of Baisakhi.“I remember going to a canal in Jammu to take a dip with my other siblings, followed by feasting on delicious delicacies cooked by my mother and aunts. Over time, things change, everyone is busy in their own lives and now the festival is a low-key affair,” she says. With pandemic making this year’s celebration even more intimate, you can also try cooking some of these delectable delicacies at your home and celebrate Baisakhi with your loved ones, in true traditional manner.RecipeLAHORI KUKKADI CHARGHAIngredients• Chicken about 1.5 to 2 kg with skin removed and cuts added.• 1 egg• 2 tbsp of yogurt• 1 tbsp of garlic ginger paste 1 tsp of turmeric powder2 tsp of red chili powder2 tsp of cumin powder1 tsp of whole spice powder (garam masala)3 tbsp of lemon1 tsp chat masala1 tsp green cardamom powder (chotielaichi powder)2 tsp saltA pinch of nutmeg powderA pinch of red food colorOil for fryingInstructionsSkin a whole chicken and clean it. Add deep horizontal cuts. Treat it with 1/2 cup of vinegar and let it sit in vinegar for 10 to 15 mins. Use a paper towel to pat the chicken dry.In a bowl, add all the ingredients for marinade and mix well. Coat the chicken with marinade. Cover it let it sit in the fridge for 8 hours.Bring out it out and let it sit out for 30 mins before cooking. Tie the legs of the chicken together with a thread. And use toothpicks to pin the wings to the body.In a deep pot, add about 1/4 cup of oil and 3 to 4 onions cut up in halves. Use a heavy bottom pot.Place your chicken on top of the onions. Cover the pot with a lid. Steam the chicken at high heat for 5 mins and then at medium to low heat for another 25 mins. Remove the chicken from the pot and deep fry it in hot oil for 6 mins on each side or until it looks crispy golden on each side. Make sure the oil level covers half of the chicken while you fry it.Dish out on a plate and sprinkle some more chat masala and lemon juice on top of it generously. Serve with Mint chutney.Recipe by chef Naresh KotwalAuthor tweets @ruchikagarg271Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/baisakhi-the-festival-of-food-and-gratitude-101618114531571.html
11-04-2021||Indore||Indore's MGM Medical College new nodal centre for distribution of Remdesivir||The Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College (MGM College) of Indore has been made the nodal centre to distribute the anti-viral drug Remdesivir across Madhya Pradesh provided by the state government.Remdesivir is considered a key anti-viral drug in the fight against Covid-19 especially in adult patients with severe complications.Dr Sanjay Dixit, Dean MGM Medical College said, "MGM College will now send Remdesivir to 13 government medical colleges of Madhya Pradesh. Further, the government hospitals that fall under these medical colleges will be provided with Remdesivir for patients. 2,000 Remdesivir injections provided by the government two days ago were already sent to Bhopal, Khandwa, Ratlam, Vidisha and other districts."Dr Dixit informed that the government hospitals of Indore have been provided with 206 doses of Remdesivir. MGM Medical College will receive around 5,000 doses of Remdesivir in the coming days.The state government is also considering making Remdesivir injections available to hospitals instead of medical stores so that unnecessary administration to patients can be checked and black marketing can also be curbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indores-mgm-medical-college-new-nodal-centre-for-distribution-of-remdesivir-across-mp-101618111754780.html
11-04-2021||Lucknow||Samajwadi Party to form outfit after Dr Ambedkar’s name||In an apparent bid to widen its electoral base, the Samajwadi Party on Saturday decided to set up 'Babasaheb Vahini', a party affiliated outfit after Dalit icon Dr Bhimrao Ambedkar’s name. SP president Akhilesh Yadav announced the decision to form the outfit on the occasion of Dr Ambedkar’s birth anniversary on April 14 in a tweet, saying it will have units at the levels of the country, various states and their districts. "In order to keep the thoughts and ideas of Babasaheb Ambedkar active, remove the disparity and injustice and move towards an equitable social justice, we pledge to form 'Babasaheb Vahini' on the birth anniversary of Ambedkar (April 14),” the SP chief said in a tweet in Hindi. The outfit “will work in the districts, states and the country", he added. Two days ago, Akhilesh Yadav had urged people to observe “Dalit Diwali”, saying, "In the dark (Amavasya) period of BJP's politics, the Constitution, which gave a new light to independent India, is in danger.” “Hence, the SP will celebrate the birth anniversary of Babasaheb Ambedkar as 'Dalit Diwali' in Uttar Pradesh, the country and abroad,” he had added. Speaking to reporters at the party headquarters here and responding to a question on 'Dalit Diwali', Akhilesh Yadav said, “What’s there in a name? The name can be anything -- Ambedkar Diwali, 'Samvidhan Diwali or Samta Diwas are some of the names.” “Ram Manohar Lohia and Babasaheb Ambedkar had pledged to work together. And, if the Samajwadi Party are embracing the followers of Ambedkar, why should the BJP and Congress have problems?" he asked. The SP chief also asked if the BJP and Congress will not light a lamp on this occasion. The former UP chief minister also hit out at the UP government over the alleged Covid-19 mismanagement. "A number of people in the state are facing hardships. We are getting information that the Covid-19 pandemic has once again aggravated,” he said. “It has put us in such a spot. How do come out of it? We have not seen before such bad days filled with hardships. It is the poor are in the maximum distress," he added. "The poor are facing problems of jobs and employment and those who are to make arrangements for it have moved to other states as star campaigners to speak lies," he said. He also alleged that there are no medicines in UP hospitals and new patients cannot be admitted to hospitals. He expressed concern over the fact that people are catching infection even after getting both shots of the vaccine. "If people from prestigious medical institutes are falling ill, who will give treatment to the common people?" he asked, referring to several doctors of Lucknow's KGMU testing positive for the infection. He also took a dig at the UP government over rabies vaccine instead of those against Covid-19 having been administered to three women in the state. Asked about the West Bengal assembly elections, Yadav said Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee will retain power.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/samajwadi-party-to-form-outfit-after-dr-ambedkar-s-name-101618106737804.html
11-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM urges people to follow Covid-19 protocols||Expressing concern over spike in daily coronavirus cases in Rajasthan, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Saturday once again appealed to people to follow all Covid-19 protocols such as wearing masks and social distancing."It should be a matter of concern for all of us today that the state has seen the highest number of 4,401 cases of coronavirus," he tweeted. Gehlot said that amid the new wave of the coronavirus, there have been instances where RT-PCR test results of an infected person has come negative.He said that if symptoms such as cough, cold and fever are seen and the RT-PCR report is negative, then get a D-dimer test and chest CT scan after consulting a doctor.Gehlot said experts are saying that the second wave of Covid-19 is more dangerous than the first wave. The number of infected cases and deaths in the first 10 days of April is more than the number reported in September-October 2020 when the Covid-19 pandemic was at its peak. Gehlot said, "People are still not understanding the seriousness of coronavirus situation. Urge all of you that only Covid protocol i.e. mask, social distancing and hand washing can save you from this disease."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-urges-people-to-follow-covid-19-protocols-101618106539672.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Central Railway files complaint against fake video of overcrowding at Mumbai stations||The Central Railways on Saturday has registered a case with Government Railway Police (GRP) at CSMT station in Mumbai against an unidentified person under relevant sections of IPC for investigation over an "edited video" which was in circulation creating panic amongst the public.Fake videos of overcrowding at CSMT railway stations were posted on social media platforms on April 7.The central railway PRO office provided the mobile number from where the fake videos were posted.In the order by Central railways, it read, "It is to bring to your notice that a video clip has gone viral on 07.04.2021 on social media showing heavy rush of a passenger at CSMT railway station. A CD containing the video clip is enclosed for ready reference. But there was no such crowd situation in the past couple of days at CSMT station as shown in the viral clip. RPF has deployed sufficient manpower to handle the crowd at CSMT, LTT, KYN, DR and TNA stations in coordination with GRP.""A video clip was gone viral on social media in the evening of 07.04.2021, wherein a crowd of people is seen at CSMT station, due to which people are being misled. This viral clip on social media can create fear among the public and also panic like situation. This old video clip is being shared/viral from a mobile number. It is therefore requested to kindly investigate the viral video clip by cyber cell and take appropriate legal action against the person who posted this clip on social media and also withdraw this video clip from social media, please."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/central-railway-files-complaint-against-fake-video-of-overcrowding-at-mumbai-stations-101618101220186.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Maharashtra CM Thackeray hints at lockdown as situation worsens||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday indicated that the imposition of a strict lockdown in the state was likely given the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, underlining the need to save the lives of people and clamping of strict restrictions to break the chain of transmission.Speaking at an all-party meeting held virtually to review the Covid-19 situation in the state, the CM also said that his government will address the issues of the livelihood of the poor, labourers and daily-wagers.“The number of patients is increasing so fast that if we do not decide on a lockdown today, a lockdown-like situation will automatically arise tomorrow. Today the situation is getting worse. We are also constantly considering Covid-19 task force experts in the state,” a statement issued by Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) quoted him as saying.“On the one hand there is a public sentiment but on the other hand, there is an outbreak of coronavirus, in which case if you want to win this battle you have to go through some hardships,” he said.Also Read| Mumbai reports 9327 new Covid-19 cases, active cases go past 91,000 markBesides the chief minister, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, other key ministers, opposition leaders Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, Bharatiya Janata Party’s state unit president Chandrakant Patil and key officials attended the meeting.“Though we are not going touch the public transport, the people will not be allowed to travel without valid reasons which include essential and medical services. Similarly, we are not going halt the long distance trains or the flight services...by keeping the trains and buses operating we want to ensure that the people stepping out for the vaccination, exams and urgent travel are not affected,” said an official privy to the matter.A decision on the lockdown is expected to be taken at a cabinet meeting next week, officials said.“The CM is of the opinion that the existing partial lockdown imposed from Monday has remained on paper and has not served any purpose on ground. The experts and the members of the task force are of the opinion that a lockdown needs to be imposed at least for two weeks to break the chain of the transmission of the virus,” said a senior leader requesting anonymity.Maharashtra recorded 55,411 new cases on Saturday, a day after the state went under a weekend lockdown.Streets and markets in most parts of the state, including Mumbai, Pune, Aurangabad and Nagpur, wore a deserted look, officials said on Saturday.However, at some places people were seen flouting norms. A total of 386 vehicles were seized and 1,248 motorists fined for various violations in Thane city, police said.Also Read| After shutting vaccination centres, BMC receives 99,000 doses of CovishieldIn Pune, officials said there was a good response to the restrictions. “Barring medical shops, almost all other shops, commercial establishments and market areas are shut. People are not coming out on the streets and 95 per cent of those who stepped out, had a valid reason to do so,” Joint Commissioner of Police Ravindra Shisave said.In the country’s financial capital, some areas like south Mumbai were completely deserted due to the lockdown.The weekend lockdown in the state began at 8 pm on Friday and it will continue till 7 am on Monday.The curbs will continue till April 30.With agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-maharashtra-cm-thackeray-hints-at-lockdown-as-situation-worsens-101618093035031.html
11-04-2021||City||Covid-19: Gandhinagar municipal corporation polls postponed indefinitely||The Gujarat State Election Commission (SEC) on Saturday decided to postpone the elections to the Gandhinagar Municipal Corporation, scheduled to be held on April 18, due to the rise in Covid-19 cases, an official statement said.The elections are postponed for an indefinite period following a request made by the main political parties including the BJP, the Congress and the AAP, and many social groups, it said."Taking in view the grave situation caused by the pandemic, to maintain public health and to ensure that voting is done in a free and fair environment, the State Election Commission (SEC) has decided to postpone this election till further orders," the SEC said.As per the earlier programme, the elections were scheduled to be held on April 18 and the counting of votes was to be taken up on April 20.Candidates had also filed their nomination papers."We had received representations from all the political parties to postpone the elections," it said, adding that other groups like NGOs and citizen organisations had also opposed holding elections at this time."We had held a detailed review meeting in which we realised that a large number of people have been infected by the virus in this urban area and many people are living in containment zones. All those people and many others will not be able to vote freely due to the fear of the pandemic," it said.The SEC further said it had reviewed the legal aspects of the decision and gone through many judgements of courts in such matters.Chief Minister Vijay Rupani had on Friday urged the SEC to postpone the Gandhinagar civic polls.In a letter to the SEC, Rupani had said that it's natural that political leaders and their supporters would gather in large numbers for poll campaigning."Moreover, a large number of government employees would also be engaged in the election-related work. In such a scenario, it is very much possible that Covid-19 infection would spread further. Thus, I urge the SEC to consider these factors and postpone the election to GMC in a larger public interest," the CM had stated.Gujarat's overall caseload stood at 3,37,015 and the death toll at 4,697 as on April 9, as per the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/covid19-gandhinagar-municipal-corporation-polls-postponed-indefinitely-101618098946326.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Safdarjung Hospital employee stabbed 40 times by estranged husband, dies||A 40-year-old woman employed at a government hospital died on Saturday after she was stabbed with a knife at least 40 times allegedly by her estranged husband at a market in outer Delhi’s Budh Vihar, the Delhi Police said.The alleged killer was apprehended near the crime scene by two policemen with the help of the public. The knife used in the murder was recovered from him, the police said, adding that the man had a problem with the woman working at the hospital and suspected her of having an affair.The murder was witnessed by many in the market area and was also captured by a CCTV camera installed near the crime scene, the police said. Apart from the CCTV footage, a mobile video shot by one of the people present at the spot was also circulating on social media, they added.In the 1:41-minute CCTV footage, a man wearing a pink shirt and a cloth tied around his forehead is seen talking to the woman, who is holding a bag on her left shoulder, with her back facing the camera; their faces are not visible in the clip. As the woman tries to leave, the man begins attacking her with a knife.The woman falls on the street and four-five people are seen coming out of two adjacent shops. A biker also stops while two men are seen standing behind the attacker. However, the attacker continues stabbing the woman and threatening the onlookers, the clip shows. After the attack, the man walks away, the footage shows. HT couldn’t independently verify the authenticity of the clip.The police said that around 2pm, the Vijay Vihar station was informed about the stabbing and two beat constables were sent to the crime scene. The policemen saw the suspect holding a knife and running away. They overpowered him with the help of the public and snatched his knife, which had blood stains, the police said. The injured woman was rushed to a nearby hospital, where she was declared “brought dead”, they added.DCP (Rohini) Pranav Tayal said the suspect was identified as Harish Mehta, 40, who was from Gujarat but was working with a marriage bureau in Delhi. He recently married Neelu after meeting her on a matrimonial site. The woman worked at the Safdarjung Hospital and this was her second marriage, said Tayal.During the interrogation, the DCP said, Mehta disclosed that he did not like his wife working and wanted her to quit the job and stay at home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/safdarjung-hospital-employee-stabbed-40-times-by-estranged-husband-dies-101618095650136.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Sweeping curbs announced in Delhi as Covid-19 cases shoot||The national capital on Saturday brought back sweeping restrictions on activity to curb the alarming spread of Covid-19, banning large public gatherings and curtailing crowds at restaurants, weddings and funerals on a day Delhi’s positivity rate breached 10%, with the addition of 7,897 fresh infections in its fourth wave of infections.The number of new cases across the country stood at 152,449, according to the HT dashboard, the highest single-day rise in infections since the pandemic began raging across the world last year.The latest restrictions in Delhi were similar to those implemented last year after the Centre announced significant curbs in the months following a 68-day hard lockdown to balance the battle against the pandemic and economic activity.Also Read| Delhi imposes new Covid-19 curbs. What allowed, what's notThe fresh guidelines – issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev on Saturday night, a day after a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) – said schools, colleges and other educational institutions will remain closed till April 30. It said that all social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural, religious and festival-related gatherings will remain prohibited till the order is in effect. “Whereas, the situation of Covid-19 in Delhi has been assessed, reviewed and it has been observed that there has been a persistent rise in Covid-19 cases in NCT of Delhi during recent past and therefore, it has become necessary to take certain emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of virus in the interest of public health,” it said.The order allowed some activities with restrictions. Up to 20 people will be allowed at funerals, and marriage functions can have up to 50 guests. Restaurants and bars can function with up to 50% of their seating capacity, according to the order. The Delhi Metro and DTC buses will be allowed to run at 50% capacity, it added. The Delhi Metro has been running at half capacity, with the cap remaining in place since its services resumed on September 7 last year after remaining shut for 169 days.On March 27, DDMA re-imposed restrictions on weddings and funerals by limiting the maximum number of guests to 100-200 for weddings and 50 for funerals.Negative RT-PCR report will be required for travellers arriving in the national capital from Maharashtra by air, DDMA said, adding that those without a report will have to undergo 14-day quarantine. Maharashtra is in the middle of an alarming spike in cases, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray saying on Saturday that a complete lockdown was being considered in the state. The DDMA order said: “Stadia for organising sports events shall be allowed without spectators. Cinemas/theatres/multiplexes will be permitted to open with up to 50% of their seating capacity.”The fresh restrictions were announced a day after Delhi recorded 8,521 infections were recorded, the second-highest all-time daily tally.Last week, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal admitted that the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic was raging in the Capital, but did not impose a lockdown or any curbs to control the spike. The government later announced a night curfew between 10pm and 5am, which will remain in effect till April 30.Also Read| 20-30% people lose natural immunity against Covid in 6 months, new study findsThe fresh restrictions in the Capital come at a time the country is witnessing its second wave of infections. Several states have imposed strict restrictions in a bid to control the alarming spread of the disease, with Maharashtra considering a full lockdown after having announced curbs for the weekends. “All government offices of NCT of Delhi, autonomous bodies, PSUs, corporations, local bodies shall function with officers of the level of Grade-I, equivalent and above to the extent of 100% strength. The remaining staff will attend up to 50% as per requirement to be assessed by HOD concerned,” the latest DDMA order said.The guidelines advised private offices and organisations to stagger the office timings and the presence of staff with an objective to reduce the number of employees attending office at the same time. “They are further advised to follow the practice of work from home, as far as possible,” it said. A negative RT-PCR report (not older than 72 hours prior to undertaking the journey) shall be compulsory for all people arriving from Maharashtra by air. “The passengers who are found without a negative report will have to remain quarantine for 14 days. All constitutional and government functionaries and their staff members are exempted from these instructions, if they are asymptomatic.”All swimming pools, except those being used for training of sportspersons for participation in national and international events, have also been banned. In containment zones, only essential activities shall be allowed.While the latest order said that students from classes 9 to 12 may be called to schools for academic guidance to prepare for upcoming examinations, a senior official from education minister Manish Sisodia’s office later clarified that no students will be called in. “It seems to be a mistake. The previous government order, which suspended all in-person academic activity, including exams and project work, still stands,” the official said on condition of anonymity.The order said there shall be no restriction on inter-state and intra-state movement of people and goods.Saurabh Suman, manager of Pebble Street in New Friends Colony (NFC), said restaurants have been operating at 50% capacity since last year. “We have been following these restrictions since last year and operating at 50% of the capacity. We are already in a tough spot and if more restrictions are imposed, we will not be able to do any business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/sweeping-curbs-announced-in-delhi-as-covid-19-cases-shoot-101618094978398.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Will move SC against HC order on new SIT, keeping current head out: Capt||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Saturday termed the probe into the Kotkapura firing case totally fair and impartial, adding that his government will challenge in the Supreme Court any order of the high court for quashing the investigation of the Punjab Police special investigation team (SIT) or removing its chief. Reacting to media reports in this regard, the chief minister said he has directed the state government’s legal team to examine the orders of the Punjab and Haryana high court and prepare to challenge the same in the apex court if either the SIT probe is directed to be scrapped or its leader is asked to be removed. The case will be taken to its logical conclusion and none of the guilty will be spared, irrespective of their political affiliation or position, said the CM, declaring his commitment to ensuring the much-awaited justice for the families of the victims of the firing case. Expressing full confidence in SIT chief Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, and the probe conducted so far under his supervision, the CM said he was an extremely competent and experienced officer who had been working relentlessly on the case since the SIT was constituted. Amarinder said neither changing the officer nor setting up a fresh SIT at this stage was acceptable to his government. He pointed out that the investigations were in an advanced stage, with four challans already filed in the 2015 case with final reports submitted to the sessions court for trial. The CM also slammed Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal for “continuing to play dirty politics” over such a grave and sensitive issue. On Sukhbir’s charge of ‘wasting four years in political investigation’, the CM said it was the BJP-led central government, of which the Akalis were a part, that had been scuttling the probe into the case through the CBI, at the behest of the SAD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-move-sc-against-hc-order-on-new-sit-keeping-current-head-out-capt-101618088669653.html
11-04-2021||Other||At 941, HP records highest single-day spike of year||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday recorded 941 fresh Covid-19 infections, taking the state’s case count to 69,114 while the death toll mounted to 1,102 after 12 patients succumbed to the contagion. This is the highest single-day spike in terms of the cases and also the deaths reported this year. Of the new cases, 195 were reported in Solan, 144 in Kangra, 134 in Mandi, 97 each in Hamirpur and Shimla, 85 in Una, 82 in Bilaspur, 59 in Sirmaur, 31 Kullu, nine in Chamba, seven in Lahaul-Spiti and three in Kinnaur. Active cases shot up to 5,223 while recoveries reached 62,671 after 358 people recuperated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-941-hp-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-year-101618087708461.html
11-04-2021||Other||J&K’s daily cases cross 1,000-mark after six months||Jammu and Kashmir’s Covid cases on Saturday crossed another high when it recorded 1,005 novel coronavirus infections, a record daily count after October 02, taking the Union Territory’s case tally to 1, 37,475, health officials said.For the past four days, the UT has recorded above 800 cases, the highest daily count in six months.The UT also recorded six fresh fatalities – one in Kashmir and five in Jammu division – taking the total death toll to 2,029.Of the new cases, 706 are from Kashmir division while 299 are from Jammu. Of the day’s cases, 154 are travellers.J&K had an all-time high of 1,698 daily cases on September 12, 2020. On October 02, the UT had recorded 1,090 infections.Officials said with 492 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 183 in Jammu district, 93 in Baramulla, 58 in Reasi and 32 in Anantnag. Eight out of 20 districts reported single-digit cases while no case was reported in Kishtwar district.The number of active cases, which has been rising steadily since March reached 6, 755, officials said. Since February 09, when active cases were at the lowest at 593, the UT has added 6,162 active cases in just two months.On Saturday, 359 patients were discharged from various hospitals, including 257 from Kashmir and 102 from Jammu. As many as 1, 28,691 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 93.61 % from the highest of around 98% in the first fortnight of February. Over 6.45 million Covid-19 tests have been conducted in the Union territory so far.In March, the UT had recorded 4,519 Covid-19 infections and 37 deaths. In February, there were 1, 935 cases and 21 deaths.The peak of the first Covid wave was in September when the UT had witnessed 37, 372 cases and 478 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-daily-cases-cross-1-000-mark-after-six-months-101618087528563.html
11-04-2021||Other||Amid Covid surge, Jai Ram discourages use of bouquets, garlands at govt functions||In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in Himachal, chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday issued directions to stop presenting bouquets and garlands to guests during government functions. The CM, who also holds the Home portfolio, said, “I have noticed that during government functions, officials line up to present bouquets and garlands to guests, and violate social distancing norms. So I have directed the deputy commissioners (DCs) of all districts to discontinue the practice as Covid cases are increasing rapidly in the state.”He added that the state government had also postponed the Swarnim Rath Yatra, which was earlier slated for April 15, in view of the rising infections.The CM also directed the DCs to keep tabs on the situation at the state’s borders with Punjab and Haryana.On Friday evening, Jam Ram spoke to the police chiefs of all 12 districts to review the Covid-19 situation. He reiterated the need to effectively implement the test, trace and treat strategy. The CM also said the real-time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) tests must be accentuated by at least 70% in all districts. Mandatory to carry RTPCR report while entering Spiti In view of the increasing infections, the Spiti administration has made it mandatory for workers coming to the Spiti valley to carry an RTPCR negative report. Lahaul additional district magistrate (ADM) Gyan Sagar Negi said, “Besides wearing masks and following other Covid protocol, workers entering Spiti are expected to carry a negative RTPCR report.” Spiti, a remote region, has a dearth of medical facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-covid-surge-jai-ram-discourages-use-of-bouquets-garlands-in-govt-functions-101618087287762.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir accuses Amarinder of compromising state’s interests||Shiromani Akali Dal chief Sukhbir Singh Badal on Saturday accused Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh of being “hand in glove” with the BJP-led Centre and “compromising” state’s interests besides “punishing” farmers for protesting against the three farm laws.“Forget fighting for the rights of the state, Amarinder does not even raise the issues affecting its people with the central government,” Badal alleged in a statement here. The Akali Dal chief alleged the CM had time and again agreed with all the “anti-farmer” steps taken by the central government.The CM is “afraid” of the central government, he said, adding that the farm agitation would not have started had Amarinder taken prompt action when the agricultural ordinances were promulgated. At that time, the chief minister was part of the committee in which the farm ordinances were discussed, said the SAD chief.Badal said the CM indulged in a “drama” of opposing the Direct Benefit Transfer scheme which he had agreed to implement from this year. “Amarinder even assured farmers and ‘arhtiyas’ that the scheme would not be implemented in Punjab but the ministerial team led by Finance Minister Manpreet Badal meekly surrendered before the Centre.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-accuses-amarinder-of-compromising-state-s-interests-101618087047574.html
11-04-2021||Other||Terror-outfit behind killings of Sopore MC councillors busted||J&K Police on Friday said the network that was involved in the attack on councillors, at Sopore municipal council last month, has been busted and its over-ground workers were nabbed. Police have also recovered the vehicle and a bike used in the attack. The attack, in which two councillors and a cop had lost their lives, had taken place on March 29. “Soon after the attack, multiple cordon and search operations (CASOs) were launched by the police and security forces at Dangepora, Brath Kalan, Sidiq Colony Sopore, Model Town, Batpora and many suspects were picked up for questioning. During the questioning of a suspect Ashiq Ahmad Pandith of Dangerpora, it was revealed that the militants, namely Mudasir Pandith alias Maaz, along with a foreign terrorist namely Asrar, had stayed at his residence for three days and planned the attack,” the police said in a briefing on Saturday.He said that during questioning, the name of another suspect Junaid Ah Shusha of Sopore also came up. “He disclosed that he came in contact with Mudasir Pandith in the month of November 2020 at the residence of his cousin, Umair Ashiq at Sopore. Pandith along with his two foreign terrorists Ahmad and AbuSariya stayed for the night on instructions of Sayeed Imran, an OGW of LeT outfit.”Police said that Junaid and Ashiq were convinced by Mudasir Pandith alias Maaz to work for LeT and they were introduced to Sajid Ali, POK-handler of LeT. “Upon Imran’s disclosure, Umair Ashiq and Sayeed Imran were picked up and confessed that both of them were indeed working for LeT and were providing logistic support to banned organisation to strengthen their hold/network in main town Sopore.”According to the police, he further revealed that they had conducted the reccee of Lone Complex Sopore on the directions of Maaz and Sajid. “Another hardcore over ground worker, Shakir Yousuf Bhat was apprehended who further revealed that he is cousin of Mudasir Pandith and prior to his joining with terrorists ranks they were working together as mechanic at Sopore and was in touch with him since then.”Police spokesman said that he told the police on March 28 evening, Shakir along with his friend Feroz Ahmed Bhat went to Dangerpora to bring Mudasir and his foreign terrorist to Batpora and stayed at the residence of Feroz Ahmad Bhat for the night.“From their stay at Feroz’s home, they again communicated with other OGW’s about conducting physical recce and directed Junaid and Syed Imran to remain present near the Municipal office. Next day Shakir took Mudasir Pandith and foreign terrorist on his bike following interiors roads, in order to avoid security check points where his other associates were waiting for them. Before entering the complex Mudasir Pandith asked the duo ( Junaid & Imran ) to go inside and to get latest information regarding the presence of Police personal and councillors.Police said that around 12.48 hours they went inside the complex and indiscriminately opened fire on Police personal and councillors resulting on spot death of Riyaz Ahamd Pir, SPO Shafat Ahmad and seriously injured another councillor Shamus Din Pir who later succumbed to his injuries. “Later they boarded Shakir’s bike and escaped into Syedpora orchards using interior roads.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/terroroutfit-behind-killings-of-sopore-mc-councillors-busted-101618086991798.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Capt govt failed in putting up a strong case: Bhagwant Mann||Chandigarh Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president and Sangrur MP Bhagwant Mann has said that Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had failed in putting up a proper case in the 2015 Kotkapura violence incident. “Captain government’s advocate general, who has a team of 150 advocates has proved to be the most failed AG ever as it could not even manage to win a single case for Punjab,” he added. Mann said by not roping in a better advocate for such a big case was a well-planned conspiracy of the Captain government. “In the case related to appointment of Punjab DGP Dinkar Gupta, in which petitions were moved by senior IPS officers, including Siddharth Chattopadhyaya, the government had taken the services of former Union minister P Chidambaram to fight the case,” Mann said. “Also, in the Ansari case, the Captain government spent big money on senior advocates. If Chidambaram and other senior advocates can be brought in other cases, then why not for important cases like this one?” said Mann. “Parkash Singh Badal had taken back the cases against Captain Amarinder and now Captain is paying that debt with interest. Both Captain and Badals are in cahoots,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/capt-govt-failed-in-putting-up-a-strong-case-bhagwant-mann-101618086507602.html
11-04-2021||Other||Postpone next week’s exams: Maharashtra’s medical students to authorities||As Maharashtra continues to record its highest-ever surge in Covid-19 cases, second and third-year medical students are worried about the status of their upcoming examination. Ahead of the exams next week, many have approached the authorities, requesting that the exams be postponed. “At least 450 students across medical colleges have been infected and are undergoing treatment. What’s worse is due to the fear of testing positive and not being allowed to appear for exams, many asymptomatic students are refusing to get tests and in turn are putting others’ lives at risk,” said a third-year MBBS student of Lokmanya Tilak Municipal General Hospital and Medical College (Sion hospital). A letter signed by students across colleges was sent to the Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) on Friday. Students are awaiting a response from the authorities. The exams were originally scheduled to take place in February, but were postponed first to March and then to April by MUHS due to the rise in Covid-19 cases and complaints received from medical students. At present, all second and third-year students are worried about being forced to appear for their final-semester exams in the offline mode, starting April 19, especially at a time when the state is registering the highest Covid-19 cases on a daily basis. “In March, when the state was recording 15,000 cases, MUHS postponed our exams fearing for the life of students. But currently, when the state is recording over 50,000-60,000 cases everyday, our exams are supposed to take place as per schedule. How is this fair on us?” asked a second-year MBBS student of Dr VM Government Medical College, Solapur. Students have also approached medical education minister Anil Deshmukh as well as other political leaders, but to no avail. “MBBS students who are back on campus are sharing dorm rooms as well as washrooms with others, which is the main reason for the spread of the virus. Some of our professors have also tested positive, and if exams are held, there’s a greater chance of more students and staff getting infected,” said another student. Students have also pointed that many medical workers have not yet got their second vaccine dose due to the current shortage. “Some of our friends are currently in quarantine either because their parents or family members or they themselves have tested positive. Some of our batch mates are stuck in mini-containment zones. How is the university expecting everyone to appear for exams,” added the student. In their letter, students have requested MUHS to postpone exams and start lectures for the next academic year online immediately. “Once the situation is better, we can appear for exams and continue studying at the same time,” said a student. A senior official from MUHS told HT that the university is in talks with the government and other stakeholders to decide on the matter. “We can’t be postponing exams forever, but we do understand the situation at hand. Students will hear from us soon,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/postpone-next-week-s-exams-maharashtra-s-medical-students-to-authorities-101618085427045.html
11-04-2021||Other||New Maharashtra DGP starts inquiry against Param Bir Singh||Amid the controversies that the home department and Maharashtra Police force have been embroiled in, the state government has started taking steps for damage control. After appointing Sanjay Pandey, director general (Maharashtra State Security Corporation), as the acting director general of police (state police chief) late on Friday, the state has also initiated preliminary inquiry against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh based on the report submitted by city’s current police chief Hemant Nagrale. Pandey is expected to submit the inquiry report in the next few weeks. The inquiry was ordered vide a letter by home department on April 1. The terms of reference set for the probe include whether Singh defaulted in his duty by not apprising the government over the explosives scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25 and if he failed to provide accurate information about the case to his seniors in March. In the backdrop of the arrest of former cop Sachin Vaze and the established involvement of police officers in the case, the inquiry would try to establish if Singh failed to keep his subordinates under his control and supervision. The probe letter also states that the letter written by Singh to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20 was not by using an appropriate channel and was widely published in media, which “maligned” the image of the state government. The DGP will inquire if Singh’s act led to the violation of the All-India Services (Conduct) Rules 1968.Pandey has been given powers under section 32 of Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to summon officers, personnel to record their statements. Singh, soon after he was shunted out from the top cop’s post, had written to CM on March 20, alleging that Anil Deshmukh, during his tenure as home minister, had forced crime branch officers to collect ₹100 crore each month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours.The report submitted by Nagrale has stated that Vaze, who is the prime accused in the explosives case, was reporting directly to Singh. The report has also stated that Vaze’s appointment in the crime intelligence unit was on Singh’s insistence, though it was strongly opposed by the then joint police commissioner (crime). “The probe will throw light on whether Singh failed in his duty to control Vaze and if he had any role in the actions taken by Vaze. The probe will also be conducted to find out if Singh failed to apprise the government with the facts related to the explosives case, in which the leader of Opposition, Devendra Fadnavis, had more information than the home department,” said an official from Mantralaya.The probe will also verify the letter written by Singh was leaked to the media by him. “It was his responsibility to ensure that the issue was raised through the right channel and is not leaked out. He has also moved courts against the state government demanding probe by central agencies. This has dented the image of the state government and the probe will also look into it,” the official said.The state appointed Pandey, a 1986-batch IPS (Indian Police Service) officer who is the senior most among the director generals, as acting DGP after tweaking its decision of appointing Rajnish Seth (1988 batch) as acting DGP after Nagrale, the then acting DGP, was appointed as Mumbai Police commissioner on March 17.“Pandey is an upright officer with high integrity. Though he was sidelined by subsequent governments for various reasons, the decision to appoint him as the acting DGP is a strategic move. He is expected to play a key role in repairing the mess in the police force and take action against the ‘errant’ officials,” said a home department official.Pandey had written a four-page letter to CM last month after he was denied the appointment to DGP’s post. Complaining that “injustice” had been meted out to him, Pandey wrote, “You overlooked me for the post of DG (anti-corruption bureau) which was given to a junior officer, despite the tradition of giving it to the senior-most officer. I was sidelined even when it came to the appointment of the Mumbai Police chief’s post. When Subodh Jaiswal chose to go on central deputation, the additional charge was not given to me, but again to a junior officer. That was illegal as per the SC (Supreme Court) ruling in the Prakash Singh case. The career built over several years is thus demolished just due to some personal prejudices.” Pandey had believably threatened to move court if he was not given a posting with respect to his seniority. The government believably has appointed Pandey to avoid further embarrassment. According to officials, the government is also expecting Pandey to clean up the mess in the force.The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) is expected to complete the process of empanelment for the DGP’s post in the next few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/new-maharashtra-dgp-starts-inquiry-against-param-bir-singh-101618085366977.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Courts can’t act as ‘super examiner’, rules Punjab and Haryana HC||The Punjab and Haryana high court (HC) has held that courts can’t act as “super examiner” and order re-evaluation of answer sheets.It is for the examiner to decide the manner in which he/she expects a candidate to answer a question in a competitive exam, ruled the HC bench of justices Jaswant Singh and Sant Parkash while dismissing a plea against the Punjab civil service (judicial branch)-2019 exam conducted by the Punjab Public Service Commission (PPSC) in which a candidate could not qualify for the interview stage by 0.37 marks. The petitioner, Nishant Dutta, had sought re-evaluation of his English language paper. The court had framed two issues in the case -- whether courts should interfere in the case where multiple choice questions (MCQ) are under dispute and whether courts can order re-evaluation of answer sheets in subjective examinations.The court said for MCQ exams, even if there is a specific bar on re-evaluation of answer sheets, there cannot be a complete ‘hands-off’ approach by the courts. However, it is in rarest of the rare cases, where it is shown without any doubt and without resorting to the process of inferential reasoning that the question/answer is incorrect, the court can order re-evaluation. “The courts have never suggested complete hands-off approach. The writ court would have inherent jurisdiction to interfere, depending upon the facts of the case even if an examination is conducted under the supervision of a subject experts. The court cannot be a mute spectator and can in rare and exceptional cases permit for re-evaluation even when it is not permitted under statute, rule, regulation governing the examination,” the bench said. For that, that it needs to be established that a material error has been committed in the answer key, it added.As of subjective questions, the court said it is best if left for the experts who have conducted the examination to decide the evaluation of marks as courts cannot assume the role of an examiner. “For a subjective-type answer, in which the marking has been uniformly done, the courts are required to adopt a hands-off approach while entertaining a prayer for re-evaluation,” the bench said, adding that merely knowing the correct answer was not important for examiner but answering it correctly with usage of correct grammar was paramount, which is best examined by an expert. These factors cannot be considered by the courts. The court can never sit as a court of appeal on the marking done by an examiner and sit in the armchair of an examiner and find the true intent behind his/her marking, the bench added. To the argument raised that issue should be dealt with sympathetically as the candidate missed his chance by a whisker, the court observed that in case of recruitment, sympathy/empathy does not matter. “There will always be some candidates who will fall out of zone of consideration, may be by a huge margin or by a whisker. The court cannot be permitted awarding marks out of compassion, as it would run against the underlying principle of selection based on merit,” it reasoned.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/courts-can-t-act-as-super-examiner-rules-punjab-and-haryana-hc-101618085307656.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees 55,411 new Covid-19 cases; 536,682 active infections||The number of new Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra on Saturday continued to be above 55,000 as the state grapples to cope with the increase in active cases, burdening the medical infrastructure.The state on Saturday recorded 55,411 new cases, bringing the tally to 3,343,951. The state was plagued by a shortage of ventilator beds, even as relatives of patients had to search for Remdesivir injections, which are in short supply due to the surge of Covid-19 infections.According to deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, things have changed drastically during the second wave of Covid-19. “Last year, the citizens were fearful and did not even go to meet each other. However this time, things are vastly different. Last time, we saw hardly one family member getting infected, but this time, the virus has become very infective and we are seeing families getting infected. We need to take hard decisions to contain this virus,” said Pawar.The surge has resulted in ventilators beds being exhausted in Pune and Nagpur. The relatives of patients sat on a dharna at Nashik, demanding Remdesivir injections for their dear ones. In Pimpri-Chinchwad, some took advantage of the situation and were seen selling the injection at ₹11,000, despite it being priced at less than ₹1,000 per vial. The state government has now formed district-wise control rooms to monitor the sale of this injection.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, put the onus on the government for this state of affairs. “When the first wave subsided in October, there was euphoria created that the Covid-19 has gone. The government in the last five months should have anticipated a second wave and ramped up its medical infrastructure like increasing the number of hospital beds, ventilators, ICU facilities and also appointed more medical personnel,” said Shaikh. He said that lockdowns never help per se in containing the virus. “What did the last lockdown achieve during the first wave?” questioned Shaikh.The total number of active cases stood at 536,682 ,with Pune leading with 102,115, followed by Mumbai at 89,707. The death toll in Maharashtra has reached 57,638 with Mumbai leading with 11,944 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-55-411-new-covid-19-cases-536-682-active-infections-101618085246828.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Vaccination drive hit by shortage, most centres in Maharashtra closed||The Covid-19 vaccination drive in Maharashtra continued to suffer due to shortage of vaccine doses, forcing many centres to shut down.The state received 0.45 million doses on Friday night, but they are still to be transported to different parts, which is causing a problem. There has been a dip in vaccinations. On Friday, 272,421 people were vaccinated, compared to the 354, 027 on Thursday.The state has been accusing the central government of discrimination, saying that it should have given more doses, considering the population size as well as the surge of Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. However, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, after his meeting with Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar, said the situation will be normal in the coming days. “Javadekar has assured he will ensure enough doses for the state. The situation will come to normal in the coming days,” said Pawar. Javadekar said it was not time to play politics. “We will make all arrangements as we have to fight this virus unitedly,” said Javadekar.There was a drop in the number of vaccination centres, as 2,881 centres were operational on Friday, compared to 3,647 on Thursday. The number of vaccinations administered on Saturday stood at 280,684 in 4,275 centres. The total number of vaccines administered is 9,921,170.In Pune, there was controversy as mayor Murlidhar Mohol claimed that the central government had directly dispatched 0.24 million doses to Pune. This caused anger as Congress-NCP leaders called it a classic case of favouritism. However, then it later came to light that Mohol was referring to the doses given by the state. On Friday ,majority of the vaccination centres had closed down as the stock was exhausted. On Saturday, the situation was more or less the same.In Panvel, the drive continued to be suspended due to lack of vaccines. A Panvel resident, 50-year old Kewal Karia, who had gone to take his second dose, returned home after he found his centre was closed and the board there announced that it is shut down due to non-availability of vaccines. “Why did they start vaccinating in the first place when they were not sure of the second dose for us,” rued Karia.Union minister Nitin Gadkari asked the Serum Institute, one of the companies producing vaccines, to ramp up production.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/vaccination-drive-hit-by-shortage-most-centres-in-maharashtra-closed-101618085187800.html
11-04-2021||Other||Sleazy video: Victim appeals to Akal Takht to review lifting of ban on ex-CKD chief||The woman principal seen in a sleazy video with former Chief Khalsa Diwan (CKD) president Charanjit Singh Chadha over three years ago has written to the Akal Takht to review its decision of lifting the ban on him. She had levelled sexual harassment charges against Chadha, leading to the original ban. Hours after the Takht’s letter lifting the ban surfaced, the woman wrote a two-page letter to the jathedar of the Akal Takht to lodge her protest against the move. “I am a follower of the Sikh faith and the lifting of ban on Chadha by Akal Takht Sahib has saddened me. I requested you to give me a chance to present my side in this case but my pleas were not entertained,” she says in the letter. Under the ban, imposed on January 23, 2018, the highest Sikh temporal seat barred Chadha from addressing religious, social, political and educational functions. During a meeting held on March 31 this year, the Sikh clergy headed by Akal Takht jathedar Giani Harpreet Singh lifted the ban.“Chadha is misleading the Akal Takht Sahib as a case filed by me in the session court is still pending, with next hearing is scheduled on May 13. In such a situation, he should not have been given the clean chit. Secondly, I have been facing social and mental problems for the last three years and fighting a legal battle to regain my dignity. Your move may leave a negative impact on the case pending against him,” she adds in the letter. Chadha, however, has ruled out pendency of any such case. “There is no case pending against me. The case is against the state. The FIR lodged against me was quashed in 2018 on the recommendation of the police investigation team, which did not find me guilty of anything,” said Chadha.On the woman’s plea for review, he said, “I will like to clarify that the Akal Takht Sahib imposed the ban on me for only two years. It has been lifted after more than three years. I have already faced the ban for an additional year.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/sleazy-video-victim-appeals-to-akal-takht-to-review-lifting-of-ban-on-exckdchief-101618085187355.html
11-04-2021||Other||Maharashtra education dept issues guidelines to promote Class 9, 11 students||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maharashtra-education-dept-issues-guidelines-to-promote-class-9-11-students-101618085006787.html
11-04-2021||Other||7 off-duty soldiers targeted in Kashmir since 2017||The killing of an army havaldar outside his house in Jablipora of South Kashmir on Friday once again raised concerns over the safety of local soldiers in their off-duty hours.As per information, there have been at least six attacks on army men in their off-duty hours since 2017. The militants had either abducted or killed the soldiers in or near their house.Friday’s attack is suspected to have been carried out by gunmen affiliated to Lashkar e Toiba.Havaldar Saleem Akhoon, 43, was on leave when he was attacked outside his house in Jablipora by unidentified gunmen. He was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead.A defense spokesman said that army soldiers have to follow the set guidelines when on leave. A senior army officer said the army had, in the past, issued several guidelines for local soldiers who live in areas where there is militant presence. “Many times, militants take advantage of the situation when soldiers on leave violate the guidelines,” he said.Army pays tributes to slain soldier The Army on Saturday paid floral tributes to Havildar Saleem Akhoon, a day after he was shot dead by militants. In a solemn ceremony at Badamibagh Cantonment, Chinar Corps Commander, Lt Gen D P Pandey and all ranks paid homage to the gallant soldier on behalf of the nation, an army spokesman said. Akhoon is survived by his wife, a daughter and a son. “The mortal remains of Akhoon were taken for last rites to his native place, where he would be laid to rest with full military honours. In this hour of grief, the Army stands in solidarity with the bereaved family and remains committed to their dignity and wellbeing,” the spokesman said. Other six army personnel who faced attacksAug 2, 2020: Naik Shakir Manzoor of 162 Battalion (TA), of Reshipora, Shopian, went missing. Militants claimed to have killed him after his abduction but his body has so far not been found.June 6, 2020: Havaldar Manzoor Ahmed Beg of 162 Inf Bn JAK LI, who was attached with 34 Rashtriya Rifles of Sadura, Anantnag, was shot dead by unidentified gunmen.April 12, 2020: Militants had fired upon Abdul Hamid Mantoo, an ex-serviceman (162 Inf Bn (TA), at his residence in Buchru of south Kashmir. Mantoo had retired from the active services in 2019. After investigation, the army said three militants were responsible for the attack on the former soldier.Nov 16, 2019: Four Hizbul Mujahideen militants entered the house of rifleman Preetveer Singh of 162 Inf Bn (TA) and threatened him by firing three to four rounds near the old airfield area.Sept 17, 2018: Lance Naik, Mukhtar Ahmad Malik was killed by militants inside his house when he had come home after his son’s untimely death in south Kashmir.In 2017, a young army officer, Lieutenant Umar Fayaz was abducted from the house of his maternal uncle in South Kashmir and killed by the unidentified militants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/7-off-duty-soldiers-targeted-in-kashmir-since-2017-101618084887914.html
11-04-2021||Other||Mumbai records 9,330 new cases||The city reported 9,330 new Covid-19 cases and 28 deaths on Saturday, taking the tally to 510,512 and toll to 11,944. Active cases in Mumbai have now surged to 89,707, while the fatality rate is 2.3%. During the last peak of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai in September 2020, the maximum number of active cases in the city stood at 34,259.As on Saturday morning, 15,086 (85%) of 18,737 hospital beds in Mumbai were occupied, while 3,651 were vacant. Mumbai has 2,410 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, of which 2,323 (96%) are occupied and 87 remain vacant as on Saturday. Of the 1,273 ventilator beds, 1,243 (97%) are occupied and only 30 are vacant. There are 9,762 oxygen beds in the city, of which 86% beds (8,481) are occupied, while 1,281 are vacant.According to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) dashboard – which has information for 90,333 active Covid-19 cases as on Saturday morning – 83% are asymptomatic patients whose condition is stable, while 15.6% are symptomatic but in stable condition. Around 1.3% patients are in critical condition.On Friday, Mumbai conducted 48,749 Covid-19 tests, which had a positivity rate of 19.13%. So far, Mumbai has conducted a total of 4,558,630 tests, having an average positivity rate of 10.99%. Positivity rate is the percent of people who test positive for Covid-19 of the total number of tests conducted.On Saturday, 8,474 patients recovered from Covid-19 in Mumbai, according to BMC. However, the recovery rate has dropped to 79%, as opposed to over 90% recorded in January and February. The overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases in Mumbai has shot up to 1.97%, which was as low as 0.21% in January and the initial days of February. The highest growth rate of 2.64% is seen in P-South ward (Goregaon), followed by H-West ward (Bandra West) at 2.38%, M-West ward (Chembur) at 2.38%, H-East ward (Bandra East) at 2.3%, K-East ward (Andheri East) at 2.25 and K-West ward (Andheri West) at 2.23%.The doubling rate (number of days taken for cases to double) of Covid-19 cases in the city has gone down to 34 days, which was over 450 days in the beginning of February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-records-9-330-new-cases-101618084826774.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||SC asks Centre, Punjab, Haryana to respond on plea seeking repeal of provisions criminalising begging||The Supreme Court has asked the Centre and four states, including Punjab and Haryana, to file their response within three weeks on a plea seeking a direction to repeal the provisions criminalising begging.A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and R Subhash Reddy noted in its order that though a notice was issued on the plea on February 10 this year, only Bihar has so far filed its response.The apex court has posted the matter for hearing after three weeks.The top court had in February sought a response from the Centre, and the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat, Punjab, Haryana and Bihar on the plea which has claimed that the sections of the statute criminalising begging are violative of constitutional rights.The plea filed by Meerut resident Vishal Pathak has referred to the August 2018 verdict of the Delhi high court which had decriminalised begging in the national capital and said that provisions of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, which treats begging as an offence cannot sustain constitutional scrutiny.“The provisions of the statutes criminalising the act of begging put people in a situation to make an unreasonable choice between committing a crime or not committing one and starving, which goes against the very spirit of the Constitution and violates Article 21 i.e. Right to Life,” said the plea, filed through advocate HK Chaturvedi.Referring to the Census 2011, the plea has said that the total number of beggars in India is 4,13,670 and the number has increased from the last census.It said that the government has the mandate to provide social security to everyone and ensure that all have basic facilities, as embedded in the Directives Principles of State Policy in the Constitution.“However, the presence of beggars is evidence that the State has failed to provide these basic facilities to all its citizens, thus instead of working on its failure and examining what made people beg, criminalising the act of beggary is irrational and against the approach of a socialist nation as embedded in the preamble of our Constitution,” the plea has claimed.It said that a person, who is compelled to beg due to certain circumstances, cannot be faulted for his actions.The plea has claimed that ‘The Abolition of Begging and Rehabilitation of Beggars Bill 2018’ was introduced in Lok Sabha but “till date, this bill is not passed and is wedged in length parliamentary procedures, that has resulted in thousands of poor facing more hardships because of present arbitrary statutes”.The petition has sought directions to declare as “illegal and void” all provisions, except some sections, of the Bombay Prevention of Begging Act, 1959, Punjab Prevention of Beggary Act, 1971, Haryana Prevention of Begging Act, 1971 and Bihar Prevention of Begging Act 1951.It has also sought to declare all other similar Acts prevailing in any part of the country as illegal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sc-asks-centre-punjab-haryana-to-respond-on-plea-seeking-repeal-of-provisions-criminalising-begging-101618084708064.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||More PPE kits, ventilators were given to BJP-led states than to Maharashtra: Prithviraj Chavan||Former Maharashtra chief minister and Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan said that not only in terms of Covid-19 vaccines, the Narendra Modi-led central government has discriminated against Maharashtra with respect to supply of critical medical equipment such as PPE kits, N95 masks and ventilators. Citing the reply given in Lok Sabha by the Union health ministry in February this year, Chavan said the supply to Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led states like Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh (UP), West Bengal and Tamil Nadu (where polls are on) was much greater than to Maharashtra.According to a table released in the press statement by Chavan, Gujarat received 9,623 N95 masks per 1,000 patients, against the 1,560 to Maharashtra, 3,916 to UP, 3,214 to West Bengal and 2,213 to Tamil Nadu. Gujarat and UP received 4,951 and 2,446 PPE kits for every 1,000 patients, while Maharashtra got just 223 per 1,000 patients. Gujarat and UP were given 13 and seven ventilators per 1,000 patients, while Maharashtra was given just two per 1,000 patients.“Maharashtra has the highest Covid-19 caseload, despite which we are facing step-motherly treatment from the government of India in not only the supply of vaccines, but also in supply of quantities of critical medical equipment supplied to each state, as of 10 February 2021. As per the Lok Sabha reply, in all the categories, Gujarat was given the lion’s share of supply of medical equipment, which is disproportionate to the caseload of Covid-19,” Chavan has said.BJP’s media cell chief Vishwas Pathak said, “The ruling parties in Maharashtra have been blaming the Centre for everything from the day they assumed the power. They first attacked the Centre over the GST share, then they blamed the lockdown announced by the Prime Minister and now they are comparing Gujarat to Maharashtra. But at the same time, they are not talking about Congress-led Rajasthan, which has got same treatment as Maharashtra. The Centre follows WHO guidelines as far as the supply of the medical equipment is concerned. The MVA government should concentrate on its performance, rather than blaming the Centre every now and then.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/more-ppe-kits-ventilators-were-given-to-bjp-led-states-than-to-maharashtra-prithviraj-chavan-101618084706772.html
11-04-2021||Other||After woman dies by suicide, kin torch her in-laws’ house in Anantnag||A 32-year-old woman died by suicide at her in-laws’ house in south Kashmir’s Anantnag district on Saturday. Following the incident, her family members allegedly set her in-laws’ house on fire. Police have registered two FIRs—one against her husband for abetment to suicide and domestic violence, and the other against her kin for arson. While the husband has been arrested, the woman’s brother has been detained. “We are in the process of identifying the others who had come from her parents’ side and torched the house,” said station house officer (SHO) Aijaz Ahmad. “The couple already had a case pending in the court. The woman’s kin claimed that her husband used to harass her and did not take care of her in seven years of marriage. We have arrested the husband and detained the woman’s brother for arson. We will soon be arresting others who were involved in the torching of the house,” said the SHO.Anantnag senior superintendent of police Imtiyaz Hussain Mir said, “The body was found in the morning. Once we removed it from the house, the woman’s family members, came with a huge crowd, and set the house on fire. We have registered two FIRs. All will be dealt equally before law.” Last week, a woman from Anantnag had succumbed to her burn injuries days after she was allegedly set on fire by her in-laws at Aakhoora Mattan. In a video recorded before her death, the woman had accused her in-laws of assaulting her and setting her ablaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-woman-dies-by-suicide-kin-torch-her-in-laws-house-in-anantnag-101618084647476.html
11-04-2021||Other||Vimal Thathai is first mayor of Abohar||Senior Congress leader Vimal Thathai, 60, was sworn in as the first mayor of Abohar in Fazilka district on Friday. Ganpat Ram is senior deputy mayor and Raj Kumar is the deputy mayor. In the house of 50 seats, the Congress has swept 49. Councillors elected the three leaders in the presence of industries minister Sundar Sham Arora. Thathai, who got elected as a councillor for the fifth time, polled 1,174 of 1,565 votes cast in ward number 40.A close aide of state Congress president Sunil Jakhar, Thathai was expected to be elected for the top post in the bastion of the Jakhar family.On his priorities, the new mayor said, “Providing safe drinking water to the city is a necessity. Sewage network will be strengthened. In the latest Swachh Survekshan, Abohar was tagged as India’s third dirty city. Party president Sunil Jakhar and municipal commissioner Abhijit Kaplish are giving a new face to the city that has suffered due to lack of development for decades.”“Though the city did not leave any space for opposition in the House, I will ensure that the voice of all sections is heard. I will take civil society on board to rejuvenate Abohar with development work and state-of-the-art infrastructure.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vimal-thathai-is-first-mayor-of-abohar-101618084587364.html
11-04-2021||Other||Mumbai set for 135,000 more Covid-19 vaccine doses||The city received 100,000 vaccine doses on Friday night and was set to get 134,970 more on Saturday night. Till the time of going to print, the vaccines had not arrived in the city. The stock will facilitate operations at 49 government and civic vaccination centres across the city on Sunday and Monday. These centres, except the Mumbai Port Trust Hospital and RA Poddar Hospital, remained operational on Saturday as well.Suresh Kakani, additional civic commissioner, in-charge of public health department, said, “BMC will continue pushing with the government to get more vaccine doses so the drive can resume normally. We received 100,000 doses on Friday night, and are expecting around 135,000 more doses on Saturday night.”On Sunday, government and municipal vaccination centres will remain operational between 9am and 5pm.As the state announced a strict lockdown over the weekend, BMC issued a statement allowing citizens, who wish to get vaccinated, to travel to the centres on medical grounds on Saturday and Sunday.With less than half the number of the total 120 vaccination centres operational, on Saturday only 21,094 beneficiaries were vaccinated in Mumbai, as opposed to its daily average of around 50,000. The 21,094 figure also includes beneficiaries who were vaccinated on Friday evening from the second shift that goes on until 8pm. Private vaccination centres conveyed the figures to the civic body late on Friday night after which they were added to Saturday’s tally.On Saturday, 17,740 beneficiaries received their first dose, while 3,354 received their second. Of these, 13,822 senior citizens and 2,914 citizens between 45 and 59 years received their first dose, while the second dose was administered to 398 senior citizens and 1,056 beneficiaries in the 45-59 age group. A total of 615 healthcare workers and 2,289 frontline workers were also vaccinated on Saturday.At Dharavi and Mahim vaccination centres, 380 and 651 beneficiaries, respectively, were vaccinated on Saturday, and a total of 4,842 beneficiaries have been vaccinated so far in Dharavi. Each day, an average of 300-400 people are vaccinated in Dharavi.On Friday, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) directed all private vaccination centres for the next three days and cancelled all scheduled vaccine drives for the three days. There are 71 such private vaccine centres in the city.On Friday, as 89 centres had run out of their vaccine stock, only 33,551 beneficiaries were vaccinated. After directing private centres to remain shut, BMC said in a statement, “If more vaccines become available, efforts will be made to resume vaccinations at private hospitals.”So far, 1,449,710 beneficiaries have received the first dose of their vaccine in Mumbai, while 185,662 have received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mumbai-set-for-135-000-more-covid-19-vaccine-doses-101618084587871.html
11-04-2021||Other||Train packed with migrant workers reaches UP’s Gorakhpur||LUCKNOW At a time when UP was emphasising on strict implementation of Covid-19 protocols, the Aishbagh railway station witnessed a picture of contrast as a Gorakhpur-bound special train packed with migrant workers reached here on Saturday morning. Social distancing was nowhere to be seen in the train, which originated from the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus (LTT), Mumbai. But NE Railway officials claimed that it was normal. They said Covid protocols were in place and data of passengers was being provided to the state government.Passengers on board the train said they were heading back to their villages fearing further restrictions due to Covid surge. “The trauma that we underwent during the lockdown last year is still fresh in our memories. We don’t want to take any chances and that’s why we are returning home,” said Kamlesh Kumar of Gorakhpur who was employed with a firm in Mumbai.Around 450 passengers onboard the LTT-GKP SPL – 02542 de-boarded at Gorakhpur Junction, said officials.Some migrants also cited Covid fear and panchayat elections as reasons for their return. “It’s a deadly disease, I have seen people dying of Covid, hence don’t want to take any more chances,” another train passenger said. He said since it’s time for panchayat election, he can also cast his vote. Pankaj Singh, chief public relations officer (CPRO), NE Railway, Covid protocols were being followed and NER was co-ordinating with the state government in tracking and testing passengers. “We are providing entire data of passengers to the state government that could be used to track them. We have also provided space to the teams of the state government carrying out random testing of passengers. The entry of only train passengers is allowed on the station premises. The move has helped in cutting down the crowd at the station,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/train-packed-with-migrant-workers-reaches-up-s-gorakhpur-101618084406800.html
11-04-2021||Other||All-party meeting today to review Covid situation in UP||LUCKNOW The government and the opposition will be meeting in the Raj Bhawan at 5pm on Sunday in the backdrop of UP’s steep Covid surge. The first-ever all-party meeting has been convened to discuss measures to combat the Covid surge and boost the vaccination drive in the state. It will be attended by Governor Anandiiben Patel, chief minister Yogi Adityanath, his cabinet colleagues and senior opposition leaders, who were sent an invite late on Friday night. UP reported a single-day spike of 12,787 fresh Covid cases and 48 more deaths while Lucknow logged 4,059 new cases in the last 24 hours.“Governor Anandiben Patel and chief minister Yogi Adityanath will meet leaders of different political parties who are being invited to the Raj Bhawan for a meeting at 5pm on Sunday,” said a senior officer. The department of parliamentary affairs had sent the invites to leaders of major political parties. The Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) was the first to respond to the invite. BSP legislative party leader Lalji Verma would be attending the meeting. “Behenji has asked me to attend the all-party meet at the Raj Bhawan and I will be there to give concrete suggestions to meet the challenge,” Verma said. BSP chief Mayawati had been repeatedly expressing concern over the Covid surge in UP. She was also among the first few opposition leaders to take the Covid jab. UP BJP president Swatantra Dev Singh said he would attend the all-party meeting on Sunday.Leader of opposition Ram Govind Chaudhary and UPCC president Ajay Kumar ‘Lallu’ were waiting for the invite till late night though Congress Legislature Party leader Aradhna Mishra confirmed she had received the invite. Mishra said she may not be able to attend the meeting due to her engagements relating to panchayat elections. “We will try to depute someone to attend the meeting,” said Mishra. Samajwadi Party state president Naresh Uttam Patel said: “The party did not get any invitation. So why think about it.”Meanwhile, chief Minister Yogi Aditaynath reviewed the Covid situation in Gorakhpur and said, “Night curfew was extended to Ballia following spike in cases. Entry of pilgrims in the sanctum sanctorum of Kashi Vishwanath temple was also stopped.” The CM also met governor Anandiben Patel at Raj Bhawan on Saturday. An official spokesman described the meeting as a “courtesy call.”“The number of active cases in UP is 58,801, of which 32,900 are in home isolation and 991 are admitted to private hospitals. The remaining are in government Covid facilities,” said Amit Mohan Prasad, additional chief secretary, medical health, in a press conference. During the day, Lucknow reported 4,059 cases, Prayagraj 1,460, Kanpur 706, Ghaziabad 159, Gautam Buddh Nagar 229, Varanasi 983, Meerut 236, Gorakhpur 422, Jhansi 235, Agra 104, Bareilly 144, Ballia 188 and Barabanki 139. “The cases are rising and it is important to adhere to Covid protocol. In some districts special measures have been taken,” said Prasad. Among the 48 deaths, the highest in one day this year - 23 were from Lucknow, 6 from Kanpur, 2 each from Prayagraj, Varanasi, Mujaffarnagar, and Kushinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/allparty-meeting-today-to-review-covid-situation-in-up-101618084106694.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab logs 58 more Covid deaths, 3,294 fresh cases||Punjab on Saturday reported 58 coronavirus-related fatalities, taking the death toll to 7,448, while the infection tally mounted to 2,69,733 with 3,294 fresh cases, according to a health department bulletin.The number of active cases rose from 27,219 on Friday to 28,015 on Saturday.Ten people died in Hoshiarpur, seven in Gurdaspur and six each in Ludhiana and Jalandhar, among others.Of the fresh cases, Mohali registered 413 infections, followed by Jalandhar 407, Ludhiana 389, Amritsar 306 and Patiala 282, among others.A total of 2,385 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,34,270 in the state, the bulletin added.There are 35 critical patients who are on ventilator support, while 371 are on oxygen support, it said.A total of 63,08,652 samples have been tested for Covid-19 so far in the state.Defer elective surgeries till April 30: Principal secy Principal secretary, health and family welfare, Hussan Lal, on Saturday chaired a virtual meeting with private hospitals of the state for Covid-19 management and urged them to defer the elective surgeries at least till April 30 to meet the rising number of demand for Covid beds. There are 213 private hospitals on board for the Covid-19 treatment in the state. He said 20,000 doses of Remdesivir have been provided to government and private hospitals and these were available free of cost. Entry to Patiala NIS campus banned Patiala: With fresh Covid cases being reported from Patiala’s National Institute of Sports (NIS), the health department has banned entry of outsiders on the campus premises. On Saturday, six Covid cases were reported from the residential complex of the institute taking the count to 45.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-logs-58-more-covid-deaths-3-294-fresh-cases-101618083747202.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wheat procurement begins in south Punjab, 900MT purchased in Mansa||Sardulgarh town of Mansa was the only place in south Punjab where the wheat purchase started on the first day of procurement on Saturday. Officials said 900 metric tonne (MT) of grain was purchased by two state agencies.Mandi officer of Mansa Rajnish Goel said 500 MT was bought by Pungrain while Markfed bought another 400 MT.“Total 7,025 MT wheat arrived in different mandis across the district. Procurement began after the foodgrain stock was checked to be within the prescribed parameters of moisture content,” he said.Purchase centres across the southern districts witnessed a negligible arrival of wheat on the first day. Officials say arrival of wheat is expected to pick up after April 15.Mandis wore a deserted look as most of the arhtiyas kept their shops shut till afternoon.Officials attributed the slow arrival to delayed harvesting due to rain and thunderstorm on Tuesday. “Farmers are waiting for another three-four days to start harvesting as fields are wet after a thunderstorm hit the region early this week,” said Gurpreet Kang, Fazilka food and civil supplies controller.Except, Mansa, no other district in the region, including Bathinda, Muktsar, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Moga saw wheat procurement. In Bathinda, 5,560 metric tonne wheat arrived in purchase across the district. In the absence of any worker or arhtiyas, no grain was purchased by any agency.Bathinda district mandi officer Preet Kanwar Singh Brar said 2,700 coupons were issued to arhtiyas to enable farmers to sell their produce on Sunday.Besides 183 traditional mandis, the Bathinda district administration has notified 132 other sites for staggered procurement in view of the pandemic.“We have made an elaborated plan for the smooth purchase at 315 centres where Covid-19 guidelines will be followed,” said Brar.No purchase in Doaba JALANDHAR: Even as the wheat procurement operations started in some parts of the state after arhtiyas called off their strike on Saturday afternoon, no purchase was made in the Doaba region on Day 1. Jalandhar district mandi officer, Mukesh Kailey said 260 metric tonnes of wheat arrived in the various grain markets of the district, including Jalandhar, Nakodar, Phillaur, Goraya and Malsian, but no agency purchased the grain. A senior official of mandi board said that the procurement will pick up pace by Monday.In Kapurthala district, a few farmers brought their crop in the Bholath grain market while no crop arrived in Sultanpur Lodhi and Kapurthala grain market. The situation was same in Hoshiarpur and SBS nagar districts. Wheat starts arriving in Ludhiana mandis Farmers started bringing their rabi produce to nine mandis of the district, including Khanna, Machhiwara, Raikot, Jagraon, Mullapur and Sahnewal. Harbansh Singh Rosha, president of the Arhtiyas Association Khanna said food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu will inaugurate the procurement process in Khanna mandi, the largest grain market in Asia, on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wheat-procurement-begins-in-south-punjab-900mt-purchased-in-mansa-101618083507326.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to impose strict lockdown of 2 weeks||Amid the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, the Maharashtra government and leaders from all parties have reached a consensus over a stricter lockdown in the state. Although a decision over the duration of the lockdown is expected to be taken in a couple of days, the government is expected to impose the shutdown at least for two weeks.The decision is expected to be formally taken in a cabinet meeting early next week after a series of meetings.After the state machinery realised that the partial lockdown was not working because of crowding at the public places, the state government decide that there had to be A complete lockdown. To bring all the parties on same pages, amid differences among them, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray called an urgent meeting on Saturday with key leaders from all the parties. Besides CM, deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar and other key ministers, the virtual meeting was attended by leaders of opposition Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, BJP state chief Chandrakant Patil and a key officials.The proposed lockdown is expected to be stricter than the one existing on the weekends with public transport, private vehicles likely to be allowed only for essential reasons.“Though we are not going touch public transport, the people will not be allowed to travel without valid reasons, which include essential and medical services. Similarly, we are not going halt long- distance trains or flight services, which means migrant workers or people with their planned travel to their native states will not have flock to the stations in panic. Similarly by keeping trains and buses operating, we want to ensure that the people stepping out for vaccination, exams and urgent travel are not affected,” said an official privy to the development.The government is of the opinion that like, railways, even flight services should not be touched as it will badly hamper the economy. Besides, air travel is well monitored as travellers are allowed only on producing a negative Rt-PCR report.With all political parties agreeing for a shutdown, Thackeray has convened a meeting with state task force comprising of doctors and key officials on Sunday and another meeting of key ministers on Monday to discuss the modalities. The preparations of the revised SOPs for the lockdown will begin from Sunday during the meeting of the secretaries of the key departments. The state government is expected to announce a few schemes and relief packages for the vulnerable groups of the community, before it is announced. It may include the distribution of foodgrains, cash assistance to construction workers and labourers among others.“The CM is of the opinion that the existing partial lockdown imposed from Monday has remained on paper and has not served any purpose on ground. The experts and the members of the task force are of the opinion that the lockdown needs to be imposed at least for two weeks to break the chain of transmission of the virus,” said a minister requesting anonymity.The chief minister, while appealing to all political parties for co-operation for the decision of the lockdown, said that there was not alternative, but to go for a stricter curbs. It is a health emergency and the priority should be for the health and saving the lives of people. “We will take all the steps for the availability of Remdesivir injections, oxygen, test reports in a day, but the real challenge is to reduce the number of cases and spread of the virus. It has become difficult to trace the contacts as people have started stepping out of their houses unlike last year,” he said in the meeting.The CM also said if the lockdown was not imposed in due time, there would be a forced lockdown (because of the grave situation of the pandemic) in the state. “Even we do not want to disturb the livelihood of the poor, labourers, daily wagers, but the transmission and spike needs to be stopped immediately. ”Fadnavis said that the opposition was with the government over the stricter norms, but the state should ensure that the vulnerable class was not affected. “There should not be any unilateral decision on the lockdown as it will lead to the unrest among people. The small-time traders and businessmen should be allowed to keep their establishments open at restricted timings. The vulnerable class, which is likely to be affected completely, should be extended a helping hand,” he said.Fadnavis also called for quick steps by the state to stop black-marketing of Remdesivir, and availability of reports in 24 hours to give respite to the patients.State health minister Rajesh Tope insisted on ramping up the vaccination drive, saying it would be an effective way to arrest the spread of the virus. He said that they expect the supply of 10 million doses from the centre over the next one month.Thackeray said that vaccination on large scale during the lockdown, on the lines of the strategy implemented in United Kingdom, will help the state to protect the citizens from the infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-impose-strict-lockdown-of-2-weeks-101618083326549.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||5,300 hectares of forest area in Maharashtra affected by fires in 2021: Data||At least 5,318 hectares of notified forest land in Maharashtra have been affected by wildfires between January and March this year, according to forest department data obtained by Hindustan Times. This marks a 74% percent increase from the 3,056 hectares of forest land affected during the same period in 2020, the data showed. However, fire counts (in protected areas) correspondingly went up by 16% this year, indicating significantly more intense incidents this year.Forest department officials attributed this trend to a warmer than usual summer season, which set in quickly and earlier than usual. One range forest officer in Gondia district, where three labourers lost their lives to a forest fire on Thursday, said, “The ground is very dry this year. Last year, there were some episodes of rain even in February and March which helped, but this year the fires are spreading extremely quickly.”Yet another range officer in the Nagpur forest division claimed that community dependence on protected areas has also seen an uptick this year, with the pandemic forcing several people back to their villages. “There are more people engaged in foraging for non-timber forest produce, like tendu leaves and mahua flowers. Because there is more human activity, the fires are leaving behind a larger footprint,” the official said. Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests, Maharashtra, agreed these are both likely explanations, and concurred that the ongoing fire season is markedly more intense than he has witnessed in recent years. “Another possibility is that because there were such few fires last year, largely due to intermittent rains, the current fuel load is more than usual. This gives fires more room to spread and do damage,” he said. As per the data, Gadchiroli’s Sironcha forest division was the most affected, with 551 hectares of land coming under the influences of forest fires. The Nagpur forest division (under the Nagpur circle) and the Jalgaon forest division (under Dhule circle) also faced comparable losses, with 398 and 447 hectares of area lost to fire, respectively. The same figures for these divisions during January to March last year stood at 5 and 24 hectares respectively.Similar upticks are seen across several forest divisions in Maharashtra this year, including Amravati, Buldhana, Melghat, Brahmapuri, Allapalli, Gondia, Nashik, Pusad, Gugamal, Sipna, Thane and the Tadoba Tiger Reserve buffer area. The findings are in line with a Hindustan Times’ report from March 30, which analysed publicly available satellite data to demonstrate a consistent increase in fire counts across the state. The report also identified emerging fire hotspots, namely Thane, Raigad and Pune districts, which are not considered historically fire-prone.However, the forest department’s own figures — which are confined only to legally notified forests — showed that the impact of fires remain largely confined to the state’s eastern districts. Notably this year, even areas like Melghat, where the fire department has seen relative success in mitigating the impact of forest fires in recent year, are once again seeing an uptick in the quantum of forest area affected by wildfires||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/5300-hectares-of-forest-area-in-maharashtra-affected-by-fires-in-2021-data-101618083206499.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC orders ACP to take sensitisation course on crimes against women||Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC) on Friday directed a local assistant commissioner of police (ACP) from Aurangabad to undergo a sensitisation course on crimes against women after noticing that he had tried to shield a politically influential rape accused, and harassed the survivor instead of arresting the accused.The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar issued the directive after noticing that ACP Nishikant Bhujbal not only tried to wrap up the rape case against the local Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader by filing a summary report, but also harassed the complainant by repeatedly calling her to the police station under the guise of investigation.The order came on a petition filed by the survivor seeking transfer of the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in view of the attempts made to shield the accused. She also sought an enquiry into the conduct of the ACP who took over investigation of the case, in blatant violation of prevailing norms that crimes against women are to be probed by women police officers.The woman alleged that the NCP leader raped her on November 14, 2020, but the first information report (FIR) was registered on December 26 as she apprehended threat to her life. However, after police’s attempts to shield the accused, she had moved the HC.HC found substance in her contention and said, “We do not find a single convincing and plausible reason as to why the investigating officer (IO) (Bhujbal), while conducting investigation into a heinous offence punishable under section 376 of the Indian Penal Code, refrained from arresting the accused.” The bench added, “We are also intrigued by the fact that the first IO, a lady officer, was suddenly removed without any reason within four days and the present IO, Bhujbal, was appointed.”The judges also pointed that the statement of the survivor under section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) was recorded on January 15 this year, in which she had reiterated her allegations, but instead of relying on her statement, Bhujbal chose to rely upon the plea of alibi put forth by the accused that he was not in Aurangabad on the day of the incident but that he had spent the day in company of some national and state level leaders of his party.“This shows either his insensitivity to the offences committed against women or that he was manipulated by the accused,” said the bench, expressing the need to make the ACP undergo a sensitisation course.HC, however, disposed of the petition as the ACP has, during pendency of the proceedings, filed a summary report seeking to close the rape case. HC has directed the magistrate concerned to handover a copy of the report to the survivor so as to enable her to oppose the closure of the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-orders-acp-to-take-sensitisation-course-on-crimes-against-women-101618083086534.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Family court lawyers write to Bombay HC over delays, infra issues||Family Court Bar Association has recently written to the Bombay high court (HC) raising concerns about functioning of the family court at Bandra and difficulties faced by the litigants due to delay in deciding the proceedings. In a representation dated March 23 addressed to the guardian judge of the family court, the association has mainly raised issues related to delay in getting the family court proceedings started. The association, in the letter, claimed that after filing the petition, the first date is allotted only after four to five months of lodging of the case.“In the filing department there are limited staff for checking and numbering, due to which first date of the hearing we get after four-five months from the date of filing. Because of the delay in checking and removal of office objections, if any, great hardship is caused to the litigants who are already under emotional turmoil,” states the representation. The association has requested HC to take necessary action to speed up the process and also suggested that the family court should become paperless. It has also sought to set up a computer department which could facilitate e-filing of petitions and virtual hearing of the cases. “It is also a need of the hour to work towards the concept of paper-free court to save our forest, trees and environment. It is also required for the advanced office functioning concept and space management,” the association said in the letter. The association has also sought reforms in functioning of marriage counsellors and uniform procedure for all the seven courts which are functioning at the family court at Bandra. It has also sought clarity on starting eighth court at Bandra and a new building for the court complex.The association claimed that the infrastructure for eight courts is ready since the past three years but the eighth court is still not set up. It is needed to reduce pendency of cases. The association cited that the foundation stone for the new family court building was laid in 2013 and sought the status of the proposed building and progress of construction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/family-court-lawyers-write-to-bombay-hc-over-delays-infra-issues-101618083027242.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: EOW books 5 firms for siphoning ₹5 crore from Labour Board||An assistant labour commissioner has lodged a complaint with the economic offences wing (EOW) of the Mumbai Police against five firms allegedly involved in siphoning off ₹5 crore from the board’s bank account using bogus cheques and forged signatures. Bank officials are also suspected to be involved in the alleged fraud.The complainant, assistant labour commissioner Ashok Doke, 53, is holding additional charge of president of the Goods Clearing and Forwarding Establishment Labour Board which looks after the overall welfare and regulation of unsecured labour workers. Labour workers’ provident fund and other funds meant for their welfare are deposited with the board which, in turn, has deposited the same in a saving account with Bank of Baroda.Last month when board’s accountant and his assistant went to the bank’s Masjid Bundar branch to get the passbook updated, they found out that ₹5.06 crore had been deducted from the account. “Further probe revealed that the amount was transferred from the account on different occasions between January 7 and March 2. The unauthorised transactions were carried out using cheques,” said an EOW officer. The board member informed the bank that the cheque book of the said account is at the board’s office and the board as not issued any cheques to anyone. This indicated that bogus cheques were used for the fraud, the officer added.A total of eight cheques were used, and with the help of forged signatures, the money was transferred to different bank accounts of Bank of Baroda in Madhya Pradesh and Chattisgarh, the complaint states.The funds are transferred in bank accounts belonging to Rashid Khan Constructions, Arunoday Shikshan Samiti, Dongergaon, Bhilayi, Maharshi Enterprises General Suppliers, Balaghat, Jayshakti Constructions and Kaushalendra Dekate, Balaghat. All these have been named as accused in the FIR, a copy of which is with HT.The complainant alleged that the bank’s branch manager and other staff did not work as per due procedure and failed to verify or carry out authenticity checks and processed the cheques. “We have sought details of the fraudulent transactions from the bank as well as details of the beneficiary account holders, details of the bank personnel who were involved in processing the duplicate cheques having forged signatures,” said an EOW officer. The police have booked the five beneficiary account holders under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code.The case was first registered with Pydhonie police and later got transferred to EOW considering its complex nature. No arrest has been made yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbaieow-books-5-firms-for-siphoning-5-crore-from-labour-board-101618083026639.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: 34 years on, court acquits two booked for assault||Thirty-four years after they were booked by the police for allegedly stabbing a hotel manager at Bhandup, the Mumbai sessions court earlier this week acquitted two accused for want of evidence. The victim, Jaya Shetty, was stabbed while he was sitting at the counter of the hotel on August 10, 1985. He was taken to Rajawadi Hospital where he told the police that he was assaulted by four persons namely Arjun Lokhande, Bal Kadam, Rohidas Kharat and Mahesh Khare.Shetty in his statement to police claimed he knew all the accused and he was attacked over issues related to his previous business related to liquor. Based on this, the police arrested Lokhande, Kadam, Kharat and Khare.During trial, Lokhande and Kadam died hence a case against them was abated. Kharat and Khare were prosecuted for the assault. Both of them were, however, granted bail in 1986 after which they absconded.They were rearrested in 2019 and put to trial before the sessions court. The trial could only commence late in 2019.During the trial, the court issued summons to witnesses such as the complainant, eye witnesses who took the victim to Rajawadi Hospital for treatment. However, the prosecution failed to trace the witnesses and filed a report saying the witnesses were not traceable.The prosecution could only examine the investigating officer of the case while no other witnesses were available to depose before the court.The court noted that no examination of key witnesses such as the victim, eye witnesses, medical officer and other relevant witnesses is fatal to prosecution case. Hence, the court said no evidence was put forth by the prosecution against the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-34-years-on-court-acquits-two-booked-for-assault-101618082906511.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Air India should obey SC ticket-refund order: Legal consumer organisations||National carrier Air India is continuing to protect the air ticket money of passengers affected due to the lockdown, even after the deadline of March 31, 2021. The Supreme Court had, on October 1 last year, issued an order directing all airlines to provide full refund to passengers and allowed only airlines facing financial issues to refund or provide credit shells till March 2021. “The face-value of the ticket is protected against any travel planned in future by the passengers. To provide reassurance and comfort to passengers during the pandemic days, Air India had extended the validity of tickets till March 31, 2021. However, as it was observed that the Covid situation was continuing, the validity for all tickets was further extended up to December 31, 2021, by a circular dated June 17, 2020,” the airline spokesperson said in response to the paper’s query. “While Air India extended benefits to passengers in the form of name, however, Air India has never offered a credit shell to passengers due to its specific system configuration. Hence, the concept of credit shell is not applicable for Air India’s domestic and international passengers,” the spokesperson said.Air India also said that based on continuous feedback from the passengers, additional facilities like change of sector, name dates were added. “It may be noted that unlike some other airlines, Air India did not sell any inventory during the lockdown period. Such extension of validity of tickets was also approved for travel on Vande Bharat Mission flights,” added the airline spokesperson. However, the airline did not comment when asked if they had taken SC’s permission for continuing to give benefits to passengers even after the Apex court’s order.Paragraph 13 A(d) of the refund order states that by the end of March 2021, the airlines should refund cash to the holder of the credit shell. “As per the Supreme Court order there is no differentiation between Air India and private airlines or domestic and international airlines. The order is crystal clear and states that all airlines are supposed to refund passengers immediately. However, the airlines who are undergoing financial crisis can, for the tickets that are booked during the lockdown, issue credit shells for a period up to March 31, 2021. It is the duty of the airline to return their money with interest now. There is no way and means that the airline can give other benefits or credit shells to the passengers. No circular, as mentioned by the airline, is above the Apex court’s order. Air India has to get permission from the court for still issuing credit otherwise it is contempt of court,” said Jose Abraham, president of Pravasi Legal Cell, who filed the matter in the SC.Advocate Shirish Deshpande, chairman of Mumbai Grahak Panchayat (MGP), said, “In short, Air India admits it has decided to utilise crores of lakhs of passengers’ money without their consent which is in flagrant violation of the letter and spirit of the Supreme Court order dated October 1, 2020. Air India, being the national carrier, is also “state” under Indian Constitution and as such has special obligations towards passengers. If Air India persists with such a policy of denial of legitimate refund of lakhs of passengers, MGP will be constrained to approach the Supreme Court once again for ensuring strict compliance by Air India. Air India needs to be reminded that it’s not above the law of the land and there cannot be a separate rule of refund for Air India in any circumstances.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/air-india-should-obey-sc-ticket-refund-order-legal-consumer-organisations-101618082846488.html
11-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai sees light showers, may continue for 2 days||Several parts of the city received light rains on Saturday evening under the influence of weather systems circulating over Central India. Officials in the India Meteorological Department (IMD) clarified that these showers are not indicative of an early arrival of monsoon in the state. They added light drizzles in Mumbai might continue for another two to three days before subsiding.Marathwada, Madhya Maharashtra and Vidarbha have been experiencing stormy conditions and unexpected precipitation for at least two days now. “There is a weather system passing over Central India which, on Saturday, began to influence the climactic conditions in Konkan region as well. There were also storms reported from Pune. The next few days in Mumbai may see an uptick in humidity levels,” said a spokesperson with IMD’s regional forecasting centre in Mumbai.As per IMD’s automatic weather station in Santacruz, the maximum temperature in Mumbai on Saturday stood at 33.5 degrees Celsius, slightly up from 33.2 degrees Celsius the day prior. Official forecasts predict that maximum temperature will remain between 33 and 35 degrees Celsius over the next seven days, while the minimum temperature is expected to hover between 23 and 25 degrees Celsius.Meanwhile, part of Vidarbha may experience isolated hailstorms over the next two to three days. A yellow weather alter has been issued for Sunday and Monday for all four meteorological subdivisions of Maharashtra by IMD.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-sees-light-showers-may-continue-for-2-days-101618082786417.html
11-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day spike of 12,748 new Covid infections||Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 12,748 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) setting, for the third day in a row, a new all-time record for the highest number of new infections reported in a single day, even as the outbreak in the state surpassed the peak of the first wave.After Saturday’s addition, the seven-day average of new infections in the state now stands at 7,259, surpassing the previous peak for the state 6,581 for the week ending September 12, 2020, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.With this, the state now joins a list of six other regions – Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Punjab – where the latest wave of infections has surpassed the peak seen in the first wave. The same is true for the national case trajectory as well — there have been 124,446 new cases reported in India every day in the past week, the highest ever.With 46 fresh deaths, the Covid fatality count in India’s most populous state climbed to 9,085, according to a government statement. A total of 23 deaths were reported from state capital Lucknow, followed by six fatalities in Kanpur and two each in Varanasi, Allahabad, Muzaffarnagarar and Kushinagar, among others.Of the new infections reported in the state on Saturday, the highest (4,059 new cases) were reported in Lucknow, followed by 1,460 from Allahabad, 983 from Varanasi, 706 new infections from Kanpur, the statement said.So far, 608,853 patients have recovered from the disease.The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 58,801, the statement said.With PTI inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-records-highest-single-day-spike-of-12-748-new-covid-infections-101618082034577.html
11-04-2021||Other||Hisar journalist booked for promoting enmity, cyber terrorism over FB post||The Hisar police have booked an independent journalist, who runs a web portal, on charges of promoting enmity between different groups, assertions prejudicial to national integration and cyber terrorism for one of his social media posts.The FIR was registered against journalist Rajesh Kundu, on complaint filed by Hisar Police PRO Vikash Lohachab, under Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on ground of religion, race, place of birth, residence, language, etc) and 153B (imputations, assertions prejudicial to national integration) of the IPC and Section 66F (charges of cyber terrorism) of the Information and Technology Act over one of his posts on the social media.“In many WhatsApp groups and on Facebook, Kundu mentioned with the hashtag ‘alert’ that ‘be prepared to face caste violence in a week in Hisar’ and this will be a ‘blueprint for experiment’ in state and then in the country,” the complaint added.Kundu, who had worked as a media consultant to Haryana jails and power minister Ranjit Chautala, runs a web portal ‘The Ink’ and has remained active during the farm agitation.Opposition leaders, including Congress’ Kumari Selja, Deepender Singh Hooda, Randeep Singh Surjewala and Kiran Chaudhary, and INLD’s Abhay Chautala, and journalist associations have condemned registration of the criminal case against Kundu and demanded its immediate withdrawal.The Opposition leaders said that the journalist had been booked as he was covering the farmers’ agitation and was lending voice to the protesting farmers through his social media handles.Over registration of FIR, Kundu said that he was alerting people about a possible conspiracy to create rift on caste lines and said police have booked him as he was raising farmers’ issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hisar-journalist-booked-for-promoting-enmity-cyber-terrorism-over-fb-post-101618081946977.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||No night curfew in Haryana||The Haryana government on Saturday decided not to impose night curfew despite PM Modi’s directions during a video conference with chief ministers on Thursday.As per an order issued by the State Disaster Management Authority on Saturday, the state government has decided to declare vacations in schools for Classes 1 to 8, and close down all anganwadi centres and creches till April 30.The restrictions have been imposed in order to contain the spread of coronavirus in state.Financial commissioner (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal said that it has been decided to declare vacations in all government and private schools in state for Classes 1 to 8 till April 30, but the teachers will continue to attend schools and do administrative work, including preparation of results, etc.“Admissions and other processes will continue uninterrupted. Covid-19 appropriate behaviour such as social distancing, use of face mask, sanitisation, hand hygiene, etc will be strictly followed,” he said.Kaushal said that anganwadis and creches under the women and child development department will also remain closed till April 30.District programme officers (DPOs) and women and child development project officers will be instructed to fill in for the anganwadi centres as was done during lockdown.They will provide all ICDS services including distribution of supplementary nutrition, at the doorstep of beneficiaries, he said.The beneficiaries will be called to anganwadis for immunisation with strict adherence to the Covid SOP.No centre will allow a gathering of more than 20 persons at any point of time to prevent further spread of the virus.The deputy commissioners will constitute joint inspection teams to ensure extensive checking and action against violators as per law and directions issued by the state government, Kaushal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/no-night-curfew-in-haryana-101618081766875.html
11-04-2021||Other||Haryana farmers rush to mandis as arhtiyas call off strike||Thousands of wheat growers in Haryana heaved a sigh of relief as the commission agents ended their indefinite strike and resumed the procurement process at mandis (grain markets) in state on Saturday.Haryana Mandi Arhtiyas Association’s Ashok Gupta said, “We have ended the strike as the government has agreed to accept most of our demands and has assured that the state government will take up the issue of direct benefit transfer with the Centre.”He added that the decision to end the strike was taken on Friday night after a delegation of arhtiyas held a meeting with top government officials in Chandigarh.Gupta said the payment will be disbursed into bank accounts of farmers but the arhtiyas concerned will also get an SMS about disbursement of payment into account of the farmers 24 hours before the payment.The decision has come as a major relief for farmers who were facing difficulties to sell their produce and were waiting at mandis for past two days.“Due to the strike, I was unable to sell my wheat. Now, it was sold on MSP and the payment will come within next 48 hours,” said farmer Rajesh Kamboj, of Indri.Soon after getting information that the commission agents have called off their strike, arrival of wheat picked pace at the mandis.Farmers had to wait for hours at the mandi entrance to get gate pass.“I reached the mandi here at around 9am but had to wait for two hours to get the gate pass to sell my produce of around 40 quintal,” said an elderly farmer Pala Ram, of Gharuanda in Karnal.As per officials of the food and supplies department, the government agencies have procured around 6 lakh MT wheat on MSP of ₹1,975 so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/haryana-farmers-rush-to-mandis-as-arhtiyas-call-off-strike-101618081532221.html
11-04-2021||Other||Maur Mandi blast: Revoked passports of two accused, Punjab Police tells HC||Punjab Police have told the Punjab and Haryana high court that passports of two of the accused in Maur Mandi blast case of 2017 have been revoked and proceedings in the case of third are underway.The state police made these submissions were made in the contempt of court proceedings before the high court initiated on the plea of one Gurjeet Singh Patran. He had alleged that court orders of September 25, 2018, January 30 and September 17, 2020 have been violated by the police as the Special Investigating Team (SIT) had not made any tangible progress and has failed to arrest anyone to date. The twin blasts occurred on January 31, ahead of the February 4 assembly elections in Punjab in 2017 in which seven persons were killed and 25 were injured. The SIT filed a challan before trial court on January 29, 2020 but none of the accused persons have been arrested.Police have told the court that passports of accused Gurtej Singh and Amrik Singh have already been revoked and revocation proceedings of the passport of the third accused Avtar Singh has also been initiated. After September 2020 order of the high court, four teams have been constituted under the supervision of SP (investigation) Bathinda. These have conducted 50 raids at houses of relatives and their sympathisers, but no clue of whereabouts of the accused were found.The police have also told the court that verification of movable and immovable properties of the accused persons has been conducted. No property was found to be registered in the names of Avtar and Gurtej. A tractor and a scooty have been found registered in the name of Amrik. The regional transport officer concerned has been requested not to transfer these vehicles from his name, the police said adding that a piece of land was also found registered in his name in Sirsa. A letter has been written to the deputy commissioner to make a revenue entry of the, case so that said piece of land is not transferred to any other name, police added. The court was also told that a three-member technical team has been formed to coordinate and assist AIGs, Bathinda range, to provide inputs to apprehend the proclaimed offenders and lookout notice too have been issued.Taking note of these submissions, the court has disposed of the contempt plea observing that it hoped police would continue with the efforts to arrest the three accused. No mention of Dera Sacha Sauda headThe high court order does not mention anything with regard to demand of questioning Dera Sacha Sauda head Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. It was alleged that even as the vehicle used in the blasts was assembled in a workshop of the dera, he has not been associated with the probe. Ram Rahim is undergoing a jail term in two rape cases in Haryana’s Rohtak jail.Initially, the plea was filed in May 2018, seeking probe by an independent agency. It was disposed of by high court in September 2018, with the court expressing its satisfaction with the probe. In December 2018, Patran again approached high court, demanding its revival alleging that main accused has still not been arrested. This plea too was disposed, giving two weeks to arrest accused persons. The contempt plea had been filed alleging the violation of this order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maur-mandi-blast-revoked-passports-of-two-accused-punjab-police-tells-hc-101618081527072.html
11-04-2021||Other||As Kerala govt backs Jaleel, Oppn demands his resignation||Thiruvananthapuram: The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Saturday rallied behind the beleaguered state higher education minister K T Jaleel who was found guilty by Lokayukta for appointing his cousin in an important post flouting all norms. Speaking to the media, law minister A K Balan said there was no need for the minister to resign now. “No law states that a relative can’t be appointed. He did not even complete one month after his appointment. There is no need of resignation based on the observations of a lower court,” said the minister. Later, Jaleel also took to social media saying he will approach the high court on Monday against the verdict. The Lokayukta on Friday found him guilty of nepotism and abuse of power in the appointment of his second cousin K T Adeeb as the general manager of the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited. It also observed that he can’t continue in the post and recommended the chief minister to take appropriate action against him. Balan, however, said the CM has three months to take a decision on this and there was no need for the minister to rush to tender his resignation. Even as the government defended the minister, the opposition stepped up pressure for his resignation. “If an iota of morality was left in the CM he should sack the minister immediately,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan, also hailing from the state, said chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan should expel him for violating his oath of office. There was a big uproar when Adeeb was appointed allegedly flouting all norms and later he was forced to resign in 2018. Later in 2019, a lawyer V K Mohammad Shafi, known to be close to Muslim League,had field a compliant with the Lokayukta which on Friday agreed with the contention of the petitioner that he was appointed flouting all norms. A controversial minister, his name was also figured in the gold smuggling case. After the gold smuggling case involving the UAE consulate came to light in March 2020; Jaleel was questioned by the customs and Enforcement Directorate on several occasions. Trouble began for him after phone call records of Swapna Suresh, main accused in the case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently in her list. Soon after the list came out, the minister said he called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital. Hailing from Muslim -majority Malappuram district, he had earlier created enough headaches for the government in alleged mark donation move to a failed student and other cases but his proximity to the CM saved him from major troubles. A former member of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) he later joined the Muslim League. He later left the League and joined the LDF camp and he was instrumental in CPI(M) getting some inroads in Muslim heartland of Malappuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/as-kerala-govt-backs-jaleel-oppn-demands-his-resignation-101618081286334.html
11-04-2021||Other||Former Andhra Intel chief seeks CBI probe into forgery case||Hyderabad Hyderabad: Senior IPS officer and former intelligence chief of Andhra Pradesh A B Venkateshwara Rao on Saturday asked for a comprehensive probe by Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged forgery of documents by certain senior police officials of the state to fix him in a corruption case. Rao wrote a letter to this effect to state chief secretary Adityanath Das. He submitted a set of documents which were allegedly fabricated by the police officials and submitted to the inquiry committee of vigilance and enforcement making false charges against him. The former intelligence chief, who is presently under suspension, named Director General Police Gautam Sawang, Additional DGP of Crime Investigation Department Sunil Kumar and ACB director general P Seetha Ramanjaneyulu among others. Requesting that the matter be entrusted to the CBI for thorough investigation, Rao suggested that the senior police officers be shifted from their present positions so as to ensure fair and timely investigation. Rao, who served as state intelligence chief during the Telugu Desam Party regime, was suspended on February 8 last year for his alleged irregularities in procurement of security equipment from an Israeli company during his tenure. The Jagan government, which entrusted the case to Anti-Corruption Bureau, alleged that Rao had wilfully disclosed intelligence protocols and procedures of police to the foreign defence manufacturing firm. Rao challenged his suspension in the Central Administrative Tribunal on February 13, but the CAT dismissed his petition in March. Later, he moved the high court, which revoked his suspension in July. The Andhra Pradesh government challenged this order in the Supreme Court, which lifted stay on his suspension in November, pending inquiry. In January, the state government extended the suspension of Rao for another six months pending inquiry. It told the Supreme Court that it would complete the investigation and submit a comprehensive report to the court before May 3, when the case was posted for next hearing. The ex-intelligence chief said even as the inquiry committee began hearing the arguments on March 18 this year, the ACB conducted searches on his residences in Vijayawada and Hyderabad on March 18 and seized a laptop and a desktop containing the notes and questionnaires he had prepared for the inquiry. “They also seized some documents which I kept ready for filing with the Inquiring Authority as defence documents,” he said. He said he had participated in the inquiry which was held continuously from March 22 to April 4. “During the course of arguments, I found that the police authorities who had deposed before the panel had resorted to forgery, fraud, tampering of witnesses and evidence,” he said, adding that he would prove his charges, if the CBI inquiry was ordered. When contacted, Director General of Police Gautam Sawang said he would not like to comment on the letter written by Rao to the government at this stage, as the inquiry process was going on. “It is against the service rules of the government servants to comment on the issue which is under inquiry,” he said. Another senior police official, who was named in the letter, said on condition of anonymity that Rao should not have leaked the letter to social media and mainstream media at a time when he was the facing certain allegations. “The fundamental to the whole issue is that Rao had entered into an agreement with an Israeli company for supply of some high-cost security equipment and his son was an agent of the company in India. It has been proved. He is only trying to divert the issue by making all sorts of charges against others,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-andhra-intel-chief-seeks-cbi-probe-into-forgery-case-101618081226247.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||PSPCL collected ₹19,630 crore from online payments last year: CMD||Punjab State Power Corporation Limited (PSPCL) collected ₹19,630 crore through 143 lakh digital transactions during 2020-21, its chairman-cum-managing director A Venu Prasad said on Saturday. In a press statement, Prasad said due to several digital platforms offered by PSPCL, over 75% of the total collection was being received digitally, helping the corporation lead in the digital-collection segment. He said PSPCL was providing cost-effective, convenient to use and smooth digital bill payment platforms through BHIM, SBI Pay, PNB, HDFC Payzapp, Paytm, PhonePe, Just Dial, Google Pay, Amazon, Umang, etc. Due to this, citizens had shown remarkable enthusiasm and were now free from long queues at cash counters. Besides, they were saving huge direct and indirect costs, which were earlier being incurred in offline payment. The CMD added that the citizens’ confidence in effective digital payments was reflected in payments reaching around ₹19,630 crore now from around ₹2,000 crore in 2016-17. The digital transactions had also increased from 43 lakh to 143 lakh in the corresponding period, which was a matter of pride for Punjab, normally considered a farming economy, he added. Prasad said PSPCL had introduced and implemented host of innovative ideas to meet citizens’ requirements, and made public-service delivery systems responsive and transparent by leveraging technology.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/pspcl-collected-19-630-crore-from-online-payments-last-year-cmd-101618080627065.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity records 1,000+ cases for third day||The tricity continued to report 1,000+ Covid-19 cases for the third consecutive day, with 1,151 people testing positive on Saturday.A day after an all-time high of 1,280 cases was recorded in the tricity, Mohali reported 536 cases, followed by 398 in Chandigarh and 217 in Panchkula. The number of active cases went past 5,000 in Mohali district, while four people died and 166 were discharged on Saturday. As many as 31,140 people have tested positive so far, of whom 25,658 have recovered, 473 have died and 5,009 are undergoing treatment. Mohali city continued to report bulk of the cases with 266 on Saturday, followed by 98 in Dhakoli and 86 in Kharar.In Chandigarh, three patents succumbed, taking the death toll to 396. They have been identified as a 73-year-old woman from Sector 49 and two men, aged 79 and 50, from Sector 48 and 23, respectively.Of 30,341 people tested positive so far, 26,680 have recovered, including 343 discharged on Saturday. As many as 3,265 cases remain active, highest since the outbreak.In Panchkula district, 161 of the 217 fresh cases surfaced in the urban pockets. The total has climbed to 14,737 of which 1,385 cases are active. While 13,194 patients have been cured, 158 have succumbed to the virus.P’kula admn to hold vax camps at Mata Mansa Devi TempleThe Panchkula health department will organise Covid-19 vaccination camps at Mata Mansa Devi Temple during Chaitra Navaratri Mela from April 13 to 21.The camp will be held daily from 10am to 4pm, said deputy commissioner Mukul Kumar after a meeting to review preparedness for the fair. The DC said face masks are mandatory for devotees visiting Mata Mansa Devi Temple, Panchkula, and Kali Mata Mandir, Kalka, during the fair.The administration has already introduced slot-wise darshan and mandatory e-tokens for devotees, which are available on www.mansadevi.org.in.Mohali admn allows urgent activities at schools, collegesEducational institutes in Mohali district have been allowed to conduct “urgent and timebound academic activities”, except classroom teaching, from April 12 to 30. These orders were issued by district magistrate Girish Dayalan on Saturday. Earlier, all institutes were ordered to remain closed till April 30 in view of the pandemic surge. The fresh order states that in case of offline examinations, not more than 15 students will be allowed to sit in one classroom. If required, the exam can be conducted in two shifts, said Dayalan. The order clarified that heads of institutes will be responsible for compliance of Covid-19 instructions issued by various authorities. They have to ensure everyone wear masks and maintain social distance, and the campus is sanitised regularly. Any violation will invite criminal proceedings, the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-records-1-000-cases-for-third-day-101618080571860.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tardy lifting of garbage irks Ludhiana residents||Slow lifting of garbage from secondary dumping points in the city by the municipal corporation (MC) is taking a toll on residents and commuters. It has been two months since the MC took over solid waste management in the city, after A2Z Company self-terminated its contract, but the process has not been streamlined yet.In many parts of the city including Shivpuri, Model Town and Field Ganj, heaps of garbage dumped on the road side disturbs movement of vehicles and the foul smell emanating from it irks residents. There are over 40 secondary dumping sites in the city where waste collected from houses is dumped. From there, it is shifted to the main dump site at Tajpur Road. The civic body has not tackled the problem despite several complaints submitted by residents. Deepak, a resident of Shivpuri area, said, “We have complained against the Shivpuri garbage dumping site as a cremation ground is also situated near it and foul smell spreads in the area. The movement of traffic is also hit as the dump is situated on roadside and waste dumped in the open covers half the road. It becomes difficult to cross the area on a two-wheeler due to foul smell. But, the authorities are not paying heed to the problem.”Shopkeepers of the scooter market in Model town area said civic body officials remained on their toes when the A2Z company terminated its contract in February and in March, when the third inspection under Swachh Survekshan-2021 was scheduled to be held, but the situation has deteriorated again.President of the market association, Satinderpal Singh, said, “The road from Chatar Singh park to scooter market was blocked for hours as garbage was spread in the entire area. It becomes difficult to work at the market as the dump is situated just adjoining to it and foul smell spreads in the area. Repeated complaints have been submitted with the MC to find a solution or ensure regular lifting of garbage.”Municipal commissioner Pardeep Sabharwal said, “I will direct officials to keep a check on lifting of garbage, so that residents and commuters don’t face any problem. The civic body is working to appoint a new contractor for lifting of garbage and we are also working on a project to install static compactors at 22 sites in the city to stop open dumping of garbage.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tardy-lifting-of-garbage-irks-ludhiana-residents-101618080570627.html
11-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana man assaulted, robbed of ₹20,000, scooter||A 46-year-old man was beaten up by four men and robbed of his scooter and ₹20,000 in New Madhopuri on Friday night.The victim, Mohammad Naeem, 46, of Gulabi Bagh, told the police that he was in New Madhopuri for dinner at a friend’s house.After the meal, he left for his house around 8.30pm. On the way, four men waylaid him and assaulted him. After overpowering him, they snatched his ₹20,000 in cash and mobile phone, before fleeing with his scooter.As the robbers left, Naeem rushed back to his friend’s house and informed the police.Assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Joginderpal Singh, who is investigating the case, said they had registered a case under Sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 341 (wrongful restrain), 379-B (snatching) and 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence committed in prosecution of common object) of the Indian Penal Code at the Daresi police station. The police are scanning CCTV cameras installed in the area to gather clues about the accused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-man-assaulted-robbed-of-20-000-scooter-101618080506775.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 positivity rate jumps to 10.2%; 7,897 new cases recorded||Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – jumped to 10.2% on Saturday, registering a double digit ratio for the first time in 138 days since November 24. There were 7,897 new cases of coronavirus disease and 39 deaths due to the infection reported on Saturday, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government.Experts had expected the number of cases to cross the previous peak of the city of 8,593 cases reported on November 11 when the city saw its third surge in cases. However, the drop in the cases as well as the sudden increase in positivity rate, which is representative of the ongoing transmission of the infection, could be because of fewer Covid-19 test conducted.The city recorded 77,374 tests on Saturday as compared to 89,334 tests conducted daily on average over the last seven days. The daily number of tests crossed the 100,000 mark twice within the week.“Based on the known natural history of the infection, the cases are likely to continue the increasing trend till April end; the infection usually follows a 12-week course, with the decline starting at around six week. If the numbers stabilise and remain almost same for five to seven days, we will know that we have reached the peak and the decline will start,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. He headed Delhi government’s initial committee on control and management of Covid-19.He expressed concern over the increasing number of deaths. The average number of deaths recorded each day almost tripled over the last one week. Delhi reported 25 Covid-19 deaths on average daily during the last seven days as compared nine the week before and six the week before that.With a high number of cases, the case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among positive cases – continues to be low at 0.41% average over the last seven days. “There is no evidence to suggest that the infection this time is milder. However, there is less fatality as compared to last year because now people are better aware about the infection and come to the hospital on time; most of them have pulse oximeter and monitor their oxygen saturation continuously. In addition, the hospitals have also finalised their treatment protocols, they know what works when. However, the deaths will continue to increase at the moment. The peak for the number of death usually comes seven to ten days after the number of cases peaks,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences.The number of hospitalisations have also doubled over the last seven days from 2,727 recorded on April 4 to 5,398 on April 10. The Delhi government has repeatedly increased the number of beds earmarked for Covid-19 in government and private hospitals over the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-coronavirus-positivity-rate-jumps-to-102-101618080341601.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Teen held as speeding Honda City kills auto driver in Mohali||An 18-year-old boy has been arrested after his speeding Honda City left an auto-rickshaw driver dead and a couple on a scooter injured at a traffic junction in Sector 70, Mohali, on Saturday. The incident comes three weeks after a speeding Mercedes being driven by an 18-year-old boy from Chandigarh claimed three lives and left three injured near Radha Soami Satsang Chowk on Airport Road in Mohali. In the present case, the accused has been identified as Prithavi, 18, of Phase 1. He along with his father, Sandeep, and a friend was going towards Kumbra when the accident took place around 8:30am.The auto driver has been identified as Arjun Yadav, 35, of Phase 3A. The injured are Abhimanyu and his wife Aditi. Aditi, a private school teacher, suffered multiple fractures and is undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Mohali. Abhimanyu, an advocate, managed to escape with minor injuries. Abhimanyu told police that he was on his way to drop his wife to her school in Balongi and was waiting at the light point next to the auto near the power grid in Sector 70, Mohali. Both vehicles were to turn towards the side from where the speeding Honda City came. It first hit the auto, which overturned, and Abhimanyu’s Activa, too, got caught between the two vehicles. The auto driver was rushed to the civil hospital in Phase 6, and was referred to Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, but succumbed due to his head injuries.“Prithavi was speeding, which led to the accident. He has been arrested,” said inspector Ashok Kumar, station house officer, Mataur, adding that it is being investigated whether he had a valid licence. Police said that the road where the accident took place presently has a single lane, as the other side was dug up for laying new sewer lines. Amid the pandemic, the work has been going on slowly, forcing vehicles to use just one lane, which often leads to accidents, they said. Meanwhile, a case has been registered under Sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 426 (mischief) of the Indian Penal Code. Two youths yet to be arrested in Merc mishap Even three weeks after the Mercedes accident on Airport Road, police are yet to arrest two youths who were accompanying the main accused.According to police, Samrat Singh, 18, a resident of Sector 34, Chandigarh, was out for a joyride with his friends after a drinking session in the car and was driving at a speed of 140km per hour when he crashed into a taxi and then ran over two cyclists. The collision had killed two occupants of the taxi and one of the cyclists, while three were left critically injured. Samrat’s two friends, Arjun Kapoor of Sector 9, Chandigarh, and Prabhnoor Singh, of Phase 7, Mohali, are on the run. All accused are facing charges under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 120B (criminal conspiracy), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 279 (rash driving) of the Indian Penal Code.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/teen-held-as-speeding-honda-city-kills-auto-driver-in-mohali-101618080446839.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Afternoon Shatabdi to Delhi chugs off from Chandigarh||With a total of 421 passengers aboard, the afternoon Shatabdi Express on Saturday chugged off from Chandigarh to New Delhi for the first time in over a year after the Covid-19 lockdown was imposed in 2020.Chandigarh railway station superintendent JP Singh said that the train left on time.“While our ticket counters are closed till Monday for sanitation, we expect that the afternoon Shatabdi will see a higher occupancy in the coming days. Except Wednesday, the train will run six days a week,” he said.Out of the total 692 seats in the chair car, 503 were booked. Of the 56 executive seats, travellers made reservations for 23.The train covers a total distance of 266 kilometres and has a run time of three hours and 15 minutes. It departs from Chandigarh at 12.15pm and reaches New Delhi at 3.30pm. Then, the same train leaves from New Delhi at 7.15pm and reaches Chandigarh by 10.35pm. It makes two stops on the way at Ambala Cantonment and Karnal railway stations.Trains were suspended last year owing to the Covid pandemic. However, the evening Shatabdi was resumed in November 2020, while the morning train was restarted in February 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/afternoon-shatabdi-to-delhi-chugs-off-from-chandigarh-101618080147631.html
11-04-2021||Chandigarh||Lok adalat settles 851 cases in Chandigarh||A total of 851 cases were disposed of by nine benches of serving judicial officers constituted in New District Courts Complex, Chandigarh, during the national lok adalat on Saturday.The State Legal Services Authority along with District Legal Services Authority, Chandigarh, had organised the lok adalat at District Court, Sector 43.Criminal compoundable cases, cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument (NI) Act, bank recovery cases, MACT cases, matrimonial disputes, labour disputes, arbitration matters, other civil cases, municipal matters and traffic challans were resolved with the consent of the parties.Total cases included two criminal compoundable cases, 603 cases under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instrument Act involving an amount of ₹1.37 crore, two bank recovery cases entailing ₹13 lakh and 12 motor accident claim cases of over ₹1 crore. Apart from these, there were 18 matrimonial/ family disputes, 52 civil suits and rent cases involving an amount of ₹1.80 crore, 14 executions pertaining to ₹43.99 lakh.Two criminal revision, four criminal miscellaneous, three civil miscellaneous, 15 arbitration cases, four civil/ rent appeals, nine cases of under CrPC, five DV Act cases, one Shops Act case involving fine of ₹30,000 and four cases of Guardian Act were also settled.As many as 101 traffic challans were disposed of by imposing fines of ₹60,500.In addition to these, 42 cases of ₹1 crore were disposed of by the permanent lok adalat (public utility services), 11 pre-litigative cases involving an amount of ₹10.66 lakh, four labour dispute cases of ₹95,000 were settled.842 cases disposed of in MohaliOut of the total 2,781 cases taken up during the national lok adalat on Saturday, 842 were disposed of in Mohali. The cases were settled by virtue of compromise and award of over ₹49 crore was passed by the different benches. Thirteen benches were constituted in Mohali, while three were set up benches in Kharar sub-division, and two in Dera Bassi sub-division. Covid-19 protocol was strictly followed during the proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/lok-adalat-settles-851-cases-in-chandigarh-101618079966743.html
11-04-2021||Other||More trouble for Atiq Ahmad as ED registers money laundering case||Mafia-turned-politician and former MP Atiq Ahmad, presently lodged in Ahmedabad jail, is in further trouble. Prayagraj wing of Enforcement Directorate (ED) has now registered a case of money laundering against him. The ED registered the case on Thursday and the action was initiated on the basis of pending cases against Atiq in police records. There are 195 cases pending against him, said an official aware of the development. “It is likely that ED would now try to locate moveable and immovable assets of Atiq, his kin and cohorts located both in India and abroad, believed to be in several crores. The ED would strive to trace these assets and initiate attachments process,” he said. The ED is also expected to seek details of all charge-sheets that the police have submitted in courts in connection with the various cases which are currently in hearing phase as well as details of cases whose investigations are at present underway on the basis of case diaries, he said. Once the properties are traced and attached, the ED would then initiate criminal trial against the former MP, he said. Atiq is presently lodged at Ahmedabad Jail where he was shifted from Naini Central Jail on the instructions of Supreme Court. Till now, police have taken action on properties worth more than ₹200 crore. These actions were taken against Atiq Ahmed under the Gangster Act. A joint team of PDA and the district administration has carried out around 60 drives against the illegal constructions and other properties, most of them have direct or indirect links to the former MP, in the district. Along with demolishing the buildings, illegally raised by Atiq and his men, district administration has also attached several properties of him and his associates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/more-trouble-for-atiq-ahmad-as-ed-registers-money-laundering-case-101618079666135.html
11-04-2021||Noida||Night curfew spells bad news for pubs, bars in Noida and Ghaziabad||The decision of the authorities in Noida and Ghaziabad to impose a night curfew from 10pm to 5am has come as a big blow to the hospitality sector, with owners of several restaurants, pubs and bars worrying not only about their business but also about the future of employees, most of whom were called back from their respective hometowns after Covid-19 cases started dropping significantly earlier this year.“As 2021 started, we saw a growth of 20-25% in sales figures. However, from late March, the growth started dipping due to the new wave of coronavirus. Now that a night curfew has been imposed in Noida and Ghaziabad, we are expecting the business of pubs to dip by 70-75%,” said Yogesh Sharma, owner of The Flying Dutchman restaurant and pub. It has outlets in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram and Noida’s Wave City Centre in Sector 32.Usually pubs operate till 1am. However, Sharma added, they will have to close by 9pm so that their staff can reach home before the night curfew starts at 10pm.Shailendra Rao, a manager at Black Club+Café at Gaur City Mall in Noida Extension, said, “All pub owners are in a fix. We were yet to recover losses incurred last year and now again, we have the night curfew. The footfall was increasing earlier this year but is back to zero now”.Even fine-dining restaurants are feeling the pinch of the night curfew.“Family dining starts from 9.30pm onwards. A night curfew from 10pm is going to affect our business badly. We are not in favour of night curfew at all,” said Rajkumar Tomar, owner of Mystery of Food kitchen and bar, and Kafe Republic, both located in Ghaziabad’s Indirapuram.Owners of pubs and restaurants are hoping that the night curfew does not get extended beyond April 17.“We are all very scared if the night curfew gets extended further. Just recently, we called our staff back from their hometowns and got the business running. The sudden night curfew is likely to affect jobs again. Business at pubs only starts post 8pm. How will we survive?,” said Sharad Madan,co-owner at Imperfecto chain of restaurants and pubs. Two of its outlets are in Noida’s Sector 32 and 38 and one has been recently launched in Indirapuram.He added that customers are visiting pubs and restaurants as they feel safe when they see that Covid-19 protocols are being followed.“When customers themselves see social distancing and other protocols being followed, they appreciate it and come back again as they feel confident about the safety of the place. Night curfews single out restaurants and pubs that stay open till late night and this does not seem fair to us,” added Madan.Anurag Katriar, president of National Restaurants Association of India (NRAI), questioned the rationale behind the night curfew. “The night curfew has been imposed till April 17 and I don’t think Covid cases are going to reduce in such a short span of time. I fear it (night curfew) may get extended. Having said that, I don’t understand if night curfews help arrest the spread of the virus. The hospitality industry is the worst hit when a night curfew is imposed. Things had recently started looking up but this night curfew has come as a big blow to us,” he said.“All restaurants are working in a very controlled environment, following all Covid protocols and working with limited capacity. So how can that be dangerous for the spread of the virus while other services, such as public transport, are running during the day with full capacity? The hospitality sector is with the government in its fight against coronavirus. But the government should also look at us as partners and not barriers. They should not single us out,” said Katriar.Experts, on the other hand, say that while the night curfew may affect businesses, it is one step in the right direction to curtail the spread of coronavirus.“Large groups of people tend to stay at pubs and restaurants for a long time and since they have to eat and drink, they remove their masks. Such places then turn out to be super spreaders. Night curfew will help close all such establishments that stay open till late at night,” said Dr K K Aggarwal, former president and member of the Indian Medical Association, (IMA) Noida.Meanwhile, district magistrate of Noida Suhas L Y said the night curfew has been imposed for the ‘greater good’.“While I understand that the hospitality sector may be affected by the night curfew, this is not an ideal time as a global pandemic is prevailing at this time. We have to impose restrictions for the greater good of the society,” said Suhas.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/night-curfew-spells-bad-news-for-pubs-bars-in-noida-and-ghaziabad-101618078945844.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Cops say they’ve identified suspect who shot 2 men in Rohini road rage incident||Police on Saturday said they had identified the person who had shot dead a 22-year-old man and injured his cousin in a road rage incident in outer Delhi’s Rohini on Friday.“We have some definite clues about the suspect and our teams are working on it. Further details will be shared when we arrest the suspect,” said deputy commissioner of police (Rohini) Pranav Tayal.A police officer who did not wish to be named said that CCTV footage helped them identify the suspect. The way the suspect wielded the gun indicated that he may have a criminal background, he said.DCP Tayal identified the dead victim as Yash and the critically injured person as 22-year-old Arjun, both residents of northeast Delhi’s Khajoori Khas.Police said around 2.30 pm on Friday, Yash, a law student, and Arjun, a student at a polytechnic college in Rohini, were returning home when they stopped at a CNG fuel station to refuel their car. Arjun honked at the car in front of him when he felt it was not moving. However, it made no difference to the sedan driver and that irked Arjun, the police said.An altercation broke out between Arjun and the sedan driver and Arjun allegedly slapped the driver. Yash intervened and brought Arjun back to the car and remained outside. When Arjun honked again, the driver came out with a gun, shot at Yash and then Arjun, a police officer said.The injured men were rushed to a nearby hospital, where Yash was declared brought dead.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-say-they-ve-identified-suspect-who-shot-2-men-in-road-rage-incident-101618078467078.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Man held for abducting landlord’s son, seeking ₹40 lakh ransom||A 24-year-old man without a job kidnapped his landlord’s seven-month-old son from outer Delhi’s Mohan Garden on Friday afternoon and demanded ₹40 lakh ransom for his safe release, said police.After a combing operation that lasted for nearly 13 hours-- in which 80 police personnel searched in the 50km radius between Ghaziabad and parts of outer and west Delhi, the child was rescued from a taxi and the suspect arrested, said police on Saturday.Priyanshu Kumar, who completed his engineering from a private institute in Kanpur, was doing apprenticeship in a company in Sahibabad in Uttar Pradesh. He, along with his father (a government employee), moved into a flat owned by the boy’s family in Mohan Garden near Ranhola two months ago, said deputy commissioner of police (outer) Parvinder Singh.“Kumar claimed to be in a relationship with a woman from Kanpur and regularly needed money to fulfil her demands. He had decided to settle down with the woman but was jobless and had no money. So, he kidnapped his landlord’s baby and demanded ₹40 lakh with the hope that the money would enable him to settle down with his girlfriend somewhere away from Delhi,” said Singh adding the police will question the woman to corroborate Kumar’s disclosures.Ranhola police received information about the kidnapping around 2pm on Friday. The police met the child’s parents who said Kumar had kidnapped their son.The boy’s father told police that around 11.30am on Friday, Kumar came to their flat to play with the baby. As the boy was sleeping, Kumar stayed back and waited for him to wake up. The child’s mother was busy arranging clothes in another room, when Kumar left the house with the boy without her permission. The woman panicked and informed her husband when she could not find her son or Kumar for nearly an hour, said police.“The child’s father was rushing home from office when he received a call from Kumar, who threatened to harm the child if ₹40 lakh was not deposited in his bank account or the family informed police about the abduction. Kumar also called his father, told him about the kidnapping and asked him to tell the boy’s parents to cooperate and pay the sum,” said the DCP.Five teams were formed who scanned CCTV footages and found that Kumar had walked for nearly 4kms up to Uttam Nagar bus terminal, from where he booked a cab through a mobile application that dropped him to Ghaziabad.Two teams reached Ghaziabad and carried out searches in areas around Sahibabad and Anand Vihar suspecting that he may have boarded a train or bus to flee. After questioning many people, the police learnt that Kumar had boarded another taxi that was not booked via a mobile application.“Since Kumar was making WhatsApp calls to seek updates about the money transfer, ₹40,000 was deposited in his account to make him believe that his demands were being fulfilled. It also helped us trace his location around Delhi airport. All our team members started searching vehicles around the airport and its adjacent areas,” said additional DCP Dhama.Around 7.30pm, a police team spotted Kumar with the child in a taxi and started chasing it. Anticipating trouble, Kumar abandoned the child in the taxi near Lajwanti Chowk in west Delhi and fled while the police team was about 50m away. “We quickly took the child and the driver in our custody,” said Dhama.For the next seven hours, the police searched many shops and buildings in areas around Lajwanti Chowk to look for Kumar, who was finally nabbed from Pankha Road near Uttam Nagar teminal, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/man-held-for-abducting-landlord-s-son-seeking-rs-40-lakh-ransom-101618078466467.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt sets up counters at Narela grain market||Delhi agriculture minister Gopal Rai on Saturday said new counters would be set up in the wholesale grain market in Narela from Monday to help farmers sell their wheat at the minimum selling prices (MSP), even as legislators of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) protested outside the residence of chief minister Arvid Kejriwal demanding welfare measures for the city’s farmers.“There was a problem of few counters at various mandis, and to solve that, a meeting was held on Saturday. It has been decided that counters will be set up in Narela mandi from April 12 (Monday). The registrations will be open from 10am to 5pm, and coupons will be given to the famers there itself. This was especially important as the farmers at the Narela Mandi were complaining about procedural delays,” said Rai in a statement.The coupons can be used to sell wheat to the Food Corporation of India (FCI).The minister said that until now, counters were set up only in godowns of the Food Corporation of India and not inside the mandis. “Now counters will be opened even inside the mandis,” he said.Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri along with BJP MLAs protested outside Kejriwal’s residence.“Kejriwal had announced that it had implemented the Swaminathan Committee report in Delhi and the farmers of Delhi were being provided 50% bonus over and above the MSP. At present, the MSP declared by the Central government is ₹1975 per quintal and the 50% bonus comes to ₹987.50 per quintal and this should be paid to the farmers immediately,” said Bidhuri.Vijender Gupta, BJP MLA from Rohini said Kejriwal should also fulfil his promise of providing free electricity to the city’s farmers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-facilitate-sale-of-wheat-at-msp-101618078465889.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Medical students, dentists to be roped in for Covid hospitals||With the number of Covid-19 cases on the rise, the Delhi government has allowed extending the tenure of existing resident doctors by six months and recruiting others for vacant posts to augment resources as the city is in the process of increasing the bed strength for treatment of the viral infection.The government also allowed hiring of fourth and fifth year medical students and dental doctors, as it had done during the third wave of the infection in November, when the coronavirus cases reached its peak. The medical students and dental practitioners were to be deployed in non-core areas.As per the November order, which the current one follows, the medical students, interns and dentists will be given a stipend of ₹1,000 to 2,000 depending on the shift.Also Read| Sweeping curbs announced in Delhi as Covid-19 cases shootThe government also ordered all district medical officers and medical directors of hospitals to issue oxygen concentrators and pulse oximetres to severe patients in need of long-term oxygen therapy after discharge from the hospital. The pulse oximeter and oxygen concentrators are machines that selectively remove nitrogen from atmospheric air and concentrates oxygen that is administered to patients. The government also ordered for the opening of a 100-bed Covid health centre for patients, who need monitoring but can manage without hospitalisation.Nursing homes can treat Covid patients: GovtAfter directing 115 private hospitals to earmark at least 50% of beds for the treatment of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the Delhi government on Saturday allowed nursing homes with less than 50 beds and “willing” to treat Covid-19 patients to do so.The nursing homes will have to give an undertaking that they were following all guidelines for Covid-19 isolation and ensuring no mixing of Covid and non-Covid patients.Inspections will be conducted by district officials to ensure that all Covid-19 appropriate norms are followed.Also Read| Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal rules out full lockdown, hints at more, stricter curbsAction will be taken against those not following the norms after giving the undertaking, the order read.During the last surge in cases, when the Delhi government tried to rope in nursing homes there had been a backlash, with most such institutions stating that they were located in residential areas and that can potentially lead to the spread of the virus.The government later had to scrap that order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-students-dentists-to-be-roped-in-for-covid-hospitals-101618078408222.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal rules out full lockdown, hints at more, stricter curbs||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday again ruled out the possibility of a complete lockdown in the Capital to curb the rising number of Covid cases, even though he maintained that the administration was looking to impose certain stricter restrictions.Delhi on Saturday added 7,897 fresh cases, and 39 new deaths in the city. The positivity rate of the city shot up to 10.21% on Saturday, at the back of 77,374 tests. On Tuesday, the government had ordered night curfew from 10pm to 5am until April 30, to try and contain the surge of the virus.The chief minister, while terming the current surge in cases as the “fourth wave” of the infection in Delhi, told reporters on the sidelines of his visit to the state-run Lok Nayak hospital that Delhi currently has enough vaccine doses to last at least 7-10 days.“We are currently in a comfortable position with reference to beds and ventilators. We will ensure that the people of Delhi stay safe, to the best of our abilities. Lockdown is not an option. However, we will be putting some more restrictions in place to contain the spread of the virus. We will release the restrictions in the coming days. The Covid care centres are being rebuilt and some have already started functioning,” said Kejriwal.Also Read| Delhi's Covid-19 positivity rate jumps to 10.2%; 7,897 new cases recordedHe said directions have been issued to all officials to strengthen the city’s Covid health infrastructure to the level that Delhi had during its third wave in November. “This is the fourth wave in Delhi. The last wave was in November after, which the cases had become so few in Delhi that the health system and agencies became a bit lax. The Delhi government and all hospitals are working to get back to the level of preparation which we had in November so that we are, once again, able to tide through this wave of the virus,” he said.Reviewing the preparations at Lok Nayak hospital, Kejriwal said 1,500 of the 2,000-bed hospital has already been earmarked for Covid. “At least 500 beds are still for non-Covid patients. Slowly, the OPDs will be ended at the hospital and if the situation demands, all 2,000 beds will be made available for Covid patients,” he said.Also Read| Sweeping curbs announced in Delhi as Covid-19 cases shootWhen asked about the city’s vaccination drive, Kejriwal said, “I have written to the Prime Minister stating that if adequate doses are made available, and if we are given the permission to increase the number of vaccination centres and if the age limit is removed, then the Delhi government will vaccinate residents of the entire Capital within 2-3 months. Once everyone is vaccinated, it will greatly aid us in containing and ending the severity of the virus. At the moment, we have vaccination for 7-10 days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kejriwal-rules-out-full-lockdown-hints-at-more-stricter-curbs-101618078406697.html
11-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Delhi govt asks schools to postpone CBSE practicals till April 20||Delhi education minister Manish Sisodia on Saturday said that the state government has advised schools to postpone their ongoing CBSE class 10 and 12 practical exams till at least April 20, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. All colleges and coaching centres in the city will also be shut, due to the pandemic, Sisodia said.Sisodia’s comments came a day after the Delhi government ordered suspension of all in-person academic activities in city schools, leaving board students confused about their practical exams.Addressing students through a post on social media platform Instagram, Sisodia on Saturday said, “We have advised schools to consult with their external examiners and postpone the remaining CBSE class 10 and 12 practical exams for a while. Only one or two practical exams are left in a majority of schools and we have advised them to reschedule these to after April 20,” Sisodia said.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) class 10 and 12 practical exams had begun in the first week of March. The board had directed all its affiliated schools to complete the practical exams by June 11 in accordance with existing Covid-19 protocols. The theory papers for students in these classes are scheduled to begin on May 4.Delhi on Saturday added 7,897 fresh cases, with the state government terming it the fourth wave of the virus in the city. The positivity rate of the city shot up to 10.21% on Saturday, at the back of 77,374 tests. On Tuesday, the government had ordered night curfew from 10pm to 5am until April 30, to try and contain the surge of the virus.When asked about the feasibility of conducting CBSE class 10 and 12 theory exams in the middle of a raging pandemic, Sisodia said, “This decision will be taken by the CBSE in accordance with the situation at that time. The board will have to decide how to conduct exams safely amid the pandemic.”Officials at the CBSE, however, said that the board is not considering changing the exam schedule for now. “Exams will be conducted as per the schedule following all Covid-19 appropriate guidelines issued by the Government of India. The board has also increased the number of centres this year to ensure social distancing during the exams,” said an official.HT had on Friday reported that the CBSE has added 2,500 more examination centres in India and abroad this year, 50% more than last year.Sisodia also clarified that colleges and coaching centres will remain closed in Delhi till further orders. “The government has decided to close all educational institutions for a while to avoid the risk of the spread of the infection. Therefore, the order is also applicable to colleges and coaching institutions.”Higher educational institutions in Delhi, including Jawaharlal Nehru University, Delhi University, Jamia Millia Islamia and Ambedkar University, have already suspended all offline activities till further orders in the light of a sharp spike in the Covid-19 cases in the city.Responding to the queries of students on the pending exams of class 9 and 11 students of Delhi government schools, the education minister said that new dates will be announced for these exams. “Only two exams are left of government school students of classes 9 and 11 and we will reschedule these once the situation gets better. The exams have been postponed for now keeping students’ safety in mind,” he said.Sisodia said that the government has authorised schools to take a decision on calling teachers physically to the campus. “The school administrations should consult with their teachers and decide if they want their teachers to take online classes from their respective schools or from their homes and how many teachers should be called to the school at a time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-asks-schools-to-postpone-cbse-practicals-till-april-20-101618078345839.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Over 79,000 beneficiaries get Covid-19 jab in Pune||At least 79,220 beneficiaries were administered with the Covid vaccination in the Pune district on Saturday. Vaccination took place at 530 session sites in the district.Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) saw 13,776 vaccinations, Pune rural saw 50,931 and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) saw 14,513 vaccinations. Out of the total vaccinations, 75,414 were of Covishield and 3,806 were of Covaxin.Pune rural saw the highest beneficiaries getting the jab among the three authorities which meant that most of their stock was used on Saturday. As of Saturday night, rural had 11,097 available stock out of which 1,029 was of Covishield and 10,068 of Covaxin doses. The highest vaccination on Saturday was reported at Nasrapur PHC in Bhor taluka where 1241 beneficiaries got the vaccine which is at par with a major hospital in the city.9,822 new Covid cases, 15 deaths reported in Pune districtThe district, on Saturday, reported 9,822 new Covid cases and 15 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department.Pune’s progressive count went up to 6.38 lakh out of which 5.28 lakh have recovered, 8,642 reported dead and 102,115 are active cases undergoing treatment in the hospital or in home isolation.Pune rural reported 2,649 new cases which took the progressive count to 1.45 and with four more deaths the toll went up to 2,295.Pune city reported 4,925 new cases which took the final count to 3.32 lakh and with nine more deaths the toll went up to 4,880.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) reported 2,248 new cases which took the final count to 1.60 lakh cases and with two more deaths the toll went up to 1,415.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/over-79k-beneficiaries-get-covid-jab-in-pune-101618076725739.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Employees from small scale industries suffer due to RT-PCR Covid-19 test mandate||Many employees from the small scale industries had a tough start to day one of weekend lockdown, as they were stopped by police officials for not providing RT-PCR test reports.Most of the employees who have done the RT PCR test claim they are yet to get the reports.“There are 8,000 companies in small scale industries where around 5,00,000 employees are working. How it is possible to conduct tests for all employees in just a couple of days. The government should think about what problems these employees are facing. They are even waiting in long queues, but are unable to get the tests done or get reports on time due to long queues at hospitals,” said Abhay Bhor, president of Forum of Small Scale Industries Association.Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad municipal corporations have made the Covid test compulsory for those who want to attend the workplace. For those who have not taken the vaccine jab, an RT-PCR test once in 15 days is mandatory.“We are not against conducting RT-PCR tests, but the government should increase the deadline and allow employees to continue with their work. Not all employees can afford RT-PCR tests in private hospitals and government hospitals are struggling with the workload,” said Bhor.Companies are also open to having RT PCR test camps within their premises if the administration can provide manpower. “It will make things easy if civic bodies provide us manpower to conduct the testing camps within the campus. If police continue to stop employees then we will have to shut our industries until all employees complete the RT PCR test,” added Bhor.Sudhir Mehta, president of Mahratta Chamber of Commerce, Industries and Agriculture (MCCIA), tweeted, “Today in Chinchwad Hospitals..govt and pvt both are very crowded today due to irrational mandate of state govt for tests for all private sector employees . Most of hospitals have shortage of rapid test kit as of now. We are increasing the spread.” (sic)Sunil Phadke an employee from Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) Bhosari, said, “I somehow convinced the traffic police and came to work as my RT PCR test is pending. Few employees from the other companies went back home and it will cost them a day’s salary. The government should think about extending the RT-PCR test deadline.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/employees-from-small-scale-industries-suffer-due-to-rt-pcr-test-mandate-101618073065070.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Déjà vu as Pune preps for more restrictions||The weekend lockdown imposed across Maharashtra to bring the Covid-19 surge under control elicited a strong response across Pune on Saturday with streets and markets across city wearing a deserted look, a scene reminiscent of last year. After Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting with leaders of various political parties, Saturday’s complete lockdown could also be a prelude to a complete closure that the state government may announce in the next two days. “To break the chain, the government and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is of the view that a strict lockdown has to be imposed for next few days. After that, some relaxations can be offered gradually. The decision in this regard will be taken in a day or two,” said senior Maharashtra minister Ashok Chavan. Most people in Pune preferred to stay at home by following government’s instructions to avoid crowd even during morning hours when essential services like milk supply was operational. The weekend lockdown, announced earlier, will be in effect from Friday evening 6pm until Monday 7am to contain the spread of lockdown. Pune has been worst affected with the district reporting over 10,000 cases every day. The deserted roads brought back memories of last year’s lockdown when citizens were inside their homes for almost two months. Citizens clicked photos of the deserted photos from their buildings and circulated them on social media.Mandai, the major vegetable market was completely closed while Swargate State Transport (ST) bus depot saw fewer people boarding intercity buses. Police and the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) administration since Friday evening ensured that there would be strict lock down in the city and allowed only medical shops and milk shops, even the Agriculture Produce Market Committees (APMC) were closed.APMC administrator Madhukar Garad said, “As instructed by local administration, the APMC had already communicated to the farmers not to bring their agriculture produce to the market on Sunday. The vegetable and fruit market would remain closed.”As the police and municipal administration had already instructed not to allow vegetable sale for two days, the hawkers also did not sell on the roads.All the key roads and chowks including Swargate, Shivajinagar, Laxmi road, Alka Talkies chowk, Solapur road, Ahmednagar road, Pune-Mumbai road, Satara road wore a deserted look.Pune district guardian minister Ajit Pawar expressed gratitude for giving an overwhelming response, despite some anger among some on the implementation of lockdown. As there was a weekend lockdown in other cities, people travelling from other cities too preferred not to visit Pune.The city only saw essential services and ambulances on the roads. By considering the weekend lock down, some NGOs and political leaders started auto service for needy people who want to visit hospitals or emergency works.Cab driver Satish Kamate said, “Though cab service was allowed, there was less demand for it. Even there were very few commuters at bus stands, railway stations.”Police erected the barricades at various locations and were asking citizens reasons for travelling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/dj-vu-as-pune-preps-for-more-restrictions-101618071565074.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Curtain call: Theatre of the youth, by the youth, for…everyone!||Since the past decade or so, I have started observing a change in the attitude of older people when they talk about the youth. It has changed from “These young people are lazy and useless! When we were young, we used to…” to “Youngsters do so many things these days. It’s incredulous!” I think I belong to a generation that was on the cusp of both these reactions. But I am sure about one thing – all those associated with Thespo would have definitely heard the second reaction more! I had mentioned Thespo two Sundays back while writing about Akarsh. I heard about Thespo in 2007, when I was in the last year of college. Thespo was in its ninth year. I had received a call from a phone number in Mumbai and during those times, seeing such a number flashing on the screen was pretty exciting as it meant that there was a possibility of working with new people! I spoke to Quasar Thakore Padamsee over the phone and he explained the concept of Thespo to me. It was pretty exciting! Their two criteria were that the age of all participants, including the director and technicians, should not be more than twenty-five years and the duration of the play should not be less than sixty minutes. That’s it. We, as participants, had a free hand for everything else. The festival was divided into two rounds, wherein a group of judges would travel all over the country and watch the plays that had registered with them. Out of those plays, around four to five plays would be selected and the main festival would be organised in Mumbai at Prithvi Theatre or the NCPA (National Centre for the Performing Arts). To make it more interesting, the main festival also had awards for best play and other individual awards. I had participated in many inter-collegiate one-act play theatre competitions by then and did not have much experience in putting a play together that was more than sixty minutes in length. This seemed like a good avenue to start. And this, I believe, is the best thing about Thespo - to make young people think in terms of a larger format of storytelling on stage. Quasar then drove down to Pune to hold a formal orientation about the festival and answered all questions that potential participants had. That year, there was only one play that was registered in Pune – ours. We thought that since this was a national-level festival, we should not perform in Marathi and put up a play in English instead. While the judges were supportive of the fact that we put up a play, they unanimously told us that we should have performed in the language that which we were most comfortable about. I was glad to see that they were encouraging people to perform in local languages rather than English or Hindi. Naturally we didn’t get selected that year. Next year with a comedy play in Marathi, I think we were better prepared. Also, the number of registrations from Pune increased to three. The judges that year had a better feedback and two months later we received a call that we were in the finals! I distinctly remember the day we performed our play – “Dalan” – at Thespo finals. It was the opening play of the festival. Thespo is usually sold out with some patrons even sitting between the rows. Before the show, I told our team not to lose confidence if people don’t respond since most of the audience was non-Marathi. I was so wrong! Seldom does a play enjoy such an audience response! The sixty-five minute play went on for nearly eighty minutes. It is one of the most memorable evenings of the entire team. The fact that we were adjudged the best play made the entire experience sweeter. I stopped being eligible for Thespo a few years back. But by then Thespo and Natak Company had built an unbreakable bond. I miss being a participant, but make up for it by being a Thespo-appointed mentor for a local play or by conducting workshops during the festival. The organising faces change every year as Quasar, Toral Shah, Vivek Rao and the original team believe that the festival should be organised by people below twenty-five too. They are now present only to provide advice when needed. They did not break tradition last year and organised an online theatre festival which was also well received. Thespo is now a national phenomenon with nearly two hundred plays registering every year. Most of the young people in this field are Thespo graduates and I am glad that I am one too!||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-theatre-of-the-youth-by-the-youth-foreveryone-101618069104674.html
11-04-2021||Pune||Pune to get 165 ventilators in next three to four days||As the non-availability of ventilator beds continued in Pune on Saturday, Pune district administration is looking forward to getting 165 additional ventilators in the next three to four days.Following the Covid review meeting for Pune district, Union minister Prakash Javadekar announced Maharashtra will get 1,121 ventilators from the Centre in the next three-four days.Of these 1,121 ventilators coming from neighbouring states like Gujarat and Andhra Pradesh, 165 will be given to the Pune district.Deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar clarified that the ventilators will first come to Mumbai and then will be distributed in the state.“I have spoken to all the concerned ministers and officials at the Centre. As many as 1,121 ventilators will be made available in Maharashtra in the next three to four days. Out of these, 700 are coming from Gujrat and 421 from Andhra Pradesh. The human resource required for this will be funded by the central government from national health missions,” said Javadekar.Pune has been facing an acute crisis of ventilator beds and various options to increase the availability of ventilators and other health infrastructures were discussed in the meeting. According to the data on the Pune division dashboard, no ventilator beds were available in the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) limits on Saturday.Pune divisional commissioner Saurabh Rao said that he has demanded 165 ventilators for the Pune district and the administration is also focusing on increasing testing and contact tracing.“On Friday we conducted almost 43,000 tests in Pune district. In the last few days, the positivity rate has come down to 20 per cent. With the increase in beds we are also focusing on vaccination, testing and tracing,” he said.Currently, 30 central teams are in Maharashtra to review the Covid situation. Pawar, who was part of the review meeting, said considering the rate of Covid infection the central team has advised him to emphasise increasing ventilator beds, oxygen beds and oxygen supply.“Our district and municipal administration is trying to increase these facilities. The chief minister of Maharashtra raised the issue of oxygen availability with Prime Minister Narendra Modi during a video conference meeting on Friday (March 9). There is an oxygen plant in Alibaug owned by Jindal. They have assured us that we will supply as per our need. A private company has given expensive oxygen generating machine to Sassoon hospital,” Pawar said.“Increase bed capacity at jumbo Covid centres”During the Covid review meeting, deputy chief minister Ait Pawar said, “Administration should increase beds capacity at jumbo Covid centres in Pune and Pimpri-Chinchwad. At the same time, the plan is to increase Sassoon’s bed capacity up to 500.”Currently, the jumbo facility at COEP is operating at 600 beds and it can expand up to 800 beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/maharashtra-to-get-1-121-ventilators-from-centre-pune-will-receive-165-101618067904462.html
11-04-2021||World||Bangladesh mulls nationwide holiday on April 14 to stop Covid-19 surge||Bangladesh is planning to enforce a nationwide general holiday on April 14 to contain the cases of coronavirus as the country reported 5,819 new patients of COVD-19 in the last 24 hours, including former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia, a senior health official said on Sunday.The decision to execute the nationwide holiday came as the country also witnessed 78 COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours.“There are plans to enforce a nationwide general holiday to contain the infection spike from April 14, tightening an existing lockdown,” the senior health official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said.He said restrictions under the general holiday is being worked out.The total number of coronavirus cases in Bangladesh has so far reached to 6,84,756 cases with 5,819 new cases in the last 24 hours.Zia tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, a year after she was released from jail temporarily amidst the pandemic.The 75-year-old Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) chief's samples were sent to the International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh, for testing on Saturday, Maidul Islam Prodhan, Public Relations Officer of the Health Ministry, was quoted as saying in a media report.BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir later at a media briefing acknowledged the test result saying she was now being treated at her house by a private doctor but said "her health condition is stable". PTI AR RUP RUP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-mulls-nationwide-holiday-on-april-14-to-stop-covid-19-surge-101618162730487.html
11-04-2021||World||Trump criticises Mitch McConnell, other Republicans over election loss||Donald Trump criticized Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and other Republicans over his election loss, even while telling GOP donors in a Saturday-night speech that the party will retake control of Congress in the 2022 midterm elections and the White House in 2024.Speaking at his Mar-a-Lago club in Palm Beach, the former president called McConnell a “dumb son of a b***h” for not fighting to overturn President Joe Biden’s victory, the Washington Post reported.The newspaper said Trump recycled the false claim that the 2020 election had been stolen from him, and criticized McConnell’s wife, Elaine Chao, who resigned as U.S. Transportation secretary a day after Trump encouraged his supporters to march on the U.S. Capitol in what became a deadly riot.Trump also hit his vice president, Mike Pence, for not rejecting the legally certified votes for Biden, the Washington Post said. Pence, a potential 2024 presidential candidate, didn’t attend the event, and neither did McConnell, but some U.S. senators were in the room.Top Republicans, including Representative Liz Cheney and Senator John Thune, criticized the remarks in Sunday talk-show appearances as being unhelpful to the party’s efforts to rebuild after 2020.Trump’s prepared remarks for Saturday had been cast as a call for building on certain gains the party made under him as the path to recovery, even though the GOP lost control of the House, the Senate and the White House during his presidency.“We are gathered tonight to talk about the future of the Republican Party -- and what we must do to set our candidates on a course to victory,” Trump planned to say at Mar-a-Lago, where he’s lived since leaving the White House.“I stand before you this evening filled with confidence that in 2022, we are going to take back the House and we are going to reclaim the Senate -- and then in 2024, a Republican candidate is going to win the White House.”A person familiar with Trump’s thinking said the former president wasn’t explicitly acknowledging he may or may not run again, but rather is keeping everyone guessing, including the various Republicans considering their own 2024 campaigns.And a person who attended the event said the former president teased a potential run while speaking largely off-script for about an hour.‘Power Center’Republicans converged on Florida this weekend for various events aimed at charting the party’s course back to power. Attendees at the RNC spring donor retreat in Palm Beach made a side trip to Trump’s club, reflecting the former president’s dominant position.While Trump has talked about helping the party retake control of Congress in the 2022 midterms and the White House in 2024, he remains focused on his election loss and lashing out at McConnell, the Republicans who voted to impeach him, and others he considers disloyal or doesn’t like, such as Anthony Fauci, the head of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.Some GOP donors and leaders want the party to move on from the twice-impeached Trump. They’re concerned his prodigious ability to fundraise could crowd out hard-to-win campaign cash, and that he might use it to fuel battles within the party that could hamper its efforts to regain control of Congress in 2022.“Anything that’s divisive is a concern and is not helpful for us fighting the battles in Washington and at the state level,” Arkansas GOP Governor Asa Hutchinson said in an interview on CNN’s “State of the Union.”No Stolen ElectionCheney of Wyoming, the No. 3 House Republican and a target of Trump and his allies after voting to impeach him, said the GOP needs to be focused on the future and “embracing the Constitution, not embracing insurrection” that Trump provoked on Jan. 6.“The election wasn’t stolen,” Cheney said on “Face the Nation” on CBS. “If you attack the judicial process and you attack the rule of law, you aren’t defending the Constitution. You’re at war with the Constitution. And for us as a party going forward, we have to embrace the Constitution.”Thune, the chamber’s No. 2 Republican, whom Trump threatened to oppose with a primary challenger after the South Dakotan wouldn’t support overturning the election, dismissed his comments as “part of the style and tone that comes with the former president.”But Thune also suggested on “Fox News Sunday” that Trump’s comments will divide the party, and that his efforts to oppose Republicans who crossed him by backing primary challenges to them could hurt the party in general election races it needs to win.“Republicans are much better off when we’re united and working to defeat Democrats,” Thune said. Making sure Republicans have candidates “electable in a general election” is what should unite Trump, McConnell and others, he said.Trump, 74, is endorsing candidates he considers loyal to him and his agenda or are challenging Republicans that crossed him, including those that supported his impeachment. He relaunched an online store this week to sell merchandise, and Trump adviser Jason Miller has said the former president’s Save America political action committee has more than $80 million on hand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-criticises-mitch-mcconnell-other-republicans-over-election-loss-101618161294776.html
11-04-2021||World||UK, USA want Russia to de-escalate situation in Ukraine||Britain and the United States "firmly opposed" Russia's campaign to destabilize Ukraine and called on Russia to deescalate the situation, UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said on Sunday."@SecBlinken (US Secretary of State Antony Blinken) & I agreed Russia must immediately de-escalate the situation & live up to the international commitments that it signed up to at @OSCE (Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe)," Raab said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-usa-want-russia-to-de-escalate-situation-in-ukraine-101618160484247.html
11-04-2021||World||Brazil's ICUs have more young patients than old||The number of Covid-19 patients under 40 in intensive care in Brazil surpassed older groups last month, a researcher said Sunday, amid a deadly surge driven partly by a new coronavirus variant.The number of people aged 39 or younger in intensive care units with Covid-19 in March rose sharply to more than 11,000, or 52.2 percent of the total, said the Brazilian ICU Project.That was up from 14.6 percent of total ICU patients early in the pandemic and around 45 percent from September through February."Previously, this was a population that would typically only develop a less-severe form of the disease and would not need intensive care. So the increase for this age group is very significant," said Dr. Ederlon Rezende, co-coordinator of the project, an initiative of the Brazilian Association of Intensive Medicine (AMIB).He said various factors could be driving the increase.Patients over 80, who fell from 13.6 percent to 7.8 percent of the total in Brazil's ICUs in March, are now largely vaccinated.Young people are also more likely to expose themselves to the virus, whether because they have to leave home to work or believe they are less vulnerable, he said.Another factor may be the new Brazilian variant, known as P1, which experts say is partly responsible for the country's Covid-19 death toll exploding in March.The numbers suggest that P1, which can re-infect people who have had the original strain of the virus, may also be more virulent, Rezende said."The patients arriving in ICUs now are younger, have no pre-existing conditions and are developing more severe cases of the virus, too," he told AFP.The number of ICU patients without pre-existing conditions increased by nearly a third in March, to 30.3 percent of the total.And the proportion of patients put on ventilators reached a pandemic record of 58.1 percent in March, according to the project's data.Brazil registered more than 66,500 Covid-19 deaths in March, more than double the hard-hit country's previous monthly record in July 2020.The disease has claimed a total of 351,000 lives in the country of 212 million people, a death toll second only to that of the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-icus-have-more-young-patients-than-old-101618160093228.html
11-04-2021||World||Egyptian court jails student in case that led to sex crimes debate||An Egyptian court on Sunday sentenced a university student to eight years in jail for sex crimes, judicial sources said, in a case prompted by a social media campaign that opened up a rare public debate on sexual harassment.Ahmed Bassam Zaki, in his early 20s, was referred to trial by public prosecutors in September on charges of the indecent assault and blackmail of at least three women, all under 18 at the time, between 2016 and 2020. He was detained in July.Zaki, who was the target of a flurry of accusations on an Instagram account, showed no reaction as the sentence was read out at the criminal court in Cairo, the sources said.He is not known to have addressed the accusations publicly and Reuters was not able to locate a lawyer representing him.Zaki can appeal against the ruling before the court of cassation, Egypt's top civilian court, the sources said.The case attracted widespread attention from media, religious figures and women's groups in a country where rights defenders say sexual harassment or abuse often goes unpunished.Zaki was sentenced to three years in jail by another court in December for harassing two girls online. He has appealed against the ruling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/egyptian-court-jails-student-in-case-that-led-to-sex-crimes-debate-101618159128150.html
11-04-2021||World||Mossad may have carried cyber attack against Iran's Natanz nuclear facility: Report||Israeli public radio quoted unidentified intelligence sources on Sunday as saying that Israel's Mossad spy agency carried out a cyber attack against Iran's Natanz nuclear facility. The report on Kan Radio did not disclose the nationality of the intelligence sources.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/mossad-may-have-carried-cyber-attack-against-iran-s-natanz-nuclear-facility-101618158785300.html
11-04-2021||World||Angela Merkel’s CDU 'splits' as race to succeed her as Chancellor intensifies||Bavarian leader Markus Soeder joined the race to succeed Chancellor Angela Merkel after Germany’s election in September, setting up a fight with the head of her Christian Democratic Union for the nomination in her governing conservative bloc.Soeder and CDU party chairman Armin Laschet both declared their bid for the chancellorship at a news conference in Berlin on Sunday. Merkel, 66, won’t run for another term and her departure after 16 years in office has opened the field for who will lead Europe’s biggest economy.Merkel hasn’t taken sides in the race even though Laschet comes, like Merkel, from the CDU. While Merkel and Soeder clashed during Germany’s 2015-16 refugee crisis, the leader of Bavaria’s regional Christian Social Union party has backed her push for restrictions during the Covid-19 pandemic. Laschet, meanwhile, was criticized by Merkel for a lax response in his home state of North Rhine-Westphalia.“We determined that both of us are suitable and both of us are ready, Soeder told reporters after the meeting. “Whatever the decision turns out to be, we will work very well personally together.”The CDU and the CSU traditionally field a joint candidate for chancellor, but Soeder’s entry into the race signals a gloves-off contest between two sister parties whose alliance has helped ensure Germany’s political stability since the end of World War II. His announcement throws the ball into the court of the CDU, where some members are known to favor him over Laschet.On Sunday, both candidates made signaled support for quick approval of Merkel’s planned changes of Germany’s infectious-diseases law, which would shift some powers to the federal government from the states. Other state leaders have demanded changes to the draft law circulated on Saturday.The next steps in the candidacy face-off could come when the CDU and CSU leaderships meet separately on Monday.Popularity ContestPolls suggest that Soeder, who’s the state premier of Bavaria, is far more popular than Laschet. However, both candidates from socially conservative Bavaria who ran for chancellor in the past were defeated.Laschet said “we have a very special responsibility” to keep Germany stable.“Our goal at this time, with a chancellor who is leaving office, is to foster as much unity between the CDU and CSU as possible,” Laschet said. “There’s a lot at stake. Europe is watching how Germany develops.”Soeder said he’s ready to run if the CDU, the bigger of the two parties, backs him, but that he would hold no grudges if they decided otherwise.Laschet, the state premier of North Rhine-Westphalia, described Soeder as a potential candidate and said the matter would be solved with mutual respect.While Germany’s chancellor is chosen by the lower house of parliament after elections, Soeder would take a winning 39% in a direct matchup with Green party leader Annalena Baerbock and Social Democratic candidate Olaf Scholz, Germany’s finance minister, according to a Forsa poll. By contrast, Laschet’s support is 16%, finishing behind the other two.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/angela-merkel-s-cdu-splits-as-race-to-succeed-her-as-chancellor-intensifies-101618157034741.html
11-04-2021||World||Ramadan 2021: US, UK Muslims to attempt Moon sighting on April 12||Muslim residents of western countries like the UK and the US are awaiting confirmation of moon sighting reports for the holy month of Ramadan. While Muslim majority countries like Egypt, Iran and Morocco rely on local moon sighters to spot the new crescent, others wait for Saudi Arabia, home to Islam’s holiest sites, to make the call.Saudi Arabia’s supreme court on Thursday called on all Muslims throughout the kingdom to spot the crescent on Sunday evening. The court also announced a second sighting for Monday evening due to “inconsistencies in the Umm al-Qurra calendar" for the Islamic month of Sha'ban. It further asked moon sighters to report to the nearest court and register testimony after spotting the crescent with naked eyes or through binoculars.According to the moon visibility charts of the Crescent Moon Watch, it will not be visible in the United Kingdom until Tuesday. Iqbal Sacranie, the founding secretary-general of the Muslim Council of Britain (MCB), told Middle East Eye that Muslims in Britain do not rely on local moon sightings because the weather in the UK makes it impossible to spot the crescent.This year, however, they started counting the month of Sha’ban a day later than Saudi Arabia. The UK has a body of Ulema that takes a call on the start of Ramadan. Wifaq ul Ulama UK has urged Muslims in Britain to attempt to sight the moon on the evening of Monday, April 12.“Wifaqul Ulama urges Muslims in Britain to attempt to sight the Moon for Ramadhan 1442 on the evening of Monday the 12th of April 2021. This will be the 29th of Shaʿbān 1442”, the body said.Ramadan 2021: Moon sighting in Saudi Arabia, Qatar | All you need to knowWifaq ul Ulama UK also said that the new moon conjunction time is at 02:30am UTC on April 12. The body said it could be possible to sight the moon in North America with the naked eye on Monday evening if the atmospheric conditions are perfect.If the moon sighters spot the crescent on Sunday evening, the 29th day of Sha’ban, Ramadan will start from the next day i.e. Monday. Otherwise, Monday will be declared as the 30th day of Sha’ban and Ramadan will start from the subsequent day i.e. Tuesday, April 13, 2021.Ramadan is considered one of the five pillars of Islam during which Muslims are required to offer charity and abstain from certain activities like eating, drinking and smoking from dawn to dusk. The month of Ramadan traditionally begins with a crescent sighting which marks the start of the ninth month of the lunar calendar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ramadan-2021-us-uk-muslims-await-moon-sighting-confirmation-101618153614214.html
11-04-2021||World||Biden hails settlement of dispute between South Korean electric battery makers||Two big South Korean electric vehicle battery makers said Sunday they have settled a long-running trade dispute that will allow one company to move ahead with plans to manufacture batteries in Georgia. President Joe Biden called it “a win for American workers and the American auto industry.”The agreement between LG Energy Solution and SK Innovation ended the need for Biden to intervene in a case closely watched for its implications on Biden's clean-energy agenda, which includes a sharp increase the number of electric vehicles as part of his plan to address climate change. Biden had until Sunday night to make a decision, following a ruling in February by a trade commission.The companies said in a joint statement that SK will provide LG Energy with a total of USD 1.8 billion and an undisclosed royalty. They agreed to withdraw all pending trade disputes in the United States and South Korea and not assert new claims for 10 years.“We have decided to settle and to compete in an amicable way, all for the future of the US and South Korean electric vehicle battery industries,” said Jun Kim, CEO and president of SK, and Jong Hyun Kim, CEO and president of LG Energy.The companies pledged to work together to strengthen the EV battery supply chain in the US and support the Biden administration's efforts to advance clean energy policies, including electric vehicles.The US International Trade Commission had decided in February that SK stole 22 trade secrets from LG Energy, and that SK should be barred from importing, making or selling batteries in the United States for 10 years.The decision could have left Ford and Volkswagen scrambling for batteries as they both roll out additional electric vehicle models, a priority for the companies and for the Biden administration. SK has contracts to make batteries for an electric Ford F-150 pickup truck and an electric Volkswagen SUV.The commission said SK could supply batteries to Ford Motor Co. for four years and to Volkswagen AG for two years. The decision had jeopardized a USD 2.6 billion battery factory that SK is building in Commerce, Georgia.Democratic Sen. Jon Ossoff of Georgia, who at Biden's request had jump-started negotiations between two companies, said the settlement “has saved the battery plant in Commerce, Georgia, ensuring thousands of jobs, billions in future investment, and that Georgia will be a leader in electric vehicle battery production for years to come.''US Trade Representative Katherine Tai said the deal “builds confidence" in the reliability and responsibility of the two companies as suppliers to the U.S. auto industry. The agreement puts US.“in a stronger position to drive innovation and ... clean energy technology while also respecting the rights of technology innovators at the heart of trade and manufacturing policy,'' Tai said.Added Sen. Raphael Warnock, D-Ga.: “The best way to protect workers in Commerce — and the jobs Georgians were promised — is for the companies involved to negotiate a settlement in good faith,." He said he raised the battery issue with Biden during the president's March 19 visit to Atlanta.Biden said in a statement that building electric vehicles and the batteries needed for them is an important part of his USD 2.3 trillion infrastructure plan.“We need a strong, diversified and resilient US-based electric vehicle battery supply chain, so we can supply the growing global demand for these vehicles and components — creating good-paying jobs here at home, and laying the groundwork for the jobs of tomorrow. Today's settlement is a positive step in that direction,” Biden said.Gov. Brian Kemp, R-Ga., called the settlement “fantastic news for northeast Georgia and our state's growing electric vehicle industry.''Ford, in a statement, said the deal “allows us to focus on delivering a range of Ford world-class battery electric vehicles for our retail and fleet customers, while also supporting American workers, the economy and our shared goal of protecting the planet.'' (AP) RUP RUP||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-hails-settlement-of-dispute-between-south-korean-electric-battery-makers-101618154217804.html
11-04-2021||World||Ramadan 2021: Moon sighting in Saudi Arabia, Qatar | All you need to know||The moon sighting committee of Saudi Arabia and Qatar is scheduled to meet on Sunday evening to sight the moon of the holy month of Ramadan. Kuwait, Omar, Bahrain and several other Middle-east countries have also planned their moon sighting meeting today. Once the new moon is sighted, the beginning of the holy month will be announced from the day after. Here is all you need to know about moon sighting> The holy month of Ramadan officially begins with the sighting of the new moon. Countries follow independent moon sighting procedures as the moon can not be sighted at the same time from all across the world. The moon is sighted earlier in the West. > The Qatar Calendar House has announced that Ramadan's new moon will be born on April 12 at 2.31GMT, when it might be visible in parts of North, Central and South America. On April 13, the moon will be easily visible in most parts of the world, Al Jazeera reported.> Saudi Arabia's Supreme Court has called on all Muslims to sight the moon either by the naked eyes or through binoculars and to report to the nearest court and register his testimony.> If the moon is sighted on Sunday, the 29th day of Sha’ban, then Ramadan will start on Monday. Otherwise, Monday will be declared as the 30th day of Sha’ban and Ramadan will start on Tuesday April 13.> India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Nepal and other South Asian countries will sight the moon on April 12. If the new moon is sighted on Monday, then Ramadan will start from Tuesday.Every year, Ramadan starts at least 10 days earlier than the last year and the lunar year is shorter than the solar year. In 2020, Ramadan began on April 23.Ramadan or Ramzaan or Ramzan is the ninth month in the Islamic calendar when Muslims across the globe keep a fast from dawn to dusk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ramadan-2021-moon-sighting-in-saudi-arabia-qatar-all-you-need-to-know-101618148848054.html
11-04-2021||World||Power and water outages strike Saint Vincent after volcanic eruption||Massive power outages struck the Caribbean island of Saint Vincent before dawn on Sunday, as officials recorded more explosive activity at a long-dormant volcano that launched into a series of eruptions.After remaining quiet for nearly 42 years, La Soufriere rumbled back into life Friday, blanketing the island in ash and permeating the air with the stench of sulphur.The eruptions prompted thousands to flee for safety, with around 16,000 people living in areas under evacuation orders.The country's National Emergency Management Organization (NEMO) noted "another explosive event" early Sunday morning with the "majority of the country out of power and covered in ash".The volcano's explosive phase is expected to last several days or even weeks, according to the Seismic Research Centre at the University of the West Indies (UWI), which advised residents to avoid inhaling the volcanic ash.The whitish powder caked roads, homes and buildings in Saint Vincent after the powerful blasts began Friday and continued into the night."Saturday morning on the island of over 110,000 residents looked like a winter wonderland, albeit blanketed by ash," the news portal news784.com said.Visibility in some areas was extremely limited. While the volcano lies on the island's northern end, in the capital Kingstown on the south end the ash caused a thin haze of dust, the portal said.The thick clouds of dust expelled by La Soufriere have affected neighboring islands as well, traveling over 110 miles (175 kilometers) east to Barbados."Barbadians have been urged to stay indoors as thick plumes of volcanic ash move through the atmosphere," the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency said.The initial blast from La Soufriere, the highest peak in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, sent plumes of hot ash and smoke 20,000 feet (6,000 meters) into the air Friday morning.Smaller eruptions took place Friday afternoon and Saturday, belching out further columns of ash, according to the UWI researchers.Vincentian Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves said Saturday that water has been cut off in most areas and the country's air space is closed because of the ash. Around 3,000 people spent the night in shelters."It's a huge operation that is facing us," Gonsalves told NBC News.He said his government has been in contact with other countries that want to provide aid and that Guyana and Venezuela are sending ships with supplies.- Evacuation orders -The 4,052-foot La Soufriere -- French for "sulphur mine" -- had not erupted since 1979, and its largest blow-up happened over a century ago in 1902, killing more than 1,000 people.It had been rumbling for months before it finally blew."We are trying to be ok. It's deathly quiet outside and the mood is pensive," said Vynette Frederick, 44, a lawyer in Kingstown.Northwest of Kingstown on the 18-mile-long island, Zen Punnett said things had calmed down after the initial panic as evacuation orders came out Thursday night."It's gotten hazier. We are staying inside," she said.The emergency management agency posted photos of a Coast Guard ship evacuating residents of an area who had previously refused to leave. Standing on a dock, the air above the evacuees was a chalky gray.Most of the people in the red zone had been moved to safety by Friday, authorities said.Cruise ships were on the way to assist the evacuation effort.The Saint Vincent and Grenadines police on Saturday issued an appeal for troublemakers to stop making prank calls to emergency responders."We are in the middle of a serious evacuation and security exercise, to safeguard and rescue persons who are affected by the eruption," the agency said."These irresponsible calls divert much-needed resources and personnel from the evacuation exercise."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/power-and-water-outages-strike-saint-vincent-after-volcanic-eruption-101618148283180.html
11-04-2021||World||China, Russia undermine international Myanmar response, EU's top diplomat says||The European Union's top diplomat said on Sunday Russia and China were hampering a united international response to Myanmar's military coup and that the EU could offer more economic incentives if democracy returns to the country."It comes as no surprise that Russia and China are blocking the attempts of the U.N. Security Council, for example to impose an arms embargo," EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell said in a blog post."Geopolitical competition in Myanmar will make it very difficult to find common ground," said Borrell, who speaks on behalf of the 27 EU member states. "But we have a duty to try."Borrell said security forces have killed more than 550 unarmed protesters, including 46 children, in a bloody crackdown since the military seized power from the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi in a Feb. 1 coup."The world watches in horror, as the army uses violence against its own people," he said.China and Russia both have ties to Myanmar's armed forces, as the first and second largest suppliers of weapons to the country, respectively.The U.N. Security Council last week called for the release of Suu Kyi and others detained by the military but stopped short of condemning the coup.The EU is preparing fresh sanctions on individuals and companies owned by the Myanmar military. The bloc in March agreed a first set of sanctions on 11 individuals linked to the coup, including the commander-in-chief of the military.While EU economic leverage in the country is relatively small, Borrell said the EU could offer to increase its economic ties with Myanmar if democracy is restored. That could include more trade and investments in sustainable development, he said.EU foreign direct investment in Myanmar totalled $700 million in 2019, compared with $19 billion from China.The military says it staged the coup because a November election won by Suu Kyi’s party was rigged. The election commission has dismissed the assertion.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-russia-undermine-international-myanmar-response-eu-s-top-diplomat-says-101618142859423.html
11-04-2021||World||Jordan's King Abdullah, Prince Hamza make first joint appearance since rift||Jordan's King Abdullah and former crown prince and half-brother Prince Hamza made their first joint appearance since a rift shook the country, attending a ceremony on Sunday marking 100 years of independence.State media showed the monarch and other members of the royal family laying wreaths at the memorial to the unknown soldier and tombs of royalty in the Raghdan palace in Amman.Hamza pledged allegiance to King Abdullah late on Monday following mediation by the royal family, two days after the military warned him over actions that it said were undermining Jordan’s security and stability.On Wednesday, King Jordan said sedition had been quashed and Hamza was “under my care” with his family at his palace. But Hamza's absence after he appeared in a video on April 3 saying he had been ordered to stay at home had led to speculation about his whereabouts.In announcing last week that the military had warned Hamza over his actions, the government said that Hamza had liaised with people linked to foreign parties seeking to destabilise Jordan and that he had been under investigation for some time.Hamza had been widely expected to have succeeded Abdullah as Jordan’s next king, until the monarch made Prince Hussein his heir instead in 2004, in line with family tradition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/jordans-king-abdullah-prince-hamza-make-first-joint-appearance-since-rift-101618142452056.html
11-04-2021||World||UK red list caused chaos at Pakistan airports. Now demands of charter flights||Britain’s updated travel ban list, also known as the “red list”, came into effect on Friday, after which airports in Pakistan witnessed chaos as thousands of travellers raced home to the UK to avoid mandatory hotel quarantine. British residents who missed Friday’s 4am deadline will have to quarantine in a government-approved hotel for 11 nights for £1,750.The travel ban was announced after the UK government repeatedly warned residents against travelling abroad for leisure amid concerns over coronavirus variants. According to a UK media report, many individuals of British Pakistani nationality were found travelling to Pakistan for attending weddings.BBC’s North West Tonight recently aired a video of an unnamed woman from Manchester, reportedly posted on her social media account, who was seen attending a wedding in Lahore. In the video, the woman said that everyone was stressed out by coronavirus disease (Covid-19) back home so she decided to travel to Pakistan.“Corona[virus] has made everyone in the UK mad... But everyone is enjoying themselves here (Pakistan). So I thought I'll get away from all of that by coming here to enjoy myself too,” said the woman, according to the BBC translator.UK media reports that Pakistan was placed on red list due to people travelling to Lahore for weddings pic.twitter.com/pHYhTymGWNAlso Read | UK added Pakistan to ‘red list’ after people kept travelling for weddings amid Covid-19 surgeAccording to the report, around 32,000 travellers flew from the UK to Pakistan in January alone. As Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Pakistan following an influx of British Pakistani nationals, the United Kingdom announced a travel ban. Pakistan’s inclusion in the red list led to a surge in travel demand and many airlines added extra nonstop services.At least 30 extra flights have been operated in the week since the announcement of the updated red list, ferrying around 5,000 to 7,000 extra travellers than the normal numbers, as per an Independent report. Social media users shared videos from extremely crowded Islamabad airport as airlines and enterprising travel agents chartered many additional flights to meet the demand.“How many cases & ‘new strains’ will we see as a result of this stampede,” wrote a user.Current scenes at Islamabad airport as thousands of Pakistanis try to get back to UK before the country goes on the Red List. How many cases & ‘new strains’ will we see as a result of this stampede.Airlines have chartered extra flights to meet the demand pic.twitter.com/uIHzEqIaXLBut with thousands of British Pakistanis still stranded in the country, Labour leaders requested Prime Minister Boris Johnson to provide assistance to them. Yasmin Qureshi, a British MP of Pakistani origin, wrote to Johnson demanding clarification on the decision-making process and asking why “these specific countries have been added to the red list”.“We are asking for the Government to explore charter flight options or to provide financial support for those stranded,” the letter, signed by Qureshi and her parliamentary colleagues, read.Pakistan has today been placed on the red list for travel with the UKThis will have a large impact on British Pakistanis and their familiesWith cross party colleagues, I have requested clarification from the PM regarding the Govt's decision and what support will be provided https://t.co/ye5fqJFcV6 pic.twitter.com/ajmeuW8hnD||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-red-list-caused-chaos-at-pakistan-airports-now-demands-of-charter-flights-101618141183181.html
11-04-2021||World||US, South Korea suspect North Korea is readying its ballistic missile submarine||South Korean and US intelligence suspect that North Korea has completed the assembly of a 3,000-tonne submarine and is ready to launch it when the time is right, media reported on Sunday."Both South Korea and US intelligence authorities made the assessment that North Korea has already finished building the 3,000-tonne submarine unveiled in July 2019," sources told the state Yonhap News Agency.According to the agency, the news comes from a US think tank that said North Korea had moved a submersible missile test barge to a new position, likely hinting at an upcoming submarine-launched ballistic missile (SLBM) test to take place."The authorities assess that North Korea is reviewing the right timing to roll out the submarine for a strategic effect, including maximizing pressure against the United States," said a source, as quoted by Yonhap.According to the US think tank, this would be North Korea's first true ballistic missile submarine.During an annual military parade late last year, Pyongyang showcased a beefed-up nuclear-capable missiles arsenal, with upgraded SLBMs as the main addition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-south-korea-suspect-north-korea-is-readying-its-ballistic-missile-submarine-101618140167907.html
11-04-2021||World||Heathrow Airport plan to raise $3.8 billion challenged: Report||London’s Heathrow faces opposition from some board members to its plan to raise 2.8 billion pounds ($3.8 billion) from airlines and customers by increasing airport prices, the Telegraph newspaper reported.Also Read | Heathrow imposes passenger charges to cover pandemic costsState-backed Qatar Airways, whose owner is also Heathrow’s second-biggest shareholder, said the plan is “unreasonable, not in the consumer interest and should be rejected,” according to the report. The airline’s top executive, Akbar Al Baker, is a representative for the state of Qatar on Heathrow’s board of directors.Heathrow’s demands to change a complex regulatory framework so it could recoup losses caused by the pandemic have been rejected by the Civil Aviation Authority, the newspaper said. A spokesman for Heathrow said the regulatory adjustment is needed to lower prices for consumers, according to the Telegraph.U.K. Sets Plan for Travel Return With Costly Test RequirementsWhile all airlines and airports have taken a battering in the coronavirus crisis, Heathrow has been hit particularly hard since it relies on long-haul markets that have all but been wiped out. Passenger volumes have fallen to the lowest level since 1966 due to the ban on non-essential travel and quarantine rules. The airport posted a 2-billion-pound pretax loss for 2020.Airports including Heathrow, as well as operators of air traffic control systems, have indicated they are seeking to recover lost revenue with “monopolistic behaviors,” according to Willie Walsh, the director general of the International Air Transport Association and the former CEO of IAG SA.IATA will lobby regulators to step in and prevent fee hikes that airlines can’t afford after a year in crisis, he said earlier this month.Qatar Airways owns a 25% stake in IAG, whose British Airways is the largest operator at Heathrow.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/heathrow-airport-plan-to-raise-3-8-billion-challenged-report-101618138846618.html
11-04-2021||World||US envoy warns China-backed Colombo Port project may create safe haven for money launderers||US Ambassador to Sri Lanka and Maldives, Alaina Teplitz on Saturday warned Sri Lanka of unintended consequences of 'nefarious actors' who may try to misuse a China-backed Colombo Port City's easy business rules as a permissive money laundering haven amid concerns of tax leaks.Sri Lanka has unveiled draft legislation for a Colombo Port City Commission which allows for sweeping tax breaks, tax-free salaries and to be an offshore financial centre, reported economynext."Any legislation relating to the port city has to be considered very carefully for its economic impact," Teplitz told reporters in Colombo in an online discussion."And of course among those un-intended consequences could be creating a haven for money launderers and other sorts of nefarious actors to take advantage of what was perceived as a permissive business environment for activities that would actually be illegal."The agency running the Port City would have extensive powers to exempt businesses from taxes of up to 40 years, though it is not a tax haven in the traditional sense, reported economynext.Sri Lanka's tax revenues have plunged in 2020, raising concerns over debt and the fiscal path, credit downgrades and the ability of the government to provide vital public services to the people, while managing loss-making state enterprises."I do recognize that the government of Sri Lanka wants to take advantage of the investment that has already been made in creating the Port City foundation, but the legislation really needs to be reflected to address these challenges and to be careful of what it might be to open doors to bad practice and unfair competition for the rest of the country," said Teplitz.Teplitz said an idea by US Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen to have a global single corporate tax was just a proposal with no immediate impact but Sri Lanka should think about tax concessions in its own interests.Sri Lanka is under the worst import controls since the 1970s using the 1969 law, though exchange controls are less draconian.Sri Lanka's economy was progressively closed with an import control law being enacted in 1969 as money printing pressured the rupee, which worsened after the break-up of the Bretton Woods in 1971, as then-Federal Reserve Chief Arthur Burns printed money to target an output gap, forcing dollar to be floated.Sri Lanka's attempts at creating numbered accounts as part of creating Non-resident foreign currency accounts, after re-opening the economy in 1978 was also resisted by Western nations.Citizens are also allowed to hold up to 15,000 US dollars as well as unlimited amounts in dollar accounts outside to protect their savings from monetary expropriation, in relaxation of legal tender laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinabacked-colombo-port-project-may-create-money-laundering-haven-report-101618138642037.html
11-04-2021||World||UK churches celebrate the 'great life' of Prince Philip||The life of Prince Philip was celebrated at church services across Britain on Sunday, with the Archbishop of Canterbury praying for those who found that the death of Queen Elizabeth's husband had left a "very great gap" in their lives.Marking the third of eight days of national morning, people gathered at royal palaces to leave flowers, while religious and political leaders expressed support for the 94-year-old queen, the world's oldest and longest-reigning monarch.At Canterbury Cathedral, Edward Elgar's stirring Nimrod was played, the piece of music that accompanies many British funerals and memorial services and is played annually at the Cenotaph in London to mark the National Service of Remembrance."We may pray and offer love for all who find that a great life leaves a very great gap," Justin Welby, the leader of the global Anglican Communion, told the congregation at Canterbury Cathedral as he remarked on the prince's inquiring mind.Philip, who was officially known as the Duke of Edinburgh, died at Windsor Castle on Friday. He was 99.Buckingham Palace said on Saturday the funeral would be held on Saturday April 17, with long-established plans redrawn and scaled down because of Covid-19 restrictions.The prince will be given a ceremonial royal funeral rather than a state funeral. There will be no public processions, and it will be held entirely within the grounds of Windsor Castle and limited to 30 mourners.A 'LITTLE SPACE' FOR THE QUEENJohn Major, who was British prime minister from 1990 to 1997, said he hoped the queen would be given the time she needs to grieve after she lost her husband and companion of 73 years."I do hope she's given a little space, and a little time, and a little freedom to grieve in the way anybody else would wish to do so after having lost their spouse," he told the BBC's Andrew Marr."He was the person who was there," he said of Philip. "He was the person to whom she could unburden herself."The royal family was plunged into its greatest crisis in decades last month when Prince Harry, the Duke of Sussex and the couple's grandson, gave an explosive interview to Oprah Winfrey alongside his wife Meghan in the United States.During the interview, Meghan said her pleas for help while she felt suicidal were ignored and that one unnamed member of the family had asked how dark their unborn child's skin might be.Buckingham Palace said Harry will return from the United States where the couple now live to attend the funeral while Meghan, who is pregnant with their second child, will not, on her doctor's advice.The leader of the Catholic Church in England and Wales, Cardinal Vincent Nichols, said he hoped the private nature of the funeral would allow the family to come together and rebuild ties."Many a family gather and get over tension and broken relationships at the time of a funeral," he told Times Radio. "Something very profound unites them all again. And that would be true of this family, I'm sure."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-churches-celebrate-the-great-life-of-prince-philip-101618138722831.html
11-04-2021||World||In Indonesia, man following Google Maps almost marries wrong woman||The reliance on technology is increasing day by day. From menial tasks, to big data crunching, technology is helping people in every way. But sometimes, too much reliance on technology can prove to be costly as well as embarrassing.A groom-to-be in Indonesia suffered embarrassment when Google Maps, one of the most popular apps used by thousands of commuters across the globe, landed at the wrong house and almost married the wrong woman.The unique goof-up happened on Sunday, local media reported. Coincidently, the location which the groom's family went to was in the same village where they were supposed to get married, according to Tribunnews.The bride, Ulfa, also didn't realise that the wrong man had entered her house as she was busy getting ready for the event, according to local media reports. Her family welcomed the wrong groom and not just that, they also exchanged gifts at the event.But this was an engagement function and the groom's family soon realised their mistake. They apologised to the girl's family who directed the boy and the procession to the correct address. To add to the confusion, Ulfa's would-be groom was also late as his family members stopped along the way looking for a toilet.Google Maps is one of the best navigational platforms available online, but issues keep cropping up in every few months. Last year, a man in a village in Tamil Nadu filed a complaint at the local police station for showing places that he has never been to in its timeline.The timeline feature is based on points of interest and the accuracy of the feature is according to the nearest places visited. This means that the feature may not always depict the exact location that a user might have visited.The issue led to marital troubles as the wife of 49-year-old R Chandrasekhar started questioning him regularly about his whereabouts. This in turn led to emotional troubles and familial problems.Chandrasekhar said that his wife believes Google over anything else. So he filed the complaint seeking justice. The police later called the couple for counselling.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-indonesia-man-following-google-maps-almost-marries-wrong-woman-101618135123310.html
11-04-2021||World||China's crackdown on its powerful companies intensifies: Report||China's competition watchdog is adding staff and other resources as it ramps up efforts to crack down on anti-competitive behaviour, especially among the country's powerful companies, people with knowledge of the matter told Reuters.Beijing's plan to bulk up the State Administration for Market Regulation (SAMR) comes as China revamps its competition law with proposed amendments including a sharp increase in fines and expanded criteria for judging a company's control of a market.On Saturday, the watchdog slapped a record $2.75 billion fine on Alibaba after an antimonopoly probe found the e-commerce giant had abused its dominant market position for several years.The fine underscores the challenges ahead for companies, including global firms with operations in China, mainly in a tech sector that thrived during years of relatively laissez-faire market regulation.It also mirrors the increasing activism of US and European antitrust authorities in recent years.The Beijing-headquartered agency plans to expand its antitrust workforce by around 20 to 30 staff, up from about 40 now, two people with direct knowledge of the matter said.The watchdog also plans to delegate case reviewing power to its local bureaux and source additional manpower from other government bodies and agencies to handle cases that require extensive investigation, four other people said.Budgets allocated for antimonopoly investigations, daily operations and research projects will also be increased, said three of the people cited above and one more person with knowledge of the matter.The people declined to be named as they were not authorised to speak to the media.The SAMR did not immediately respond to Reuters request for comment."An increase in staffing as well as in the quality of the bureau's law enforcement capabilities is a must for an antitrust push," said Liu Xu, a researcher at the National Strategy Institute of Tsinghua University."Otherwise regulators won't be able to handle multiple cases at one time, and the public will question how transparent the investigation process would be," said Liu, a long-time advocate for antitrust enforcement.Growing ScrutinyThe SAMR's antitrust bureau was established in early 2018 after two other government departments were merged into it to form a single authority to police monopoli­stic activities.The bureau has also been armed with new and more stringent laws in the past few months.SAMR's enhanced powers come as Chinese President Xi Jinping weighed in last month on the need to "strengthen antitrust powers" to rein in behemoths that play a dominant role in the country's consumer sector."They didn't feel they had the mandate to do it but now they do. And they are happy about that," said a legal source close to SAMR, referring to the need to regulate the internet companies, which, he said, were seen as "a bit above the law."With growing scrutiny, executives of major internet firms are now required to make routine reports to the antitrust bureau for merger deals or of practices that could fall foul of antimonopoly rules, one of the sources said.Reeling from the workload, the SAMR has started to expand its presence in more cities such as Hangzhou and Shenzhen on a trial basis, instead of handling the cases all in Beijing, to delegate case reviewing power to local bureaux, two of the sources said. It has also started outsourcing more research work, covering areas including economic and industry analysis, to scholars and its own consultancy committee to speed up cases in progress, one of the sources said.For now, however, the investor focus is on who among the home-grown technology champions will be the next target of the Chinese antitrust watchdog."Other tech companies would be wise to assume they may be receiving the same level of scrutiny and penalty," said Fred Hu, chairman of private equity firm Primavera Group, referring to the fine imposed on Alibaba."The heavy fine on one of the country's dominant tech leaders also sends a strong message to the broader tech sector that the Chinese regulators, like their European counterparts, are serious about cracking down on Big Tech."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-crackdown-on-its-powerful-companies-intensifies-report-101618136257272.html
11-04-2021||World||Pope celebrates mass of 'mercy' with prisoners, refugees||Pope Francis made a rare Sunday outing from Vatican grounds to celebrate a mass on "divine mercy" with prisoners, refugees and health workers.The service was held in a church just off St Peter's Square, in front of a reduced congregation of about 80 people, due to coronavirus restrictions.Among them, there were inmates of two Roman prisons and one youth detention centre; refugees from Syria, Nigeria and Egypt; and nursing staff from a nearby hospital.In his homily, the leader of the world's 1.3 billion Catholics stressed the importance for Christians of serving others."Sister, brother, do you want proof that God has touched your life? See if you can stoop to bind the wounds of others," he said."Let us not remain indifferent. Let us not live a one-way faith, a faith that receives but does not give... Having received mercy, let us now become merciful," Francis added.The pope, who is 84 and was vaccinated for the coronavirus ahead of his trip to Iraq in early March, did not wear a face mask during the service.Those who did readings from the bible were also unmasked, while everybody else in the church, including altar boys and other priests, had their masks on.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pope-celebrates-mass-of-mercy-with-prisoners-refugees-101618134808829.html
11-04-2021||World||Djibouti autonomy at risk due to China's investment strategy: Report||The relationship between Djibouti and China is a case study on how Beijing is using its global infrastructure investment strategy, the Belt and Road Initiative, to aggrandise its economic influence and strengthen its position as the top investor in Africa.The present scenario, however, illustrates the limitations of China's vast investment and loans project as it is drying up, reported France24.In accepting vast inflows of Chinese capital and loans, Djibouti now finds itself in a situation of such economic dependence that it "risks threatening its autonomy", Sonia Le Gouriellec, a Horn of Africa specialist at the Catholic University of Lille, wrote in the Revue de Defense Nationale (National Defence Review).Djibouti, a small African country located in the Horn of Africa, devoid of natural resources, has opened itself to international powers in order to profit from its strategic location at the entrance to the Red Sea.Much of the international discourse about the country focuses on China bringing it into its economic orbit through the Belt and Road Initiative.China might not have played a major role in Djibouti for as long as President Ismail Omar Guelleh, who is running for a fifth term, has held office, but it is expected to maintain its economic grip on the east African state after the election.Beijing already had its sights set on Djibouti in the early 2000s - investing in the construction of schools and stadiums and renovating roads and official buildings, including the foreign ministry.Chinese investment intensified after President Xi Jinping took power in 2012 and inaugurated the Belt and Road Initiative the following year.The three flagship achievements under Xi are the large multipurpose Doraleh port, the railway line between Djibouti and Ethiopia and the gas pipeline between the two countries. Djibouti also hosts the Chinese-built International Free Trade Zone, where businesses can operate without paying income tax, property tax, dividend taxes or VAT. In total, China has spent USD 14 billion (Euro 11.8 billion) on investments and loans for Djibouti between 2012 and 2020, reported France24.The reason Beijing has invested so much in Djibouti is because it "gives China an African component in its large network of so-called 'maritime Silk Roads', in one of the region's few politically stable countries", said a British expert on the Horn of Africa who asked to remain anonymous.Djibouti saw obvious benefits in the influx of Chinese investment and loans. The country had a clear need for funding and "there was no one else to turn to", said Thierry Pairault, an expert on Sino-African relations at Paris's CNRS think tank.But the Sino-Djiboutian relationship has "cooled over recent years; it's like a slowly unravelling marriage", said Gerard Prunier, a historian at the Institut des Mondes Africains (Institute of African Worlds).Debt is a major issue. China holds more than 70 percent of Djibouti's debt, which some observers say threatens the African country's sovereignty. They fear that Djibouti will suffer the same fate as Sri Lanka, which had to cede control of a port to Chinese companies because it could not repay the loans it had signed with China, reported France24.The problem is that the benefits to Djibouti of the Chinese investments and loans are looking doubtful. The port at Doraleh, for example, seems "mainly outward-looking", Pairault said: It has done little for local employment; it is mainly Chinese companies that have profited from it.It looks unlikely that this cooling of the relationship will prompt China to completely disengage from Djibouti. "It remains an important part of the Belt and Road Initiative," said an anonymous British expert.The opening of China's military base in Djibouti in 2017 - the People's Liberation Army's only permanent base outside of China - provides a clear sign of the strong ties between the two countries.It could lead to closer ties between Djibouti and other international players such as France. "No other country could do what China is doing in terms of lending money, but it is plausible that Djibouti will deepen its ties to other countries," Pairault said. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/djibouti-autonomy-at-risk-due-to-china-s-investment-strategy-report-101618133508534.html
11-04-2021||World||Evacuation centres open as cyclone Seroja intensifies off Western Australia||Tropical cyclone Seroja strengthened off Western Australia on Sunday, with emergency services broadening a warning to immediately take shelter to several towns given high winds and the prospect of coastal flooding.Five coastal towns were put on red alert by Sunday afternoon, including residents in Denham, Shark Bay, 500 kilometres (311 miles) north of Perth, while sandbags were made available to those in Geraldton, further down the coast, due to potential storm surge."There is a threat to lives and homes. You are in danger and need to act immediately," the Department of Fire and Emergency Services (DFES) said in a bulletin.The cyclone, which was upgraded in severity to category 3 on Sunday, was rapidly moving south east but was likely to weaken to category 2 in severity prior to making landfall later in the evening, the Bureau of Meteorology said. Wind gusts of 150 kilometres an hour were expected."Yes I'm worried for the town. There's heritage buildings here in Geraldton and I'm not sure how well they will survive," said Tash Gibson, manager of the Ocean Centre Hotel.Officials were braced for a high degree of damage to towns along the coast, the state emergency services minister said on Saturday, given buildings were not constructed to withstand such strong winds in a region that is typically too far south to fall into the path of cyclones.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/evacuation-centres-open-as-cyclone-seroja-intensifies-off-western-australia-101618132772908.html
11-04-2021||World||China launches hotline for netizens to report 'illegal' history comments that defame Communist Party||China's cyber regulator has launched a hotline to report online comments that defame the ruling Communist Party and its history, vowing to crack down on "historical nihilists" ahead of the Party's 100th anniversary in July.The tip line allows people to report fellow netizens who "distort" the Party's history, attack its leadership and policies, defame national heroes and "deny the excellence of advanced socialist culture" online, said a notice posted by an arm of the Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) on Friday."Some with ulterior motives ... have been spreading historical nihilistic misrepresentations online, maliciously distorting, denigrating and negating the history of the Party," said the notice."We hope that the majority of Internet users will actively play their part in supervising society ... and enthusiastically report harmful information," it said."Historical nihilism" is a phrase used in China to describe public doubt and scepticism over the Chinese Communist Party's description of past events.China's internet is tightly censored and most foreign social media networks, search engines and news outlets are banned in the country.Internet authorities often increase censorship and online supervision ahead of major events including historical anniversaries, political meetings and sports events.The notice did not specify what punishments would be dealt to people who are reported through the hotline, but netizens in China already face jail time and other legal punishments for posting content that is critical of the county's leadership, policies and history.Legal amendments released earlier this year stipulate that people who "insult, slander of infringe upon" the memory of China's national heroes and martyrs face jail time of up to three years.Last week, authorities in the eastern Chinese province of Jiangsu detained a 19-year-old man after making "insulting" comments online about Japan's 1937 occupation of Nanjing.Chinese social media sites that fail to censor critical content also face financial sanctions as well as temporary suspensions of service under current law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-launches-hotline-for-netizens-to-report-illegal-history-comments-101618133044238.html
11-04-2021||World||Around 1.3 lakh Tibetans living in 26 countries cast votes for Dharamshala-based parliament-in-exile||Tibetans living in 26 countries including India on Sunday voted for the final phase of the general election for the Dharamshala-based parliament-in-exile to elect the next Sikyong (president), an official said.Forty-five members of the Central Tibetan Administration (CTA), also called as Tibetan-parliament-in-exile, will also be elected by the voters, Wangdu Tsering, the chief election commissioner of the Tibetan election commission said.There are around 1.3 lakh Tibetans living in exile in India and across the globe. The Tibetan government-in-exile will elect its head on May 14.In the last phase of the polls to the post of the president of the CTA only two candidates -- Pempa Tsering and Aukatsang Kelsang Dorjee -- are in the fray, Wangdu Tsering said.However, Pempa Tsering, the former chairman of Tibetan parliament, is the front runner.During the first phase of elections, there were eight candidates contesting for the post of Sikyong. Pempa Tsering secured the maximum votes (24,488) followed by Dorjee (14,544).Sikyong is the head of the Kashag or Cabinet, part of the executive branch of the CTA, and the post was created by the Tibetan parliament in 2011 to provide democratic governance to the exiled Tibetan community.Prior to that, Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama used to exercise the powers as temporal head of the Tibetan community in all affairs.Lobsang Sangay, who became the first Sikyong of the CTA, has held the post for two terms, and according to the constitution, he cannot contest for a third term.Pempa Tsering had lost to Sangay in 2016."We are sending a clear message to Beijing that there is no democracy in China and Tibetans don't enjoy freedom but under the great leadership of his holiness the Dalai Lama, we in-exile have been given this gift of democracy and today is a proud day," Sangay told reporters.According to Wangdu Tsering, 83,079 voters are participating in the electoral exercise."We have two kinds of elections -- one is for the presidential election of the CTA and the second is parliamentary. There are two nominees contesting for the post of the president and Tibetans are also voting to choose 45 members of parliament. We will declare the results on May 14," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/around-1-3-lakh-tibetans-living-in-26-countries-cast-votes-for-dharamshala-based-parliamentinexile-101618131623249.html
11-04-2021||World||US defense secretary Lloyd Austin in Israel amid Iran nuclear talks||Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin was in Israel Sunday on the first high-level visit from the new US administration, after talks restarted on reviving the 2015 Iran nuclear deal.Austin's visit comes just days after Washington said it had offered "very serious" ideas on reviving the hobbled agreement that is staunchly opposed by Israel.Austin's first scheduled stop on the two-day trip was a meeting with Israeli Defence Minister Benny Gantz.Israel under hawkish Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has been a fierce critic of the Iran nuclear deal, dating back to when it was being negotiated during Barack Obama's administration.Netanyahu applauded when Trump withdrew from the deal and imposed sanctions on Tehran, which responded by stepping back from several of its commitments under the deal.In the latest breach of its undertakings in the troubled agreement, Tehran announced on Saturday that it had started up advanced uranium enrichment centrifuges.President Hassan Rouhani inaugurated a cascade of 164 IR-6 centrifuges for producing enriched uranium, as well as two test cascades -- of 30 IR-5 and 30 IR-6S devices respectively -- at Iran's Natanz uranium enrichment plant, in a ceremony broadcast by state television.An "accident" took place at Nantaz on Sunday but caused no casualties or damage, the Fars news agency reported.In an address marking the eve of Holocaust Remembrance Day, Netanyahu said on Wednesday that Israel would not be bound to a nuclear deal that would enable the Islamic republic to develop nuclear weapons."An agreement with Iran that would pave the way to nuclear weapons -- weapons that threaten our extinction -- would not compel us in any way," said the veteran right-wing premier.Biden has said he is prepared to return to the agreement, arguing the deal had -- until Washington's withdrawal -- been successful in dramatically scaling back Iran's nuclear activities.But Washington has demanded Iranian movement back towards compliance while Tehran has insisted on an end to all US restrictions, with each side demanding that the other make the first move.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-defense-secretary-lloyd-austin-in-israel-amid-iran-nuclear-talks-101618130733280.html
11-04-2021||World||Electrical incident strikes Iran's Natanz nuclear facility||Iran's Natanz nuclear site suffered a problem Sunday involving its electrical distribution grid just hours after starting up new advanced centrifuges that more quickly enrich uranium, state TV reported. It was the latest incident to strike one of Tehran's most secure sites amid negotiations over the tattered atomic accord with world powers.Power had been cut across the facility of above-ground workshops and underground enrichment halls, civilian nuclear program spokesman Behrouz Kamalvandi told Iranian state television.“Here the power has been cut off indeed, and we do not know the reason for the outage,” he said. “The incident is under investigation and we will inform you about the reason as we find out.”The word state television used in its reports attributed to Kamalvandi in Farsi also can be used for “accident."The Vienna-based International Atomic Energy Agency, which monitors Iran's program, said it was “aware of the media reports,” but declined to comment.Malek Shariati Niasar, a lawmaker who serves as spokesman for the Iranian parliament's energy committee, wrote on Twitter that the incident was “very suspicious,” raising concerns about possible “sabotage and infiltration.” He said lawmakers were pursuing details of the incident as well.Natanz, a facility earlier targeted by the Stuxnet computer virus, was largely built underground to withstand enemy airstrikes. It became a flashpoint for Western fears about Iran’s nuclear program in 2002, when satellite photos showed Iran building its underground centrifuges facility at the site, some 200 kilometers (125 miles) south of the capital, Tehran.Natanz suffered a mysterious explosion at its advanced centrifuge assembly plant in July that authorities later described as sabotage. Iran now is rebuilding that facility deep inside a nearby mountain.Israel, Iran's regional archenemy, has been suspected of carrying out an attack there, as well as launching other assaults, as world powers now negotiate with Tehran in Vienna over its nuclear deal.Iran also blamed Israel for the killing of a scientist who began the country’s military nuclear program decades earlier. Israel has not claimed any of the attacks, though Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu repeatedly has described Iran as the major threat faced by his country in recent weeks.Israeli officials could not be immediately reached for comment. U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin landed in Israel on Sunday for talks with Netanyahu and Israeli Defense Minister Benny Gantz.Natanz today hosts the country’s main uranium enrichment facility. In its long underground halls, centrifuges rapidly spin uranium hexafluoride gas to enrich uranium.On Saturday, Iran announced it had launched a chain of 164 IR-6 centrifuges at the plant. Officials also began testing the IR-9 centrifuge, which they say will enrich uranium 50 times faster than Iran's first-generation centrifuges, the IR-1. The nuclear deal limited Iran to using only IR-1s for enrichment.Since then-President Donald Trump's withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal in 2018, Tehran has abandoned all the limits of its uranium stockpile. It now enriches up to 20% purity, a technical step away from weapons-grade levels of 90%. Iran maintains its atomic program is for peaceful purposes, but fears about Tehran having the ability to make a bomb saw world powers reach the deal with the Islamic Republic in 2015.The deal lifted economic sanctions on Iran in exchange for it limiting its program and allowing inspectors from the International Atomic Energy Agency to keep a close watch on its work.On Tuesday, an Iranian cargo ship said to serve as a floating base for Iran’s paramilitary Revolutionary Guard forces off the coast of Yemen was struck by an explosion, likely from a limpet mine. Iran has blamed Israel for the blast. That attack escalated a long-running shadow war in Mideast waterways targeting shipping in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/electrical-incident-strikes-iran-s-natanz-nuclear-facility-101618130707955.html
11-04-2021||World||EU and Covid-19: When a vaccine only adds to the trouble||European Union (EU) leaders no longer meet around a common oval summit table to broker their famed compromises. Instead, each of the 27 watches the other heads of state or government with suspicion via a video screen that shows a mosaic of faraway capitals.This is what Covid-19 has wrought.Lofty hopes that the crisis would encourage a new and tighter bloc to face a common challenge have given way to the reality of division: The pandemic has set member nation against member nation, and many capitals against the EU itself, as symbolized by the disjointed, virtual meetings the leaders now hold.Leaders fight over everything from virus passports to push tourism to the conditions for receiving pandemic aid. Perhaps worse, some attack the very structures the EU built to deal with the pandemic. Last month, Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz decried how vaccine-buying in the bloc had become a “bazaar,” alleging poorer countries struck out while the rich thrived."Internal political cohesion and respect for European values continue to be challenged in different corners of the Union," the European Policy Center said in a study one year after the pandemic swept from China and engulfed Europe.In some places, there have been demands for political accountability.In the Czech Republic on Wednesday, Prime Minster Andrej Babis fired his health minister, the third to be sacked during the pandemic in one of Europe’s hardest-hit countries. Last week, Slovakia’s government resigned over a secret deal to buy Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and in Italy, Premier Giuseppe Conte was forced to resign over his handling of the economic fallout of the pandemic.But overall, political upheaval across the EU has been muted, considering that half a million people have died in the pandemic. At the EU level, there has been no serious call for the ouster of European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen, the bloc's chief executive, despite her acknowledgment that serious mistakes were made.It is clear that the EU has not risen to the occasion so far — and it's not clear if it can. The European Policy Center noted that “there is no immediate end in sight to the health crisis, not to mention the inevitable structural economic challenges.”The EU and its countries, of course, fell victim to some events beyond their control, as other nations around the globe did. Good arguments can be made that part of the the bloc's problems are due to delayed deliveries from Anglo-Swedish pharmaceutical company AstraZeneca. But some of the crisis was plainly self-inflicted.The typical complaint is that there is no united EU health structure to tackle the pandemic and that largely health is still a national domain. But for years, the bloc has had a common drug regulator, the European Medicines Agency. And since last summer, the EU decided to pool vaccine purchases and spread them equitably among the 27 nations, big and small, richer and poorer.But while some non-EU nations were speeding ahead with emergency use authorizations, the EMA moved more slowly, at least in part because it followed a process that was largely similar to the standard licensing procedure that would be granted to any new vaccine. The agency's first vaccine greenlight came some three weeks after one was OK'd in the United Kingdom — the first country to authorize a rigorously tested Covid-19 shot.The bloc never caught up. On Friday, the UK, for example, had given 46.85% of their citizens at least one dose, compared to 14.18% in the EU.The EU also made the mistake of overly equating securing vaccines with getting shots in the arms — and underestimating the difficulties involved in mass producing and distributing such a delicate product. While EU negotiators were focusing on liability clauses in a contract, other nations were thinking about logistics and pushing for speed and volume.And while nations like the United States were sealing their borders to vaccine exports, the EU took the high moral ground and kept exports flowing — to the extent that over the first quarter of the year almost as many doses left the bloc for third countries as were delivered to the clamoring EU member states.On top of missteps with the vaccine rollout, the EU will be slow to disburse money from its 750 billion-euro ($890 billion) rescue package, which will share debt and give out grants to poorer members in an unprecedented way. But bickering among leaders over some clauses and intricate rules have made it anything but a speedy process. What's worse, the German constitutional court could still torpedo or further delay the whole initiative.The nature of the crisis may be different from past ones, but familiar obstacles arose: onerous bureaucracy, unnecessary delays as legalistic and technical disputes overshadowed the bigger picture, and bickering politicians putting self-interest before the common good.This past week was a case in point. The EMA reiterated its advice for all member nations to stand together — this time to keep on using the AstraZeneca jabs for all adults despite a possible link to extremely rare cases of blood clotting.Instead, hours after the announcement, Belgium went against that recommendation, barring AstraZeneca for citizens 55 and under, and others issued or kept similar restrictions.“If government leaders don’t trust the science, trust in vaccination is gone. If we don’t rely on (the EMA), ANY common EU approach is doomed,” said leading EU parliamentarian Guy Verhofstadt, normally the staunchest of EU backers.It is noteworthy that the EU nations insisted on delaying their vaccination drives in December specifically because they wanted to wait for the EMA's decision. But many have repeatedly ignored the EMA advice in the months since, setting more restrictions on vaccine use than the agency has called for.This extreme hesitancy by many countries — in addition to often seesawing advice — has become a hallmark of a vaccination rollout gone wrong. It has exacerbated the supply and issues of trust the bloc has faced.With barely half of the doses that the EU had contracted for the first quarter delivered — 105 million instead of 195 million — the video summit last month saw EU nations squabbling over shots and a distribution system that a few thought unfair.Now there are expectations the EU can turn it around. It is hoping for 360 million shots this quarter — that would keep the promise alive to vaccinate 70% of adults by the end of summer in the bloc of 450 million inhabitants.In France, President Emmanuel Macron gave a glimmer of hope to millions when he said that a return to a semblance of normal life could perhaps come by mid-May when people could "reclaim our art de vivre embodied by our restaurants and our cafes that we love so much.”By then, EU leaders might even mingle in person again at summits that go through the night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-and-covid-19-when-a-vaccine-only-adds-to-the-trouble-101618127260769.html
11-04-2021||World||Thousands of employees write to Google, demand better protection against workplace harassment||The employees of tech giant Alphabet have written an open letter addressed to CEO Sundar Pichai demanding a safe environment against harassment in Google. The letter published on an online blogging platform, Medium, cited a recent report published in The New York Times in which its former employee narrated her ordeal of harassment case and how it was handled by the company.The open letter has so far been signed by more than 1,300 people on Medium, which has also published their names.The employees also laid out two demands as they asked the company to stop protecting the accused. The first demand is that Google strip harassers of their status of team leads. "No harasser should manage or lead a team — whether directly or indirectly — including dotted line reports or managing temps, vendors, or contractors," it read.They also asked Alphabet to "mandatorily" change the teams of the harasser in case the claims are verified to ensure employees don't work alongside their tormentors."This is a long pattern where Alphabet protects the harasser instead of protecting the person harmed by the harassment. The person who reports harassment is forced to bear the burden, usually leaving Alphabet while their harasser stays or is rewarded for their behavior," the open letter stated.The letter also cited examples of two more employees who were awarded by the company despite the harassment allegations against them."This is not news to many people at Alphabet. Andy Rubin, the creator of Android mobile software, was awarded a $90 million exit package after a woman accused him of coercing her into performing oral sex. Amit Singhal, a former search executive, was awarded $35 million when he was forced to resign after a sexual assault investigation," the letter read."Alphabet workers deserve the right to work in an environment free from their abusers. Alphabet must prioritize the safety of their workers by prioritizing the concerns of those harmed," it also stated.Google, an entity of Alphabet, is an old subject of criticism for its treatment of cases related to harassment. In 2018, the company said it would change its policies to improve their response to such issues after more than 20,000 employees staged a walkout on the matter.That time, walkout organisers had applauded the progress on sexual harassment in hope that it would come as much-needed relief to complainants.However, in the open letter, the signatories expressed their disappointment to the company and said "it did not meet any of the Google Walkout demands (temps, vendors, contractors, and workers from Alphabet companies other than Google are still forced into arbitration)."Alphabet has not changed... We’ve already raised these issues before. The Google Walkout demands are still waiting to be met!" it also said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/thousands-of-employees-write-to-google-demand-better-protection-against-workplace-harassment-101618126372967.html
11-04-2021||World||Canadian party condemns India’s three farm laws||The Canadian New Democratic Party (NDP), led by Jagmeet Singh, has passed a resolution condemning India with regard to the ongoing protests against three farm laws enacted last year.In fact, the ‘Resolution for International Solidarity with Indian Farmers’ was given the top priority in its agenda in the section, Redefining Canada’s Place in the World, a reflection of the party’s foreign policy stances.It took top position in the convention’s prioritisation list, ahead of justice and peace in Israel-Palestine. Even as two Canadians remain jailed in China, and Canada’s House of Commons on February 22 passed a resolution that defined Chinese actions in Xinjiang as meeting the threshold to be termed as “genocide”, that issue only appeared at eighth place in the list, while Hong Kong Freedom of Expression came even lower at number 12.The resolution for ‘International Solidarity with Indian Farmers’ was moved by members of the party from Brampton East. While he contested elections in 2019 to the House of Commons from Burnaby South in British Columbia, the town of Brampton, in the Greater Toronto Area (GTA), is Federal NDP leader Jagmeet Singh’s home base.The resolution calls for “the federal government to condemn India’s actions and take a firm stand in standing up for farmers and the human rights abuses being carried out by the Indian government” and demands “international accountability to protect the rights of farmers to peacefully protest without duress”.The resolution was passed with a vote of 88 for and 12 against, with every featured speaker debating it coming out in support. Jagmeet Singh was denied a visa by the Indian government in December 2013. At that time, he was a Member of the Provincial Parliament or MPP in Ontario, making him, perhaps, the first-ever sitting member of a Western legislature to have been barred from traveling to India. Later, in March 2018, he was forced to disavow all “acts of terrorism” even as he came into the eye of storm over his appearance at a 2015 event in San Francisco, during which he spoke at a platform with the backdrop of a large poster of Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale, considered in India the person who birthed the violence of Khalistan movement in the 1980s.Similar resolutions did not figure in the three-day national convention of the ruling Liberal Party which ended on Saturday or that of the principal opposition Conservative Party last month.The three-day NDP convention will conclude on Sunday with a speech from Jagmeet Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canadian-party-condemns-india-s-three-farm-laws-101618124851039.html
11-04-2021||World||Pakistan extends Covid-19 restrictions till April 13 as infections surge||Pakistan has extended coronavirus restrictions till April 13 as the country is witnessing a surge in Covid-19 cases with over 5,000 cases reported on Sunday.According to a statement released by Pakistan's National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC), the country's government has decided to extend coronavirus restrictions in place till April 13, Pakistan's Dawn reported.With a positivity rate of 10.96 per cent, Pakistan has reported 5,050 infections in the last 24 hours. With this, the cumulative count of Covid-19 cases in the country has reached 7,15,968.As the third wave of the pandemic surges in Pakistan, the country registered 100 coronavirus deaths for a second consecutive day. A hundred deaths were recorded during the last 24 hours while 105 were reported a day earlier.So far, 15,329 people have died due to the infection.The NCOC session, chaired by Minister for Planning and Development Asad Umar, concluded that further discussions and decisions on non-pharmaceutical interventions (NPIs) during Ramazan will take place on Monday with a particular focus on the mechanism of their implementation.The NCOC session also discussed Pakistan's Covid-19 inoculation campaign during Ramazan and said a sufficient quantity of vaccines was scheduled to arrive after mid-April.The NCOC had announced various restrictions across the country a few days earlier, as the third wave of the coronavirus intensified across the country with over 5,000 testings positive for the virus on a single day, multiple times in the past few weeks or so.Punjab province has reported the highest number of cases. The province registered 2,628 infection and 57 deaths during the last 24 hours. The provincial total is 2,45,923 and the death toll is 6,908.The province of Sindh has reported 466 new cases of the coronavirus and six deaths in the last 24 hours, according to an update from Chief Minister Murad Ali Shah.This has taken the provincial caseload to 2,68,750 and the death toll to 4,529.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-extends-covid-19-restrictions-till-april-13-as-infections-surge-101618123337755.html
11-04-2021||World||Pakistan scrambles to speed up vaccination amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Pakistani authorities have scrambled to speed up vaccination and firm up non-pharmaceutical interventions to contain the spread of the coronavirus, amid a surge in the number of cases.The country on Sunday recorded 5,050 new Covid-19 cases, taking the national infection tally to 721,018. The death toll jumped to 15,443 in the last 24 hours.The National Command and Operation Centre (NCOC), the national apex body to combat the coronavirus, in a meeting on Saturday decided to extend the existing non-pharmaceutical int­erventions (NPIs) such as markets closure and restrictions on transport till Monday, Dawn newspaper reported.Non-pharmaceutical Interventions (NPIs) are actions, apart from getting vaccinated and taking medicine, that people and communities can take to help slow the spread of illnesses.The forum discussed vaccination plans during the upcoming holy month of Ramzan.The participants in the meeting were told that sufficient quantities of vaccine were scheduled to arrive after the mid of April.The NCOC decided that the vaccination centres will remain open during Ramzan.An official of the Ministry of National Health Services, requesting not to be named, told Dawn that Pakistan would get around three million doses of China's Cansino Bio vaccine after mid-April.“During the visit of Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, this week, [procurement of] Russian vaccine was also discussed,” he said.Covid Vaccine Global Access (COVAX), an international initiative aimed at equitable access to vaccines, was to supply around 17 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine by end of March.However, COVAX later told the government that the vaccine would be supplied by June 30.The vaccination drive in the country began on February 2 but it remains slow due to vaccine availability issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-scrambles-to-speed-up-vaccination-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101618122581907.html
11-04-2021||World||New variant causing more Covid-19 infections in Canada: Top health officer||A variant of the coronavirus may have become the principal source of fresh Covid-19 infections in some parts of Canada even as the country continues to report record daily increases in cases.Canada’s chief public health officer Dr Theresa Tam said the B1.1.7 variant, which originated in the United Kingdom “is now confirmed in all provinces and two territories” and “continues to account for the majority of variants of concern in Canada and has likely replaced the original virus in some areas”. She noted that as of Thursday, the country had 24,995 cases linked to different variants, with the vast majority, 23,611 of the B1.1.7 one. That has contributed to record daily increase in cases, which also led to Canada overtaking the United States in terms of numbers reported per million. Canada recorded 1,052,539 cases, an increase of 7,262, just a day after it breached the daily caseload mark of 9,000 for the first time on Friday, with 9,255 new infections.Other variants also continue to concern Canadian health authorities, particularly those originating in Brazil. Tam noted that “there has been a concerning rise in P.1 cases in recent weeks. Early evidence suggests that the P.1 variant may reduce the effectiveness of vaccines, “making it even more important to control its spread”.She said, “This clearly shows that we need stronger control to combat variants of concern that are driving rapid epidemic growth in many areas of the country, even as vaccine supply and programmes continue to accelerate.” Canada has secured nearly 10.5 million doses of Covid-19 vaccines while about 7.5 million have been administered.According to Global News, which sources information from the website Our World In Data, on Friday the seven-day rolling average of new cases per million in Canada was 205.73, higher than the United States, which was at 205.12. In comparison, even with a steep increase in daily cases, the figure for India was at 84.23.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/new-variant-causing-more-covid-19-infections-in-canada-top-health-officer-101618122210718.html
11-04-2021||World||South Asia accounts for 11% of global cases, India battles fresh wave||The South Asian region on Saturday crossed a mark of 15 million cases - a grim milestone - of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with India accounting for 84 per cent of the total cases, according to a report by Reuters. A country with the second-highest population in the world, India has 13,358,805 cases of infection.The South Asian region comprises of seven countries - India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Bhutan, Nepal, Maldives, and Sri Lanka. In terms of global numbers, the region accounts for 11 per cent of global cases and almost 6 per cent of deaths.According to Worldometers, the region has a total population of 1.9 billion people and accounts for 23 per cent of the world’s total population.On vaccination front, at least 94.1 million people have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine dose by Friday, Reuters reported citing figures from Our World in Data.Here is what country wise Covid-19 situation in South Asian region:IndiaThe country is currently reeling under second wave of Covid-19. It has total 13,358,805 cases of infection and the death toll stands at 169,275.A massive vaccination drive is also underway in the country as it battles the second wave. So far, the country is inoculating nearly 4 million people a day. While the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 10,15,95,147.PakistanPakistan is the second country after India which is hardest hit by the pandemic. It is currently witnessing the third wave and the average number of daily cases has been hovering around 5,000.It has seen a sharp rise in cases in the past 10 days. Officials say there are now more people in intensive care than at any other point during the pandemic.The nationwide coronavirus tally now stands at 715,968 and the positivity rate stands at 10.47 per cent.BangladeshThe third worst-hit country in the South Asia region is Bangladesh, an eastern neighbour of India. It has a total caseload of 678,937 cases while the death toll is 9,661. On Wednesday, it recorded its highest jump in daily cases after 7,626 people detected to be infected with Covid-19, local media reported citing figures from the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS).NepalThe Himalayan nation has a total of 279,725 cases of Covid-19 infection. The death toll in Nepal stands at 3,039, according to Worldometers figures.On Friday, Nepal's foreign affairs minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali called his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar and requested him to facilitate the supply of the vaccine against the Covid-19.Sri LankaCovid-19 infections are decreasing in Sri Lanka, with 205 new infections reported on average each day. The highest daily average reported on February 17, according to Reuters.There have been 94,564 infections and 595 coronavirus-related deaths reported in the country since the pandemic began.MaldivesThe island nation has a total caseload of 25,524 while its death toll is one of the lowest in the region with 67 fatalities. According to Reuters, it has administered at least 280,186 doses of Covid vaccines so far.BhutanAccording to the dashboard of the World Health Organisation's website, Bhutan has a total of 906 confirmed cases of Cold-19. While only one person has been killed by the infection since the first case of the virus emerged in the country last year. As of 5 April 2021, a total of 469,664 vaccine doses have been administered, according to WHO.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/south-asia-accounts-for-11-of-global-cases-india-battles-fresh-wave-101618120943987.html
11-04-2021||World||Chinese vaccines' effectiveness low, should consider benefits of mRNA vaccines: Officials||In a rare admission of the weakness of Chinese coronavirus vaccines, the country's top disease control official says their effectiveness is low and the government is considering mixing them to give them a boost.Chinese vaccines “don’t have very high protection rates,” said the director of the China Centers for Disease Control, Gao Fu, at a conference Saturday in the southwestern city of Chengdu.Beijing has distributed hundreds of millions of doses in other countries while also trying to promote doubt about the effectiveness of Western vaccines.“It’s now under formal consideration whether we should use different vaccines from different technical lines for the immunization process,” Gao said.The effectiveness rate of a coronavirus vaccine from Sinovac, a Chinese developer, at preventing symptomatic infections has been found to be as low as 50.4% by researchers in Brazil. By comparison, the vaccine made by Pfizer has been found to be 97% effective.Beijing has yet to approve any foreign vaccines for use in China, where the coronavirus emerged in late 2019.Gao gave no details of possible changes in strategy but mentioned mRNA, a previously experimental technique used by Western vaccine developers while China’s drug makers used traditional technology.“Everyone should consider the benefits mRNA vaccines can bring for humanity,” Gao said. “We must follow it carefully and not ignore it just because we already have several types of vaccines already.”Gao previously raised questions about the safety of mRNA vaccines. He was quoted by the official Xinhua News Agency as saying in December he couldn’t rule out negative side effects because they were being used for the first time on healthy people.Chinese state media and popular health and science blogs also have questioned the safety and effectiveness of the Pfizer vaccine, which uses mRNA.As of April 2, some 34 million people have received both of the two doses required by Chinese vaccines and about 65 million received one, according to Gao.Experts say mixing vaccines, or sequential immunization, might boost effectiveness rates. Trials around the world are looking at mixing of vaccines or giving a booster shot after a longer time period. Researchers in Britain are studying a possible combination of Pfizer and AstraZeneca vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinese-vaccines-effectiveness-low-should-consider-benefits-of-mrna-vaccines-officials-101618119895700.html
11-04-2021||World||France extends gap between mRNA vaccine shots to ramp-up rollout||France will lengthen the period between the first and second shots of mRNA anti-Covid vaccines to six weeks from four weeks as of April 14 to accelerate the inoculation campaign, Health Minister Olivier Veran told the JDD newspaper on Sunday.Although France's top health authority advised a six-week period between the two shots in January in order to stretch supplies, the government at the time said there was insufficient data on how well the vaccines performed with a longer interval.France could safely do so now because it was vaccinating a younger age group, Veran said."(It) will allow us to vaccinate more quickly without reducing protection," the minister told the paper.France has approved use of the Pfizer/BioNTech and Moderna mRNA vaccines.Veran also said that from Monday the AstraZeneca vaccine would be made available to all over-55s and not just those with serious pre-existing conditions.After a glacial start, France's vaccine rollout is hitting its stride, reaching a target of 10 million first doses a week ahead of a mid-April target. The government aims to deliver another ten million first shots by mid-May.Johnson & Johnson would deliver its first 200,000 doses destined for France on Monday, a week early, Veran said.President Emmanuel Macron, who was forced by a spiralling infection rate and overloaded healthcare system to impose a third nationwide lockdown, is counting on an accelerated vaccine rollout to allow a gradual reopening of the country from the middle of next month.The numbers in intensive care continue to rise and France will almost certainly cross the 100,000 deaths threshold this week. It reported over 43,000 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday and said there were now 5,769 patients receiving critical care.However, Veran said there were signs that a new lockdown was beginning to slow the infection rate."It remains very high," Veran told the JDD. "We can expect that after a period of stabilisation comes the fall. But for that, we must keep going."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-extends-gap-between-mrna-vaccine-shots-to-ramp-up-rollout-101618112329217.html
11-04-2021||World||'Nothing left of houses': Severe storm damages buildings in Florida Panhandle||A cluster of severe storms swept across the South early Saturday, leaving one person dead in Louisiana, toppling trees and power lines in Mississippi, dropping large hail on an Alabama coastal city and leveling buildings in the Florida Panhandle.St. Landry Parish President Jessie Bellard confirmed a man's death in an early morning tornado in Palmetto, Louisiana. Bellard told KLFY-TV that Jose Antonio Higareda, 27, was killed when the tornado smashed into the man's home.He said seven injured people were taken to hospitals and at least eight homes were destroyed or heavily damaged, including one lifted off its foundations and plunked down nearly intact beside a road. Five of the homes were mobile homes.“It’s just devastation for probably a quarter mile to a half mile ... There’s nothing left of the houses,” he told The Acadiana Advocate. He didn't elaborate on the extent of injuries but heavy equipment was brought in to helping to clear debris away Saturday as storm victims sought to salvage any important belongings.In Mississippi, a possible tornado downed power lines and trees in Rankin County, but no injuries were reported.In Panama City Beach, Florida, a home and convenience store were leveled by a possible tornado, city officials said in a Facebook post . A resident's photo posted by The Panama City News Herald shows the store's roof and walls ripped away, but its counters, shelves and the merchandise they held appear untouched. There were no immediate reports of injuries.The town is in Bay County, which was heavily damaged by Hurricane Michael in 2018.“Many people were saying, ‘Hey, we know what to do. Sadly, we’ve been through it before’ and they pulled together as a community,” Panama City Mayor Mark Sheldon told the News Herald. “We were seeing neighbors come out and helping other neighbors and that’s what Panama City Beach is all about.”In Pensacola, Florida, the roof of a downtown brewery was ripped off by the storm, local news reports show. The National Weather Service has not confirmed if that was caused by a tornado, but reported winds of up to 60 mph (95 kpm). The Pensacola News Journal reports that about 5 inches (13 centimeters) of rain fell.“We are still learning about what exactly the damage is and what is going on,” Veronique Zayas, co-owner of Emerald Republic Brewing, told the paper. “But we know that the roof is a total loss. There is water damage throughout, and a lot of equipment has been damaged.”She said it was fortunate no one was hurt.“The brewers are normally here at 5 or 6 in the morning to start their brewing,” she said. “Luckily, no one was here.”Images shared by news outlets showed car windshields shattered by hail about as large as baseballs in Orange Beach, Alabama.Storms also brought heavy rain and strong winds to parts of Louisiana and Mississippi.Bellard said search and rescue crews are out in Louisiana in the wake of the storm.“My thoughts and prayers are with the families affected by this storm,” he said. “We're doing everything we can for those families.”Bellard reported that SLEMCO, St. Landry Public Works, Animal Control and the Sheriff’s Department were on the scene and working on debris clearance and restoring power to the area.The National Weather Service has said the tornado that hit the area was ranked an EF3 tornado, with wind speeds between 130 and 140 mph (between 209 and 225 kph).Some flooding was reported. Thousands of customers in the region lost power, according to utility tracking website poweroutage.us.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/severe-storm-damages-buildings-in-florida-panhandle-101618110056977.html
11-04-2021||World||UAE hasn't provided Princess Latifa's 'proof of life': UN||The United Nations (UN) has said that the United Arab Emirates has not submitted any proof that Princess Latifa bint Mohammed Al Maktoum, the missing daughter of Dubai's ruler, is alive.CNN reported that the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) said on Friday it has asked the UAE for "proof of life" for the Princess, but did not receive it."We haven't got any proof of life, and we would like one. One that is clear, compelling evidence that she's alive. And our first concern for us is to be sure of that," spokeswoman Marta Hurtado told a briefing in Geneva, as reported by CNN.The spokesperson added: "We tried to set up a meeting between senior officials, with the new ambassador of the UAE to the UN in Geneva. In principle, the mission has accepted these requests, but we have no fixed date yet."In secret recordings obtained in February this year, Princess Latifa claimed she was being held hostage in a "villa converted into a jail", with no access to medical help. In response, Dubai's royal family said in a statement Latifa was being cared for at home by family and medical professionals.Hurtado told the briefing the OHCHR would "ideally meet her" and "talk to her alone to examine all the aspects of her situation.""That's what we're going to convey in this meeting if it takes place," she added.Hurtado also said her office would "raise the case of Latifa's sister, Sheikha Shamsa, to ask about their whereabouts."In late February, Latifa sent a letter -- shared with CNN -- to the UK police, asking them to investigate the alleged kidnapping of her older sister, Princess Shamsa, from Britain in 2000."We are very concerned about both cases, because we don't know what is happening," Hurtado said."That's why we are not only asking where they are, but we want to meet them. We want to speak with them. We want to understand what is their situation, as the case not only with these two women, but other cases of people that have disappeared, or maybe possibly disappeared across the globe," she added."We follow up on many cases, [on a] daily basis of people that have disappeared or whom we don't know the whereabouts. That is why we are internally, privately but as well publicly here, raising their case and expressing that we are indeed very concerned about the situation," the OHCHR spokeswoman concluded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uae-hasn-t-provided-princess-latifa-s-proof-of-life-un-101618110201873.html
11-04-2021||World||US ramps up pressure on China, new strategic competition policy to impact tech firms||The US Senate's new policy, the Strategic Competition Act of 2021, lays out a wide-ranging strategy that would have a "profound effect" on Chinese entities as the relationship between the two economic superpowers deteriorate."The legislation will have a profound effect on every Chinese technology firm," said Cameron Johnson, an adjunct faculty instructor at New York University and a partner at Shanghai-based Tidal Wave Solutions told South China Morning Post.Johnson added: "This includes in terms of developing new technologies, global investment strategies, selling into US-allied countries, receiving support from the Chinese government, and how the country's technology market interacts and influences global governance and standards-setting."South China Morning Post reported that the section on science and technology in the 283-page bill, which US lawmakers plan to introduce next week, includes efforts to provide help for American companies to diversify their global supply chain; total or partial acquisition of infrastructure like 5G mobile networks and undersea cables; negotiations for bilateral and plurilateral digital trade agreements; and building up cybersecurity capabilities.The bill stated that China's drive to become a "manufacturing and technological superpower" and to promote "innovation with Chinese characteristics" has come at the expense of human rights and long-standing international rules of economic competition.The bill calls for sanctions against Chinese officials accused of "forced labour, forced sterilisation and other abuses in Xinjiang", where human rights groups cite United Nations reports and witness accounts that as many as 1 million Uyghurs and other Muslim minorities are held in "re-education camps". Beijing has repeatedly denied the allegations, insisting that the camps are vocational training facilities.According to SCMP, the legislation would also earmark US$10 million "to promote democracy in Hong Kong" and require the State Department to produce a report on "the extent to which the Government of China uses the status of Hong Kong to circumvent the laws and protections of the United States"." (The bill) Focuses on countering and confronting China's predatory international economic behaviour, and includes measures to track intellectual property violators, Chinese government subsidies, monitor Chinese use of Hong Kong to circumvent US export controls, and track the presence of Chinese companies in US capital markets. Directs the United States to provide technical assistance to countries working to counter foreign corrupt practices, and debt relief to the poorest countries who have requested forbearance due to the Covid-19 pandemic," a statement from the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations read.The bill also "calls for enhanced coordination and cooperation with allies on arms control in the face of China's military modernization and expansion, and requires reporting on Chinese ballistic, hypersonic glide, and cruise missiles, conventional forces, nuclear, space, cyberspace and other strategic domains."If passed, the bill would void all restrictions on US officials' interaction with Taiwanese counterparts. The legislation calls for additional efforts to strengthen military ties with allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region.The bill would mandate forcing Beijing to honour a 2016 ruling by an international tribunal that artificial islands China had built near the Philippine coastline, including at Mischief Reef, violated Manila's sovereign rights.Asked about the bipartisan legislation, State Department spokesman Ned Price declined to comment specifically on the Menendez-Risch bill, but added: "We have spoken of competition with China as a defining challenge for this administration, that we will enjoy the greatest amount of success when we work hand in hand with Congress, and when our proposals, find support on both sides of the aisle."Under the Trump administration, ties between the two countries had deteriorated over issues such as human rights violations in Xinjiang, encroachment on the special status of Hong Kong, accusations of unfair trade practices by Beijing, lack of transparency concerning the pandemic and China's military aggression in various parts of the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-ramps-up-pressure-on-china-new-strategic-competition-policy-to-impact-tech-firms-101618107634070.html
11-04-2021||World||Trump in 2024? He says only that 'a Republican' will win||Former US President Donald Trump plans to affirm his commitment to the Republican Party — and raise the possibility that someone else will be the GOP's next presidential nominee — in a closed-door speech to donors on Saturday night.Trump's message, outlined in prepared remarks obtained by The Associated Press, comes as GOP officials seek to downplay an intra-party feud over Trump's continued leadership in Republican politics, his commitment to party fundraising and his plans for 2024.While Trump's advisers report he will emphasize party unity, he is famously known to go off script."We are gathered tonight to talk about the future of the Republican Party — and what we must do to set our candidates on a course to victory," Trump says in prepared remarks."I stand before you this evening filled with confidence that in 2022, we are going to take back the House and we are going to reclaim the Senate — and then in 2024, a Republican candidate is going to win the White House."The former president will deliver his remarks behind closed doors at his Florida resort, Mar-a-Lago, in the final address of the Republican National Committee's weekend donor summit in Palm Beach. Most of the RNC's invitation-only weekend gathering was set at a luxury hotel four miles away, but attendees were bused to Trump's club for his remarks.Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis is expected to address donors Saturday night as well.Earlier in the weekend, a slew of candidates already positioning themselves for a 2024 presidential run made appearances. Besides DeSantis, the potential White House contenders included South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem and Arkansas Sen. Tom Cotton.House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy and Sens. Rick Scott and Marco Rubio of Florida and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina also spoke.In his remarks Friday night, Cotton leaned into the GOP's culture wars, attacking the Democrats' positions on transgender youth, voter ID laws and Major League Baseball's decision to move its All-Star Game to protest Republican voting laws — just as Trump does in his prepared remarks.While a significant faction of the Republican Party hopes to move past Trump's divisive leadership, the location of the weekend gathering suggests that the GOP, at least for now, is not ready to replace Trump as its undisputed leader and chief fundraiser.Trump's team reports that his remarks are intended to reinforce his continued leadership role in Republican affairs, a sharp break from past presidents."Saturday's speech will be welcomed words to the Republican donors visiting Mar-a-Lago to hear directly from President Trump," Trump adviser Jason Miller said. "Palm Beach is the new political power center, and President Trump is the Republican Party's best messenger."Despite Saturday's intended message, Trump's commitment to the GOP is far from certain.Earlier in the year, he raised the possibility of creating a new political party. And just a month ago, Trump's political action committee sent letters to the RNC and others asking them to "immediately cease and desist the unauthorized use of President Donald J. Trump's name, image, and/or likeness in all fundraising, persuasion, and/or issue speech."GOP officials have repeatedly tried to downplay the fundraising tensions and see Trump's participation as a sign that he is willing to lend his name to the party. At the same time, Trump continues to aggressively accumulate campaign cash to fuel his own political ambitions.Trump has also regularly attacked his Republican critics in recent weeks, especially Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell and number three House Republican Liz Cheney. Neither attended the weekend donor summit.Trump did not attack Cheney or McConnell — or any Republicans — in Saturday's speech, at least according to his scripted remarks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/trump-in-2024-he-says-only-that-a-republican-will-win-101618098659319.html
11-04-2021||World||Saint Vincent covered in thick ash after series of volcanic eruptions||Ash covered much of the Caribbean island of Saint Vincent on Saturday, and the stench of sulphur filled the air after a series of eruptions from a volcano that had been quiet for decades.The thick dust was also on the move, traveling 175 kilometers (110 miles) to the east and starting to impact the neighboring island of Barbados."Barbadians have been urged to stay indoors as thick plumes of volcanic ash move through the atmosphere," the Caribbean Disaster Emergency Management Agency said.The whitish powder caked roads, homes and buildings in Saint Vincent after the powerful blasts from the volcano called La Soufriere that began Friday and continued into the night."Saturday morning on the island of over 110,000 residents looked like a winter wonderland, albeit blanketed by ash," the news portal news784.com said.Visibility in some areas was extremely limited, while in the capital city Kingstown on the south of the island -- the volcano is in the north -- the ash caused a thin haze of dust, the portal said."Vincentians are waking up to extremely heavy ash fall and strong sulphur smells which have now advanced to the capital," the local emergency management agency tweeted.The eruptions prompted thousands of people to flee for safety. Around 16,000 people live in areas under evacuation orders.Prime Minister Ralph Gonsalves said Saturday that water has been cut off in most areas and the country's air space is closed because of the ash. Around 3,000 people spent the night in shelters."It's a huge operation that is facing us," Gonsalves told NBC News.He said his government has been in contact with other countries that want to provide aid. Guyana and Venezuela are sending ships with supplies, Gonsalves said.The initial blast from La Soufriere, the highest peak in Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, sent plumes of hot ash and smoke 6,000 meters (20,000 feet) into the air Friday morning.A second, smaller eruption took place Friday afternoon, belching out a 4,000-meter-high ash cloud, the University of the West Indies Seismic Research Centre said.The 1,235-meter La Soufriere -- the name is French for "sulphur mine" -- had not erupted since 1979, and its largest blow-up happened over a century ago, killing more than 1,000 people in 1902.It had been rumbling for months before it finally blew.- Evacuation orders -"We are trying to be ok. It's deathly quiet outside and the mood is pensive," said Vynette Frederick, 44, a lawyer in Kingstown.Northwest of Kingstown on the 30-kilometer-long (18-mile-long) island, Zen Punnett said things had calmed down after the initial panic as evacuation orders came out Thursday night."It's gotten hazier. We are staying inside," she said.The emergency management agency posted photos of a Coast Guard ship evacuating residents of an area who had previously refused to leave. Standing on a dock, the air above the evacuees was a chalky gray.Most of the people in the red zone had been moved to safety by Friday, authorities said.Cruise ships were on the way to assist the evacuation effort.The Saint Vincent and Grenadines police on Saturday issued an appeal for troublemakers to stop making prank calls to emergency responders."We are in the middle of a serious evacuation and security exercise, to safeguard and rescue persons who are affected by the eruption," the agency said."These irresponsible calls divert much needed resources and personnel from the evacuation exercise."str-acb/jm||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saint-vincent-covered-in-thick-ash-after-series-of-volcanic-eruptions-101618098742540.html
11-04-2021||World||Irish PM warns of 'spiral back' as Northern Ireland wracked by week of riots||Irish prime minister Micheal Martin warned against a "spiral back" into sectarian conflict in Northern Ireland on Saturday, as a week-long streak of riots raised fears for the future of a fragile peace in the British province.Police issued no statements on unrest in Belfast on Saturday, and the streets appeared calm in the regional capital which has been marred by rioting from pro-UK unionists and pro-Ireland nationalists in the longest run of violence in recent years.On Friday night 14 officers were injured as petrol bombs and masonry were thrown in a unionist enclave, police said.A car was also "hijacked and set on fire and pushed towards police lines", as the total number of officers injured in recent disorder reached 88.Elsewhere on Friday police clashed with a crowd of 40 in the northern town of Coleraine and a man was charged with "possessing petrol bombs in suspicious circumstances" following disorder in Newtownabbey, a suburb north of Belfast.Saturday marked the 23rd anniversary of the 1998 Good Friday Agreement, which wound down the three-decades-long sectarian conflict over British rule in Northern Ireland which claimed 3,500 lives."We owe it to the agreement generation and indeed future generations not to spiral back to that dark place of sectarian murders and political discord," Irish prime minister Micheal Martin said Saturday."There is now a particular onus on those of us who currently hold the responsibility of political leadership to step forward and play our part and ensure that this cannot happen."Irish foreign minister Simon Coveney said it "has been a difficult and worrying week.""This anniversary comes as a reminder of the responsibilities we all have, as well as what politics, determination and dialogue can achieve," he said."That is the spirit we need now."- A divided region -The most bitter unrest in recent years has mainly emanated from the pro-UK unionist community.Resentment is simmering in some quarters over apparent economic dislocation due to Brexit and existing tensions with pro-Irish nationalist communities.But the violence has since spread into the nationalist community in the divided British province."It is incumbent on all of us to support Northern Ireland in leaving its divisive past behind," said Britain's Northern Ireland Secretary, Brandon Lewis.On Thursday night, nationalist rioters hurled petrol bombs, fireworks, bricks and bottles at ranks of armoured police vehicles preventing their advance to a unionist area.Officers deployed a water cannon for the first time in years and drove back the surging crowds late into the night.The previous evening, the gates in a "peace wall" separating unionist and nationalist neighbourhoods were set alight.Police said crowds from either side broke through to attack each other with petrol bombs, missiles and fireworks.On Friday numerous marches had been planned in unionist communities in Belfast but they were cancelled following the news that Prince Philip -- the husband of Queen Elizabeth II -- had died."Protests are postponed as a mark of respect to the Queen and the Royal Family," a hastily erected placard in one unionist neighbourhood announced.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/irish-pm-warns-of-spiral-back-as-northern-ireland-wracked-by-week-of-riots-101618100037654.html
11-04-2021||World||China tightens the screws on Alibaba, levies $2.78 billion fine for market abuse||Chinese regulators have hit e-commerce giant Alibaba with a record 18.23 billion yuan ($2.78 billion) fine for violating anti-monopoly laws, it was announced on Saturday.The fine, the largest anti-monopoly fine ever rolled out by Chinese authorities, was imposed after an investigation revealed an “exclusive dealing agreement” that violated Chinese monopoly laws. The fine is equal to 4% of Alibaba’s sales in 2019, the Xinhua news agency said in a report on Saturday.The strongly worded statement said the company “abused” its dominant market position since 2015.Founded by China’s most famous entrepreneur, Jack Ma, once a schoolteacher who became a multibillionaire, Alibaba is possibly the world’s biggest e-commerce company with hundreds of millions of users and billions of dollars in turnover. According to Bloomberg, it is Asia’s “most valuable corporation”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-tightens-the-screws-on-alibaba-levies-2-78-billion-fine-for-market-abuse-101618098557045.html
11-04-2021||World||Gun salutes ring across UK for Prince Philip; no mass gatherings||Gun salutes echoed around the UK on Saturday as the military paid solemn tribute to Queen Elizabeth II’s husband Prince Philip after he died at the age of 99 on Friday. The coordinated 41-round volleys to the former Royal Navy commander were fired at a rate of one per minute from noon in London, Edinburgh, Cardiff and Belfast, as well as at naval bases, from warships at sea, and in the British territory Gibraltar.Similar salutes were also held in Canberra and Wellington, as the queen is head of state in Australia and New Zealand.At the Tower of London, a crowd of more than 100 onlookers kept a respectful silence as they watched the Honourable Artillery Company fire shots on the banks of the River Thames.Sporting events, including Premier League football matches and county championship cricket, held a moment of silence during a period of national mourning.Spotlight on HarryThe Buckingham Palace said Prince Harry will attend the Duke’s funeral on April 17 at Windsor Castle in a family service that will be closed to the public. Harry, who stepped away from royal duties last year and now lives in California, will attend the service along with other members of the royal family. His wife, the Duchess of Sussex, who is pregnant, has been advised by her doctor not to attend.Palace officials said the ceremony will be conducted in line with Covid-19 guidelines, which restrict the number of people attending funerals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/gun-salutes-ring-across-uk-for-prince-philip-no-mass-gatherings-101618098221882.html
11-04-2021||World||Myanmar security forces kill 82 in single day in Bago city||At least 82 people were killed in one day in a crackdown by Myanmar security forces on pro-democracy protesters, according to reports Saturday from independent local media and an organization that keeps track of casualties since the military’s February seizure of power.Friday’s death toll in Bago was the biggest one-day total for a single city since March 14, when just over 100 people were killed in Yangon, the country’s biggest city. Bago is about 100 kilometers (60 miles) northeast of Yangon. The Associated Press is unable to independently verify the number of deaths.The death toll of 82 was a preliminary one compiled by the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, which issues daily counts of casualties and arrests from the crackdown in the aftermath of the Feb. 1 coup that ousted the elected government of Aung San Suu Kyi.Their tallies are widely accepted as highly credible because cases are not added to their totals until they have been confirmed, with the details published on their website.In its Saturday report, the group said that it expected the number of dead in Bago to rise as more cases were verified.The online news site Myanmar Now also reported that 82 people had been killed, citing an unnamed source involved with charity rescue work. Myanmar Now and other local media said the bodies had been collected by the military and dumped on the grounds of a Buddhist pagoda.At least 701 protesters and bystanders have been killed by security forces since the army’s takeover, according to the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners.The attack on Bago was the third in the past week involving the massive use of force to try to crush the persistent opposition to the ruling junta.Attacks were launched Wednesday on hardcore opponents of military rule who had set up strongholds in the towns of Kalay and Taze in the country’s north. In both places, at least 11 people -- possibly including some bystanders -- were reported killed.The security forces were accused of using heavy weapons in their attacks, including rocket-propelled grenades and mortars, though such allegations could not be independently confirmed by The Associated Press. Photos posted on social media from Bago appeared to show fragments of mortar shells.Most protests in cities and town around the country are carried out by nonviolent demonstrators who consider themselves part of a civil disobedience movement.But as the police and military escalated the use of lethal force, a hardcore faction of protesters armed themselves with homemade weapons such as firebombs in the name of self-defense. In Kalay, activists dubbed themselves a “civil army” and some equipped themselves with rudimentary hunting rifles that are traditional in the remote area.A Saturday report by Myanmar Now said residents of Tamu, a town in the same region as Kalay, used hunting rifles Saturday to ambush a military convoy, and claimed to kill three soldiers.The junta has taken other measures as well to discourage resistance. It recently published a wanted list of 140 people active in the arts and journalism charged with spreading information that undermines the stability of the country and the rule of law. The penalty for the offense is up to three years’ imprisonment. Arrests of those on the list have been highly publicized in state media.State television channel MRTV reported Friday night that a military court had sentenced to death 19 people -- 17 in absentia -- for allegedly killing an army officer in Yangon on March 27. The attack took place in an area of the city that is under martial law, and the court action appeared to be the first time the death sentence has been imposed under the junta’s rule.The UN special envoy for Myanmar, Christine Schraner Burgener, arrived Friday in the Thai capital Bangkok on a regional mission to resolve the crisis in Myanmar. She intends to sound out several Southeast Asian governments for their ideas but has been denied permission to visit Myanmar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-security-forces-kill-82-in-single-day-in-bago-city-101618088137323.html
11-04-2021||World||3 children found fatally stabbed in Los Angeles apartment||A woman discovered her three grandchildren — all under the age of 5 — slain inside a Los Angeles apartment Saturday morning, police said.The grandmother went inside an apartment in the Reseda neighborhood and found the children had been stabbed to death, Los Angeles police Sgt. David Bambrick told KNBC-TV. No identities have been released.The Los Angeles Police Department tweeted the children appeared to be under 5 years old. Bambrick initially said they were under the age of 3.The gruesome discovery was made around 9:30 a.m. in the 8000 block of Reseda Boulevard, said Bambrick, of the LAPD’s West Valley Division.The LAPD’s Homicide Division will investigate, Bambrick said.The cause of death has yet to be determined, as well as a motive. At this time we are asking for the public's help in locating a person of interest in this case, a female Hispanic 30 years old named Liliana Carrillo. pic.twitter.com/cbwPSuldvhAuthorities didn’t release any information about a motive or suspect but sought the public's help locating 30-year-old Liliana Carrillo, who they said was "a person of interest" in the case, the department said in a tweet.The department said it had received reports Carrillo had committed a carjacking in the Bakersfield area Saturday and might be driving a stolen silver Toyota pickup license J258T0.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-children-found-fatally-stabbed-in-los-angeles-apartment-101618087400196.html
11-04-2021||World||United States defends navy ship entering Indian EEZ||The United States on Friday defended the freedom of navigation operation conducted by its 7th Fleet within India’s exclusive economic zone without taking New Delhi’s permission, calling the move an “innocent passage through its territorial sea...” and “consistent with international law”.Pentagon Press Secretary John Kirby told reporters that the USS John Paul Jones, a Navy destroyer, “asserted navigational rights and freedoms in the vicinity of the Republic of the Maldives by conducting innocent passage through its territorial sea, in normal operations with its exclusive economic zone, without requesting prior permission and that’s consistent with international law”.“Again, we will continue to maintain the right, indeed the responsibility to fly, sail and operate in accordance with international law,” he added.The 7th Fleet is the largest of the US Navy’s forward deployed fleets. Though the US Navy has conducted similar operations in Indian waters in recent years, these were not publicised, as it happened in the case of the latest operation on April 7.In a press release on Wednesday, the 7th Fleet had said that USS John Paul Jones “asserted navigational rights and freedoms” around 130 nautical miles west of the Lakshadweep Islands, inside India’s exclusive economic zone, without requesting India’s prior consent, consistent with international law, as required by India.The Indian government’s stated position on the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) is that the convention “does not authorise other states to carry out in the Exclusive Economic Zone and on the continental shelf, military exercises or manoeuvres, in particular those involving the use of weapons or explosives, without the consent of the coastal state”, the statement added.Every coastal country’s EEZ extends to 200 nautical miles (370 km) from its shores and the country has exclusive rights to all resources in the water, including oil, natural gas and fish. Any military activity in the EEZ requires India’s permission, navy officials said, asking not to be named.“If you have to do anything in our EEZ, you have to notify us and take permission,” Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh said in 2019 after a Chinese vessel was repelled after intruding into Indian waters near the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/united-states-defends-navy-ship-entering-indian-eez-101618081616555.html
11-04-2021||India||Covid-19 norms flouted in 50 worst districts: Centre||New Delhi The Centre on Sunday warned the three worst affected states — Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab — that Covid-appropriate behaviour was not being followed in 50 of their districts, necessitating greater enforcement efforts. Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan wrote to these states based on feedback received from central teams sent last week.“These teams were to assess the situation on the ground, share their feedback, and work closely with the state authorities in looking for solutions. The health secretary’s letter is based on the feedback received from these teams, and asks them to plug the loopholes,” said a senior official in the health ministry. The central teams found a lack of adequate surveillance measures being taken by the state administrations, especially in areas declared containment zones, inadequate testing using reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests, insufficient manpower on Covid-19 duty, among other things.The teams sent to Maharashtra found containment operations sub-optimal, especially in the Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts, with less than satisfactory perimeter control, a lack of active surveillance for influenza-like illness cases, mostly due to limited human resources. The testing capacity in many districts such as Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amravati, Jalna and Latur is currently overwhelmed, resulting in delays in reporting of results. Also, some districts have a skewed RT-PCR and rapid antigen testing ratio that needs improvement.“According to central government guidelines, at least 70% of the tests being conducted to detect Covid-19 need to be done through RT-PCR. All states will have to comply with this directive as RAT (rapid antigen test) is meant to be used in certain situations such as containment zones where mass testing is required to know the disease spread in a short span of time. It cannot replace RT-PCR testing,” said a health ministry official, who did not wish to be identified. Some districts are reporting a large number of cases from outside containment zones, for which the Centre advised states to expand containment areas or to notify new zones so that adequate surveillance measures can be taken.ln Bhandara and Satara districts, a large percentage of Covid-19 patients are under home isolation, which requires rigorous follow-ups to minimise mortality. However, such a thorough follow-up is not happening currently.In Chhattisgarh, the team from Raipur and Jashpur reported a lack of perimeter control in containment zones, with no restriction on movement of people inside these zones either.“…Containment zones including micro containment zones need to be strictly implemented. Contact tracing efforts need to be reinforced in Korba. Resistance (even attacks on health care workers) to containment activities and testing was reported by the team from Dhaneli village, Raipur. This needs to be addressed on an urgent basis,” read Bhushan’s letter. Another issue flagged by the expert teams was shortage of RT-PCR testing facilities in Korba, Durg, and Balod districts, for which the state has been advised to explore the use of mobile testing labs.Ambulance services need to be strengthened in certain districts as is the overall hospital infrastructure. In Punjab, it was pointed out that there is an acute need for adopting enhanced contact tracing measures, especially in Patiala and Ludhiana.“Additional manpower must be deployed for contact tracing on a priority basis. Low rates of testing have been reported from Patiala. Also as reported by the team, there is no RT-PCR testing laboratory in Rupnagar. This has been addressed urgently. There is no dedicated Covid hospital in SAS Nagar and Rupnagar districts, and patients are being referred to neighbouring districts or Chandigarh... Teams have also reported issues with procurement of ventilators for proper case management in SAS Nagar. ln Rupnagar, although ventilators are available, these are not being optimally utilised due to shortage of health care workforce, particularly doctors and nurses…,” the team noted.The Centre advised the state to make contractual hiring of health care workers as per its additional requirement. Slow pace of vaccination among the elderly and those above 45 with comorbidities, especially in Patiala and Ludhiana, needs to be addressed on priority, it said.For the lack of Covid-appropriate behaviour in the general public, stricter ground-level enforcement of rules has been suggested.“All these problems have been discussed threadbare with the states for them to take appropriate action soonest,” said the official.Experts say the way case numbers are rising, it is imperative to take strict containment measures to curb the disease spread.“The virus is very much in circulation, and clearly spreading faster than before. What we need to do is take stringent measures in terms of increasing testing, tracking and isolating cases in time so that they don’t spread the disease within the community. There is also a need for enhancing community-level surveillance so that no case is missed, for as long we keep missing cases, the virus will continue to spread” said Jacob John, former virology head, CMC, Vellore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-norms-flouted-in-50-worst-districts-centre-101618165412570.html
11-04-2021||India||1 more Cong ally moves candidates out of Assam over poaching fears||GUWAHATICongress’s Assam ally Bodoland Peoples’ Party (BPF) has flown its candidates, who contested the just-concluded assembly elections, to an undisclosed location. The third and the last phase of polling in Assam was held on April 6. The results of the polls will be declared on May 2.The move has come days after the All India United Democratic Front, another member of the Congress-led alliance, flew 18 of its 20 candidates to Jaipur in Congress-ruled Rajasthan saying it feared the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) will try to influence them.While it was unclear where the BPF candidates were taken, people familiar with the matter said that at least 10 of them were taken to Bhutan on Saturday and were likely to stay there till May 2. “I am not sure where they (the candidates) are now. But the candidates are outside Assam, that’s confirmed. I am not going anywhere,” said senior BPF leader Pramila Rani Brahma, who contested from the Kokrajhar East seat. The BPF, which was part of the BJP-led state government, joined the Congress alliance ahead of the assembly elections and contested on 12 seats, most of which fell in the Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) in Lower Assam. In 2016, the BPF won 12 seats and had three cabinet ministers in the Sarbananda Sonowal-led BJP government. The Congress-led alliance in the state hopes to wrest power from the BJP. While rejecting any plans to move its own candidates, the Congress said that its alliance partners were trying to “safeguard their candidates from the dirty tricks of BJP. “We can imagine our alliance partners doing what they think best to safeguard their candidates from the dirty tricks of BJP. We have already witnessed in Goa, Manipur and other places, how BJP can manipulate voters’ verdict to gain power. Congress is not taking its candidates anywhere,” senior Congress leader and Lok Sabha MP Pradyut Bordoloi said. The BJP, however, dismissed the allegations and said the party will retain power in the state.“The fear among Congress’s partners shows their own lack of confidence in their candidates. They are resorting to such antics as they know they would lose. We don’t need to seek support of their candidates are the ‘mitrajot’ is coming back to power very comfortably,” said BJP spokesperson Subhash Dutta. The party has allied with Asom Gana Parishad and the United Peoples’ Party Liberal (UPPL).In 2016, BJP won 60 seats and came to power in Assam for the first time with the support of AGP and BPF.Political analysts said that all parties in the state feared poaching of candidates. “The present scenario could be the outcome of the Tamulpur incident when the BPF candidate joined BJP just days ahead of polls. The fear of such incident getting repeated can be seen not just in AIUDF and BPF but also in Congress. These incidents are also not good for a democracy and a tremendous insult on conscience of voters. Such events even before counting of votes could also lead to young voters, who are very careful observers of the political process in Assam, losing faith in the election process ” said Akhil Ranjan Dutta, professor of political science at Gauhati University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1-more-cong-ally-moves-candidates-out-of-assam-over-poaching-fears-101618165413111.html
11-04-2021||India||5 terrorists, including 2 linked to soldier’s killing, shot dead||Security forces on Sunday shot dead five terrorists, including two involved in the killing of a jawan in Anantnag district of Jammu and Kashmir on Friday, in two separate encounters, police said.While two terrorists affiliated with Lashkar-e-Taiba were killed in Anantnag, three others from the Al-Badr outfit were killed in Shopian district.The gunfight in Anantnag erupted on Saturday evening after a joint team of police, Army and the CRPF began a search in Semthan village of Bijbehara area following specific information about the presence of the militants in a house.Officials said the terrorists were given an opportunity to surrender but they fired indiscriminately on the security forces. The operation was halted in the night after “all the civilians trapped in the gunfire” were rescued, the officials said.“Two terrorists were eliminated who were responsible for the killing of Havildar Mohd Saleem Akhoon of Territorial Army on Friday,” said public relations officer of Army’s 15 Corps Lt Col Emron Musavi.The terrorists were identified as Towseef Ahmad Bhat, a resident of Takia Maqbool Shah Bijbehara and Aamir Hussain Ganie, a resident of Goriwan Bijbehara, Anantnag.The two were affiliated with the proscribed outfit LeT, officials said, adding that they were responsible for shooting at Akhoon, who was on leave, outside his residence at Goriwan in Bijbehara area of the district on Friday. Akhoon succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at the hospital.“They were also involved in threatening and intimidating the civilian population of the area and enticing the young boys to join terror ranks,” the police spokesman said.In a separate encounter, three terrorists, including a 14-year-old boy, were killed in the orchards of Reban Bandpawa area of Shopian district.A police spokesperson said that the encounter began on Saturday evening when the forces received information about the presence of terrorists in the orchards of Reban Bandpawa area of Shopian.While they were given an opportunity to surrender, the terrorists fired indiscriminately upon the search party, the spokesperson said.“In the initial retaliatory firing, one terrorist was killed, but the operation was suspended to give the trapped terrorists another chance to surrender. The joint teams exercised maximum restraint and facilitated the presence of family members of a holed up terrorist to encounter site so as to persuade him to surrender,” he said.While one of the slain terrorists was the minor, the second one was identified as Aasif Ahmad Ganai, officials said. Official are yet to identify the third terrorist.The spokesperson said that they were affiliated with the proscribed outfit Al-Badr and were involved in many “terror crime cases”.Kashmir Inspector General of Police Vijay Kumar made an appeal to the youngsters to “shun the path of violence”.“Once again [we] make a fervent appeal to all misguided youth who have joined terror ranks to shun the path of violence and return to mainstream,” Kumar said.In the past three days, 12 terrorists have been killed across south Kashmir.On Friday, seven terrorists were killed in two separate encounters in South Kashmir. In one of the encounters, the chief of Ansar-ul-Gazhawat-ul-Hind was killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-terrorists-including-2-linked-to-soldier-s-killing-shot-dead-101618163039525.html
11-04-2021||India||Mamata’s call to gherao forces behind violence, deaths: Shah||Kolkata: Union home minister Amit Shah alleged on Sunday that West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s directions to “gherao” central forces instigated people to attack Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) personnel in Cooch Behar, resulting in four deaths in firing by the security forces.The fourth phase of assembly elections in West Bengal was marred by violence as five people were killed in two separate incidents — including four in firing by central forces — in Cooch Behar, prompting the Election Commission of India to temporarily ban the entry of political leaders into the district even as rival parties continued to trade blame over the attacks. The CISF personnel opened fire allegedly after coming under attack from locals, who “attempted to snatch their rifles”, the police said.“Mamata Banerjee advised people to gherao central forces. Is that not responsible for the deaths in Sitalkuchi? Her advice instigated the people to attack the CISF,” Shah said after a roadshow in Santipur in Nadia district.“It is an unfortunate incident. Some people attacked a polling booth and tried to snatch guns from CAPF personnel. They had to open fire and four youth died. The incident is now being politicised,” the senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader said. “Finding politics in death is a good example of the degradation Bengal’s politics has suffered during Mamata Banerjee’s regime,” Shah said.“I want to ask her (Banerjee) a straight question. Wasn’t your speech responsible for the deaths of these four youths? You instigated them and became the reason for their deaths,” he added.Describing the incident of firing in Cooch Behar as “genocide”, Banerjee said on Sunday the Election Commission has restricted the entry of politicians in the district for 72 hours as it seeks to “suppress facts”. The Trinamool Congress chief said central forces “sprayed bullets aiming at the torso of the victims” in Sitalkuchi area when the fourth phase of polling was underway.The BJP’s Bengal president, Dilip Ghosh, said: “In Bengal, women feel unsafe on the streets. They are harassed. When somebody complains, Banerjee says ‘naughty boys’ do such things. From where did so many naughty boys come? Yesterday, these naughty boys were shot in Sitalkuchi. This is just the beginning. Those who thought central forces brought guns just to show off have felt the heat of the bullets. There will be more Sitalkuchi (similar firings). Mamata Banerjee used these ruffians in politics and made them leaders.” Abhishek Banerjee, the chief minister’s nephew and TMC’s youth wing president, later played a clip of Ghosh’s remarks at his rally at Minakha in North 24 Parganas district to criticise the BJP leader’s statement. The bodies of those killed in the firing were returned to their families after postmortem examination on Sunday. The chief minister also spoke to the families over the phone. A state government official said that in view of the elections, the administration has sought the EC’s consent for giving a sum of ₹5 lakh each to the families of deceased and ₹2 lakh to those who injured in the incident.The Congress and the Left also targeted the BJP and the EC over the incident. Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury said: “The incident has proved that EC is a complete failure in conducting polls.”Communist Party of India (Marxist) politburo member Brinda Karat, who was in Kolkata, said: “We need an impartial inquiry. The police broke protocol and opened fire.”The TMC also held protest rallies throughout the state and demanded Shah’s resignation.Addressing a rally at Basirhar in North 24 Parganas, Shah said: “I am willing to bow my head and resign if the people of Bengal ask me to. But at 2pm on May 2, you (Banerjee) will be going to the governor to submit your resignation. This is not a fight between the BJP and the TMC. It is a fight between the people of Bengal and you.”“By and large, polls have been peaceful so far although four or five BJP workers have been killed. Mamata Didi did not say anything on these deaths as well. I urge people to vote peacefully in the next four phases and vote for the party of their choice,” said Shah.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamatas-call-to-gherao-forces-behind-violence-deaths-shah-101618165292623.html
11-04-2021||India||‘He asked us to forgive him’: Family of 14-yr-old killed in J&K’s gunfight||Srinagar: The family of the 14-year-old, who was among the three Al-Badr members killed during a gunfight with security forces in J&K’s Shopian district on Sunday, said he went missing a week ago and they did not hear from him till the encounter broke out on Saturday.The son of a farmer from Shopian’s Chitragam Kalan village, the boy was a student of Class 10, his family said. “He left home last week and we thought he was playing cricket with his friends. When he did not return till evening, we called him on his phone but it was switched off,” said the boy’s grandfather.Station House Officer Khalid Ahmad said the boy’s family filed a missing person’s report on April 6.The family said they were not aware that the boy joined the terror outfit blamed by authorities for several attacks on security forces and civilians. They said the teenager called them on Saturday, asking for forgiveness. “He said that he is trapped in an encounter and we should forgive him. I told the child to his raise hands and come out to surrender. He said he would consider it and cut the phone call,” the boy’s 80-year-old grandfather said. Authorities and the boy’s grandfather said the security forces gave the 14-year-old an opportunity to surrender. “Police and security forces made sincere efforts to make the newly recruited terrorist surrender. His parents also made appeals but the other terrorists didn’t allow him to surrender,” said Kashmir inspector general of police Vijay Kumar. The boy’s grandfather said the teenager’s family members were called to the encounter site to urge him to surrender. “The security forces suspended the operation for the night. We all went to the [encounter] site and made appeals on the public address system but there was no response. “In the morning, he came out with an associate who was firing. Then they were killed,” he said and added “What can be done now? We only want that his dead body is returned to us. He was just a child.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/he-asked-us-to-forgive-him-family-of-14-yr-old-killed-in-j-k-s-gunfight-101618165172521.html
11-04-2021||India||Bihar’s Covid-19 graph climbs higher with return of migrant workers||The return of migrant workers continued to push Bihar’s Covid-19 graph up as 56 of the 2,407 passengers who arrived from Maharashtra by four special trains tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday. State capital Patna reported the highest single-day spike in Covid-19 cases, accounting for 1,431 of the total 3,469 new infections in Bihar on Saturday. Three of the six Covid-19 deaths in the state on Saturday were from Patna. The total number of active cases has gone up to 11,998 in the state.So far, 97 passengers have tested positive out of the 3,668 who have arrived here by special trains from Maharashtra, beginning April 8, said health officials. Maharashtra has been reporting around 50% of India’s total Covid-19 cases, forcing the government to put curbs. This has led to another round of exodus of migrant workers to Bihar. All train passengers testing positive for the virus have been isolated at the Hotel Patliputra Ashok in Patna. Seventeen of the passengers testing positive on Saturday, had reached the Danapur railway station from Pune by the Pune-Danapur Express. Another 24 passengers tested positive out of the 803 passengers who arrived at the Danapur railway station by the Lokmanya Tilak Terminal to Patliputra train. Nine other passengers tested positive out of the total 576 who came to Patna junction by the Kurla-Patna train. Six other passengers tested positive out of the 326 on board the Lokmanya Tilak Terminal to Patliputra train after it arrived at the Patliputra railway station. Prior to that, 24 had tested positive out of the 606 passengers who arrived by the Kurla-Patna Express on April 9. Seventeen other passengers had tested positive for the virus out of the total 655 who arrived by the first of these special trains on April 8. Bihar’s single day spike in infections on Saturday was the highest in comparison to the total cases reported between March and May, last year. Bihar reported its first two Covid-19 cases on March 22 last year and the cases gradually began to rise by May. Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey, while talking to a TV channel on Sunday, said the spike in cases this year was because of higher testing in the state. He said the state was testing around 90,000 samples a day that was 30 times more than the 3,000 to 4,000 samples being tested in the initial three months of the pandemic in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihars-covid-19-graph-climbs-higher-with-return-of-migrant-workers-101618163373428.html
11-04-2021||India||On day 1 of 'Tika Utsav', over 2.7 mn doses of Covid-19 vaccine administered||The Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Sunday more than 2.7 million doses of the vaccine against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) were administered on the first of the four-day ‘Tika Utsav.’ “On Day-1 of Tika Utsav, more than 27 lakh vaccine doses were administered, till 8pm today. Sunday generally witnessed lower vaccination numbers (about 16 lakh on an average),” the ministry shared on its Twitter account.Also Read | India observes 4-day 'Tika Utsav' as PM Modi calls for mass Covid-19 vaccination“Day-1 of Tika Utsav saw many Workplace Vaccination Centres operational. On an average, 45,000 COVID Vaccination Centres (CVCs) are functional on any given day Today, 63,8000 CVCs were operational, a rise of 18,800,” it added.#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCoronaOn Day-1 of #TikaUtsav, more than 27 lakh vaccine doses were administered, till 8 pm today.Sunday generally witnessed lower vaccination numbers (about 16 lakh on an average).@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_IndiaPrime Minister Narendra Modi called for a ‘Tika Utsav’ or a vaccination festival to be observed across the country between April 11-14 during his virtual interaction with chief ministers on Thursday over rising daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country and amid complaints of vaccine shortage by some states. While April 11 is the birth anniversary of social activist Jyotiba Phule, April 14 marks the birth anniversary of BR Ambedkar, also known as the “Father of Indian Constitution.”Also from Sunday, all those who were eligible to be vaccinated in the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive, became eligible to be inoculated at their workplaces.Also Read | Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces in India begins today: All you need to knowIndia’s vaccination drive began on January 16, with healthcare workers and frontline workers getting the doses in the first phase. In the second phase, from March 1 onwards, those of the age of 60 and above, as well as those between 45-59 years old with co-morbidities, became eligible. From April 1, which marked the beginning of the third phase, vaccination was opened for everyone above the age of 45.India has authorised two vaccines for its inoculation drive. One is Oxford University-AstraZeneca’s shot, which is being manufactured here by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) as Covishield. The other shot is Covaxin from the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Limited, India’s only homemade vaccine against the viral disease.According to MoHFW’s dashboard on Sunday morning, 101,595,147 vaccine doses have been administered in the country so far—the figures will be updated at 8am on Monday morning with the numbers of doses administered on Sunday. According to the health ministry, India is the fastest to the 100 million vaccination mark, surpassing the United States of America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-day-1-of-tika-utsav-over-2-7-mn-doses-of-covid-19-vaccine-administered-101618160586259.html
11-04-2021||India||What's behind India's Remdesivir shortage? Indiscriminate use, hoarding and black markets||India on Sunday halted the export of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and its active pharmaceutical ingredients used in Covid-19 treatment, in the wake of a sudden spike in demand due to a steady rise in coronavirus disease cases across the country. In an official press release, the central government said it is expecting a "further increase in demand" for the drug in the coming days. The World Health Organization (WHO) last year in November found no evidence that the drug improved survival and other outcomes in Covid-19 patients.Several states in India have reported a shortage of the drug following a rise in its demand amid a record surge in Covid-19 infections across the country.Here's a brief timeline, mapping the drug's journey:Remdesivir, originally developed to treat hepatitis C and subsequently tested against Ebola, initially made the headlines during the early stages of research into the coronavirus disease treatment. It was WHO that first hit the brakes on Remdesivir's prospects on November 20 last year, recommending that doctors avoid using the drug altogether."There is currently no evidence that Remdesivir improves survival and other outcomes in these patients,” the WHO noted, citing detailed studies it sponsored. “The evidence suggested no important effect on mortality, need for mechanical ventilation, time to clinical improvement, and other patient-important outcomes.” Even so, Gilead Sciences Inc, the drug's manufacturer, pushed back, saying it stood by Remdesivir and citing other studies supporting its efficacy.Gilead, which manufactures the drug under the brand name 'Veklury', issued a statement saying that it was "disappointed" in the WHO guidelines, which the company said ignored “robust evidence” from multiple randomised, controlled studies published in peer-reviewed journals that demonstrate its benefits. The company also listed key findings from the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases’ (NIAD) ACTT-1 trials, which showed that the drug led to a "five-day faster recovery in hospitalized patients overall, and a seven-day faster recovery in people who required oxygen support at baseline, compared with placebo." The findings from these trials were peer-reviewed and published in the New England Journal of Medicine, the company said, adding that the anti-viral drug's inclusion has been supported in multiple treatment guidelines. The data has also supported regulatory approvals or temporary authorisations to treat Covid-19 in approximately 50 countries worldwide, it said.Speed is prized in the race to beat back Covid-19. In December later that year, researchers from University of Cambridge in the United Kingdom, gave the drug to a patient with Covid-19 and a rare immune disorder and observed a dramatic improvement in his symptoms and the disappearance of the virus. The journal Nature Communications carried the new study, and soon several countries, including India, were reported to be using the drug, banking on the insight. Remdesivir, researchers suspected, was likely to be the most beneficial when administered early in infection, before the virus is able to trigger a potentially catastrophic immune response.As Covid-19 cases in India surged, so did the demand for Remdesivir and with it came indiscriminate usage, hoarding, and black marketers, causing artificial shortage to jack up prices. In a press conference this week, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said that the drug was being used indiscriminately without following appropriate official protocols. "The state is getting 50,000 doses every day and all of them are being consumed, leading to the shortage," said Tope, adding, "Pharmacists and stockists might be doing black marketing and that needs to be checked."The anti-viral dose was being used to treat Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) patients before it was directed for Covid-19 treatment last year. Currently, doctors and hospitals are prescribing the injection even for those suffering from the mild problem of breathlessness, Tope said, adding that it’s a violation of the protocol. The minister directed all district officials to ensure that every injection is used judiciously and cap the prices to check illegal hoarding.The owner of a medical store in Maharashtra's Parbhani district was arrested last Thursday for selling a single vial of Remdesivir for ₹6000, a much higher price than the MRP of ₹4800. To overcome a panic over the shortage of Remdesivir and to prohibit the black marketing and stocking of the drug, hospitals in Pune have been asked to provide the injection to the patients as opposed to their family members or relatives buying the drug.The issue is not just limited to Maharashtra. As per a Reuters report, India's drug regulator, the Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO), and several state governments in the recent days raised concerns over the hoarding and black marketing of Remdesivir, which in some instances is being sold at over 10 times the maximum retail price. Social media posts on Sunday showed large queues of people in the western state of Gujarat waiting to buy Remdesivir injections for Covid-19 patients. Madhya Pradesh, too, had people queueing up outside medical stores for the drug, with some of them, agitated at not getting it, blocking a road in Indore for a brief period on April 9.Presently, seven Indian companies have licensed the drug from Gilead Sciences, with an installed capacity of about 3.9 million units per month, for local use. In a statement, the government asked manufacturers to step up supplies and informed that for now, the export of Remdesivir will remain banned "till the situation improves".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/careless-use-hoarding-and-black-markets-behind-india-s-remdesivir-shortage-101618148086724.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Himachal Pradesh makes negative RT-PCR test mandatory on arrival and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Negative RT-PCR report needed to enter Himachal Pradesh after April 16Himachal Pradesh joins Delhi, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Karnataka who have also issued similar orders following the rise in cases of the coronavirus disease across the nation. Read more here.Re-imposing lockdown after assembly polls will be a 'mistake': Asaduddin OwaisiAll India Majlis-e-Ittahad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi said the government must not reimpose a nationwide lockdown once the results of assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Puducherry, and Tamil Nadu are declared. Read more here. 'I was surprised to see Harbhajan Singh playing': Parthiv Patel weighs in on veteran off-spinner's KKR debutIPL 2021: One person who found Harbhajan Singh's KKR debut surprising was his former India teammate Parthiv Patel. Read more here. There is an animal hidden in this image. Can you spot it?The Internet is filled with different kinds of pictures showcasing wildlife. Usually, those images leave people impressed and at times surprised. Just like this post shared on Twitter by IFS officer Ramesh Pandey. Read more here. Sonu Sood wants to 'cancel board exams 2021', stands in support of students. Watch video message﻿Actor Sonu Sood has criticised the decision to go ahead with 'offline' board exams, amid the pandemic. Watch his video message here.Twinkle Khanna shares clip of deserted beach during lockdown, says weekends have 'gone to the dogs'. WatchThe actor-turned-author, whose husband Akshay Kumar tested positive for Covid-19 recently, shared a video of an empty beach with dogs roaming around and joked that the beach and weekends have 'gone to the dogs'. Watch here. 'On May 2, at 2 pm...': Amit Shah's message to Mamata Banerjee | Bengal election||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-himachal-pradesh-makes-rt-pcr-mandatory-on-arrival-101618153995639.html
11-04-2021||India||‘He was just a child’: Kin of 14-year-old militant killed in Shopian encounter||One of the three people killed in the encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian district was a minor and had gone missing last week, his family said. Son of a farmer and vehicle dealer from a village of Shopian, he was the only brother of four sisters and was studying in class 10th. The boy’s family said that he left home on Tuesday.“He left home last week and we thought he was playing cricket with his friends. When he did not return till evening we called his phone which was switched off,” said his distraught grandfather who is in his 80s.The boy and two other militants, including one Aasif Ahmad Ganai, were trapped on Saturday evening and killed in an overnight encounter with a joint party of police, army and CRPF in the orchards of Reban Bandpawa area of Shopian. Police said an AK-56 rifle, two pistols and other ‘incriminating’ materials were recovered from the site of encounter.“We knew nothing about him going with militants. He was just 14. He used to be with his books and was in class 10. When out he would be playing cricket,” he said.The grandfather said that they received a call from the boy on Saturday which shocked them all.“He said that he is trapped in an encounter and we should forgive him. I told the child to raise his hands and come out to surrender. He answered that he would think about it and dropped the phone,” he said.The grandfather said that the authorities gave them the chance to surrender.“The security forces suspended the operation for the night. We all went to the site and made appeals on the public address system but there was no response,” he said. “In the morning he came out with his other colleague who was firing, then they were killed,” he said.“What can be done now? We only want his dead body returned to us. He was just a child,” he said.Police said that they made sincere efforts to make him surrender. “Police and security forces made sincere efforts to take the surrender of newly recruited terrorist. Parents also made appeals but other terrorists didn’t allow him to surrender,” said Kashmir inspector general of police, Vijay Kumar.Station House Officer Khalid Ahmad said the boy’s family had filed a missing report on April 6. He said that the boy must be around 15-16 year old.“Another militant, Asif, 19, was his friend. That is why he went into militancy,” Ahmad said.The death has prompted anger against the militants for accepting children in their ranks as well as against the authorities for killing children and calling them terrorists.Author Gowhar Geelani posted on Twitter: “Smallest coffins are the heaviest. Children die like children. How can a child be killed? Or, recruited? No side can claim a moral high in this case”.“Killing of 12 militants in 4 encounters in 2 days denotes a robust CI (counter insurgency) grid but also the existence of a robust network of indoctrination and recruitment of even 14-year-olds in Kashmir. Spare children from this indoctrination & recruitment. Don’t kill and count them as terrorists,” said senior journalist Ahmad Ali Fayaz.This is not the first time that a minor ‘militant’ was killed in an encounter in Kashmir.Three militants, including a juvenile, were killed in a gunfight with security forces in Srinagar on December 9, 2018.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/he-was-just-a-child-kin-of-14-year-old-militant-killed-in-shopian-encounter-101618152514726.html
11-04-2021||India||Maharashtra, Punjab, C'garh: Govt points out gaps in Covid containment strategy||The Centre on Sunday wrote to Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Punjab outlining feedback shared by the 50 high-level public health teams, deployed in these states witnessing a spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, saying they need to ramp up measures to tackle the pandemic.Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan requested the health secretaries of the three states to implement the suggestions shared by the teams in order to check the sudden surge of Covid-19 cases. The public health teams, which are working with the administration of those districts with a high caseload, have highlighted issues related to testing, hospital infrastructure, containment operations, vaccination progress and Covid-19 appropriate behaviour.MaharashtraThe central teams in Maharashtra reported that testing capacities in at least eight districts are overwhelmed. Satara, Bhandara, Palghar, Amrawati, Jalna, Nanded, Buldhana and Latur are delaying reporting of test results due to this. The teams pointed out that resistance to testing was also observed in Bhandara. The district is also reporting a large number of cases from outside containment zones.All the 30 teams deployed in Maharashtra reported that there was reluctance towards following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour. It suggested the government increase efforts to strictly enforce adherence to Covid-19 preventive measures.Containment operations in Satara, Sangli and Aurangabad districts were not up to the standard while contact tracing operations in Buldhana, Satara, Aurangabad and Nanded were ‘suboptimal.’ Ahmednagar, Aurangabad, Nagpur and Nandurbar districts have reported a high occupancy of hospital beds while Aurangabad is depending on neighbouring districts for treatment of its critical patients. The teams have urged the district administration to address hospitalization related issues on a priority basis.Aurangabad, Nandurabar, Yawatmal, Satara, Palghar, Jalgoan and Jalna districts have reported an acute shortage of healthcare workers. The Centre’s teams have advised the hiring of contractual workers to address these issues. Pune along with Bhandara. Palghar and Osmanabad are facing medical oxygen supply issues while Satara and Latur have malfunctioning ventilators affecting patients.ChhattisgarhChhattisgarh’s Korba, Durg and Balod districts are facing a shortage of RT-PCR testing facilities, the central team highlighted, which in turn has led to increased testing turnaround time. These three districts are also witnessing high hospital bed occupancy rates. According to the data shared by the central team, all ICU beds in these districts are currently occupied and the central team has suggested the state government help the district administration ramp up hospital infrastructure in these districts. The Centre team also highlighted that Korba is experiencing a shortage of Remdesivir.Durg, Jashpur and Rajnandangaon districts have also reported a shortage of healthcare workers. The central team also highlighted the lack of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour in Rajnandangaon. The team also expressed concern regarding containment strategies in Raipur and Jashpur. It also highlighted that there were attacks on healthcare workers at Raipur’s Dhaneli village and observed resistance to containment measures as well as Covid-19 testing. It also recommended that teams vaccinating people in Balod and Korba districts go through a refresher training course.PunjabThe teams deployed in Punjab said that Patiala and Ludhiana were vaccinating people against Covid-19 at a slower pace and asked the government to address this issue on priority. Both districts were also lagging behind in terms of contact tracing according to the letter while the rate of testing in Patiala has also dropped. The teams pointed out that SAS Nagar and Rupnagar districts have no dedicated Covid-19 hospital. The latter also does not have a dedicated RT-PCR testing laboratory. Rupnagar’s hospitals are also facing a shortage in terms of manpower due to which ventilators in these hospitals are not being optimally utilised. Patiala and SAS Nagar are also witnessing a shortage in terms of healthcare workers.They have also asked the district administration to prioritise addressing hospital infrastructure in SAS Nagar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana as hospital bed occupancy rates continue to rise due to the rise in the number of coronavirus disease cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-punjab-c-garh-govt-points-out-gaps-in-covid-containment-strategy-101618149745637.html
11-04-2021||India||Govt bans export of Remdesivir: Know all about the drug||Amid increased demand for Remdesivir due to a surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre on Sunday said the export of the antiviral injection and its Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) has been banned till the situation improves in the country. The decision comes days after several states reported a shortage of the anti-viral drug or injection used to treat novel coronavirus disease. Several areas in a few states are witnessing people queueing up outside medical stores for the drug as coronavirus cases in the country touch over daily highs for the last few days.On Thursday, the Maharashtra government capped the price of Remdesivir between ₹1100 and ₹1400 per vial and warned against its hoarding and black marketing.On Sunday, the Madhya Pradesh government said a sizeable batch of the drug has arrived and will be distributed to medical facilities as per requirement.What is Remdesivir?Remdesivir is an investigational antiviral drug to fight Sars-cov 2, the virus that causes Covid-19. The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Gilead Sciences Inc’s antiviral therapy Remdesivir in October 2020, making it the first drug to obtain formal clearance for treating the coronavirus disease. It was given to former US president Donald Trump in October last year when he was diagnosed with the viral disease.How did Remdesivir come into use?FDA had to issue an emergency use authorisation of Remdesivir to give doctors access to the medication outside of an investigational (clinical trial) setting. Beginning in May last year, doctors were able to give Remdesivir to patients who were hospitalised with severe Covid-19, rather than limiting its usage to those who were participating in clinical trials.After hospitalised Covid-19 patients nationwide began receiving Remdesivir, FDA evaluated new data about the drug’s effectiveness. In August, the FDA expanded its emergency use authorisation, allowing all hospitalised patients with Covid-19 to receive the drug, including people with mild and moderate disease. In October, FDA changed Remdesivir’s status from an emergency use authorisation medication to an approved drug.How is Remdesivir given to Covid-19 patients?The drug is given intravenously to hospitalised Covid-19 patients. People typically receive an injection once a day for 5 to 10 days, based on the severity of their condition.How does Remdesivir help Covid-19 patients?Remdesivir prevents coronavirus from producing a particular enzyme that is necessary for the virus to replicate itself. Once this happens, the virus is no longer able to spread within the body.Research shows that when patients with moderate Covid-19 receive Remdesivir, their symptoms improve more quickly. The drug has also been shown to shorten the duration of patient hospital stays. Among severely ill Covid-19 patients, Remdesivir has been associated with fewer deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-bans-export-of-remdesivir-know-all-about-the-drug-101618146751335.html
11-04-2021||India||Negative RT-PCR report needed to enter Himachal Pradesh after April 16||The Himachal Pradesh government said on Sunday it will issue a directive asking people travelling to the state from Punjab, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh to carry a negative RT-PCR Covid-19 test report after April 16, the chief minister’s office said. The decision was taken after Himachal Pradesh chief minister Jai Ram Thakur reviewed the Covid-19 situation in the state, his office said.Himachal Pradesh issued a similar order for people entering the state on Friday but it only made negative RT-PCR tests mandatory for labourers of other states entering the state’s Spiti valley for work. It also asked contractors to present the negative RT-PCR tests before entering the valley.The state over the past week has imposed fresh restrictions on gatherings as well due to a surge in Covid-19 cases. The government on Tuesday restricted gatherings at marriage ceremonies to 50 people indoors and with a maximum of 200 for outdoors. It also said that only 50 people will be allowed to attend funerals.Himachal Pradesh reported 941 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, which took the state’s tally to 69,114. The state also reported 12 fresh fatalities and now its death toll stands at 1,102.Delhi, Assam, Odisha, Uttarakhand, Gujarat and Karnataka have also issued similar orders following the rise in cases of the coronavirus disease across the nation. Delhi on Saturday made the RT-PCR test mandatory for people entering from Maharashtra. The Odisha government on Thursday said any person entering the state via rail, road or air will have to present a Covid-19 negative test report. Assam took similar measures last Sunday making the RT-PCR test mandatory for people entering the state from Mumbai and Bengaluru. Neighbouring state Uttarakhand made the negative RT-PCR test report mandatory on arrival on March 30 after witnessing a surge in the number of cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/negative-rt-pcr-report-needed-to-enter-himachal-pradesh-after-april-16-101618145778391.html
11-04-2021||India||Re-imposing lockdown after assembly polls will be a 'mistake': Asaduddin Owaisi||All India Majlis-e-Ittahad-ul-Muslimeen (AIMIM) president Asaduddin Owaisi said the government must not reimpose a nationwide lockdown once the results of assembly elections in West Bengal, Assam, Puducherry, and Tamil Nadu are declared. If Prime Minister Narendra Modi once again imposes a Covid-19 lockdown across India, it will be a 'mistake', Owaisi could be heard saying in a clip posted by the AIMIM's Twitter account on Sunday.West Bengal, Assam, Puducherry & Tamilnadu ke election results aane baad kahin Modi Ji phir se mulk me lockdown na karde, agar aisa karte hain toh ye bohat hee ghalat faisla hoga - Barrister @asadowaisi pic.twitter.com/2sWIPhPX7Q"I hope that the Prime Minister doesn't announce a nationwide lockdown a day after the election results for the assembly polls in Assam, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Assam and Puducherry are declared on May 2," Owaisi said. He added that imposing such a measure would be incorrect and a "betrayal" against the poor and claimed that the India-wide lockdown announced in March last year resulted in 10 crore poor people losing their jobs. "Around 25-30 lakh white-collar workers had to face a deduction in their salaries and people died…. Hence, I hope the mistake which Prime Minister Modi had committed in March 2020 will not be repeated this year… Lockdown is not a correct way to tackle Covid,” Owaisi added.India is battling the second wave of coronavirus pandemic and the number of new Covid-19 cases in India surged to a record-high of 152,879 on Sunday as authorities push for faster vaccinations, with some states considering tougher restrictions to slow the spread of the virus. Daily cases have set record highs six times this week, according to data from the Union health ministry. India's tally of more than 13.35 million Covid-19 cases is the third-highest globally, behind only Brazil and the United States.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reimposing-lockdown-after-assembly-polls-will-be-a-mistake-asaduddin-owaisi-101618142701907.html
11-04-2021||India||Amid 'Tika Utsav', BJP, opposition trade barb over Covid-19 vaccine||The four-day Tika Utsav to create awareness about vaccines against Covid-19 commenced on Sunday amid the BJP and the opposition trading barbs over the recent vaccine shortage reported by several states, which the Union health ministry dismissed.Congress leaders Rahul Gandhi earlier criticised the concept of 'vaccination festival' and said the ongoing vaccine shortage is a serious problem and not a festive occasion. On Sunday, as the festival began, he hit out at the central government and said the government has no control over the pandemic situation.As 'Tika Utsav' begins, PM Modi posts 4 requests for countrymen"No control on the corona, not enough vaccines, no employment...Neither the farmers and the labourers are addressed, nor Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) safe. No middle class is satisfied...It was okay to eat mangoes, but you could have left the common man," he wrote.Shiv Sena leader Priyanka Chaturvedi slammed the celebration of vaccination at a time when there is an ongoing shortage of vaccines.Watch: Tika Utsav begins in India; people reach inoculation centres to get Covid jabआज है ,टीका उत्सव दिन,वैक्सीन बिन! कम हैं वैक्सीन पर त्योहार चलते रहना चाहिए।As many of the Union ministers took to social media to extend support to 'Tika Utsav', Union minister Hardeep Singh Puri took a jibe at the Congress as he wrote, "In India's war against Covid-19, Congress as usual has not been able to decide which side it is on."They doubted India's Covid response.They doubted India's Covid numbers.They doubted efficacy of India'svaccines.They doubted India's ability to produce vaccines.In India's war against COVID19, Congress as usual has not been able to decide which side it is on."They doubted India's Covid response. They doubted India's Covid numbers. They doubted efficacy India's vaccines. They doubted India's ability tp produce vaccines," the minister wrote.After proposing 'Tika Utsav' in a recent meeting with state chief ministers, PM Modi on Sunday said this festival is the beginning of the second big war against Corona.This week has been tumultuous for vaccination, as several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan and Telangana complained of vaccine shortage. Many vaccine centres remained shut in Maharashtra, while the health ministry said the vaccine stock in each state is monitored real time and is replenished regularly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-tika-utsav-bjp-opposition-trade-barb-over-covid-19-vaccine-101618143008199.html
11-04-2021||India||‘Implement stringent safety norms instead of resorting to partial lockdowns’: CEOs||Three-fourth of the 710 chief executive officers (CEOs) expressed that partial lockdown measures would adversely impact the movement of goods and labourers, which would significantly affect the industrial output, a Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) CEOs poll said on Sunday.“Protecting livelihoods along with lives is essential and the industry is keen to work with the government on universal coverage (18 years and above) of the vaccination programme and in implementing strict health and safety protocols,” said CII president-designate TV Narendran. Narendran lauded the government and said that it handled both lives and livelihoods effectively during the first wave. “It could do so again by keeping industrial activities out of the ambit of partial lockdowns aimed at restricting social gatherings. This will help India recover from the economic contraction and stabilize the upward growth trends being currently witnessed in several sectors,” he added. As per the survey, stringent implementation of health and safety norms is better than partial lockdowns on any industrial operations. The poll covered CEOs from both manufacturing and services sectors. About 68% of the respondents belonged to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs).While 96% of the CEOs said the industry is well prepared for stricter health and safety protocols, 93% of them preferred “stringent implementation of safety norms” over partial lockdowns. About 60% of the CEOs polled said their production could be affected if there are restrictions on the movement of labourers during partial lockdowns and a majority of them feared up to 50% production loss if restrictions are imposed on the ecosystem that supports the movement of goods.While 57% of the companies expressed the need to stock raw materials in excess of just-in-time levels to meet any likely shortage of raw materials, about 31% of them said they would accommodate their labour force in the factory in case of movement restrictions due to the night curfew.More than 60% of the CEOs suggested that the government should allow the movement of workers in all shifts during night curfews and also free movement of goods along with the required personnel to facilitate the movement of goods. “This should be allowed with all workers and industry staff strictly following all health and safety protocols,” the CII statement, quoting the survey, said. Looking at ways to mitigate the impact of the restrictions, 67% of CEOs expressed their desire to work with the government for mass vaccination of eligible workforce who are age 45 years and above.The CII is observing ‘Tika Utsav’ from April 11-14 April across the country as announced by PM Modi, it said in a statement. The CII has already activated its 65 state offices and has written to over 9,000 members from the industry to facilitate vaccinations of the eligible workforce.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/implement-stringent-safety-norms-instead-of-resorting-to-partial-lockdowns-ceos-101618142731771.html
11-04-2021||India||Centre halts exports of Remdesivir amid rising Covid-19 cases||The Centre on Sunday banned the export of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country. “India is witnessing a recent surge in COVID cases. As on 11.04.2021, there are 11.08 lakh active COVID cases and they are steadily increasing. This has led to a sudden spike in demand for Injection Remdesivir used in the treatment of COVID patients. There is a potential of a further increase in this demand in the coming days,” the government said in an order.The order said seven Indian companies are producing Remdesivir injection under a voluntary licensing agreement with US company Gilead Sciences, adding that they have an installed capacity of about 38.80 lakh units per month. “In light of the above, Government of India has prohibited the exports of Injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves,” it said.The order also said that all domestic manufactures of Remdesivir have been advised to display on their website, details of their stockists or distributors to facilitate access to the drug. "Drugs inspectors and other officers have been directed to verify stocks and check their malpractices and also take other effective actions to curb hoarding and black marketing. The State Health Secretaries will review this with the Drug Inspectors of the respective States/UTs," it added.The department of pharmaceuticals has been in contact with the domestic manufacturers to ramp up the production of Remdesivir, it also said.India on Sunday recorded 152,879 new cases of Covid-19, witnessing another record in the daily tally. It also recorded 839 fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the death toll to 169,275. The active cases have increased to 1,108,087 comprising 8.29% of the total infections, while the recovery rate further dropped to 90.44 per cent, the Union health ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-prohibits-exports-of-remdesivir-till-covid-19-situation-in-india-improves-101618141980776.html
11-04-2021||India||UP schoolteachers to gherao DIOS office over non-payment of salary||The Uttar Pradesh Secondary Teachers' Association has warned they will gherao the office of the district inspector of schools (DIOS) if the teachers are not paid their due salaries within three days, a report by HT’s sister concern Hindustan said on Sunday. Teachers have not received their salaries for the month of March, for which a technical issue with the Management Information System (MIS) was reportedly cited. With the panchayat polls in the state days away, the teachers have now warned of agitation and even a potential boycott of the upcoming polls if they are not paid the salaries in time.The meeting of the UP Secondary Teachers' Association was held at the Sunder Lal Inter College in Rampur. It was noted during the meeting that therewas resentment among teachers as they are not being paid their salaries. The salary for February, the month when the last payment was made, was used to pay income tax and for Holi, they said. A month later, the teachers are finding it difficult to meet their daily needs due to the lack of funds.The school teachers in Uttar Pradesh's Rampur are demanding an early salary from the district school inspector, failing which they will gherao the DIOS office, the report said, citing people in the UP Secondary Teachers' Association familiar with the development.The panchayat elections in Uttar Pradesh will be held in four phases from April 15. The final phase will be on April 29 and the results will be declared on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-schoolteachers-to-gherao-dios-office-over-non-payment-of-salary-101618135859520.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from Hindustan Times: Imposing a lockdown in MP not a solution, says CM Chouhan and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Possibility of lockdown in Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan weighs inMadhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said on Sunday imposing a lockdown is not a solution to control the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state, which reported a record spike in infections on Saturday taking its tally over 332,000.Mamata 'silent' on fifth person’s death, says Shah on Cooch Behar poll violenceUnion home minister Amit Shah on Sunday accused West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee of “politicising” the poll violence in Cooch Behar during Saturday’s fourth phase of assembly elections in the eastern state. Five people, including an 18-year-old first-time voter, were killed in two separate incidents of poll-related violence in Cooch Behar.Priyanka Chopra is living the 'studio life' with Nick Jonas and their dogs, see picPriyanka Chopra and Nick Jonas have been stationed in the United Kingdom for a few months now. The actor is working on her upcoming projects in London, while Nick is working on his music from there. Priyanka took to Instagram Stories on Sunday to share a picture of her 'studio life', featuring the singer and their dogs.IPL 2021: 'He gives team a different dynamic,' Eoin Morgan explains role of returning KKR allrounder ahead of SRH clashAs Kolkata Knight Riders gear up for their opening game of the Indian Premier League 2021 season against Sunrisers Hyderabad, skipper Eoin Morgan opened up on the role that allrounder Shakib al Hasan will play in the season.Upcoming 2021 Jeep Commander SUV: All we know so farJeep is working on a new Commander three-row SUV which will be officially revealed later in 2021. The new SUV was previously spotted on tests in Brazil and has been codenamed H6. The upcoming SUV will sit above the Compass in Jeep's global line-up.3 terrorists gunned down in encounter with security forces in J&K’s ShopianThree terrorists gunned down in encounter with security forces in J&K’s Shopian. Security forces engaged in an exchange of fire with terrorists in Hadipora area.IPL 2021: Krunal Pandya teams up with nephew Agastya against Hardik PandyaA tweet shared by cricketer Krunal Pandya about his nephew is now winning people over and making them chuckle too. Pandya shared a few adorable pictures with his nephew Agastya, son of cricketer Hardik Pandya and actor Natasa Stankovic, along with a hilarious caption.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-5pm-imposing-a-lockdown-in-mp-not-a-solution-says-cm-chouhan-and-all-the-latest-news-101618136555984.html
11-04-2021||India||437 Sikh pilgrims granted permission to visit Pakistan for Baisakhi||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC), the top body of the Sikh community, said on Sunday more than 400 pilgrims have been allowed to visit Pakistan for Baisakhi by the ministry of external affairs (MEA). “Four hundred and thirty-seven people have been granted permission to visit Pakistan on the occasion of Baisakhi,” SGPC secretary Mohinder Singh Ahli told news agency ANI.Ahli also said that pilgrims will be paying a visit to the Nankana Sahib, a holy site for Sikhs, in Pakistan. On April 9, SGPC had organised a two-day camp at its office to conduct Covid-19 tests for the pilgrims scheduled to visit Pakistan. “Pilgrims will visit all major gurdwaras, including Nankana Sahib. All of them have tested negative for Covid,” Ahli was quoted as saying by ANI. “They will leave tomorrow and will return on April 22,” he added.Under the 1974 'Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines' signed between India and Pakistan, citizens of both countries can visit certain religious shrines. For the Sikhs, there are four occasions every year—Baisakhi, martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev, death anniversary of Maharaja Ranjit Singh and the birth anniversary of Guru Nanak—on which they can visit religious sites associated with their religion in Pakistan.SGPC spokesperson Kulwinder Singh told HT on Saturday that the body had originally sent 793 names for approval to visit Nankana Sahib, of which 356 have been rejected. “We had sent 793 names for issuing of visas of which 356 were rejected. The ministry of external affairs (MEA) and the Pakistan embassy in New Delhi should approve the maximum number of names sent by the SGPC as it is the apex body of the Sikh community. The names of a large number of pilgrims have been removed, causing a lot of resentment among pilgrims.” he said.In February, a Sikh Jatha wanted to visit Nankana Sahib to mark the Nankana Sahib massacre centenary but was denied permission to do so by the MEA. The ministry cited the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic and said that the visit was not being covered under the ‘Bilateral Protocol on Visits to Religious Shrines’, adding no jatha had gone to Pakistan on that occasion in the past."Keeping in view the increasing number of cases of Covid-19 in Pakistan, a threat to the safety and security of a large number of Indian citizens during the visit and the ongoing suspension of cross-border traffic due to Covid-19 pandemic, permission was not accorded to the said Jatha," Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy told Parliament on March 16.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/437-sikh-pilgrims-granted-permission-to-visit-pakistan-for-baisakhi-101618138568193.html
11-04-2021||India||Uttar Pradesh has more active Covid-19 cases than Kerala; 60,000 new infections reported since April 1||Uttar Pradesh has added 60,743 Covid-19 cases to its tally since April 1, since when the state is seeing a steady spike in the number of daily infections. On Saturday, the state reported 12,787 new infections, which made it the third state after Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh contributing the highest number of daily infections in the country in the last 24 hours. On Sunday, the state surpassed Saturday's record and reported the highest single-day spike of 15,353 cases.Here is how Uttar Pradesh's Covid-19 tally rose:> According to Union health ministry, data on March 15, Uttar Pradesh had only 178 fresh cases. At that time, it was not a state of concern. Other states were reporting a higher number of cases. For example, on March 15, Maharashtra had 16,620 fresh infections, Chhattisgarh had 475, Karnataka had 934 and, with 407 cases, Delhi too had a higher single-day tally than Uttar Pradesh.> The first major spike was recorded on March 25, when Uttar Pradesh reported 734 fresh infections.> On March 27, the state's single-day tally breached the 1,000-mark for the first time in this year. On March 31, there was a slight dip as 918 cases were recorded.> From April 1, cases have been skyrocketing and the with an increase of about 1,000 cases on the previous d tally, the state breached the 5,000-, 6,000-mark gradually.> The gap between daily new infections and daily recoveries in the state is wide. While 12,787 new cases were recorded, only 2,207 people were discharged on Saturday.> With around 58,800 active cases, its contribution to India's active case tally at present is 5.31 per cent, more than Kerala, which has 3.62 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases. On Sunday, the state active case tally reached 71,241.> As far as the number of fatalities is concerned, Uttar Pradesh has reported fewer deaths than Punjab and Gujarat on Saturday, but the daily toll remains between 30 and 50. The state has a recovery rate of around 90 per cent.> The state has administered 84,93,959 vaccine doses so far, according to the data of the Union health ministry.> The state government has ordered a night curfew in all districts which have more than 500 active Covid-19 cases. Lucknow has 16,690 active Covid-19 cases, the highest in the state.> Ghaziabad, Gautam Budh Nagar, part of which fall in the National Capital Region, are also seeing a spike in daily cases. On Saturday, Ghaziabad reported 159 fresh cases, while 221 were reported from Gautam Budh Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttar-pradesh-has-more-active-covid-19-cases-than-kerala-60-000-new-infections-reported-since-april-1-101618137325532.html
11-04-2021||India||Former Tripura Congress chief led alliance wins territorial council polls||Tipraha Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance (TIPRA) Motha, led by former Tripura Congress president Pradyot Kishore Debbarma has swept the Tripura Tribal Areas Autonomous District Council (TTAADC) polls by winning 18 of the 28 seats that went to polls to elect representatives for the 30-member council on April 6. The BJP finished second, winning nine seats and one seat was won by an independent candidate. BJP’s alliance partner the Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT), the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Congress failed to win even a single seat. The result of the polls declared on Saturday marks the emergence of Pradyot’s party as a new regional force, less than two years ahead of the 2023 state assembly elections. Out of the TTAADC 30 seats, 28 are elected and two are nominated. The results assume significance since 70% percent of Tripura’s geographical area and close to one-third of its population is covered by the autonomous council. The BJP had won 36 seats in the 60-seat assembly in 2018 polls to form its first government in the state defeating the Left Front alliance, which could only win 16 seats.Debbarma won from Takarjala-Jampuijala constituency. Ananta Debbarma, Animesh Debbarma and Jagadish Debbarma were among the prominent winning candidates from the winning party. TIPRA Motha was a front including the TIPRA ( The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance), Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura (IPFT-Tipraha) and Tipraland State Party (TSP) and was in alliance with the Indigenous Nationalist Party of Twipra (INPT). Pradyot resigned from the Congress in 2019 and floated TIPRA Motha this year. In its campaign, the front promised to form a Greater Tipraland by including indigenous population living outside TTAADC region in Tripura and also other states such as Assam, Mizoram and even some parts of Bangladesh. I want to appeal to all through the media to maintain peace. There should be no violence against those who have lost the polls. We are Tiprasa and they are Tiprasa as well. After the poll, we will bring them with us to make our unity bigger,” Pradyot Kishore told the media after the front’s victory on Saturday.BJP spokesperson Nabendu Bhattacharjee said, “We didn’t field candidates in most of the seats. We are not unhappy with the poll results. Our alliance partner IPFT will discuss their performance.” No reaction from IPFT could be obtained. The CPM, which ruled the TTAADC for the last three consecutive terms, said it will analyse the results. “We lost the poll. However, we will analyse what led to our poor performance in the election,” said veteran party leader Radhacharan Debbarma.85.14% voter turnout was recorded during the April 6 polls. The council polls were postponed by almost a year due to the Covid-19 pandemic and Governor RK Bais ran the council in the interim. The TTAADC was formed in 1982.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-tripura-congress-chief-led-alliance-wins-territorial-council-polls-101618136671596.html
11-04-2021||India||Amid Mumbai lockdown talk, migrant movement seen on MP route||A severe spike in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and persistent talk of a "complete lockdown" there to tackle it has, like last year, made the national highway number 3 skirting past Madhya Pradesh's commercial hub Indore a prime route for wary migrants returning home to states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.The number of motorcycles, black-and-yellow mini trucks and autorickshaws, teeming with migrants, have been on the rise over the past few days on a bypass road connected to this route, popularly known as Mumbai-Agra road, eye-witnesses said on Sunday."The virus outbreak has once again got very severe in Mumbai. There might be a lockdown and it may, like last year, render us jobless. So we have decided to return home," said Ramsharan Singh (40), making his way back to Ballia in Uttar Pradesh in an autorickshaw.Similar is the case with Mohammad Shadab, going back to his hometown in Bihar's Bhojpur district."I work in a restaurant in Mumbai. I will think of returning there if the situation improves. Or else, I plan to stay back in Bihar and look for work," he said.Thanks to a weekend lockdown, and inter-state travel exempted from it, these vehicles moved past Indore quickly as normal traffic on the roads was thin.Last year, the route witnessed bumper-to-bumper traffic as people trying to escape a crippling coronavirus- induced lockdown in Mumbai and adjoining areas made their way home to eastern and northern states in some of the most helpless and trying travel conditions.Mumbai on Saturday reported 9,330 fresh cases and 28 deaths, taking the count of infections to 5,10,512 and the toll to 11,944.Mumbai division, comprising the metropolis and adjoining districts, reported 18,241 new cases and 89 deaths during the day, raising the tally to 10,64,221 and the fatality count to 21,028.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-mumbai-lockdown-talk-migrant-movement-seen-on-mp-route-101618135014476.html
11-04-2021||India||Tika Utsav day 1: People from across states take Covid-19 vaccine | In Photos||India began the ‘Tika Utsav’ (vaccination festival) on Sunday days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for mass vaccination against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) during his meeting with chief ministers of all states as the nation reels under the second wave of infections.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 vaccination centre here In a tweet this morning, PM Modi said, "We are going to begin 'Tika Utsav' today nationwide. I urge countrymen to abide by four things - assist those who need help getting inoculated, help people in COVID treatment, wear masks and motivate others and if someone tests positive, create a micro-containment zone in the area."People from across states were seen queuing outside vaccination centres to get their shots. One Kishan from Chennai told news agency ANI, "Definitely, it is a good festival that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has announced, I am grateful to him and I took my first dose of vaccine today.”Several states including Uttar Pradesh and Bihar appealed to eligible people to get themselves vaccinated during the duration of the 'Tika Utsav'.Here’s a look at pictures from the first day of the four-day ‘vaccination festival’||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tika-utsav-day-1-people-from-across-states-take-covid-19-vaccine-in-photos-101618127782701.html
11-04-2021||India||No control on Covid-19, not enough vaccines: Rahul Gandhi targets Centre||Hitting out at the central government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the Centre could neither control the Covid pandemic nor address the problems of farmers and labourers."No control on the corona, not enough vaccines, no employment...Neither the farmers and the labourers are addressed, nor Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) safe. No middle class is satisfied...It was okay to eat mangoes, but you could have left the common man," read Rahul's tweet translated from Hindi.Rahul's remarks come against the backdrop when India reported more than 1.52 lakh new Covid-19 cases on Sunday. This is the fifth consecutive day when more than one lakh cases have been reported in the country.According to the Union Health Ministry, the country recorded 1,52,879 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of infections has reached 1,33,58,805 in India.Meanwhile, the four-day-long 'Tika Utsav', a mass Covid-19 vaccine programme, has started in the country on Sunday (Jyotirao Phule's birth anniversary) to April 14 (B R Ambedkar's birth anniversary), following Prime Minister Narendra Modi's call for the same.From April 2, the government started vaccinating all people above 45 years. India started its vaccination drive on January 16 with priority given to all healthcare and frontline workers in the first phase. The second phase started on March 1 where doses were administered to people above the age of 60 and those between 45 and 59 years with specific comorbidities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-control-on-covid-19-not-enough-vaccines-rahul-gandhi-targets-centre-101618132238028.html
11-04-2021||India||5 states account for over 70% of India's active Covid-19 cases: Govt||The five states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Kerala cumulatively account for 70.82 per cent of India's active Covid-19 cases which have breached the 11-lakh mark for the first time since the outbreak of the pandemic, the Union Health Ministry said on Saturday.India's total active caseload has increased to 11,08,087 and it now comprises 8.29 per cent of the country's total infections. A net increase of 61,456 cases has been recorded in the total active caseload in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra alone accounts for 48.57 per cent of the total active caseload of the country, the ministry said.Besides, the ten states of Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in the daily new Covid-19 cases accounting for 80.92 per cent of the new infections reported in a span of 24 hours, the ministry highlighted.India's daily new cases continue to rise, the ministry said as 1,52,879 new cases of coronavirus infections were registered in a span of 24 hours, the highest single-day rise so far.Maharashtra has reported the highest daily new cases at 55,411. It is followed by Chhattisgarh with 14,098 while Uttar Pradesh has reported 12,748 new cases.Sixteen states -- Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Haryana, Rajasthan, Punjab and Kerala -- are displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases.India's cumulative recoveries stand at 1,20,81,443 with 90,584 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.Daily deaths continue to show an upward trend with 839 fatalities being reported in a span of 24 hours.Ten states account for 86.41 per cent of the new deaths, the ministry said. Maharashtra saw the maximum casualties (309) and Chhattisgarh followed with 123 daily deaths.Ten states and UTs have not reported any Covid-19 deaths in a span of 24 hours. These are D&D & D&N, Nagaland, Tripura, Meghalaya, Sikkim, Mizoram, Manipur, Lakshadweep, Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Arunachal Pradesh.Meanwhile, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 10 crore.Cumulatively, 10,15,95,147 vaccine doses have been administered through 15,17,963 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am, the ministry said.These include 90,04,063 HCWs who have taken the first dose and 55,08,289 HCWs who have taken the second dose, 99,53,615 FLWs who have received the first dose, 47,59,209 FLWs who have taken the second dose.Besides, 3,96,51,630 and 18,00,206 beneficiaries more than 60 years old have been administered the first and second dose respectively, while 3,02,76,653  and 6,41,482 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 have taken the first and second dose respectively.Eight states account for 60.27 per cent of the total doses given so far in the countryOver 35 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours.As on Day-85 of the vaccination drive (April 10), 35,19,987 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 31,22,109 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 42,553 sessions for first dose and 3,97,878 beneficiaries received the second dose of the vaccine."In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,34,574 doses administered per day," the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/5-states-account-for-over-70-of-india-s-active-covid-19-cases-govt-101618132196995.html
11-04-2021||India||Delhi, Odisha, Assam: States which recently made RT-PCR test must for travellers||Delhi, Odisha, Assam have imposed fresh restrictions on travellers coming from outside as India is witnessing the peak of the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic. On Sunday, India recorded 1,52,879 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day surge since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020. As Maharashtra is reporting the highest number of daily infections, most states have made it mandatory for Maharashtra people to carry a negative RT-PCR certificate while travelling. Some states, on the other hand, made RT-PCR test mandatory for all travellers, notwithstanding from which state they are coming from. As many frontline workers have received both their vaccine dose, vaccine certificate is also being considered as a valid pass to travel.DelhiPeople coming from Maharashtra will require a negative RT-PCR test report of not more than 72 hours. If found without report, a mandatory quarantine of 14 days has been ordered by the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, Govt of NCT of Delhi.OdishaPeople entering the state by bus, train, aeroplane, waterways or in a private vehicle will have to produce either a negative RT-PCR test report obtained in 72 hours or the final certificate of vaccination, after both the doses. As no specific state is mentioned, it is implied that all those who will be travelling to Odisha will require either of the two certificates. Those who won't have the report or the vaccination completion certificate will have to undergo quarantine mandatorily for seven days. This rule is applicable from April 12.AssamFrom April 9, Assam has made RT-PCR negative test report mandatory for people coming to the state from Mumbai and Bengaluru. In case, passengers do not have a satisfactory test report, they will have to undergo a testing at their own expense and wait at designated location (at own expense) for the result to be available.For passengers coming by trains from Maharashtra or Karnataka or transiting through either of these two states will have to undergo testing at railway stations in Assam. This rule has been made effective from April 3.KashmirTravellers coming to Kashmir by road will have to undergo coronavirus tests in Kulgam district, Srinagar deputy commissioner Mohammed Aijaz Asad has said.Since the rise in Covid-19 cases began in February, many states put these restrictions on travellers coming from other states in February and March.Gujarat, RajasthanA negative RT-PCR test report not older than 72 hours is mandatory to enter both Gujarat and Rajasthan since the beginning of this month.Madhya PradeshIn March, the Madhya Pradesh government made RT-PCR test mandatory for people flying to Indore and Bhopal from Maharashtra.KarnatakaPeople travelling to Bengaluru from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab and Chandigarh are required to carry a negative RT-PCR report. From April 10 to April 20, people travelling from Bengaluru to Mysuru also require negative RT-PCR report, as cases are rising in Bengaluru.UttarakhandFrom April 1, the Uttarakhand government made RT-PCR test report mandatory for travellers coming from Maharashtra, Kerala, Punjab, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi ad Rajasthan.MaharashtraEarlier, Maharashtra made negative RT-PCR report mandatory for travellers from Gujarat, Delhi-NCR, Goa, Rajasthan and Kerala. with the number of Covid-19 cases skyrocketing, now Maharashtra districts are also laying down specific rules.Though the Centre has ordered there should be no restrictions in interstate and intrastate travel, Odisha has sealed its border with Chhattisgarh as Chhattisgarh is contributing the second-highest number of daily Covid-19 infections in the country, after Maharashtra. In March, Madhya Pradesh's Barwani district sealed its border with Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-odisha-assam-states-which-recently-made-rt-pcr-test-must-for-travellers-101618130754676.html
11-04-2021||India||Night curfew in UP districts with more than 500 active Covid-19 cases, announces Yogi Adityanath govt||The Yogi Adityanath government has announced night curfew in Uttar Pradesh districts with more than 500 active Covid-19 cases. Orders have also been given to close all schools, colleges, and coaching from class 1 to 12 in the state till April 30.Adityanath has clarified that the pre-scheduled exam will continue. Staff can be called for necessary work in the office. The state government had earlier asked all schools to keep their classes one to eight closed till April 11.प्रदेश में कक्षा 01 से 12वीं तक के सभी सरकारी/गैर सरकारी विद्यालयों में 30 अप्रैल तक पठन-पाठन स्थगित रखा जाए। कोचिंग सेंटर भी बंद रहें। इस अवधि में पूर्व निर्धारित परीक्षाएं हो सकती हैं और आवश्यकता के अनुरूप शिक्षक व अन्य स्टाफ आ सकते हैं: #UPCM श्री @myogiadityanath जीIn view of rising cases of Covid-19, a night curfew has already been imposed in Uttar Pradesh's capital Lucknow, Kanpur and Varanasi with effect from April 8.Police Commissioner of Lucknow DK Thakur said on Wednesday, "Night curfew to be imposed in Lucknow from tomorrow between 9 pm and 6 am. The curfew will continue till April 30," Thakur said.Earlier on Saturday, Adityanath directed to immediately arrange at least 2,000 ICU beds in the capital Lucknow in view of the increasing threat of Covid-19.Given a large influx of people from Maharashtra, Punjab, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, and Karnataka, Yogi said, "Covid infection rate is quite high in these states. Thus those who come from there must be tested. Activate Nigrani Samitis in each gram panchayat and municipal ward. Even if a single case of Covid is found in any village, sanitize the entire village. Impose corona curfew on any district that has more than 500 active cases and ensure wedding events end before 10 pm."Uttar Pradesh on Saturday reported 12,748 new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). With 46 fresh deaths, the Covid fatality count climbed to 9,085, according to a government statement. So far, 608,853 patients have recovered from the disease. The count of active Covid-19 cases in the state stands at 58,801, the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-up-districts-with-more-than-500-active-covid-19-cases-announces-yogi-adityanath-govt-101618128374437.html
11-04-2021||India||‘Lockdown is no solution’: Kejriwal urges Delhiites to offer support in fight against Covid-19||Expressing concern over the severe spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that a lockdown is no solution to the pandemic but the city government will be forced to impose one if the healthcare system collapses. Kejriwal urged people with mild or no symptoms not to rush to hospitals and leave beds vacant for patients with severe symptoms.“In Delhi, we have fought three waves. The fourth wave is dangerous. It is spreading fast. Around mid-March, Delhi was witnessing less than 200 cases a day. On Sunday, it recorded 10,722 cases in 24 hours. It is the highest till date. At the peak of the third wave in November, Delhi recorded 8,593 new cases in a day. On Saturday, Delhi recorded 7,897 new cases and on Friday 8,521 new cases. It shows how fast the disease is spreading now. The situation is concerning and we are closely monitoring it,” said Kejriwal.As he stressed on the government’s strategy of scaling up tests to arrest the spread of the disease, Kejriwal said in a video press briefing that the capital city on Sunday recorded 10,732 new Covid-19 cases – a new record for a single day spike – as against 7,897 new cases on Saturday and 8,521 on Friday.Asserting that the “fourth wave” of the disease in Delhi is so far the most dangerous in terms of spread, Kejriwal cited government data to claim that 65% of the patients who are now getting the infection in Delhi are less than 45 years old. He urged the central government to open the ongoing vaccination drive to people of all ages and relax the protocol for starting new vaccine sites.Kejriwal asked the people to stay indoors and step out of their homes only if it is very necessary. He appealed to all political parties to join hands in controlling the pandemic.Also read: Delhi’s situation worrying, says Kejriwal as 24-hr covid tally crosses 10k-markHe further said, “We are working largely on three fronts. First, we aim to arrest the spread of the disease. This is a front on which the government alone can do much. We need immense cooperation from the people of Delhi. I request people to always wear a mask, maintain social distancing, wash hands, and stay indoors. Step out only if necessary. We do not want to impose a lockdown but some restrictions had to be imposed yesterday in light of the severe spike in cases. Please let us not allow that to get more severe.”“Second, we aim to ensure the best healthcare service – hospital beds, ICU, ventilators… Hospital management is our priority. We urge people to use the mobile app launched by the government to check the availability of beds. Also, please do not hesitate to go to government hospitals. We ensure quality healthcare there. There is no point in rushing to private hospitals in large numbers. It is obvious that they will run out of resources very soon that way,” he said.He further said, “But, the most important thing to remember, go to hospitals only if necessary. If everyone rushes to hospitals, we will run out of beds, ICUs, ventilators, etc. An asymptomatic person going to hospital can deprive a serious patient of bed and lead to that patient’s death. We have an excellent home isolation model. That is more than capable of taking care of patients with mild or no symptoms. Please keep hospital beds vacant for serious patients. I believe that lockdown is no solution to the pandemic. We have seen that once. It is only for times when a state’s health system collapses. If we have your support and the healthcare management system is under control, then there will be no need for a lockdown. But, if it goes out of control, we may be forced to impose a lockdown.”“Third, we are aiming at speeding up the vaccination process. I have written to the central government to remove all restrictions concerning vaccination. Now, 65% of patients are less than 45 years old, our records showed. How do we stop the spread without vaccinating this age group? We need to remove all restrictions and take up vaccination on a war footing.,” he said.The vaccination drive is currently open for people aged over 45 years across the country.“Also, we have come across reports from several states about doctors testing Covid-19 positive despite taking both doses of the vaccine. I consulted doctors and experts and learnt that vaccines do not give protection from potential infection. It protects from severe effects of Covid-19. So, I urge all eligible people to not hesitate from taking the vaccine and add that additional shield of protection. But one has to continue wearing masks and following all regulations,” he said. The chief minister further said, “We have scaled up tests – 120,000 per day. I appeal to all political parties to join hands in the fight against Covid-19. This is not the time for politics. Let us fight Covid-19 together. I have also come across people who say that they are tired of wearing masks. I want to ask them: Are the doctors and paramedics not tired? They work in PPE all day. Letting guards down is not allowed at this stage.”Charoo Hans, former head of microbiology department in Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital, said, “Data suggests that in this particular wave, more number of younger people are getting affected. They should not rush to hospitals unless indicated in the form of severe symptoms or breathlessness or decreased oxygen saturation as measured by pulse oximeter. Tele-consultatiton has helped a large number of patients to be treated in home isolation, which needs to be encouraged. Hospital beds should be kept for the vulnerable section of the population -- elderly, people with comorbidities, etc.”“As far as a lockdown is concerned, we have globally seen its economic impact. So, to ensure that things are under control, the government should go for stricter enforcement of regulations that have already been implemented. The government should focus on creating micro containment zones instead of implementing lockdown. Such strategy will enable economic movements as well as take care of the spread of Covid-19 infections,” Hans added. Kejriwal’s comments came a day after the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) brought back sweeping restrictions on activities to curb the alarming spread of Covid-19, banning large public gatherings, curtailing crowds in wedding and funerals, and capping maximum capacity for restaurants, cinema halls and public buses among other things.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lockdown-is-no-solution-kejriwal-urges-delhiites-to-offer-support-in-fight-against-covid19-101618129351460.html
11-04-2021||India||PM Narendra Modi asks for maximum jabs, zero wastage during Tika Utsav||Prime Minister Narendra Modi appealed for the maximum number of Covid-19 vaccine jabs to be given during the 4-day-long ‘Tika Utsav’ or the special vaccination drive, which he described as the “second war” on Covid-19. The drive kick-started from Sunday after it was first announced by PM Modi during a meeting with chief ministers to discuss measures to contain the second wave of coronavirus that has now surpassed the number of infections seen in the first phase of the disease in the country.“The Tika Utsav marks the beginning of the second war against Covid-19,” said the prime minister. He also urged everyone to focus on personal and social hygiene while stressing on the importance of establishing micro-containment zones to combat the spread of the virus in a densely populated country like India.“We should vaccinate as many eligible people through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage. If there is zero wastage in four days during ‘Tika Utsav’, it will also increase our vaccination capacity,” said the PM.Tika Utsav was announced by the Prime Minister to intensify the fight against the second wave of Covid infections. On Sunday, India reported 1,52,879 new Covid cases and 839 deaths in the last 24 hours. India leads the world in the daily average number of new infections reported, accounting for one in every six infections reported globally each day, according to a Reuters tally. Daily cases have set record highs six times this week, according to data from the Union health ministry. Deaths have also surged, with the health ministry reporting 839 fatalities on Sunday - the highest in over five months -The total number of cases in the country now stands at 1,33,58,805 and death has crossed the 1.69 lakh mark. There are 11,08,087 active cases present in the country, while more than 1 crore people have recovered.PM Modi outlined three responsibilities for every citizen in the fight against coronavirus. “Each one, vaccinate one, each one, treat one and each one, save one,” he said.While several states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar are aiming to double the inoculations during the four-day programme, the drive drew a lot of criticism from leaders of opposition parties. On Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Vaccine shortage is a grave issue, not an ‘utsav’.”The country has administered more than 100 million doses since the middle of January, the most after the United States and China. But several Indian states have complained of a vaccine shortage, despite immunisation being currently restricted to only about 400 million of India’s 1.35 billion people. The Central government has refuted the allegations of vaccine shortage. India began its vaccination drive earlier this year in a phased manner and currently all above the age of 45 years are eligible to get vaccinated.According to the data released by the Union health ministry, eight states- Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala- account for 60.62% of the total vaccine doses given so far in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-narendra-modi-asks-for-maximum-jabs-zero-wastage-during-tika-utsav-101618128331564.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: CBI questions Anil Deshmukh’s PAs over extortion allegations and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.NIA arrests Mumbai cop in Vaze case; CBI questions Anil Deshmukh’s PAsThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested Mumbai Police’s assistant police inspector Riyaz Kazi for allegedly helping suspended officer Sachin Vaze in the conspiracy related to planting of explosive in an SUV outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 and subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5, people familiar with the development said. Chopper with businessman Yusuff Ali crash lands in Kerala; 'earsplitting sound' says localA helicopter with businessman MA Yusuff Ali - chairman of LuLu Group - and four others on board crash-landed in Kochi city of Kerala on Sunday morning. According to the company, all five passengers including Ali and his four family members are safe and currently under medical observation at Lake Shore Hospital in Kochi. Read moreAbhishek Bachchan on falling in love with Aishwarya Rai during Umrao Jaan: 'Universe conspired to bring us together'Actor Abhishek Bachchan in a recent interview spoke about the beginnings of his romantic relationship with wife Aishwarya Rai. The couple tied the knot in 2007, and they have one daughter, Aaradhya. Police departments use Rahul Dravid’s viral ad clip to share advisory postsIf you’re a regular user of social media, then by now you may have seen the viral advertisement video featuring Rahul Dravid. Read more'He thinks maybe he should bat only for last four-five overs': Gavaskar has a piece of advice for DhoniChennai Super Kings’ Indian Premier League 2021 campaign got off to a disappointing start. Batting first, CSK scored 188 runs in 20 overs with Suresh Raina hitting a fifty. But Prithvi Shaw and Shikhar Dhawan were in great form as they smashed 72 and 85 respectively to take the game away from CSK. DC eventually chased down the target in 18.4 overs with seven wickets to spare. Read moreRoad trip Travelogue: Bengaluru to Goa in 800- km Honda Drive to Discover rideThe significance of a road trip has increased manifold in Covid-19 times. Whether a short trip to the nearest hill station or a well-planned drive escapade to the beach, depending on where one starts from, a car can indeed be a person's best friend as most of us remain bound at home in 'Work From Home' scenarios. Read more‘Don’t compare Kumbh Mela to Markaz event’: Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh RawatFlouting Corona guidelines? Allowing millions to visit the Kumbh? Religion above health? Decrying women? Equating Modi with God? Listen to Tirath Singh Rawat Uttarakhand Chief Minister on HT’s talk show The Interview. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-cbi-questions-anil-deshmukh-s-pas-over-extortion-allegations-and-all-the-latest-news-101618122522119.html
11-04-2021||India||Jailed Odisha gangster flees hospital after feeding spiked biryani to guard||A gangster serving life sentence, escaped from a government medical college cum hospital in Odisha on Saturday afternoon, after drugging the policeman in charge of his security, said police. However, the circumstances of his escape have cast a big shadow on the police department.Sheikh Hyder, who was serving life sentence since 2015 in the case of murder of miner Rashmi Mohapatra, was brought to Srirama Chandra Bhanja (SCB) Medical College and Hospital in Cuttack, from Sambalpur circle jail, 28 days ago for a surgery. On Saturday afternoon, he was found missing from his bed in the surgery department by a nurse, who wanted to give the gangster a jab. She also found the sentry sleeping.“When I arrived at the bed at 5.30 pm, I found the sentry sleeping. He woke him up, but he was disoriented. Hyder was not there on his bed,” said the nurse.Senior police officials said there appeared to be clear laxity in the handling of the gangster’s security.“It was the duty of police officials in Sambalpur (from where he was taken to Cuttack) to ensure his foolproof security. Just one armed police security was given. We did not even know that the gangster was being treated in SCB Medical College and Hospital since the last 28 days. We were informed only after he fled,” said Soumendra Priyadarshi, Bhubaneswar Cuttack police commissioner.Cuttack deputy commissioner of police Prateek Singh said the lone security guard on duty was given a spiked soft drink by Hyder’s associates. However, another official claimed the guard was reportedly fed Hyderabadi biryani, spiked with drugs, before the gangster fled. Police said they were still investigating who helped Hyder inside the hospital.That’s not the only mystery though; another police official said the circumstances of Hyder’s referral to SCB Medical College and Hospital were also not clear. “While there were reports that he was to be operated on his gallbladder, yet there are contradictory reports of him having different health issues. The doctors will have to be questioned,” said an official, who didn’t wish to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jailed-odisha-gangster-flees-hospital-after-feeding-spiked-biryani-to-guard-101618125630834.html
11-04-2021||India||NIA arrests Mumbai cop in Vaze case; CBI questions Anil Deshmukh’s PAs||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Sunday arrested Mumbai Police’s assistant police inspector Riyaz Kazi for allegedly helping suspended officer Sachin Vaze in the conspiracy related to planting of explosive in an SUV outside the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani on February 25 and subsequent murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran on March 5, people familiar with the development said. Kazi, who was posted in the Crime Intelligence Unit (CIU) along with Vaze, was aware of Vaze’s plans and “actively” took part in the conspiracy, said an officer who didn’t want to be named. Vaze was arrested on March 13 by the central anti-terror probe agency for allegedly devising the whole plan with the motive to regain his lost glory in the Mumbai police, as first reported by the HT. The agency then also took over the investigation into the murder of Hiran claiming it was a “connected” offence and Vaze had killed Hiran after the businessman refused to take the blame for the explosive-laden vehicle. The NIA earlier questioned Kazi for several days in a row to join the dots in the probe and it was revealed that he may have played a crucial role in procuring the fake number plates for the cars used by Vaze’s team members. He was also reportedly part of the meetings, where allegedly conspiracy to kill Hiran was hatched, but this aspect is being further investigated by the agency, said a second officer. In a related development, the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) was questioning former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh’s two personal assistants - Sanjeev Palande and Kundan to investigate if the former minister asked Vaze to collect ₹100 crore from hotels, bars and restaurants, as alleged by former Mumbai police chief Param Bir Singh. Singh and other few senior police officers of Mumbai have already been questioned by the CBI since Friday while the NIA has also shared relevant case documents to assist the agency in the alleged extortion/corruption probe. The anti-corruption probe agency has been asked by the Supreme Court to finish its preliminary enquiry within 15 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-mumbai-cop-in-vaze-case-cbi-questions-anil-deshmukh-s-pas-101618123650933.html
11-04-2021||India||Remdesivir shortage in Nagpur; Nitin Gadkari dials Sun Pharma chief for 10,000 injections||Union minister Nitin Gadkari has called up Sun Pharma's chief to arrange for 10,000 injections of Remdesivir in Nagpur in view of a shortage of the medicine here in Maharashtra.Remdesivir is considered a key anti-viral drug in the fight against Covid-19, especially in adult patients with severe complications.A press release from Gadkari's office on Saturday said the Lok Sabha member from Nagpur spoke to Sun Pharma's Managing Director Dilip Shanghvi over phone to inform him about the situation here and appealed to him to make available the Remdesivir injections.The pharma company chief assured Gadkari of making available 5,000 injections immediately on Saturday and the remaining 5,000 in next two-three days, the release said.Gadkari also appealed to the people of Nagpur to follow all Covid-19 prevention protocols.With Maharashtra witnessing a spurt in Covid-19 cases, Remdesivir injections are in high demand in the state.Maharashtra Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat on Saturday said there is shortage of Remdesivir injections and the supply of vaccine doses was inadequate.On Thursday, the state government capped the price of Remdesivir between ₹1,100 and ₹1,400 per vial and warned against its hoarding and black marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-shortage-in-nagpur-nitin-gadkari-dials-sun-pharma-chief-for-10-000-injections-101618121187119.html
11-04-2021||India||Delhi's situation worrying, 4th wave dangerous, says Kejriwal as Capital records over 10k new Covid-19 cases||Terming the present situation of Covid-19 in the Capital worrisome, Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday urged people to stay at home as much as possible, as the ongoing peak has surpassed the intensity of November 2020, with Delhi recording 10,732 fresh Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours. This is the highest spike in the Delhi's cases since the pandemic began in March 2020, as Delhi's single-day rise never crossed 10,000 before. On November 11, 2020, Delhi recorded 8,593 infections, which was the highest single-day spike in the Capital.A day after the government imposed some fresh restrictions limiting the capacity of cinema halls, bars, restaurants, buses etc., Kejriwal said the government is not in favour of lockdown, but still imposed those restrictions as there was no other option. "I don't believe that lockdown is the solution. Lockdown can only slow down the spread of the infection. Governments should take resort to lockdown only when the health infrastructure is stressed," the CM said adding that Delhi has not yet reached the situation.Delhi imposes new Covid-19 curbs. What allowed, what's not"Do not get hospitalised if your case is not severe, if you can be treated in home isolation too. Delhi has the best home isolation facilities. We will send teams to your home. If you occupy a bed in a hospital which could have been used for a person whose condition is severe, then the health infrastructure comes under stress and none can say, Delhi may need lockdown then," Kejriwal said.Quoting the 24-hour tally of fresh infections in the Capital, before the numbers are officially released, Kejriwal said, "In the last 24 hours, 10,732 cases have been recorded in the Capital. A day before, there were 7,900 cases. And the day before yesterday, the number was 8,521. So the fourth wave of the pandemic is more dangerous than the third wave in November," the Chief Minister said.Kejriwal reiterated his request to the Centre to remove the present age restriction in the vaccination drive and said 65 per cent of patients in Delhi are aged below 45 years. "Then how can the virus be stalled if we vaccinate people above 45 years? Our vaccination drive should have been faster than the rate in which the infection is spreading," Kejriwal said.On 37 doctors of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital being infected, Kejriwal said, "Reinfection may take happen. Another incident has been reported from Uttar Pradesh too. People are asking me whether the vaccine is effective at all. I have asked experts and I would say what they told me that vaccine won't make your condition serious. Even if you are re-infected, you won't die, you may not have to get admitted to the ICU. So, get vaccinated whenever the age restriction is lifted."Delhi government is prepared to visit door-to-door to vaccinate all people of the Capital in three months if the Centre relaxes the restrictions, the Chief Minister said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhis-situation-worrisome-says-kejriwal-as-capital-records-10-732-covid-cases-101618120311950.html
11-04-2021||India||India records over 1.5 lakh Covid-19 cases: Here are 10 worst affected states||India recorded 1,52,879 new cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, hitting another record in the daily tally of cases. The country, which is currently in the throes of a vicious second wave of Covid-19, has been registering a steady increase in the numner of cases on a regular basis.As per the health ministry, 10 states - Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan - are showing a steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases. They accounted for 82.82 per cent of the new infections on Saturday, the ministry said.MaharashtraMaharashtra on Saturday recorded 55,411 new cases, bringing the state-wide tally to 3,343,951. The total number of active cases in the state now stands at 536,682; Pune leads the count of active cases with 102,115, followed by Mumbai with 89,707. The surge has caused Pune and Nagpur to run out of ventilators. Relatives of Covid-19 infected patients sat for a ‘dharna’ demanding Remdesivir injections for the ailing. Reports of Remdesivir being sold in black markets of Pimpri-Chinchwad were also received. The state government has constituted district-wise control rooms to monitor the sale of this life saving injection. Union minister Prakash Javadekar assured the Maharashtra government that 1121 ventilators will be sent to the state in the coming 3-4 days as cases continue to rise.ChhattisgarhThe vaccination drive in Chhattisgarh, which has been witnessing a surge in cases, has hit a major roadblock due to shortage of doses. Chief minister Bhupesh Baghel said on Saturday that the state has vaccine stock to last two days only. “We have requested the Central government to provide vaccine doses for seven days so that the vaccination drive continues to run smoothly," said Baghel. Chhattisgarh recorded 11,447 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday.Uttar PradeshUttar Pradesh recorded 12,787 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday - its highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic. Chief minister Yogi Adityanath held a meeting to review the Covid-19 situation in the state. Night curfew has been imposed in Noida, Allahabad, Meerut, Bareilly, and Ghaziabad. Entry into religious places have also been capped at five individuals at once.DelhiDelhi recorded 7,897 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, reporting a drop below the 8,000-mark as testing rates dipped in the national capital. The city conducted 77,374 tests on Saturday as compared to 89,334 tests conducted daily on average over the last seven days. Delhi’s positivity rate, the proportion of samples that test positive, jumped to 10.2% on Saturday, marking a double digit ratio for the first time in 138 days since November 24 of last year. The Delhi government imposed a fresh set of restrictions on Saturday.KarnatakaKarnataka on Saturday recorded 6,955 fresh Covid-19 cases, registering a dip from the 7,955 cases it had recorded on Friday. Bengaluru Urban alone contributed more than 50 per cent to the state’s tally. An 11-day coronavirus curfew starting from Saturday has been imposed in certain districts of the state including the capital in order to tackle the rising number of cases.Tamil NaduTamil Nadu reported 5,989 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing the infection tally to 9,26,816. At 1,977 new cases, capital city of Chennai recorded the most number of infections. Congress candidate Madhava Rao who had recently contested for the state assembly succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday.KeralaKerala on Saturday recorded 6,194 positive cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally to 11,60,204. Amongst the fresh cases 171 came from outside the state and the rest were infected through contact.Madhya PradeshMadhya Pradesh reported 4,882 new cases on Saturday. Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan told reporters on Saturday that the state’s active caseload might reach the 1 lakh mark by the end of this month. The state has also been witnessing a shortage of the life saving drug Remdesivir, Indore’s Mahatma Gandhi Memorial College has been designated as the nodal agency for distributing the drug all over the state. The state government has also decided to purchase one lakh injections to meet the requirements, the chief minister told news agency PTI.GujaratGujarat recorded 5,011 cases on Saturday, taking the state wide tally to 3,42,026. The state’s famous Somnath temple has decided to shut its doors to devotees from April 11 following the sudden spike in cases. The Gujarat State Election Commission has also decided to postpone the Gandhinagar Municipal polls for an indefinite period after chief minister Vijay Rupani urged the poll body to do so. The chief minister said on Saturday that he is not in favour of imposing a state-wide lockdown but local level lockdowns are a welcome step. The state has also been accused of hiding actual Covid-19 data, an allegation the chief minister denied on Saturday.RajasthanRajasthan recorded 4,401 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday. Chief minister Ashok Gehlot took to Twitter to urge people into following Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, he warned that the second wave has been touted as being more lethal than the first wave. Gehlot also told reporters that the state has been witnessing a shortage of vaccines and the Central government should take the state governments onboard as stakeholders in the vaccination process and not treat them as adversaries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-1-5-lakh-covid-19-cases-here-are-10-worst-affected-states-101618120254962.html
11-04-2021||India||Highest single-day Covid-19 spike in J&K, 6 die, 38 girl students test positive||Six deaths were reported and 38 girl hostellers along with five staff members at the University of Jammu were found Covid-19 infected on Saturday, when Jammu Kashmir recorded its highest single-day spike this year amid concerns over the second wave of the disease, said officials.“The infected girls have been isolated in the hospital rooms and the hostel has been converted into a quarantine centre,” said a health official, who didn’t wish to be named. On Friday, 26 faculty members of different departments in the University tested positive. The UT saw its highest single-day spike this year with 1,005 new positive cases taking the tally to 1,37,475. Out of the fresh cases, 299 were from Jammu division and 706 from Kashmir division of the Union territory, officials said. Srinagar district has recorded the most daily cases at 492, followed by 183 in Jammu and 93 in Baramulla district. The number of active cases in UT stands at 6,755, while 1,28,691 patients have recovered, according to official data.A 28-year-old youth from Samba, a 70-year-old man from Bathindi, a 91-year-old man from Nanak Nagar and a 60-year old resident of Gadigarh in Satwari were among the five deceased in Jammu. Jammu University’s girls’ hostel was declared a quarantine centre after 43 out of the 329 samples tested for the infection returned positive.“The fresh positive cases included 38 girl students of the campus and five employees,” said a health official. Officials also said that the vaccination drive in the UT was being sped-up and more doses were requested for from the Centre, however there was no shortage of the vaccine.“On Saturday J&K received 1 lakh vaccines. However, we need more and the matter has been taken up with the Centre. ...We are administering the Covishield vaccine to around 60,000 people daily but we need more stocks,” the official said. The recent spike also led to cancellation of several examinations scheduled by the Jammu University.“It is hereby notified for the information of all concerned that BA, LLB (5 years) 3rd semester, M.Com 3rd semester, BE 7th semester, LLB (3 years) 5th semester and UG 3rd semester, BA LLB (5 years), 3rd/7th semester, BE 7th semester which were scheduled to be held on April 11, 12 and 15, 2021 respectively have been postponed due to unavoidable circumstances and the fresh date shall be communicated,” read a notification issued by the deputy registrar (conduct).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/highest-single-day-covid-19-spike-in-j-k-6-die-38-girl-students-test-positive-101618118370570.html
11-04-2021||India||Chopper with businessman Yusuff Ali crash lands in Kerala; 'earsplitting sound' says local||A helicopter with businessman MA Yusuff Ali - chairman of LuLu Group - and six others on board crash-landed in Kochi city of Kerala on Sunday morning. According to the company, all sevem passengers including Ali, his four family members and two pilots are safe and currently under medical observation at Lake Shore Hospital in Kochi.The incident took place at 9am, according to officials. The chopper was supposed to land at the KUFOS campus ground but had to touch down near the highway due to technical issues.The locals said that they heard an "earsplitting sound" as the chopper crash-landed in a marsh. "It was raining heavily in the morning. We heard the sound of the helicopter and it suddenly came down with an earsplitting sound. In the impact the chopper was submerged almost half in the marsh," said K Rajesh, one of the first to reach the site. His house is just 20 metres away from the crash site.The police believe a technical glitch caused the mishap. Further investigation is underway.Lu Lu group is one of the biggest supermarket chains. It is headquartered in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.On Friday, Ali was honoured with the highest civilian award for his contribution to Abu Dhabi's business, industry and support to various philanthropic initiatives, the LuLu Group said in a statement.He awarded the honour by the Crown Prince Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chopper-with-businessman-yusuff-ali-onboard-crash-lands-in-kerala-s-kochi-101618115767423.html
11-04-2021||India||As 'Tika Utsav' begins, PM Modi posts 4 requests for countrymen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday posted a message on Twitter to mark Tika Utsav, or vaccination festival, which aims to inoculate maximum number of eligible people against the viral disease. The Prime Minister also posted four requests along with his message."Today, we are starting the Tika Utsav across the country. In this round of fight against corona, I have four requests..." PM Modi said, pasting a link to a release where these requests were listed: Each One- Vaccinate One, Each One- Treat One, Each One- Save One, and creation of micro-containment zones.आज से हम सभी, देशभर में टीका उत्सव की शुरुआत कर रहे हैं। कोरोना के खिलाफ लड़ाई के इस चरण में देशवासियों से मेरे चार आग्रह हैं… https://t.co/8zXZ0bqYglExplaining what each request entails, PM Modi said Each One-Vaccinate One means helping those (such as less educated and old) who cannot get themselves vaccinated; Each One-Treat One is about helping those who do not have the means to, or do not know about the facilities available, for vaccination; under Each One-Save One emphasis is on wearing masks which will help saves lives of the people.About the fourth request, PM Modi said that people must lead in creation of micro-containment zones. Wherever a Covid-19 positive case has been reported, people of that family and locality must create a micro-containment zone."This Tika Utsav is a beginning of second big fight against Covid-19. We have to give special emphasis on personal hygiene as well as social hygiene," PM Modi said in his message.These messages are reiteration of what PM Modi told chief ministers during a meeting on Covid-19 situation in the country on Thursday. He said that the chief ministers should learn to deal with criticism, but continue the work of vaccinating people and increasing testing.The Tika Utsav has been organised on the advice of PM Modi with an aim to inoculate maximum number of eligible people against the coronavirus amid a surge in cases.In his interaction with chief ministers on Thursday, PM Modi urged them to focus on vaccinating all those who are above 45 years in age in high caseload districts."Sometimes, it helps in changing the atmosphere. The birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule is on April 11 and on April 14, there is the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb. Can we organise a 'Tika Utsav: or vaccine festival and create an atmosphere of Tika Utsav?" he had said.The daily count of Covid-19 positive cases has reached record highs in the last few days in India. On Sunday, the country recorded 152,879 new cases of the viral infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/as-tika-utsav-begins-pm-modi-posts-4-requests-for-countrymen-101618115233559.html
11-04-2021||India||Army imparts weapons training to VDC members||The Indian Army has started imparting weapon handling, firing and maintenance training, to village defence committees (VDCs) in phases over the past week in Jammu and Kashmir’s Reasi and Rajouri districts, following a spike in terrorism activities in the past 12-15 months, said officials.“In its continued endeavours towards ensuring peace in border areas and hinterland of South of Pir Panjal in Jammu and Kashmir, Indian Army interacted with village defence committees (VDCs) of Reasi and Rajouri districts,” said defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand on Saturday.Village defence committees (VDCs) are an important part of the anti-militancy grid in Jammu and Kashmir and were first set up in the mid-1990s in Chenab Valley area to arm and train villagers to defend against Pak-sponsored militants. VDCs comprise villagers as well as police officers. There are 4125 VDCs in the UT as per the latest official figures The Indian Army trains them from time to time in weapons handling and intelligence gathering skills.179 youth were recruited by terror organisations in J&K in the year 2020 as compared to 119 in 2019; the rise in numbers indicated increased terror activity and radicalisation of the youth. The number of terrorists killed in 2020 was also higher at 220 compared to 161 in 2019. On March 13 this year, J&K director general of police (DGP) Dilbag Singh said around 200 terrorists were active in the Union Territory and 250 were waiting at various launch pads across the Line of Control (LoC) in Pak Occupied Kashmir (PoK).Lt Col Anand said the committees played a significant role in counter terrorism operations and maintaining vigil over inimical elements with an overall aim of ensuring lasting peace in remote areas. “Meaningful interaction was carried out with local members and modalities of training of VDCs were also discussed,” he said.“The event, organised for VDC members of Kandi, Khawas, Samote, Budhal in Rajouri district and areas of Chasana, Mamankot in Reasi district, was optimally utilised for imparting training on weapon handling, firing and refreshing the individuals on weapon maintenance drills,” said Col Anand.A total of 208 VDC members attended the event, where they were also updated on the latest modus operandi and tactics employed by the militants.“VDC members were also briefed about the prevalent situation with respect to modus operandi of militants in order to execute swift and effective response, tactics being employed by anti-national elements and how important their role is to ensure sustained peace and prosperity in the region,” Col Anand said.Former DGP Dr SP Vaid said: “During peak militancy in 1995, these VDCs were created. When I was SSP Udhampur, there was an attack in a remote village, now in Reasi district, when villagers took on armed terrorists with axes and killed a couple of them. At that time they demanded that VDCs should be created and they be given arms to take them on. This is how the first VDC was raised.”Another security expert Maj Gen (retired) GS Jamwal said, “VDCs in fact saved Jammu from Pak sponsored terrorism. When a major chunk of security forces were sent to election bound Punjab during peak militancy, I coined the idea of VDCs to the then CM Farooq Abdullah. We have around one Lakh ex-servicemen in remote and other areas of J-K. The VDCs played an indispensable role in checking terrorism. Their reactivation is a move in the right direction because of them, terrorism never succeeded in the Jammu region; but at the same time, they should be given a dignified honorarium,” said general Jamwal.Former top cop Vaidya also hailed the move: “They have done an excellent work in checking Pak sponsored terrorism. They are undoubtedly force multiplier and play a crucial role in containing terrorism. If they are being reactivated by army and police then I think they can play a very crucial role because they are the force multipliers and undoubtedly check terrorism in remote and hilly areas.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/army-imparts-weapons-training-to-vdc-members-101618115250740.html
11-04-2021||India||India logs 152,879 fresh Covid-19 cases, daily toll surges past 800||India recorded 152,879 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the last 24 hours, which took the nation’s total infection tally past 13.35 million, according to figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday morning.For the past week, India has been reporting a daily spike of more than 100,000 cases in the second wave of the pandemic across the country, which has forced several states and union territories (UTs), including Maharashtra and Delhi, to impose stricter curbs to prevent the virus from spreading.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As of Sunday, the active Covid-19 caseload in the country stood at 1,108,087, which accounts for 7.93% of the total confirmed cases. Fatalities related to the viral disease are also on the rise with 839 deaths reported in a day.With an aim to vaccinate the maximum number of eligible people against coronavirus, the government has launched a four-day vaccination festival called Tika Utsav, following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s call for mass inoculation during the meeting with chief ministers of all states and UTs earlier this week.“We should vaccinate as many eligible people through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage. If there is zero wastage in four days during ‘Tika Utsav’, it will also increase our vaccination capacity. We should make optimum utilization of vaccination capacity. And for this, if we have to increase the number of vaccination centres, we should do it. Let’s see how we can mobilize things from April 11 to 14 and there will be the satisfaction of achievement. It will greatly help in changing the situation,” PM Modi said at the meeting.As the youth is not currently covered in the immunisation campaign, the Prime Minister as state authorities to make the younger generation aware of precautions. “Rather than forcing the youth for the vaccination, we should inspire them to follow protocols. If the youth decide to take it as a challenge, he will not only follow the protocols but will make sure that others also follow the same,” he said.Meanwhile, as Maharashtra continues to report the maximum of daily Covid-19 cases (55,411), chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Saturday hinted at putting the state under a lockdown to stop the surge. He will chair a meeting of the Covid-19 task force later in the day to discuss the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-logs-152-879-fresh-covid-19-cases-daily-toll-surges-past-800-101618113114185.html
11-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Covid-19 vaccination drive picks up but challenges remain and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.As vaccination drive picks up pace, challenges remainOn April 1, India’s Covid-19 vaccination programme received a much-needed boost with the start of the third phase of the inoculation drive which made all Indians above the age of 45 years eligible for coronavirus vaccines. Read MoreIndia observes 4-day Tika Utsav as PM Modi calls for mass Covid-19 vaccinationIn a bid to intensify the fight against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, India will observe a four-day 'vaccine festival' (Tika Utsav) in the country. Read MoreTwo-week lockdown in Maharashtra? Uddhav Thackeray to hold crucial meeting todayMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to take a decision on imposing a lockdown in the state after a key meeting of the Covid-19 task force on the Covid-19 situation today. Read More'He has to be my go-to man': Apprentice Rishabh Pant puts over master MS Dhoni after Delhi Capitals' big winThe apprentice Rishabh Pant won the battle against his master MS Dhoni as Delhi Capitals pulled off a superb seven-wicket win against Chennai Super Kings on Saturday. Read MoreJanhvi Kapoor stuns in Rs.4k white bikini top and shorts in Maldives, unseen picsJanhvi Kapoor has returned to Mumbai after her vacation in the serene Maldives. Read MoreAnkita Lokhande shares video of her journey with boyfriend Vicky Jain, fans want them to get married. WatchActor Ankita Lokhande shared a video of her journey with boyfriend Vicky Jain on their third anniversary on Saturday and fans could not get enough of the couple. Read MoreDad and kid recite nursery rhyme in the cutest way possible. Watch viral clipIf you’re looking for a happy video to start your day, then this clip of a baby and a dad may just do the trick. Read MoreIPL 2021 | CSK vs DC: Dhawan, Shaw star in Delhi Capitals' 7-wicket winShikhar Dhawan smashed 85 runs while Prithvi Shaw hammered 72 runs as Delhi Capitals chased down the target of 189 set up by Chennai Super Kings with seven wickets in hand, and eight balls to spare. Watch||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-covid-19-vaccination-drive-picks-up-but-challenges-remain-101618110787321.html
11-04-2021||India||Ex-student kidnaps teacher in Delhi over ₹20 lakh||Five men were arrested for allegedly kidnapping a 'maulana' of a madrassa in southeast Delhi’s Shaheen Bagh and demanding a ransom of ₹25 lakh for his release, police said on Saturday.The victim, Mohd Muntjir Alam, was later rescued, they said.According to a complaint filed by the victim's brother, he received a call from Alam’s phone and the caller demanded ₹25 lakh for his release.One of the main accused, Sadaqat (23), was a former student of the victim and had been depositing money with him since the last five years to open a shop. He had deposited ₹20 lakh and when he asked Alam for his money, the victim allegedly refused to return the amount, police said.Sadaqat planned to kidnap Alam. So, he roped in his brother Manjzar Alam (18) and friends -- Shamim (26), Nabi Hasan (23), Firdos (22) -- for the crime. According to the plan, he rented a house in Shaheen Bagh with his associates and asked Alam to visit the house to perform certain rituals. On April 5, when the victim came to the house, Sadaqat confined him with iron chains, according to police.“Our team got a tip-off that Sadaqat was hiding at his mother-in-law’s house in Noida. A raid was conducted and the suspect was apprehended. Further, on his instance, a raid was conducted in Delhi’s Abul Fazal area from where Alam was rescued,” said Shibesh Singh, Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exstudent-kidnaps-teacher-in-delhi-over-rs-20-lakh-101618109862844.html
11-04-2021||India||3 terrorists killed in gunbattle in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian: Police||Two terrorists were killed in an overnight encounter by security forces in Jammu and Kashmir’s Shopian town, the police said on Sunday morning. This took the number of terrorists killed in the encounter to three. One terrorist was gunned down on Saturday night.“Police & security forces made sincere efforts to take surrender of newly recruited #terrorist. Parents also made appeals but other terrorists didn’t allow him to #surrender,” the police said in a tweet on Sunday morning.According to police officials quoted by news agency PTI, they launched a search operation in Hadipora area of the south Kashmir district based on specific information about the presence of terrorists. When the forces were conducting the search, terrorists fire upon them, a police official told PTI. The forces retaliated, after which the encounter began, the official said.The identity and group affiliation of the terrorists killed in the gunfight are yet to be ascertained. An AK-47 and a pistol has been recovered, an army spokesperson said, adding that the joint operation is still in progress. Earlier this week, as many as seven terrorists, including terror outfit Ansar Ghazwatul Hind chief Imtiaz Ahmad Shah, were killed in two encounters in the union territory’s Shopian and Pulwama districts, police said on Friday.In the Shopian gunfight that continued for more than 12 hours since Thursday evening, security forces were engaged in a fierce battle with terrorists hiding and firing from inside a mosque.As the tension built up over the hours between Thursday night and Friday afternoon, the loudspeaker rang out intermittently with appeals from the parents of the terrorists holed up inside the Jama Masjid, citizens and Army personnel, PTI reported. Groups of people were also sent inside to negotiate with the men to come out peacefully, officials were quoted as saying by the agency."Our main concern was to preserve the sanctity of the masjid while neutralising the terrorists. This exposed our troops to high degree of risk while engaging with the terrorists, who were heavily armed," Major General Rashim Bali, General officer in Command of Victor Force that looks after militancy in South and central Kashmir told PTI.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3-terrorists-killed-in-gunbattle-in-jammu-and-kashmir-s-shopian-police-101618106735597.html
11-04-2021||India||India observes 4-day 'Tika Utsav' as PM Modi calls for mass Covid-19 vaccination||In a bid to intensify the fight against the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, India will observe a four-day 'vaccine festival' (Tika Utsav) in the country. It will begin on Sunday, and continue till Wednesday (April 14). The Tika Utsav is being observed with an aim to inoculate a maximum number of eligible people against the viral disease.The call for the vaccine festival was made by Prime Minister Narendra Modi during his interaction with chief ministers of all states and union territories on Thursday where he discussed the Covid-19 situation on the ongoing vaccination drive in the country. "Sometimes, it helps in changing the atmosphere. The birth anniversary of Jyotiba Phule is on April 11 and on April 14, there is the birth anniversary of Baba Saheb. Can we organise a 'Tika Utsav: or vaccine festival and create an atmosphere of 'Tika Utsav'?" PM Modi said in the meeting."We should vaccinate as many eligible people through a special campaign and decide on zero wastage. If there is zero wastage in four days during 'Tika Utsav', it will also increase our vaccination capacity," he also said.While states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar extended their full support to the festival and appealed to all eligible beneficiaries to vaccinate themselves in the four days, it drew criticism from leaders of opposition parties. On Friday, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said vaccine shortage in the country is a serious issue and not a festival. "Amid the growing corona crisis, shortage of vaccines is a very serious issue and not an "utsav", he wrote on Twitter in Hindi.Vaccine shortage rowThe festival comes amid claims of vaccine shortage in the country. Several states including Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Jharkhand have said they won't be able to continue the inoculation drive due to shortage of vaccine doses. The Centre, however, dismissed the claims and said that sufficient quantities of jabs have been allocated to all the states and more will be supplied over the coming days.Also Read | 10 states face severe Covid-19 vaccine shortage. Here's a listResponding to the requests and concerns by states, Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Friday said the country has enough doses and urged state governments to put an end to “fear-mongering”.Vaccination drive in IndiaIndia is the fastest nation to administer 100 million doses in 85 days, the Union health ministry said on Saturday. As of Saturday evening, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 10,12,84,282.In terms of the number of daily doses administered globally, India continues to remain at the top with an average of 38,93,288 doses administered per day, the ministry also said on Saturday.The US took 89 days to administer 10 crore doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, while China took 102 days to cross the same number, according to the health ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/4day-tika-utsav-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101618107088357.html
11-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Netherlands lockdown measures to remain in force till April 28||India is currently witnessing the second wave of Covid-19 as several states report their highest-ever single day surges since the onset of the pandemic. Maharashtra continues to be the worst affected state, recording above 63,000 new cases on Sunday. The state government hinted that the imposition of a lockdown in the state due to rising number of cases was likely after April 14. A decision on the lockdown is set to be taken at the next cabinet meeting. As the second wave rages in the country questions about natural immunity against Covid-19 and how long it lasts have started to rise.In Brazil the death toll reached 351,334 after 2,616 new fatalities were recorded on Saturday. Brazil continues to be the second worst hit country right after the United States. In the US cases have started to surge in the midwest. Osaka prefecture in Japan is witnessing a steep surge in cases, the governor of Osaka has warned about the need to impose stricter restrictions as the prefecture is home to a population of 8.1 million people. Globally cases have surpassed 135 million, according to the Bloomberg tracker.Follow all the updates here:Gujarat records highest single-day surge with 5,469 new casesGujarat reported 5,469 new cases of coronavirus on Sunday the states highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic. The total number of cases in the state has reached 347,495. The death toll reached 4,800 with 54 deaths.Maharashtra govt mulls lockdown post April 14The Maharashtra government on Sunday said that it may impose a complete lockdown from April 14. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will discuss on the duration and SOPs at a cabinet meeting scheduled later next week. Read more here.Lockdown measures in Netherlands to remain till April 28Dutch government said that early easing of lockdown will not be feasible as night-time curfew and other restrictions would remain until at least April 28 due to a rise in cases.Punjab records 3,116 cases in last 24 hoursPunjab reports 3,116 new #COVID19 cases, 3,121 recoveries and 59 deaths in the last 24 hours.Total cases: 2,72,772Total recoveries: 2,37,391Active cases: 27,874Death toll: 7,507 pic.twitter.com/DinFqrViJOThe total number of cases went up to 272,772. The death toll in the state reached 7,507.Union health ministry says 27 lakh vaccinated on Day 1 of vaccine festivalOn Day 1 of Tika Utsav, more than 27 lakh vaccine doses were administered, till 8 pm today: Union Health MinistryThe number of people vaccinated on Day 1 of Tika Utsav the vaccination festival.Italy reports 331 coronavirus deaths on Sunday, 15,746 new casesItaly reported 331 coronavirus-related deaths on Sunday against 344 the day before, the health ministry said, while the daily tally of new infections fell to 15,746 from 17,567 the day before.MP sees highest one-day rise of 5,939 Covid-19 cases, 24 dieMadhya Pradesh on Sunday reported 5,939 fresh coronavirus positive cases, the highest rise in a single day, taking the tally to 3,38,145 while 24 fatalities pushed the toll to 4,184, the state health department said.20,000 Remdesivir injections arrived in Indore today20,000 Remdesivir injections arrived in Indore today. Out of the 20,000 injections, 85% will be sent to medical colleges and 15% to district hospitals: Madhya Pradesh CMO.Goa sees 525 Covid-19 cases, 2 deaths, 170 recoveriesGoa's coronavirus caseload went up by 525 to reach 62,304 on Sunday, while the death toll rose by two to touch 848, an official said.9,989 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deaths reported in Mumbai9,989 new Covid-19 positive cases and 58 deaths reported in Mumbai today.China considering mixing Covid-19 vaccines to boost protection rateChina's top disease control official has said the country is formally considering mixing Covid-19 vaccines, as a way of further boosting vaccine efficacy.Gujarat reports 5,469 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 5,469 new Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths in the last 24 hours; case tally at 3,47,495 including 27,568 active cases. Total vaccinations in the state: 91,23,719Karnataka reports 10,250 new Covid-19 casesKarnataka reports 10,250 new Covid-19 cases, 2,638 discharges and 40 deathsTotal cases: 10,65,290Total dicharges: 9,83,157Active cases: 69,225Total deaths: 12,8897,201 new Covid-19 cases in Nagpur district, highest so farNagpur district in Maharashtra on Sunday reported 7,201 new coronavirus cases, its highest single-day spike so far, which pushed the infection count to 2,78,556, authorities said.Jammu and Kashmir reported 915 new Covid-19 casesJammu and Kashmir reported 915 new Covid-19 cases (288 from Jammu division and 627 from Kashmir division), 330 recoveries and 5 deaths.Total cases: 1,38,390Total recoveries: 1,29,021Active cases:7,335Deaths: 2,034900 vaccination sites in Odisha shut due to vaccine shortageOn Sunday when 'Tika Utsav', a special inoculation drive against coronavirus was launched across the country, at least 900 session sites in Odisha remained shut owing to shortage of Covid-19 vaccines, triggering a blame game between the ruling BJD and the BJP.Covid-19 casess may peak in Karnataka by May 1st week: Health MinisterAmid a spike in coronavirus cases in the state, Karnataka Health Minister K Sudhakar on Sunday said that the experts have warned of peak in infections by the first week of May.10,774 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths reported in Delhi10,774 new Covid-19 cases and 48 deaths reported in Delhi in the last 24 hours; case tally rises to 7,25,197.Kerala reports 6,986 new Covid-19 casesKerala reports 6,986 new Covid-19 cases, 2,358 recoveries and 16 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 44,389Total recoveries: 11,17,700Death toll: 4,783Offline classes in all govt, private colleges in Gujarat closed till April 30Gujarat government closes offline classes in all government and private colleges in the state of Gujarat till April 30, in view of the current Covid-19 situation.Centre prohibits exports of Remdesivir till Covid-19 situation in the country improvesCentre prohibits exports of Remdesivir till Covid-19 situation in the country improves.Government of India has prohibited the exports of Injection Remdesivir and Remdesivir Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients (API) till the situation improves.Rajesh Bhushan writes to Maharashtra, Punjab, Chhattisgarh regarding Covid-19 testing etcHealth Secretary Rajesh Bhushan writes to Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh over reports submitted by Central Health teams regarding Covid-19 testing, hospital infrastructure, healthcare workforce and vaccination, asks the states to take suitable corrective measures.Over 200 Delhi jail inmates vaccinated against Covid-19 so farAround 200 eligible inmates of the three jails in the national capital have been vaccinated against the novel coronavirus so far, and none of them has reported any adverse events, officials said on Sunday.Uttar Pradesh reports 15,353 new cases in the last 24 hoursUttar Pradesh reports 15,353 new cases in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 71,241Total recoveries: 6,11,622Total vaccination: 85,15,296Former Bangladesh PM Khaleda Zia tests positive for Covid-19Former Bangladesh Prime Minister Khaleda Zia tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday, a year after she was released from jail temporarily amidst the pandemic, according to media reports.Iran reports 258 coronavirus deaths, highest daily toll since DecemberIran reported 258 deaths from Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, the health ministry said on Sunday, the highest daily toll since early December.Amid Mumbai lockdown talk, migrant movement seen on MP routeA severe spike in Covid-19 cases in Mumbai and persistent talk of a "complete lockdown" there to tackle it has, like last year, made the national highway number 3 skirting past Madhya Pradesh's commercial hub Indore a prime route for wary migrants returning home to states like Uttar Pradesh and Bihar.8k Remdesivir vials have arrived: MP official as cases surgeAmid a surge in coronavirus cases and a clamour for Remdesivir, a drug considered useful in the treatment of the infection, a senior Madhya Pradesh official on Sunday said a sizable batch of the drug has arrived and will be distributed to medical facilities as per requirement.Manipur CM N Biren Singh receives his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine todayManipur Chief Minister N Biren Singh receives his first dose of Covid-19 vaccine today at the launch of 'tika (vaccination) utsav' in Imphal's Jawaharlal Nehru Institute of Medical Sciences.India has administered over 10 crore Covid-19 vaccines so far#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDriveIndia’s Cumulative Vaccination Coverage achieves a landmark of 10 crore (10,15,95,147) doses.https://t.co/fwcnOoRNot pic.twitter.com/gdSqej2PSaArvind Kejriwal says lockdown might be imposed in Delhi if Covid-19 situation worsensDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal Arvind Kejriwal said on Sunday that the government might impose a lockdown if the Covid-19 situation worsens. "Delhi government is not in favour of lockdown, but we will be left with no options if the situation worsens in hospitals," Kejriwal said during his press conference.Nitin Gadkari calls up pharma chief for Remdesivir injectionsUnion minister Nitin Gadkari called up Sun Pharma chief to arrange for 10,000 injections of Remdisivir for Nagpur, a life saving drug used in the treatment for Covid-19. The minister was assured of the supply by the chief within the next few days, reported news agency PTI.South Korea ramps up vaccination drive with AstraZeneca shotSouth Korea has decided to ramp up the country's vaccination drive with the AstraZeneca shot, administering vaccines to all aged 30 years and above, reported Reuters. The country announced on Wednesday that vaccination of people below 60 would be temporarily suspended as the AstraZeneca shot is under review in Europe.India records 152,879 new cases of Covid-19, 839 fatalitiesIndia recorded 152,879 new Covid-19 cases on Sunday, the total caseload has now surged past 13 million since the pandemic started. The country also recorded 839 deaths in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 169,275.France stretches gap between vaccine shots to six weeksFrance extended the gap between the first and second dose of Covid-19 vaccine from four to six weeks to help the vaccination campaign pick up pace, reported Reuters on Sunday. Chile records 8,124 new cases of Covid-19, 105 fatalities Chile recorded 8,124 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, taking the tally of infections in the country to 1,068,522. 105 deaths were also recorded in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 24,213, reported ANI.UP imposes ceiling on entry into religious placesUttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath has given directions to ensure that no more than 5 people can enter a religious place at a time, reported news agency ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/live-coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-11-2021-101618104600840.html
11-04-2021||India||Covid-19 vaccination at workplaces in India begins today: All you need to know||Covid-19 vaccination for all those eligible in the current phase of the immunisation drive will begin at their workplaces from Sunday, the government announced earlier this week with the aim to rapidly cover eligible beneficiaries amid the second wave of infections across the country.The Union ministry of health and family welfare wrote to the states to make arrangements for the facility at both private and government offices provided there is an availability of at least 100 eligible and willing beneficiaries. The states were advised to initiate due consultations with private and public sector employers and management to prepare for launch of workplace vaccination, the ministry said in a statement on Wednesday.Also Read: Covid-19 vaccination now allowed at offices. Check details about eligibility, priceThe Covid-19 vaccinations at private workplaces will be a paid service, and the price is capped at ₹250 per dose while sessions at government offices organised by district health authorities will be free of cost.The government said that the decision was taken as a substantial proportion of population aged between 45-59 years (in some cases up to 65 years) are in the organised sector of the economy. They are involved in formal occupation in offices (government and private), in manufacturing and services etc., the government said.The move comes at a time when India is reporting a daily surge of nearly 150,000 cases. The country’s total infection tally has soared past 13.2 million while active cases stand at 1,046,631, which is 7.93% of the total cases.While some states have flagged a "shortage" of vaccine doses, the Centre has maintained that a sufficient quantity of the jabs have been allocated to all the states and that many of them have been unable to inoculate all eligible beneficiaries.Here’s everything you need to know about Covid-19 vaccination at offices--All ‘Work Place vaccination centres’ need to be registered in the CoWin portal as government or private Covid Vaccination Centre (CVC) at Work Place.--Only employees of that particular office aged 45 years or more will be eligible for vaccination at the workplace, no outsiders including eligible family members will be allowed for vaccination at ‘CVC at Work Place’.--Every CVC in government workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the government medical facility, and likewise, every CVC in private workplace will be tagged to an existing and nearest CVC in the private medical facility. The designated government and private CVC will be responsible for deployment of vaccination team at ‘Work Place CVCs’.--One fully trained vaccination team will be assigned to vaccinate 100 beneficiaries at Work Place CVC. Additional teams shall be deployed in case work load is more than 100 beneficiaries and if sufficient space for vaccination is available. The management of the office will be responsible for arranging adequate rooms / space for Covid-19 inoculation.--Only one type of vaccine will be provided at these sessions to avoid mixing of vaccine types in the first and second dose of a beneficiary, the health ministry said.--Beneficiaries who have already received one dose of a vaccine different from the one being administered at the Work Place CVC shall not be vaccinated at the session in the Work Place CVC. They must get the second dose of the same vaccine at an appropriate Covid vaccination centre. However, those who have received same vaccine as first dose may be provided second dose at the Work Place CVC.--The full list of beneficiaries, as available in CoWin, will be visible to all verifiers and vaccinators, an option of on-the-spot registration will also be available.--Verification will be done by Verifier (Vaccination Officer-1) preferably using Aadhaar. Apart from Aadhar, other IDs approved by the MoHFW are EPIC, passport, driving license, PAN card, smart card issued by RGI under NPR, and pension document with photograph.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-vaccination-at-workplaces-in-india-begins-today-all-you-need-to-know-101618105107121.html
11-04-2021||India||Two-week lockdown in Maharashtra? Uddhav Thackeray to hold crucial meeting today||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray is likely to take a decision on imposing a lockdown in the state after a key meeting of the Covid-19 task force on the Covid-19 situation today. He held an all-party meeting on Saturday where the issue was discussed at length.Uddhav Thackeray said he has been speaking to many people from different sectors and also private hospitals for the last few days. "All are ready to support the government," the chief minister said after the meeting. He is also scheduled to hold a meeting of key ministers to discuss the modalities.Also Watch: Watch how Mumbai looks amid weekend lockdownThough the duration of the lockdown will be formally announced, it is expected to last for two weeks to break the chain of infection.“Though we are not going touch the public transport, the people will not be allowed to travel without valid reasons which include essential and medical services. Similarly, we are not going halt the long distance trains or the flight services... by keeping the trains and buses operating we want to ensure that the people stepping out for the vaccination, exams and urgent travel are not affected,” said an official privy to the matter.Ashok Chavan, the leader of the Congress party which is a part of the ruling Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA), said on Saturday that a lockdown of a few days is necessary and then relaxations can be given."The chief minister will hold a meeting with the state Covid task force on Sunday. There should be a balance when imposing restrictions to prevent coronavirus and necessary factors should also be considered while imposing restrictions," he added. Chavan said the "nature, scope and duration of the lockdown will be finalised soon".In a statement on Saturday, the chief minister's office (CMO) said that the situation is getting worse in Maharashtra. “On the one hand there is a public sentiment but on the other hand, there is an outbreak of coronavirus, in which case if you want to win this battle you have to go through some hardships,” the statement from CMO said quoting Thackeray.Congress leader Aslam Shaikh, who is also a minister, said the stringent measures announced by the state government to control the spread of the infection are not having any impact."Government is trying to avoid lockdown hence stringent measures were enforced including weekend lockdown. But it seems to have no effect on new Covid-19 cases," he said.An official said on the condition of anonymity that experts and the members of the task force are of the opinion that a lockdown needs to be imposed at least for two weeks to break the chain of the transmission of the virus.Maharashtra government has imposed a strict weekend lockdown from Friday night till 7am on Monday. But the proposed lockdown is expected to be stricter with public transport and private vehicles likely to be allowed only for essential reasons.The preparations of the revised standard operating procedures (SOPs) for the lockdown will begin from Sunday. Discussions on providing help and relief packages to the vulnerable groups may take place before SOPs are announced. These packages may include the distribution of foodgrain, cash assistance to construction workers and labourers among others.Maharashtra on Saturday reported 55,411 fresh Covid-19 cases and 309 fatalities, taking the tally to 33,43,951 and the toll to 57,638, the state health department said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/twoweek-lockdown-in-maharashtra-uddhav-thackeray-to-hold-crucial-meeting-today-101618104787101.html
11-04-2021||India||Protesting farmers block KMP Expressway in Haryana||Farmers protesting the Centre’s farm laws began their 24-hour blockade of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on Saturday in Haryana.The blockade was in response to a call from the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella group of farmer unions, to intensify their protest. Traffic between Ganaur and Murthal towns in Sonepat were particularly hit.Inderjit Singh, a leader of the Morcha, said only emergency vehicles were allowed to ply. Farmers from Sonepat brought their tractor-trollies and parked them in the middle of the six-lane highway, also known as the Western Peripheral Expressway. Lakha Sidhana, wanted by Delhi Police in connection with the Red Fort violence on Republic Day during the farmers’ tractor parade, was seen at Kundli.Traffic diversionsThe protest stranded scores of commuters at Ganaur and Murthal. Heavy police force was deployed in Rohtak, Sonepat and Jhajjar districts on Saturday and made diversions.On Friday, Sonepat superintendent of police Jashandeep Randhawa said people should try and avoid travelling on the expressway.“Heavy vehicles coming from Ambala and Chandigarh on NH-44 may go towards North/East Delhi, Ghaziabad and Noida via Karnal-Shamli-Baghpat-Khekra or from Panipat-Sanauli-Baghpat-Khekra to Ghaziabad and Noida. Similarly, vehicles going towards Gurugram can take NH-71A via Gohana, Rohtak, Jhajjar and Rewari,” the SP said.Light vehicles coming from Ambala and Chandigarh can travel to North/East Delhi and Noida/Ghaziabad via Baghpat, Khekra, Loni border from Bahalgarh, using NH-44.“It is advised that commuters in light vehicles from Ambala to South/West Delhi and Gurugram take a diversion from Bahalgarh to Sonepat-Barota-Narela or Bahalgarh-Sonepat City-Barota-Lampur-Bawana,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/protesting-farmers-block-kmp-expressway-in-haryana-101618097631482.html
11-04-2021||India||100 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered to Indians||India on Saturday became the third country in the world after the United States and China to have administered 100 million doses of the coronavirus vaccine, even as the country’s inoculation drive races to keep pace with an unprecedented nationwide second wave of Covid-19 infections.Until Saturday night, 101.3 million shots had been administered across the country to 88.6 million people, according to data released by the Union health ministry. A total of 76 million people have received one shot, while 12.6 million have been administered both shots of the vaccine.India is the fastest to 100 million vaccinations – it took the country 85 days to reach the milestone (vaccinations started on January 16). The US took 89 days to complete this feat, while China did so in 103 days, according to data maintained by Our World in Data.On Saturday, India added 152,449 new Covid-19 cases to its tally, taking its overall caseload to 13.35 million. This was the fifth day in row and the sixth time in the last week that India has broken all previous records for new Covid-19 infections.“The achievement [of administering 100 million doses] is … a testimony of the ‘whole of society’ approach where individuals turned a deaf ear to rumours and propaganda of vested interests, shunned their vaccine hesitancy and strengthened the hand of the administration in curbing Covid-19,” the Union health ministry said in a statement on Saturday night.“The extension of vaccine coverage to those above 45 years along with the recent provisions for them to get vaccinated at their workplaces (government and private) form a series of proactive, collaborative and coordinated steps taken by the Centre and the state governments for safety and prevention of precious lives from the infectious Covid disease,” it added.Despite this achievement, India’s path to vaccinating a majority of its population – the second largest in the world – is arduous and has not been without complications and hiccups.State governments and experts across the country have urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to open up the inoculation programme for all age groups in order to increase the pace of the drive, while several administrations have complained about shortage of vaccines over the past week, though this seems to be also a function of last mile issues within states. On Saturday, government data accessed by HT showed that a little under 40 million doses of the vaccine are either in stock with states or in the pipeline.Vaccination numbers gain even more significance right now because India is in the grip of a mammoth surge of infections under a second Covid-19 wave that is breaking all previous records.In a meeting of the PM with all chief ministers earlier this week, some the state leaders raised the issue of shortage of vaccines, but the Union health ministry pointed out that vaccines are not given for an extended period such as a month but for a maximum of 7-8 days. The states were also told that there is no shortage and replenishments will arrive every three or four days.Cases in the second wave have long surpassed the first wave peak both nationally, as well as in at least seven regions – Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh – with several others such as Delhi, Jharkhand and Goa appear set to surpass their previous peaks as well, according to HT’s dashboard.Experts, however, said there was still a long way to go.Dr Jacob John, former head of the department of virology at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, said, “We have been able to vaccinate less than 10% of the population in two-and-a-half months; so clearly we are not vaccinating enough. The need of the hour is for the government to assure people that the vaccine is safe because there is a lot of hesitancy.” He added that no matter how many people we immunise at the moment, it will not help in controlling the surge. “Controlling the spread of the infection was never our goal. Vaccinating those above the age of 60 and those with comorbidity, followed by people who are 45 years or older is aimed at reducing the number of deaths. If we had to control the spread of the infection, we would have to look at the people involved in the chain of transmission and vaccinate them. If we start doing that even today, it will be at least five weeks before there is any impact,” he said.Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung Hospital, said, “It is good that the vaccination drive is picking up pace, however, now there are places where the vaccines are not available. We don’t know how long the supply shortage will last. If we scale up the number of centres and timings without the doses we will be wasting our manpower that is already strained. We have undertaken a gigantic task, but if the government can’t deliver, it is better to open up to the private sector.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100-million-covid-19-vaccine-doses-administered-to-indians-101618096090983.html
11-04-2021||India||Sonia Gandhi meets CM s of Congress-led states on Covid, hits out at govt||Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Saturday accused the central government of “mismanaging” the Covid-19 situation in the country as she reviewed the efforts of the states led by her party amid a surge in the number of infections.Addressing a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of the Congress-ruled states and ministers of the party in states where it is in power in alliance with others, she said the priority should be to “test, track and vaccinate”.“The (Narendra) Modi government has mismanaged the Covid situation. It has exported the vaccines and allowed a shortage to be created in India,” the Congress chief said at the meeting.On Saturday, the country saw a record 152,449 new Covid-19 cases and 837 deaths.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot, his Punjab counterpart Amarinder Singh and Chhattisgarh CM Bhupesh Baghel were among those who participated in the meeting, people familiar with the details of the meeting said.Sonia Gandhi stressed that the priority should be the country’s vaccination drive. “We must focus on India’s vaccination drive first and foremost, then only export vaccines and gift them to other countries.”Her comments have come days after the PM, during a meeting with chief ministers, said vaccines will have to be prioritised and lamented that some people were playing politics on the issue. “Those who have the habit of doing politics, let them do so. I have faced much criticism, but we remain committed to serving the people,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-gandhi-meets-cm-s-of-congress-led-states-on-covid-hits-out-at-govt-101618093086505.html
11-04-2021||India||Allahabad high court Chief Justice tests positive for Covid-19||The Chief Justice of the Allahabad high court, Justice Govind Mathur, has tested positive for Covid-19, health officials familiar with the matter said late on Saturday.District Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rishi Sahai said the Chief Justice is in home isolation after testing positive.He said officials were keeping a close watch on Justice Mathur’s health and added that he was doing well.The health official said that the district registered its biggest single-day spike since the outbreak began with 1,682 new cases on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-chief-justice-tests-positive-for-covid19-101618091733118.html
11-04-2021||India||‘Non-conventional energy, tourism to boost economy’: Ladakh L-G||Leh For much of 20 months since it was carved out as a Union Territory from Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh has been in the news for a tense military standoff between India and China. In his first sit-down interview at a makeshift Raj Bhawan in Leh, Ladakh’s first lieutenant governor, Radha Krishna Mathur, speaks to Ramesh Vinayak about his road map and priorities, and the challenges he faces in helming the region. Edited excerpts:What has changed in Ladakh since its inception as a UT on August 5, 2019?The foremost challenge was to set up an effective administration and ensure it works 12 months, and not for a limited period. Initiating administrative functioning with just two secretaries holding eight departments each has been a daunting task. However, with additional secretaries and other officers joining along the way, we now have a full-fledged administrative structure. That is the first basic change.The second part is that you need things to work in winter. Ladakh was run primarily on diesel sets. The power supply was not even for 12 hours. Luckily, connectivity with the national grid came around the same time when the UT was formed. So, this was perhaps the first winter where people got almost 24x7 supply, but only in 60% of the areas covered by the network. This is a big change. During winter, even simple things such as fresh vegetables and drinking water are a luxury. We managed to give these things, not in full measure but in good measure, so that the winter becomes liveable. The fundamental question for the new UT was whether we continue with the old Jammu and Kashmir-centric vision or develop a new Ladakh-centric vision. We opted for the latter and had to start de novo.What are the areas in which Ladakh is yet to sever its umbilical cord with its erstwhile parent state?There’s a still an overlap. The process of separation is not complete, particularly the staff and asset distribution. That will take its own timeBut Ladakh still doesn’t have its own administrative service?A call on the inclusion of the UT in the AGMUT cadre has been taken. A feeder service can come up now. We have submitted a proposal to the Union home ministry for the constitution of the Ladakh Administrative Service. They might have to take a view whether it should be a service centred on Ladakh or does it become part of the service such as DANICS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Civil Service). It is a work in progress.What are your big-ticket plans for Ladakh?Non-conventional energy is a major sector here. There is a possibility of 33 gigawatts of production of power of which 26 gigawatts can be solar. The rest of it is distributed over wind, hydel and geo-thermal. We have signed an agreement with Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited for the country’s first geo-thermal project. For now, it is for only one megawatt because it is exploratory. We have signed an agreement for a 50-MW project with Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECI), which is working on a 10,000-MW plant announced by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Independence Day.Tapping non-conventional energy in a big way is a priority, derived from the Prime Minister’s vision to make Ladakh carbon neutral. This can change the face of Ladakh both in terms of employment and energy.Has the prolonged military stand-off with China on its eastern border impacted Ladakh?Positively. It’s a quirk of the situation. It’s not as if anybody wants a dispute but because the army had to be deployed in large numbers, they had to make arrangements for civil works and logistics. During Covid times, people of Ladakh got jobs. The odd situation is it has benefited in terms of income of the people.How do you allay fears among locals about the influx of outsiders to Ladakh?The Government of India has not made a UT to hurt the people of Ladakh; it is to benefit them. So, nothing will be decided against the wishes of the people.Ladakh has a rich potential in tourism. What is your road map?Tourism forms 50% of Ladakh’s GDP. We get three lakh tourists every year. So far, it been centred on specific routes. That brings pressure on Leh and Kargil towns. We have three-fold plans for tourism. One, making it a year-round activity despite the harsh winter. This year, we organised a month-long festival at Zanskar at -35 degrees Celsius. The second piece involves harnessing tourism. That will promote homestays. The third area entails developing new tourism products. For example, a pilot project on astro-tourism is underway by developing the Dark Sky Park at Changthang, which would enable an astronomy enthusiast to experience the starry night skies of Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nonconventional-energy-tourism-to-boost-economy-ladakh-lg-101618091643952.html
11-04-2021||India||Man accused of raping British woman in Goa held in Karnataka||A man accused of raping a British woman in Goa was held in Hoskote in neighbouring Karnataka, seven months after he escaped for the second time from a jail in Colvale, police said on Saturday.According to the police, the accused, Yellappa, was arrested from Hoskote in Karnataka on April 9. “A joint team of the Goa Police apprehended from Hoskote and placed under arrest,” SP crime branch Shobit Saksena said. Yellappa is accused of raping a British woman tourist in Canacona village in 2018, and he had managed to escape from jail in September last year, as well as earlier in June, 2019, being held from Bengaluru on that occasion, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-accused-of-raping-british-woman-in-goa-held-in-karnataka-101618090643379.html
11-04-2021||India||Dollar smuggling case: Customs dept questions Kerala assembly Speaker||The Customs department questioned Kerala legislative assembly speaker P Sreeramakrishnan for nearly five hours at his official residence on Saturday in connection with the dollar smuggling case. Later, his private flat in the state capital was also searched.“They sought explanation on certain matters with regard to the Dollar scam and spent less than two hours and were satisfied,” the Speaker’s office told news agency PTI.The central board’s action comes following the Speaker’s failure to appear before the probe team in Kochi despite multiple summons.The dollar smuggling case pertains to the alleged smuggling of ₹1.30 crore by a former head of the finance department of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate at the state capital to Muscat in Oman.The speaker was questioned on the basis of statements given by two main accused in the gold smuggling case Swapna Suresh and Sandeep Nair. They reportedly told officials that the speaker was close to many officials of the consulate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/dollar-smuggling-case-customs-dept-questions-kerala-assembly-speaker-101618090304467.html
11-04-2021||India||48-year-old man held from Kolkata for job fraud||A 48-year-old man was arrested from Kolkata for allegedly duping over two dozen people across the country on the pretext of high-paying jobs in countries such as Canada and the US, police said on Saturday.The suspect, Samir Arvind Parekh, who is a labour contractor, allegedly used to post fake international job offers online and collected money from aspirants in the name of registration fee, medical examination and interviews.His arrest was made following a case filed by a woman from south Delhi’s Chhattarpur. She and her partner were duped of ₹72,000 after being offered jobs as a chef in the US, said DCP (south) Atul Kumar Thakur.In March, the woman came across an advertisement and contacted Parekh. The person offered her $2,000 per month as salary. When she expressed interest, Parekh asked her to pay him money as registration, said DCP Thakur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/48yearold-man-held-from-kolkata-for-job-fraud-101618084041993.html
11-04-2021||India||Karnataka logs nearly 7k new cases as 10-day night curfew begins||Bengaluru: Karnataka on Friday logged 6,955 new Covid-19 cases and 36 related fatalities, taking the total number of infections to 1.5 million and the toll to 12,849, the health department said on Saturday. Bengaluru, which recorded its highest ever single day spike in Covid- 19 infections on Thursday, witnessed a marginal dip with 4,384 new cases and 29 deaths. On Thursday, the city had reported 5,576 cases and 29 fatalities. In a bid to stop this Covid-19 surge in the state, a 10-day night curfew or Corona curfew’ has been imposed in Bengaluru and 6 districts —Mysuru, Mangaluru, Kalaburagi, Bidar, Tumakuru and Udupi-Manipal cities. The night curfew will be enforced from 10 pm till 5am everyday till April 20. Bengaluru police commissioner Kamal Pant in an order issued ??? said that operation of medical emergency services will be allowed during the curfew. “Operation of factories/companies and establishments working in night shift (will be allowed to travel). However, employees shall reach their work before 10 pm and shall leave only by 5 am,” read the order. It further allowed movements of vehicles used for essential services, transportation of goods will be allowed. “People arriving or leaving Bengaluru city by bus/train/air may travel to their place of stay or bus stand/railway station/airport through any mode of transport subject to production of travel document,” read the order.The state government has directed officials concerned to strictly implement the order. It said action will be taken under the Disaster Management Act 2005, IPC and other acts against those found violating it.The first time Bengaluru breached the four-figure mark in 2021 was on March 19 when the city reported 1037 cases. It took just nine days to touch 2,000 cases, 14 days to breach the 3,000 mark and 18 days to cross 4,000. Bengaluru reported almost 5,000 cases in the last 24 hours on Wednesday. The total number of active cases in Bengaluru jumped to 44,863 while it went up to 61,653 across Karnataka. While the positivity rate remained around 7.04% across the state, Bengaluru accounted for 63% of all cases reported on Saturday (24 hours of Friday). Bidar, which shares its borders with Maharashtra, reported 215 new infections that take its active case count to 1,626, while Kalaburagi, next to Bidar, recorded 276 new infections, according to government data. 74 new infections were reported from Chikkaballapur, 137 in Dakshina Kannada, 100 in Hassan, 119 in Mandya, 266 in Mysuru, 206 in Tumakuru and 71 in Vijayapura. Meanwhile, Karnataka government on Saturday made it clear that it would not hold back any examination or stop academic activities due to Covid-19. “The examinations at university-level, including degree, post-graduation, engineering, diploma and all other courses, will be conducted as per schedule. Karnataka deputy chief minister Dr C N Ashwath Narayan told reporters in Bengaluru.Narayan, who holds the higher education portfolio, said the academic activities for the year 2021-22 have already been delayed and there should not be further delay. If delayed, the cycle of course period, test, results, employment, further studies would get cut, he said.Measures have been taken to ensure the academic activities for the year 2021-22 are not affected, he said. “After the completion of the examinations that are being conducted now, there will be no summer holidays. Functioning of the classes will begin immediately and there will be both offline and online classes,” he said.Online classes would be started quite early, Narayan said adding: It would be mandatory for students either to attend online or offline classes.He, however, said the universities and colleges have to follow the standard operating procedure to check the spread of the disease.According to him, the Integrated Learning Management System (LMS) has already been implemented in view of COVID-19.“Students are facilitated to learn from the locations wherever they are and 2.70 lakh tablet PCs have been distributed,” Narayan pointed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/karnataka-logs-nearly-7k-new-cases-as-10-day-night-curfew-begins-101618081346286.html
11-04-2021||India||Beneficiaries get messages about completion of Covid-19 vaccination without getting second doses||Redwan Uddin Laskar, a journalist from Assam’s Cachar, received his first Covid-19 vaccine dose on April 8 and looked forward to his second jab. But hours after he received his first dose, he got a message on his mobile phone that his vaccination has been completed. “Now I have the final vaccination certificate without getting the vaccine,” said Laskar. A health worker, who did not want to be named, echoed Laskar. “I was planning to visit the [local] health centre [for the second dose] on 45th day but… I got a message [about completion of the vaccination]. Now I am confused whether they will give me the second dose at all.” Many vaccine beneficiaries in the region have said that from April 7, they started getting messages that they have completed the course by receiving second doses without actually getting them. The messages contain a link through which they can get the final vaccination certificate. Some of them have downloaded the certificates which have doctors, who injected them the first dose, confirming that the second has also been given. District immunisation officer Sumona Naiding said the messages have been sent in a handful of cases. “We are trying to determine the source of the error. It is not happening in the Cachar district only. We have heard that people in other districts also have received the same message without getting the second dose,” she said. “I would suggest the person who received the SMS to visit the vaccination centre immediately and furnish the certificate and get the second dose,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/beneficiaries-get-messages-about-completion-of-covid-19-vaccination-without-getting-second-doses-101618081287662.html
11-04-2021||India||Ruling CPI (M) rallies behind indicted Kerala minister KT Jaleel||The ruling Communist Party of India (Marxist) on Saturday rallied behind beleaguered state higher education minister KT Jaleel who was found guilty by the Lokayukta for appointing his cousin in an important post flouting all norms. Talking to the media, Law Minister A K Balan said there was no need for the minister to resign now. “No law states that a relative can’t be appointed. He did not even complete one month after his appointment. There is no need of resignation based on the observations of a lower court,” said the minister. Later Jaleel also took to social media saying he will approach the High Court on Monday against the verdict. The Lokayukta on Friday found him guilty of nepotism and abuse of power in the appointment of his second cousin KT Adeeb as the general manager of the Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation Limited. It also observed that he can’t continue in the post and recommended the Chief Minister to take appropriate action against him. But Balan said the CM will get three months to take a decision on this and there was no need for the minister to rush with his resignation. As the government defended the minister the opposition stepped up pressure for his resignation. “If an iota of morality is left in the CM he should sack the minister immediately,” said opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala. Minister of State for External Affairs V Muraleedharan, also hailing from the state, said Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan should expel him for violating his oath of office. There was a big uproar when Adeeb was appointed allegedly flouting all norms and later he was forced to resign in 2018. Later a lawyer V K Mohammad Shafi had filed a complaint with the Lokayukta which on Friday agreed with the contention of the petitioner that he was appointed flouting all norms. A controversial minister, his name also figured in the gold smuggling case. After the gold smuggling case involving the UAE consulate came to light in 2020, Jaleel was questioned by the Customs and Enforcement Directorate on several occasions. Trouble began for him after phone call records of Swapna Suresh, main accused in the case, were leaked to the media. The minister’s phone number figured prominently in her list. Soon after the list came out, the minister said he called Suresh as a consular employee in connection with Ramadan kits offered by the UAE consulate in the state capital. Hailing from the Muslim-majority Malappuram district, he had earlier created enough headaches for the government in an alleged mark donation move to a failed student and other cases but his proximity to the CM saved him from major trouble. A former member of the banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) he later joined the Muslim League. But later he left the League and joined the LDF camp and he was instrumental in CPI(M) getting inroads in the Muslim heartland of Malappuram....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ruling-cpi-m-rallies-behind-indicted-kerala-minister-kt-jaleel-101618080866868.html
11-04-2021||India||30-year-old Covid positive man dies on train||A 30-year-old man died allegedly of Covid-19 complications on board the Ahmedabad-Barauni super-fast express on Friday, even as railway officials said that they were “not aware of his Covid status”.Muzaffarpur station house officer of the Government Railway Police, Dinesh Kumar Sahu, said that the deceased, Rajesh Kumar Chowdhary, boarded the train from Ahmedabad with his wife, Chhaya Devi, and two children.“He boarded the train at Ahmedabad along with his wife and two kids. He was treated at Danapur railway station after his condition deteriorated,” Sahu said. His wife was carrying his Covid-19 test report, he said.He tested positive for Covid-19 in Surat on April 5, Kumar’s wife said. “The doctors from Surat advised him to get admitted in the hospital. But he decided to return home,” Devi said. Kumar hailed from Narvara in Bihar’s Sheohar and was living in Surat where he worked for a private company.Railway officials, however, said they were not aware that Kumar tested positive. “Rajesh Kumar Chowdhary was travelling from Surat to Muzaffarpur, and passed away in train near Patna. He was treated at Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya station. We are not aware about his Covid status,” said chief public relation officer, East central railway, Rajesh Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/30yrold-covid-positive-man-dies-on-train-101618080686045.html
11-04-2021||India||Disengage from friction points, Army tells China||During the latest 11th round of military talks with China in eastern Ladakh to reduce tensions along the Line of Actual Control (LAC), the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points on the disputed border would set the stage for the two sides to “consider de-escalation of forces, ensure full restoration of peace and tranquillity, and enable progress in bilateral relations”, the Indian army said a day after the talks.The two armies had a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to disengagement along the LAC, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand said on Saturday.India and China have been locked in standoff in the Ladakh sector for over 11 months and are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the disputed border. The 11th round of talks took place on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point on Friday and went on for 13 hours.The focus of current military talks is on negotiating the next steps of a complex disengagement process that was completed in Pangong Tso in mid-February with the pull back of front-line troops and weapons. The Indian Army is focussing on resolving outstanding problems with the PLA at Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang.Also Read| China capable of launching cyber attacks, disrupting systems: CDS Rawat“The two sides agreed on the need to resolve the outstanding issues in an expeditious manner in accordance with the existing agreements and protocols…The two sides agreed that it was important to take guidance from the consensus of their leaders, continue their communication and dialogue and work towards a mutually acceptable resolution of the remaining issues at the earliest,” Anand said. He added that the two armies also agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground and avoid any new incidents.It is good that both sides continue to engage each other, said former Northern Army commander Lieutenant General DS Hooda (retd).“The Indian side has clearly linked the de-escalation of forces and full restoration of peace with disengagement in remaining areas. We will have to now see what the Chinese response is. That will give some indication of how things go forward,” Hooda added. There was no official statement from the Chinese side when this report was filed.While disengagement began and ended in the Pangong Lake sector in less than 10 days, it appears to have lost its initial momentum going by the lack of progress at other friction points on the LAC.The PLA’s deployments in Depsang have hindered access of Indian soldiers to routes including the ones leading to Patrolling Points (PP) 10, 11, 11-A, 12 and 13.The Indian Army’s patrolling activity has also been affected in Gogra and Hot Springs, where rival troops are forward deployed and where skeletal disengagement took place last year, but the gains could not be consolidated.Also Read| Bhutan, China hold expert group meeting on boundary disputeThe 10th round of talks between corps commander-rank officers of the two armies took place on February 20 after the completion of disengagement on strategic heights on both banks of Pangong Tso. Both sides pulled back their front-line troops, tanks, infantry combat vehicles and artillery guns under the disengagement agreement.At a marathon 16-hour meeting between senior commanders on February 20, the Indian and Chinese armies agreed to resolve outstanding issues at friction points on the LAC in a “steady and orderly” manner and were unanimous that the Pangong Tso disengagement provided “a good basis” for resolving pending problems.Many more rounds of talks will be required to break the current deadlock, people familiar with the military dialogue said.“There has been no progress on hammering out a disengagement plan for the other friction points. It will take more time for the two sides to build a consensus on that,” said a senior army officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/disengage-from-friction-points-army-tells-china-101618080572909.html
11-04-2021||India||Acting Maharashtra DGP begins probe against ex-Mumbai top cop Param Bir Singh||The Maharashtra government appointed Sanjay Pandey, director general of the state security corporation, as the acting police chief through an order issued late Friday night and assigned him the probe against former Mumbai police commissioner Param Bir Singh to contain the fallout of extortion allegations that have roiled the ruling coalition.Based on a report by Mumbai police commissioner Hemant Nagrale, the home department initiated a departmental enquiry (DE) against Singh. Acting DGP Pandey is expected to submit a report in a few weeks after examining if Singh kept the government in the dark about the outcome of the initial investigation along with whether the allegations levelled by him against former home minister Anil Deshmukh have substance, people familiar with the matter said on Saturday. Under the direction of the Bombay high court, the Central Bureau of Investigation is also conducting a preliminary enquiry into the latter.“Pandey is an upright officer with high integrity. Though he was sidelined by subsequent governments for various reasons, the decision to appoint him as acting DGP is a strategic move. He is expected to play a key role in repairing the mess in the police force and take action against ‘errant’ officials,” said a home department official who did not wish to be named.The probe was ordered through a letter issued by the home department on April 1 stating that the DE was being ordered under provisions of the All India Services (Conduct) Rules. Singh, soon after he was shunted out of the top post, wrote to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20 and alleged that the then home minister Deshmukh forced crime branch officers to extort ₹100 crore a month from bars, restaurants and hookah parlours.Also Read| Probe against Anil Deshmukh: Experts say Maharashtra govt panel’s findings to be redundantThe report by Nagrale said suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, prime accused in the Antilia explosives scare, was reporting directly to Singh. The report said Vaze’s appointment in the crime intelligence unit was on the insistence of Singh despite being strongly opposed by the then joint police commissioner (crime).“The probe will throw light on whether Singh failed in his duty to control Vaze and whether he had any role in Vaze’s actions. It will also be conducted to find out if Singh failed to apprise the government of the facts related to the Antilia case, on which leader of the opposition Devendra Fadnavis seemed to have more information than the home department,” said an official from Mantralaya, the seat of administration in the state.The probe will examine if the letter written by Singh was leaked to the media by him.“It was his responsibility to ensure that the issue was raised through the right channel and it should not have leaked out. He has also moved courts against the state government demanding a probe by central agencies. This has led to denting the image of the state government and the probe will also look into it,” said the officer cited above.The government appointed 1986-batch IPS officer Pandey as he was the most senior among the director generals, altering an earlier decision to name Rajnish Seth (1988 batch) as acting DGP after the then incumbent Hemant Nagrale was picked as Mumbai police commissioner on March 17.Pandey wrote a four-page letter to Thackeray last month after he was denied the appointment, complaining of injustice.Also Read| Antilia bomb scare case: Sachin Vaze in judicial custody till April 23“You overlooked me for the post of DG Anti Corruption Bureau which was given to a junior officer, despite the tradition of giving it to the senior-most officer. I was sidelined even when it came to the appointment to the post of Mumbai police commissioner. When Subodh Jaiswal chose to go on central deputation, the additional charge was not given to me, but again to a junior officer and it was illegal as per the SC ruling in the Prakash Singh case. A career built over several years is thus demolished just due to some personal prejudices,” that letter said.He was ultimately picked as the government did not wish to muddy the waters further in the state’s premier law-enforcement agency, said officials in the know.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/acting-maha-dgp-begins-probe-against-param-bir-101618080572324.html
11-04-2021||India||Gyanvapi case litigant gets threat to life: Cops||Harihar Pandey, one of three litigants who filed a case in a civil court in 1991 seeking permission to offer Hindu prayers at the Gyanvapi mosque compound in Varanasi received a threat to life on Thursday evening after which he was provided security, police said on Saturday.The call came days after a Varanasi court on Thursday ordered an archaeological survey of the centuries-old mosque complex abutting the Kashi Vishwanath temple, saying the exercise was required to decide on pleas that allege the Muslim place of worship was built by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb after partially demolishing a Hindu shrine.“This court finds that a survey by ASI (Archaeological Survey of India) alone can bring out the truth before this court. Irrespective of what surfaces, the survey by the ASI may go on to help not only the plaintiffs, but also to the defendants, if their version is indeed true,” the order read.Muslim parties opposed the decision and said they will approach the Allahabad high court.Pandey along with Sonmantha Vyas and Rangnath Sharma is a petitioner in the case. The three had filed the case on behalf of Swayambhu Lord Vishweshwar.Pandey said on Thursday that he received a call from an unknown number wherein a person threatened him saying that even though he had won the case he would not be able to get a survey done by the ASI and would face serious consequences.Pandey said he filed a police complaint on Friday. Assistant commissioner of police, Dashshwamedh, Awadhesh Pandey said a probe was being conducted and two policemen were deployed for the complainant’s personal security. The mobile number from which the call was made was being traced, he said.Civil judge (senior division) Ashutosh Tiwari ordered a five-member committee -- comprising two members each from the Hindu and the Muslim side and an archaeological expert -- to oversee a “comprehensive physical survey”.A court-appointed observer will chair the panel. The ASI will conduct the exercise at its expense without any media briefings, the judge ordered. The court fixed May 31 as the next date of hearing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/gyanvapi-case-litigant-gets-threat-to-life-cops-101618080566167.html
11-04-2021||India||Bihar senior cop lynched during Bengal raid, 3 arrested: police||A senior Bihar police official was allegedly lynched by a mob in Islampur police district West Bengal’s North Dinajpur district on Saturday when he was in the area to conduct a raid in connection with a motorcycle theft, officials said.Three people have been arrested in connection with the lynching, the officials added.According to officials, station house officer of the Kishanganj police station Ashwani Kumar led a police team to Pantapara village near Panjipara under Goalpokhar police station area Islampur district of West Bengal early on Saturday morning when a mob attacked them. Kumar, 50, died on the spot, the officials said.Purnia range inspector general Suresh Choudhary said, “The police forces led by SHO had gone to conduct a raid in connection with a theft in Pantapara village of West Bengal adjacent to Kishanganj district of Bihar when a mob attacked the police team killing the SHO on the spot.” Kumar was a resident of Bihar’s Purnia district.The other officers who accompanied the deceased officer managed to escape, he said.“We along with Islampur (West Bengal) police have started carrying out raids to nab the [other] accused,” the IG said. A post mortem examination of the SHO was conducted at the Islampur hospital, he added.Officials familiar with the matter said that liquor smugglers active in West Bengal might have led the attack on the SHO.ADG (Headquarters) (Bihar) Jitendra Kumar said that the Purnia range IG Suresh Choudhary and Kishanganj SP Kumar Ashish have reached the crime scene in North Dinajpur district.Ashish said that three main accused have been arrested from Pantpara village.“Two men and their mother have been arrested and raids are on to nab the others,” a police officer, who was part of the SHO’s team, said. The arrested accused have been identified as Firoz Alam and Abuzar Alam and their mother, Sayeeda Begum, said Ashish.“Two men and their mother have been arrested and raids are on to nab the others,” a police officer, who was part of the SHO’s team, said. The arrested accused have been identified as Firoz Alam, his brother Abuzar Alam and their mother Shahinoor Khatun.Ashish said that the service revolver and mobile phones of the SHO have been recovered. “The [murder] case has been registered at Goalpokhar police station of WB,” he added.Following the incident, the Bihar police accused officials in the neighbouring state of non-cooperation.“We continued to call local police, but they didn’t respond to our calls…The SHO (Kumar) talked to the local police station of WB before conducting the raid but they didn’t come forward to assist us,” an official who was part of Kumar’s team said requesting anonymity.“The West Bengal police didn’t help us for political reasons,” he said.“Due to elections in West Bengal the ruling government there does not want to disturb their vote banks,” said the officer.He also said that the Bengal police were initially registering a case of unnatural death, but a case of murder later.A case has been registered under sections of 302, 326, 147, 148 and 149 of IPC. The Kishanganj SP suspended all the eight cops including a circle inspector who escaped from the spot when the mob caught and mercilessly thrashed the town SHO.The Purnia range IG, however, said, “Islampur SP is with us and we’ll soon arrest all those involved in the incident.”“The team had come to us around 2:30 am on Saturday . As elections were going on in the state and our men were already deployed, we requested them to reschedule the raid. We never knew that they went ahead with the raid. We have already arrested three persons. It is a very unfortunate and tragic incident,” said Sachin Makkar, superintendent of Islampur police district.Bihar director general of police SK Singhal said that his Bengal counterpart, P Niraj Nayan has assured him full cooperation in the case. “All those involved with the incident must be identified for action,” Singhal said.Condemning the incident, Bihar police association president Mrityunjay Singh said, “There is nothing called law and order or any governance in West Bengal. The inspector had followed all procedures and informed the concerned police station before reaching there for carrying out raid. However, he got no support from the local police station, while criminals managed counter-attack.”The association has written to the Bihar home department for an ex gratia of ₹1 crore for the family of the deceased officer, Singh said. “The union home ministry should take cognizance of the incident for proper action in the incident and ensure payment of compensation to the family members of the slain police officer,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-senior-cop-lynched-during-bengal-raid-3-arrested-police-101618080447242.html
11-04-2021||India||Capital’s positivity rate jumps to 10.2%, 7,897 new Covid cases recorded||Delhi’s positivity rate – proportion of samples that test positive – jumped to 10.2% on Saturday, registering a double digit ratio for the first time in 138 days since November 24. There were 7,897 new cases of coronavirus disease and 39 deaths due to the infection reported on Saturday, according to the daily health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Experts had expected the number of cases to cross the previous peak of the city of 8,593 cases reported on November 11 when the city saw its third surge in cases. However, the drop in the cases as well as the sudden increase in positivity rate, which is representative of the ongoing transmission of the infection, could be because of fewer Covid-19 test conducted. The city recorded 77,374 tests on Saturday as compared to 89,334 tests conducted daily on average over the last seven days. The daily number of tests crossed the 100,000 mark twice within the week. “Based on the known natural history of the infection, the cases are likely to continue the increasing trend till April end; the infection usually follows a 12-week course, with the decline starting at around six week. If the numbers stabilise and remain almost same for five to seven days, we will know that we have reached the peak and the decline will start,” said Dr SK Sarin, director, Institute of Liver and Biliary Sciences. He headed Delhi government’s initial committee on control and management of Covid-19. He expressed concern over the increasing number of deaths. The average number of deaths recorded each day almost tripled over the last one week. Delhi reported 25 Covid-19 deaths on average daily during the last seven days as compared nine the week before and six the week before that. With a high number of cases, the case fatality ratio – proportion of deaths among positive cases – continues to be low at 0.41% average over the last seven days. “There is no evidence to suggest that the infection this time is milder. However, there is less fatality as compared to last year because now people are better aware about the infection and come to the hospital on time; most of them have pulse oximeter and monitor their oxygen saturation continuously. In addition, the hospitals have also finalised their treatment protocols, they know what works when. However, the deaths will continue to increase at the moment. The peak for the number of death usually comes seven to ten days after the number of cases peaks,” said Dr GC Khilnani, former head of the department of pulmonology at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The number of hospitalisations have also doubled over the last seven days from 2,727 recorded on April 4 to 5,398 on April 10. The Delhi government has repeatedly increased the number of beds earmarked for Covid-19 in government and private hospitals over the week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/capitals-positivity-rate-jumps-to-10-2-7-897-new-covid-cases-recorded-101618080386181.html
11-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Frontline workers urge others to take the shot, advise caution||At 11.10am on January 16, sanitation worker Manish Kumar became the first person in India to get the Covid-19 vaccine, marking a personal triumph for the 34-year-old employee of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences who overcame the fear and disapproval of friends and family to get the jab.Almost three months down the line, Kumar has received both shots of Covaxin, manufactured by Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech, but continues to adhere to Covid-19 protocol – wearing a mask wherever he goes, washing hands constantly, and maintaining distancing when he is out.“The vaccine is not Shaktimaan. You cannot stop wearing mask and roam around just because you have got a shot,” said Kumar. “But if you are vaccinated, then Covid-19 will graze past you.”A resident of Najafgarh in outer Delhi, Kumar was a sanitation machine operator for eight years and received the shot flanked by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and AIIMS director Randeep Guleria. He was among the first people in the hospital to volunteer for the vaccine but was forced to keep his wife, mother and best friend in the dark because of their strong apprehension of side effects.Also Read| As vaccination drive picks up pace, challenges remainHis mother Laxmi Rani, who is also a sanitation worker at the hospital, has been vaccinated and he is trying to convince his brother Brijesh, who works with airline carrier Indigo, for the same. This is a matter of deep personal satisfaction for Kumar because Rani was deeply opposed to the shot earlier, and even tried to convince her son to opt out of the drive.Vaccination has become even more critical in Delhi with a mammoth second wave of infections driving up caseloads in the Capital. Kumar says he knows of people who were infected during the current wave even after getting both shots – after all, no vaccine has 100% efficiency – and urged all his colleagues and neighbours to get it to be as safe as possible.When Kumar received the shot, the drive was open only to healthcare and frontline workers. It has since then been opened up to anyone above 45, but vaccine hesitancy and misinformation continue to hobble the drive. The sanitation worker had to convince his childhood friend Shaukat Ali for days to get the shot because of fears of adverse effects.“When the vaccination drive was being rolled out, no one wanted to come forward. I volunteered. When they saw nothing happened to me, around 40 of my peers came forward to get vaccinated the same day. But, when some among them did get some adverse effects, 40 or 50 people they knew did not get the shot. There are many who did not take their second shot because they got a fever or rash after the first one,” said Kumar.He believed this decision was without logic. “Even children also get fever when they get their shots.”Biji Tomy agreed. A 49-year-old staff nurse from Delhi’s Lok Nayak hospital, Tomy received her first shot of Covishield vaccine on January 16 but continued to take all precautions.“I do not step out without a mask and when I go home from work I wash all my clothes. I may be immunised, but I can pass on the infection to my family,” she said.“My husband will get his shot in a couple of days. I tell whomever I meet to get the shot. When the government is offering the facility of getting a vaccine for free, why shouldn’t we get it?” she said.Also Read| 20-30% people lose natural immunity against Covid in 6 months, new study findsShe is hopeful that the vaccine will protect her from severe disease, and that its benefits will be visible as cases steadily rise in the city. “The hospital is again increasing the number of Covid-19 beds, so sooner or later I will have to work in the Covid-19 wards again. Although I know people who got the infection even after being vaccinated, the disease was not severe. I hope none of us get a severe disease now that we are vaccinated,” she said.Other than getting immunised, Tomy hopes people will stop going out unnecessarily, avoid big weddings and events, and wear masks. “We do not want to spend another summer in personal protective equipment (PPE) kits. Staying in the suit is very difficult in peak summer months without drinking water. All the healthcare workers did it last year. We do not want to do it again,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/frontline-workers-urge-others-to-take-the-shot-advise-caution-101618080206219.html
11-04-2021||India||Covid-19 in India: 100 million vaccine doses administered in 85 days||On April 10, India administered its 100th million doses of the Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, a feat that was achieved in 85 days, the fastest in the world. The US did this in 89 days and China in 102 days. The journey, however, has seen its fair share of ups and downs.Prime Minister Narendra Modi launched the nationwide Covid-19 immunisation drive on January 16. From 200,000 vaccine doses that were administered on day 1, the country has seen as high as 4.3 million doses also administered in a single day last week.The aim is to target at least 5 million.Since the day of the launch, experts in the government have been working hard on scaling up vaccinations to ensure the maximum number of vulnerable beneficiaries are covered as fast as possible.Also Read| Covid-19: Frontline workers urge others to take the shot, advise caution“The government managed to scale up significantly in a short span of time, and there will be a further increase in weeks to come as we are looking at vaccinating at least 5 million beneficiaries per day. India has the requisite capacity, as under the Polio immunisation programme, the government has managed to vaccinate 170 million children in a week,” said Dr NK Arora, national task force member on Covid-19 vaccine related matters.“The safety and efficacy of both the vaccines currently in use in the country has been well-established,” he added.On day one, the facility was opened for all health care workers, later, on February 2, frontline workers were also eligible for the shot, and on March 1, the government opened up vaccinations for those over the age of 60 years or those above 45 with specified co-morbidities. On April 1, it opened up Covid-19 vaccination to everyone over the age of 45.The beginning By January 3, India had approved two indigenous Covid-19 vaccines . Close to 85 countries received made-in-India vaccines in the form of grants, commercial contracts, or as part of the COVAX mechanism of WHO.The two vaccines in use under the national Covid-19 vaccination programme are: Covaxin and Covishield.Covaxin, an inactivated whole virion vaccine, is co-developed by Bharat Biotech International Ltd., and the Indian Council of Medical Research. The Serum Institute of India manufactures Oxford-AstraZeneca’s recombinant chimpanzee adenovirus vector vaccine under the brand name Covishield.“It is one of the great achievements indeed, as it has become one of the qualifiers to be called a developed nation these days, after the race to go to space, and the race to become a nuclear power. India had managed space and nuclear programme both, and now the country has also become a vaccine superpower,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), and secretary, department of health research.“Covaxin has been literally developed from scratch in India.”It’s base, Dr Bhargava pointed out was “the virus strain that came from China through a medical student, and was isolated at ICMR-National Institute of Virology in Pune on March 9.”ICMR-National Institute of Virology transferred the virus isolate to Bharat Biotech around the end of April.Courting Controversies Both the vaccines have been surrounded by their share of controversies. The drugs controller general of India (DCGI), Dr VG Somani, approved Covaxin for restricted use in emergency situation under the ‘clinical trial mode’ without the firm having submitted the phase 3 efficacy data, a move for which the government was criticised. Many experts, including country’s one of the top vaccinologists, Dr Gagandeep Kang, said at the time that they had never heard of this kind of approval previously.Clinical trial mode required Bharat Biotech to administer the vaccine after taking an informed consent of the recipients, and actively follow-up all individuals who were given their jab.“In a non-emergency situation, safety, immunogenicity and efficacy data is required. Existing pandemic situation with high mortality, available science, and a lack of definitive treatment are considered by subject expert committee for accelerated approval that is in our legal provision. In a pandemic situation restricted use is considered based on safety, and immunogenicity data while phase 3 trial is still ongoing,” explained Bhargava. Also Read| As vaccination drive picks up pace, challenges remain“Immunogenicity data generated through phase 2 clinical trial serves as a surrogate for efficacy, and the clinical trials rule 2019, provides for considering phase 2 results to guide approval. The subject expert committee guides the DCGI in the process of decision-making for restricted use under emergency situation,” he said.Vaccine Hesitancy versus eagerness For a few weeks, the government had to deal with vaccine hesitancy among public, especially against Covaxin because of lack of adequate data.“Vaccine hesitancy was something that has been there in all countries; it has got nothing to do with Covid-19. Probably the degree was slightly more in Covid-19 across countries. The only way to address it was by engaging repeatedly with the beneficiary group; by trying to address all their concerns and confusions. That was our advice to all state governments,” said a senior government official who asked not to be named.Another important step that the government took to encourage more beneficiaries to come forward was to allow walk-in vaccine registrations, and open the facility up for all individuals above 45 years of age.“The daily vaccinations saw a sharp rise after April 1,” said one of the officials in Delhi government involved in the vaccination process.Opening up vaccinations for general public, however, led to another problem that of vaccine eagerness, especially among the younger people.Dealing with vaccine Shortages As more people started coming forward to take the jab states started complaining of vaccine shortages, although at least some of this had to do with last mile issues.“There is no shortage of vaccines; we have made data available publicly. It’s just some states making noise that has no substance. The entire process of procurement, distribution and consumption is being closely monitored at the highest level. The government has taken several pro-active steps to ensure people of India have access to high quality vaccines, and if you look at the number of people vaccinated at such a short span of time, it is a remarkable achievement on India’s part. Our PM has ably guided us in this entire process,” said Union health minister, Harsh Vardhan.Government data reviewed by HT shows that there are, as of Saturday evening, close to 40 million doses with the states or in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/100mn-doses-administered-in-85-days-101618080146140.html
11-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Jharkhand records 2,373 new Covid-19 cases, 17 more deaths||The number of coronavirus infections worldwide surged past 134.3 million, according to figures provided by Bloomberg. The death toll reached 2.9 million after thousands of people continued to succumb to the viral disease. On the vaccination front, more than 748 million shots have been given to beneficiaries around the world, Bloomberg also reported.Click here for complete Covid-19 coverageIn the United States, Michigan governor Gretchen Whitmer called for residents to voluntarily suspend social activities for two weeks to help slow the spread in the hottest Covid-19 spot in the US.In India, daily cases broke earlier records as the number hovered over a lakh. While in Brazil, the Covid-19 caseload reached over 13.3 million as hospital remained under the weight of rising infections.Meanwhile, Pfizer Inc. and BioNTech SE said they would ask regulators in the US and elsewhere to allow the use of their vaccine in adolescents ages 12 to 15.The pandemic is on the wrong trajectory after six straight weeks of increased cases, according to a World Health Organization officer, who said, “vaccines will not end the pandemic.”Follow all the updates here:45 students of Jamshedpur college test positive for Covid-19Forty-five students of XLRI-School of Management in Jamshedpur tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Saturday, an official told news agency PTI adding that 280 students of the college had been tested for Covid-19. Jharkhand records 2,373 new Covid-19 cases, 17 more deathsJharkhand records 2,373 new #COVID19 cases, 667 recoveries and 17 deathsTotal cases: 1,37,088Active cases: 12,293Death toll: 1,192Total recoveries: 1,23,603 pic.twitter.com/B0R7UOM6w2Jharkhand on Saturday added 2,373 new Covid-19 disease cases, 17 more deaths and 667 more recoveries, according to the health department's bulletin. The caseload has now climbed to 137,088 including 1,192 deaths, 12,293 active cases and 123,603 recoveries. Maharashtra reports 55,411 new Covid-19 cases, 309 deathsWith 55,411 new Covid-19 cases and 309 related deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 3,343,951 and the death toll climbed to 57,638.Also, 53,005 patients have recovered taking the total recoveries to 2,748,153.Punjab reports 3,294 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deathsPunjab reports 3,294 new #COVID19 cases, 2,385 recoveries and 58 deathsActive cases: 28,015Total cases: 2,69,733Total recoveries: 2,34,270Death toll: 7,448 pic.twitter.com/zNO3HMJx9PPunjab reported 3,294 new Covid-19 cases and 58 deaths, taking the state's tally to 269,733 and the death toll to 7,448, reports ANI.Tamil nadu logs close to 6,000 new Covid-19 cases, 23 deathsTamil Nadu reports 5,989 new #COVID19 cases, 1,952 dishcarges and 23 deaths.Total cases: 9,26,816Total discharges: 8,76,257Death Toll: 12,886Active cases: 37,673 pic.twitter.com/l1oZ6wvzJXWith 5,989 new Covid-19 cases and 23 related deaths, Tamil Nadu's cases tally reached 926,816 and death toll climbed to 12,886, reports ANI.Gujarat reports 5,011 new Covid-19 cases, 49 deaths in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 5011 new #COVID19 cases, 2525 discharges and 49 deaths, in the last 24 hours.Total cases: 3,42,026Total discharges: 3,12,151Active cases: 25,129With 5,011 new Covid-19 cases and 49 deaths in last 24 hours, Gujarat's Covid-19 tally reached 342,026 cases. Active cases currently stands at 25,129, reports ANI.Himachal Pradesh reports 941 new Covid-19 cases, 12 deaths in last 24 hoursHimachal Pradesh reports 941 new #COVID19 positive cases, 358 cured cases and 12 deaths, in the last 24 hours.Total number of cases now stands at 69,114 pic.twitter.com/7dhRTxzCVvHimachal Pradesh reported 941 new Covid-19 cases and 12 deaths in the last 24 hours as cases tally reached 69,114, reports ANI.Mumbai reports 9,327 new Covid-19 cases, 50 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Mumbai reports 9327 new #COVID19 positive case and 50 deaths in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,10,225 pic.twitter.com/eAh2AXokXvMumbai reported 9,327 new Covid-19 cases and 50 related fatalities in the last 24 hours, taking the city's tally to 510,225, reports ANI.Karnataka reports 6,955 new Covid-19 cases, 36 deaths; 63% new cases in Bengaluru UrbanKarnataka reports 6,955 new #COVID19 cases including 4,384 cases in Bengaluru Urban, 3,350 discharges and 36 deaths.Total cases: 10,55,040Total dicharges: 9,80,519Active cases: 61,653Total deaths: 12,849 pic.twitter.com/hVLvzFbvSWKarnataka's Covid-19 tally reached 1,055,040 cases and death toll climbed to 12,849 after the state reported 6,955 new cases and 36 deaths, reports ANI.Maharashtra CM meets with Devendra Fadnavis, cabinet colleagues to discuss Covid-19 situationChief Minister Uddhav Thackeray is holding a meeting with Devendra Fadnavis, Leader of the Opposition and his cabinet colleagues via video conferencing, over COVID situation the state: Maharashtra Chief Minister's Office pic.twitter.com/eNW6ou85QYMaharashtra CM Uddhav Thackeray met with Leader of Oppositon Devendra Fadnavis over video conferencing to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the state, reports ANI.'India took 85 days to administer 100 million doses': Government#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDrive #amrutmahotsavIndia took 85 days to administer 100 million #CovidVaccine doses. In 85 days, USA administered 92.09 million doses and China's vaccination coverage was 61.42 million. pic.twitter.com/KROFFpjdjmThe Union health ministry said that the vaccination drive took 85 days to administer 100 million doses while other countries like USA and China have inoculated lesser beneficiaries in the same time period.Rajasthan records 4,401 new Covid-19 cases, 18 deathsRajasthan records 4,401 new #COVID19 cases, 18 deaths and 562 recoveries Total cases: 35,86,88Death toll: 2,916Total recoveries: 3,27,866Active cases: 27,906 pic.twitter.com/NOpoPngN5xWith 4,401 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths, Rajasthan's cases tally reached 358,688 and death toll climbed to 2,916, reports ANI.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive completes 100 million inoculations so far: Health ministry#LargestVaccineDrive #amrutmahotsav #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/yuV7FCE4kJMore than 100 million vaccine doses have been administered in India so far, the Union health ministry tweeted.Uttarakhand records 1,233 new cases, 3 deaths in last 24 hoursUttarakhand reports 1,233 new #COVID19 cases, 317 recoveries and three deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 1,07,479Active cases: 6,241Death toll: 1,752Total recoveries: 97,644 pic.twitter.com/ZMG9vwQeX7Uttarakhand reported 1,233 new Covid-19 cases and three related fatalities in the last 24 hours. This took the state's tally to 107,479 cases and 1,752 deaths, reports ANI.Delhi reports 7,897 new Covid-19 cases, 39 deaths in last 24 hours🏥Delhi Health Bulletin - 10th April 2021🏥#DelhiFightsCorona pic.twitter.com/zvOvcAoE38With 7,897 new Covid-19 cases and 39 deaths in the last 24 hours, Delhi's tally reached 714,423 and death toll climbed to 11,235, according to a bulletin from the health department.Chandigarh reports 398 new Covid-19 cases, tally goes past 30,000Chandigarh reports 398 new #COVID19 cases, taking the total number of cases to 30,341 pic.twitter.com/TIiKlcbkAZChandigarh reported 398 new Covid-19 cases which took the city's tally to 30,341, reports ANI.Kerala reports 6,194 new Covid-19 cases, 17 deaths in last 24 hoursKerala reports 6,194 new #COVID19 cases, 2,584 recoveries and 17 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 39,778Death toll: 4,767 Total recoveries: 11,15,342Kerala's reported 6,194 new Covid-19 cases, 2,584 recoveries and 17 deaths in the last 24 hours. Death toll climbed to 4,767 so far, reports ANI.Goa reports 540 new Covid-19 cases, 1 death; tally reaches 61,779540 new COVID19 cases, 1 death and 167 recoveries reported in Goa today; case tally at 61,779 pic.twitter.com/cdyDNDlyprWith 540 new Covid-19 cases and one related fatality, Goa's tally reached 61,779 cases, reports ANI.Madurai police collects over ₹3 lakhs from people without masks in last 2 daysA fine amount of ₹3.04 lakhs has been received from 1,521 people for not wearing mask in Madurai, in last 2 days. In addition, 19 cases were registered for flouting social distancing in public places: Police Commissioner, Madurai #TamilNaduMadurai Police Commissioner said that the police has collected ₹3.04 lakhs in the last two days from 1,521 people for not wearing face masks. Also, 19 cases have been registered for violation of social distancing rules in public places, reports ANI.With 12,787 new Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh reports highest single-day spikeWith 12,787 new Covid-19 cases, Uttar Pradesh reported its highest single-day spike. The state's tally reached 676,739 cases. Also, 48 new fatalities pushed the death toll to 9,085.Active caseload currently stands at 58,801.Lucknow reported 4,059 new cases and 23 fatalities, taking the tally to 102,963 cases.AMU cancels entrance exams for 2021-22 amid rising Covid-19 casesWith rising COVID cases, Aligarh Muslim University (AMU) has canceled entrance examinations for session 2021-2022. A fresh entrance schedule will be uploaded soon by the university authorities on AMU’s official website: Omar Saleem Peerzada, Public Relation Officer, AMU pic.twitter.com/A5XJxEjgN0The Aligarh Muslim University cancelled its entrance examinations for the year 2021-22 and said that a new entrance schedule will soon be uploaded in the official website, reports ANI.'We are working on increasing number of normal & ICU beds in hospitals': Indore MPA 24X7 covid control room will provide virus-related information to public. We are working on increasing number of normal & ICU beds in hospitals. Today, a team of doctors will release a protocol on hospital admissions: Shankar Lalwani, Indore MPIndore MP Shankar Lalwani said that the administration is working to increase the number of normal and ICU beds in hospitals. He also said that a 24x7 control room would be set up to provide Covid-19 related information to public, reports ANI.Arvind Kejriwal visits LNJP hospital in Delhi amid rising Covid-19 casesCM Kejriwal visits LNJP Hospital amid rising COVID-19 cases in Delhi, says administration, hospitals working to contain fourth wave of pandemic in cityDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal visited the LNJP hospital in Delhi amid rising Covid-19 cases in the capital city, reports PTI.Punjab CM attends meeting organised by Congress chief Sonia Gandhi to review Covid-19 situationPunjab CM Captain Amarinder Singh attended a meeting with Congress Party President Sonia Gandhi to review the #COVID19 situation along with Chief Ministers of Congress-ruled States. pic.twitter.com/Qdn0AV0wHUPunjab chief minister Amarinder Singh attended a meeting organised by Congress president Sonia Gandhi to review the Covid-19 situation in Congress ruled states, reports ANI.Jharkhand reports 1,925 new Covid-19 cases, tally climbs to 134,715With 1,925 new Covid-19 infections and 17 fatalities, Jharkhand's cases tally reached 134,715 and death toll climbed to 1,175, reports PTI.Russia records 8,704 new Covid-19 cases, 402 fatalitiesRussia recorded 8,704 new Covid-19 cases on Saturday, taking the nation-wide tally to 4,632,688. 402 deaths were also reported in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 102,64, reported Reuters.India's cumulative vaccination coverage exceeds 9.80 Crores#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDriveIndia's Cumulative Vaccination Coverage exceeds 9.80 Crores (9,80,75,160).https://t.co/RO5nPqhvEx pic.twitter.com/Ls1D6PytXRUddhav Thackeray to hold meeting to review Covid-19 situation in MaharashtraMaharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has called for a meeting today of all political party leaders to review the ongoing Covid-19 situation in the state, reported news agency ANI.Are liquor shops, dhabas open? Govt answersThe Maharashtra government on Friday issued a set of frequently asked questions in an attempt to clarify in confusion regarding the partial lockdown imposed in the state to check the Covid-19 spread. Read moreIndia's Covid-19 caseload rises by 145,384 fresh casesIndia reports 145,384 new Covid-19 cases, 77,567 discharges, and 794 deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the Union Health MinistryMumbai private Covid-19 vaccine centres shut till April 12All private Covid-19 vaccination centres in the jurisdiction of Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation will remain shut till April 12, the civic body notified on Friday, amid the ongoing debate over vaccine shortage in Maharashtra and several other states. Read moreBengaluru night curfew from today: What's allowed, what's notStarting from Saturday night, seven district centres of Karnataka, including Bengaluru, will be placed under a night curfew between 10pm and 5am till April 20. Read moreBrazil reports another sharp spike in daily Covid-19 infectionsBrazil reported another 93,317 infections and 3,693 deaths from Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, raising the national tallies to 348,718 and 13,373,174, respectively, the Ministry of Health said Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-10-2021-101618020501076.html
11-04-2021||NA||Highlights: No political leaders to enter Cooch Behar in next 72 hrs, says EC||Voting for the fourth phase of the eight-phase assembly election in West Bengal has ended. The assembly seats on the battleground on Saturday are spread across Alipurduar and Cooch Behar in North Bengal and Howrah, Hooghly, South 24 Parganas and parts of Kolkata in south Bengal.In 2016, the TMC won 39 of the 44 constituencies, while it emerged victorious in only 25 of them in 2019 if the results for the Lok Sabha elections are distributed at the assembly seat level, data presented by the Hindustan Times showed.The temperature is already high in the state as the election commission has served two notices to the Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee for violation of the Model Code of Conduct (MCC).West Bengal will vote again a week later on April 17 for the fifth phase. The counting of votes will take place on May 2.Follow all the updates here:EC says firing by CISF personnel was necessary to save livesRecourse to open fire by bCISF personnel became absolutely necessary in order to save lives of voters lined up at the polling booth, those of other polling personnel & their own lives as mob had attempted snatching their weapons: Election Commission on Sitalkuchi firing incident pic.twitter.com/Pc1XiPOtnUEC says the move was necessary to save lives of voters at the polling booth as the mob attempted to snatch weapons from the security personnel. Election commission bans political leaders from entering Cooch BeharPolitical leaders banned from entering Cooch Behar district for the next 72 hours after poll violence, says Election CommissionVoting ends for fourth phase of West Bengal Assembly electionsThe voting for the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections has come to an end. The total voter turnout recorded till 6:30 pm was 76.16%. 76.16% voter turnout recorded till 6:30pm76.16% voter turnout recorded till 6:30pm in fourth phase of West Bengal assembly election.One daughter of Bengal is attacking the other: Locket ChatterjeeOne daughter of Bengal is attacking the other. If I broke the glass of my car myself then who broke the other two press vehicles? You all (media) were present there. Did press themselves break their own vehicles?: BJP candidate from Chunchura, Locket Chatterjee75.93% voter turnout recorded till 5:24pm75.93% voter turnout recorded till 5:24pm.Voting for the fourth phase of the State's Assembly elections is underway today.Cooch Behar firing happened because of Mamata's 'gherao' statement: BJP MPWest Bengal: A BJP delegation met EC over the death of 5 people in 2 separate incidents in Sitalkuchi."In my opinion, these incidents happened because of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's old statement calling for gherao of Central forces," says BJP MP Jyotirmay Singh Mahato.TMC seeks Union home minister Amit Shah's resignationWe have sought Home Minister Amit Shah's resignation: West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee in Siliguri.71.83% voter turnout recorded till 5pm71.83% voter turnout recorded till 5pm in fourth phase of West Bengal assembly election.Amit Shah responsible for Cooch Behar firing: MamataHome Minister Amit Shah is completely responsible for today's incident and he himself is the conspirator. I don't blame central forces because they work under Home Minister's order: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee in SiliguriDidi's TMC is an expert in 'tolabaazi': PM ModiHandicraft, business, marketing, investment aren't among TMC's priorities. Didi's TMC is an expert in 'tolabaazi'. Didi's TMC is an expert in cut-money. Didi's TMC is an expert in killing BJP workers. Didi's TMC is an expert in rigging: PM Narendra Modi.People of Bengal are also fighting this election: PM ModiThis election of Bengal is not only being fought by BJP, people of Bengal are also fighting this election: PM Narendra Modi in Krishnanagar.Mamata Banerjee defaming Bengal's voters: PM ModiDidi abuses EC, CAPF, EVM.. to the extent, that Didi is abusing her own party's polling agents now. She is so desperate that she is defaming Bengal's voters. Didi, o Didi! People of Bengal don't expect you to have sensitivity any more: PM Modi in Krishnanagar.66.76% voter turnout recoded till 4pm66.76% voter turnout recorded till 4pm in fourth phase of West Bengal assembly election.58.87% voting recorded till 2pm58.87% voting recorded till 2pm in the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections.TMC moves ECI over Cooch Behar incidentTMC to observe Kala Divas tomorrow wearing black badges. TMC moves ECI over Cooch Behar incident. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee will visit victims' houses on Sunday.Polling is stopped at polling station number 126: DIG, Jalpaiguri RangePolling has been stopped at polling station number 126 of Sitalkuchi Assembly Constituency, Cooch Behar; further investigation is underway: DIG, Jalpaiguri Range.Why did the Central Armed Police Forces fire?: Saugata RoyWhy did the Central Armed Police Forces fire? Where do they get this audacity of firing on common voters? That is the main question. This is a part of a conspiracy and we do not think that the PM is out of this conspiracy. This is an effort to intimidate voters: Saugata Roy, TMC MPSaugata Roy demands Shah's resignationThe firing took place because common people were resisting the effort by BJP hooligans to disrupt the voting. They are being encouraged by Central Armed Police Force & we feel this is a conspiracy headed by Home Minister, we are demanding his resignation: Saugata Roy, TMC MPThe TMC Lok Sabha MP alleged that the CAPF personnel encouraged miscreants in order to disrupt voting, news agency ANI reported.Former Indian team cricket captain Sourav Ganguly casts his voteWest Bengal: Sourav Ganguly today cast his vote at a polling booth in Barisha Shashibhusan Janakalyan Vidyapith, Behala, South 24 Paraganas pic.twitter.com/YKetlQp7jOFormer India cricket captain Sourav Ganguly was pictured in Behala while casting his vote during the fourth phase of assembly elections in West Bengal.TMC MP says Cooch Behar firing was a controversy, takes jibe at PMOur leader Mamata Banerjee will visit the houses of all those who were killed today: Saugata Roy, TMC MPThe TMC Lok Sabha MP also said that Bengal CM will visit the homes of those killed in Cooch Behar, news agency ANI reported.CM Mamata Banerjee to protest against Cooch Behar incidentWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee to hold a protest rally in Cooch Behar tomorrow against today's firing incident in which four people died.Phase 4 records 52.89% voter turnout till 1.37pm52.89 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 1.37pm on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC data.Mamata Banerjee to visit spot in Cooch Behar where 4 voters died in violenceWest Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee to visit the spot in Cooch Behar tomorrow, where four people died today.Polling adjourned at Cooch Behar's Sitalkuchi station after voters killed in violence, EC seeks report by 5pmCommission orders adjourning the poll in Polling Station 126 of Sitalkuchi Assembly Constituency, Cooch Behar based on an interim report from Special Observers. Detailed reports sought from them and Chief Electoral Officer by 5 pm today: Election CommissionPhase 4 records 34.43% voter turnout in till 12.55pmPM Modi condoles deaths in Cooch Behar, says Didi can see her chair slipping awayWhat happened in Cooch Behar is very saddening. My sympathies are with the families of those who died, I condole their demise. Didi & her goons are perturbed, seeing the people's support for BJP. She has stooped to this level as she can see her chair slipping away, ANI quoted PM Modi as saying in Siliguri.No effort to influence electorate against Central forces, not violated CoC: Mamata to EC"There has been no effort to incite/influence the electorate against CAPFs. It is clear I haven't violated Model Code of Conduct," CM Mamata Banerjee's response to EC's notice on her remarks.Phase 4 records 33.98% voter turnout till 11.30amEC seeks report as violence erupts in Bengal's Cooch Behar, 2 dead in separate incidentsViolence erupts in Cooch Behar, 4 shot at, 1 deadFour people shot at in Cooch Behar during open fire in retaliation. One of them died during the incident.Phase 4 records 16.65% voter turnout till 11.05am16.65 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 11.05am on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC data.Media vehicles covering polls attacked in HooglyMedia vehicles covering West Bengal Assembly elections attacked in Hoogly, reported ANI.BJP candidate Locket Chatterjee's car attacked in HooglyBJP leader Locket Chatterjee's car attacked by locals in Hoogly during the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections.First-time voter shot dead at Sitalkuchi in Cooch Behar, 2 arrestedTMC finished here, only Modi's strategy will work in Bengal: BJP's Rajib BanerjeePrashant Kishor's strategy will not work in Bengal, his strategy has failed. TMC has finished here. In Bengal, only Narendra Modi's strategy will work, ANI quoted BJP leader Rajib Banerjee, in Domjur as saying. Phase 4 records 15.85% voter turnout at 9:30am15.85 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 9.10am on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC dataUrge them to release full conversation: Prashant Kishor on selective use of part of leaked audioGlad BJP's taking my clubhouse chat more seriously than words of its leaders. On selective use of part of conversation, urge them to release full conversation: Prashant Kishor to ANI on leaked audio where he's saying "Modi, Mamata equally popular" among Bengal poll-related thingsPhase 4 records 2.36% voter turnout so far2.36 per cent voter turnout recorded as of 9.10am on Saturday during phase 4 of Bengal elections, according to EC dataIn Photos: Lone queue of voters at polling booth in Bhangar of South 24 ParganasWest Bengal: Long queue of voters at a polling station inKulberia Dharmatala F.P. School, Bhangar, South 24 Parganas pic.twitter.com/2h3a5bdP7ITMC candidate from Natabari wears helmet amid fears of poll violenceTMC candidate from Natabari constituency in Cooch Behar, Rabindra Nath Ghosh seen wearing a helmet this morning. He says, "I am wearing this to avoid any untoward incident."#WestBengalElections2021 pic.twitter.com/rxNWOLvMD8Biggest challenge to remove Mamata Didi, TMC from Bengal: SupriyoThe biggest challenge is to remove Mamata Didi and TMC from West Bengal. Aroop Biswas (TMC candidate from the constituency) has been the right hand of all her works. So is a challenge to change the atmosphere of terror here: BJP candidate from Tollygunge, Kolkata Babul Supriyo pic.twitter.com/DiAiuzUfYjBJP's Babul Supriyo arrives at Gandhi colony to help party's polling agent get entryBJP candidate from Kolkata's Tollygunge, Babul Supriyo arrives at Gandhi Colony Bharati Balika Vidyalaya, where party's polling agent wasn't being given entry. He says, "He has ID but wasn't being allowed by Presiding Officer. We showed his details from website. He's allowed now" pic.twitter.com/iKfTmYTQuSIn Photos: People queue up to vote at polling booth in Bhangar of South 24 ParganasPeople stand in a queue outside Hatgacha Haridas Vidyapith (H.S), designated as a polling booth, in Bhangar of South 24 Parganas district to cast their votes.#WestBengalElections2021 pic.twitter.com/fEu5La2n58TMC writes to EC, alleges BJP goons creating ruckus across several boothsTMC writes to Election Commission alleging that "across several booths in Sitalkuchi, Natalbari, Tufanganj & Dinhata, BJP goons are creating a ruckus outside the booth and preventing TMC agents from entering the booth." TMC demands necessary actions from EC, reported ANI.West Bengal CM urges people to vote in large numbers, exercise democratic rightআমি বাংলার সকল মা, ভাই ও বোনেদের আবেদন করব, সকলে আজ বিপুল সংখ্যায় নিজের গণতান্ত্রিক অধিকার প্রয়োগ করুন। I urge my brothers and sisters in Bengal to come out in large numbers and exercise their democratic right today.PM Modi urges people, especially youth, women to vote in large numbersAs the 4th phase of the West Bengal elections begin, urging the people voting today to do so in record numbers. I would especially request the youth and women to vote in large numbers.In Photos: Polling underway in Alipurduar constituencyVoting process is underway for the fourth phase of #WestBengalElections2021. Visuals from a polling station in Alipurduar. pic.twitter.com/7FW4TPR65ZVoting for phase 4 of state assembly election beginsVoting for the fourth phase of West Bengal assembly elections begins, 44 seats across 5 districts in fray.BJP candidate Locket Chatterjee offers prayersWest Bengal elections: BJP candidate from Chunchura, Locket Chatterjee offers prayers at a temple ahead of start of voting for the fourth phase of polls. pic.twitter.com/StEtzf3iXPIn Photos: People queue up at poll booth in Domjur constituency#WestBengalPolls: People queue up at a polling station in Domjur Assembly constituency in Howrah to exercise their franchise in the fourth phase of elections. The voting will begin at 7 am. pic.twitter.com/JRXWpuPM9BMock poll underway in polling booth at Alipurduar Assembly constituency#WestBengalPolls: Election officials conduct a mock poll at a polling station in Alipurduar Assembly constituency. Voting for the fourth phase of Assembly elections will commence at 7 am. pic.twitter.com/YAauJ0HzCB||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/west-bengal-assembly-election-2021-live-updates-101618016481646.html
11-04-2021||Today's||The emergence of good businesses||What is good business? The answer to that question will drive the fundamentals of business in the future. This discussion has been underway. In 2019, for instance, the European Union passed legislation to ensure full Environment, Social and Governance (ESG) disclosure by listed companies and investment funds. Goldman Sachs even declared that it would cease supporting the IPOs of companies that have an all-male board of directors. In August 2019, one of the United States (US)’s largest business groups, the Business Roundtable, replaced its longstanding “shareholder primacy” mantra to urge companies to consider the well being of environment and workers, alongside their pursuit of profits.The pandemic has intensified this discussion on the nature, role and purpose of business. The crisis provided an unflinching perspective on how businesses really conduct themselves — the level of scrutiny applied to businesses (and even, business leaders) has been unprecedented. And quite rightly so. Business is a useful metaphor for capitalism itself; the basis of our society, where and how we create value, and how we define success. As part of our 75th celebrations, the Mahindra Group launched a public conversation on what constitutes good business. The results clearly reflect the shifting sentiments regarding business’s role, and what really constitutes a good deal, or job, or investment. According to Mahindra’s Good Business Study, covering over 2,000 Indian citizens, 62.42% of respondents cited society and community as critical to their idea of good business. From an employee perspective, nearly half (49.35%) the respondents believe that equality of opportunity, diversity, flexible working and an innovative environment are the top qualities of a good employer. Such new definitions of what constitutes good business are even reflected in investment choices. 70.27% of respondents claim that they would never invest in a business they did not consider to be genuinely good. Two factors have influenced these changing perceptions of good business over the last ten years.First, the emergence and activism of the millennial generation (typically, aged between 25 and 35). According to Deloitte’s most recent Millennial Survey, more than a quarter of millennials would choose not to purchase from an organisation because of its stance on a political issue, and 29% would do the same, based on the comments or behaviour of a company leader. 70% of millennials expect their employers to focus on societal or mission-driven issues. No other generation has exerted such an impact on the way we do business, on employee experience, and on consumer expectations. They represent one of the last decade’s biggest drivers of good business. This is also reflected in our own Good Business study. 45.27% of millennial respondents relate good business to non-financial metrics such as workplace diversity and environment. By contrast, just 39.22% of those over the age of 46 applied the same metrics.Second, the overwhelming priority for many traditional and existing businesses, including ours, has been to ensure that they are genuinely good. For example, minimising the environmental impact of the production and use of products, ensuring transparent and fulfilling careers for employees, and communicating the same to investors and the wider community are factors that contribute to companies making it to the Great Places to Work lists.Some of our own businesses are a case in point: Susten, for instance, delivers clean energy to some of India’s remotest regions; Mahindra Waste To Energy Solutions Ltd converts organic waste into Bio-CNG and fertilizer; while Mahindra Electric Mobility Ltd has been a pioneer in electric transport. Collectively, these businesses epitomise this transformation towards good business, and are already generating over half a billion dollars every year. Such businesses epitomise the purpose of our Group – enabling people to rise and achieve the best of themselves. In effect, this encapsulates what good business means to us.What do these trends suggest about the coming decade? One, in demographic terms, it will be fascinating to see whether and how today’s millennials retain their influence, as tomorrow’s managers, entrepreneurs and business leaders.Two, I am particularly interested in their successors, Generation Z, who are under 25. This generation of consumers will increase their per capita spending by more than 70% in the next five years. How will they impose their perceptions of “good” business on the way they consume, work, and invest?One recent study describes them as even more committed to our planet and other ethical considerations. A staggering 92% surveyed said they care about social and environmental issues, and 89% are worried about the health of our planet. Significantly, 94% believe that companies should help address such urgent issues; this is an even higher percentage than their millennial predecessors. Such statistics provides a clue — and an optimistic one — to the nature of good business in the coming decade.Finally, the approach of adapting existing businesses towards this new set of considerations that characterised the last decade will be gradually replaced by businesses that are created to be fundamentally good – good by design. Businesses will define their existence — their products, means of production, relationships with employees and community — in terms of their wider role in society. Here, technology will play a crucial role — not merely in the conception of products and services, but in how they are produced and delivered to consumers. The transformation of the education sector provides a case in point. India’s EdTech market is expected to grow from less than US$1 billion to eight or ten times that size over the coming five years. The sector is the epitome of good “by design”, employing technology to deliver relevant skills to Indians who, in many cases, would otherwise not have access to it.These clues from the last decade provide a glimpse into the future of good business. Will this still be the most important discussion of the next decade in 2030?Ideally, I would hope not. The best outcome would be that the good prefix is discarded as irrelevant, And that the nature of business will be inherently good by design. Good and business would become synonymous. Such businesses are already making an impact, even in terms of financial returns. For society, the return would go well beyond financial metrics and be far more significant. By 2030, what would be the point of contemplating any other type of business? Anand Mahindra is the chairman of the Mahindra GroupThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-emergence-of-good-businesses-101618151673947.html
11-04-2021||Today's||India’s vaccine strategy is based on science||India has been undertaking the world’s largest vaccination drive. In less than three months, we have managed to provide more than 100 million doses across the country, which is more than the population of Germany. The country has already achieved one of the highest daily vaccinations per day across the globe with 4.3 million vaccinations, which is close to the population of New Zealand. India has also achieved the fastest rate of reaching the 100 million vaccination milestone, ahead of the United States (US) and China. Our daily vaccination rates are also among the highest in the world. This doesn’t mean that there is no scope for improvement. Of course, we need to expand capacity and continue innovating, which has been our approach throughout the pandemic.When I saw an editorial with five questions on India’s vaccination strategy in this newspaper on Thursday, I was surprised. It seems that the recent bug of fact-free opinion has transcended Twitter and entered the editorials of a venerable newspaper such as HT.In the beginning, there are two insinuations — first, that there is a vaccine crunch, and, second, that everyone immediately needs a vaccine. We must understand that vaccines are a scarce commodity in the world. They are not like candies which can be manufactured, supplied, and consumed any time and anywhere. That is why India, as well as other countries, decided to prioritise groups which are vulnerable. The primary purpose of vaccination is mortality reduction and decreasing the burden on the health care system. This was laid down by the government in 2020 itself. The first phase of the vaccination drive prioritises vulnerable groups such as older citizens, health care workers, and front-line workers. For instance, older citizens face an acute threat as those aged 45 and above have accounted for almost nine out of 10 Covid-19 deaths across the country.Across the globe, countries have prioritised vulnerable groups in their vaccination programmes as the supply and delivery capacity remained limited initially. Similar to India, the first phase of the vaccination drive in many countries had age and occupation-based eligibility criteria. For instance, in the US, the Centre for Diseases Control and Prevention had recommended that vaccines should initially be given to health care workers, front-line essential workers and those aged 75 years and above. Gradually, coverage was expected to include younger age cohorts and other essential workers.India has set a target of vaccinating around 300 million vulnerable citizens by August, and we are very much on course to achieve that. There is no supply crunch when it comes to achieving this target.Here, it is also important to understand that vaccines are a preventive tool which works after a lag period of six to 10 weeks. It is not a treatment to be administered to reduce the case-load in the middle of a wave. To focus only on vaccines and not pay attention to ramping up testing, tracing and proper treatment will be counterproductive.It is amusing that the newspaper argued against India’s vaccine maitri programme, and advocates an inward-looking approach for the sake of a populist argument. Is it not a good thing that India has set an example for the world to follow, earned strategic advantage on various dimensions, and is being appreciated globally for its assistance? If the government had refused to supply vaccines to other countries, the same newspaper would have criticised Prime Minister Narendra Modi for being a “vaccine nationalist”. However, this advocacy of a protectionist and “closed” India is again bereft of the facts. A large proportion of the 60 million-plus vaccines sent abroad were either commercially exported or supplied through the COVAX programme. A substantial share was part of contractual obligations that the manufacturer had to fulfil. We must remember that manufacturing rights are accompanied with contractual obligations. The next question constructs and demolishes a straw man to make a point. It says that the government-approved Covaxin based on faith. This sentence does not do as much disservice to the regulator and Bharat Biotech as it does to the credibility of the newspaper. Data on the safety and immunogenicity of Covaxin, based on trials held in India, were available when it was approved; only the efficacy figures were pending. The government is as eager, if not more than the newspaper, to ensure that other vaccines also get approved. It is surprising that some of those who opposed the “clinical trial use” approval for Covaxin are now arguing in favour of completely bypassing bridging trials. Imagine what would happen to the confidence of people if a hastily-approved vaccine which works well elsewhere causes some issues in the Indian population.While I have already elaborated on why age-based criteria was adopted, I would like to engage with this argument of more vaccination in urban areas. At this rate, shall we make the vaccination programme more targeted and focus on high-rises and slums within cities? Shall we focus more on malls and markets given the high density of people found here? Is there a successful display of this strategy anywhere in the world? However provocative the argument is, when a government decides on a strategy, it needs to be both equitable and feasible. Adding additional layers of complexity is neither feasible nor desirable. Unlike commentators, governments need to overcome real trade-offs and constraints.Vijay Chauthaiwale is in-charge, foreign affairs department, BJP, and a senior scientistThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/indias-vaccine-strategy-is-based-on-science-101618151672725.html
11-04-2021||Today's||A Calmer You, by Sonal Kalra: Say a big ‘thank you’ to all those jealous folk||Why are you giving me such strange looks? I’ve never claimed to be normal, have I? You’re offended because you, like all of us, were taught at school that jealousy is a very bad thing. That it breeds hatred and discontent. Despite that, you could never help that feeling of something snapping inside you when your best friend scored more in math or when the prettiest girl in the class accepted his proposal of friendship.A lot of you who work know that feeling when the boss suddenly turns all against you because a jealous colleague bitched behind your back. Or when your brand new car wakes up with scratches because the friendly neighbour had difficulty digesting that you could afford one. We, my dear people, were born with the J gene. All of us. The only difference being that while most of us manage to accept it as a natural emotion and keep it in check, some others decide to express their unhappiness with, well, your happiness. Today’s column is dedicated to these people. I think they are just fabulous. Here’s why.1. They reaffirm your successSomeone being jealous of you is the biggest proof that there’s something right, and good, happening in your life. Lakshay, a regular reader of this column, had written to me about a friend of his, “He calls himself my best friend, but it is so obvious that anything good happening to me upsets him. I told him that dad’s getting me an iPhone and suddenly there were these murmurs in the class about what a big show-off I am. I know who started it. How can people be so double-faced?”Hmm … well people are double faced so that you remain confused about which face to slap!! Sorry, that was a bad joke. But, hey Lakshay, don’t forget to thank and love your dad for getting you the iPhone now that you have proof that it’s something worth showing off.You see, what the jealous people unknowingly do is put a firm stamp on the fact that your life, in some ways, is better than theirs. It could be materialistic, or even emotional. A lot of friends may be jealous of how your boyfriend sends you heart-shaped balloons each week. (Really? Don’t smile, that’s so cheesy. Why are you still with him?)The problem is only when we start paying more attention to their jealousy than to our success. As long as you are not rubbing your happiness in someone else’s face and making them feel small, you have every reason to celebrate and enjoy the fact that life’s treating you nicely. Stop feeling sorry about your success or apologising for your achievements. Say a big thank you in your heart, to everyone who’s jealous of you. You would have felt like such a loser if no one in this world envied you. No?2. They make you strive harder to hold on to your successJealous people are such noble souls. They sometimes deliberately express their displeasure in such mean ways that you take it up as a challenge to hold on to your win. My friend Priya used to be very tense because every time she would get a promotion at her workplace, some colleagues would start rumours about her proximity with the boss. She decided to take it up as a challenge and worked so hard at her performance that the no one could ever question the rise in her career graph. The bitterness sometimes ignites a fire in you to prove and sustain that you were worth feeling jealous of. So, aren’t you eternally thankful to those who made it possible? If it hadn’t been for their envy, you would have easily taken your success for granted, rested on your laurels and fallen off the pedestal while asleep. Thank them, silly, rather than resenting their presence in your life.3. They help you see the true colours of peopleFirst, go give a big hug to someone you think is jealous of you, and then I’ll tell you why. See, the J-ones mostly take out their frustration by going behind your back and saying mean things to those in your life. It could be your friends in class, colleagues in your office or even relatives in the family circle. Ask Bubbly aunty and she’ll tell you her theory on how all sister-in-laws should be called sinister-in-laws.Haan, coming back to the point, when the J-brand people bitch behind your back, it’s a wonderful opportunity to see who in your circle falls for it and who doesn’t. THAT will tell you who you can trust in your life and who is not worthy of it. If a close friend believes someone who is back-biting you, maybe that close friend shouldn’t be close anymore. Think about it. They were doing you such a big favour and you’ve been feeling low about their actions. Go hug.After all this unsolicited gyaan, a word for those who are honest enough to admit that they’ve been feeling jealous of someone. Dekho bhai, my great grandmother Erica Jong used to say, ‘Jealousy is all the fun you think they had’…arthaat, door ke dhol suhawane. From a distance, someone else’s life looks all rosy, because the thorns are too small to notice. They prick only the one who’s holding them. So, before you go all green with envy and those around you can smell your heart burning, count your own blessings and thank God that you are you, and not someone else. Because you know your own problems and can deal with them. The unknown devils in someone else’s life are far more dangerous. Calm it.Sonal Kalra wanted to launch a ‘Are you J? Come, here’s a hug for you’ campaign but a friend told her it sounds a bit obscene. Maybe she’s J. Mail her at sonal.kalra@hindustantimes.com, facebook.com/sonalkalraofficial. Follow on Twitter @sonalkalra. You can now listen to Sonal Kalra’s podcast #TensionNot on http://htsmartcast.com and http://htheathshots.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/a-calmer-you-by-sonal-kalra-say-a-big-thank-you-to-all-those-jealous-folk-101618113209913.html
11-04-2021||Editorials||The arrival of a new force in Tripura | HT Editorial||In India’s mainstream political imagination, Tripura is often on the periphery. This may stem from the tyranny of distance from the national Capital, and its location in the often-neglected Northeast, but the state’s diverse social landscape, strategic location, and history makes it politically crucial. For long, the state’s political history was marked by Left domination — and the presence of Manik Sarkar as a steady hand at the helm of governance. The Congress was the other pole in the state, but in 2018, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) sprung a surprise by sweeping the state polls in a remarkable victory. The Congress’s political fortunes sank further when party chief and a member of the former royal family of the state, Pradyot Manikya Deb Burman, quit and set up his own party, The Indigenous Progressive Regional Alliance. This force has now marked its political arrival by winning 18 of the 28 seats in autonomous district councils, ahead of all the other forces in the state.Mr Burman’s victory is significant for two reasons. One, representing the indigenous tribal community, his party poses a challenge to what has been a polity dominated largely by the state’s majority Bengali-speakers, and has successfully overwhelmed other smaller tribal formations — one of which is in an alliance with the BJP. Two, Mr Burman was among the younger leaders who quit the Congress because of the incoherence at the top of the party, uncertainty over leadership, and its ideologically vacillating positions. But he chose to set up his own force, rather than join an existing outfit. Tripura’s unique social mosaic, and his own background as a royal, allowed him to do so. But it is a lesson to the Congress — if you let talent go, the talent will find a platform but the party will shrink further.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/the-arrival-of-a-new-force-in-tripura-hteditorial-101618151732954.html
11-04-2021||Editorials||Bengal: Political violence returns | HT Editorial||In the fourth phase of polling in West Bengal, a quick reaction team of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), which was allegedly attacked by a mob, opened fire, killing four at a polling booth in North Bengal’s Sitalkuchi constituency. In a separate incident, unidentified assailants shot and killed a first-time voter, an 18-year old young citizen, in the same constituency. The Election Commission (EC) has ordered a repoll; decided to deploy additional security personnel for the remaining phases; and extended the period of silence — when campaigning has to stop — from the usual 48 hours to 72 hours before the next phase of polling. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has blamed the incident on Trinamool Congress (TMC) workers, and Mamata Banerjee has blamed it on the Centre.There are two key issues here. The first is the role of the security forces. In a state with a history of political violence, where EC has deliberately staggered polls over eight phases due to security considerations, forces must be vigilant and effective in ensuring that each citizen gets to exercise the right to vote without fear and there are free and fair polls. But this responsibility must be coupled with restraint, and firing — and firing to kill — must be the last resort. Were standard procedures followed or did the security personnel use excessive force? India has made tremendous strides in having peaceful and free elections and an independent enquiry into the incident is important to build on this record.At the same time, it is also the responsibility of political parties to act with restraint. In Bengal, the coercive machinery of the Left has been replicated by the TMC in maintaining a firm grip over local politics; when this is coupled with fierce rhetoric, which almost encourages taking on the security forces, the possibility of violence increases. This is even more true when both sides are locked in a tough battle, with intense competition for each seat, each booth, each voter. The onus is on political leaders on all sides to calm workers, and let independent institutions do their work. Alas, the political rhetoric over the killings — which is also taking a communal turn since the four killed were Muslims, and the first-time voter was a Hindu — indicates that polling in remaining phases may not be smooth. EC must be alert.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bengal-political-violence-returns-hteditorial-101618151732488.html
