15-04-2021||Other||HC dismisses plea seeking continuation of printing of stamps||: The Allahabad high court had dismissed a petition seeking directions not to discontinue printing of judicial and non- judicial stamps in the state.Justice Yashwant Varma was hearing the petition filed by All UP Stamp Vendors’ Association—an association of stamp vendors engaged in the occupation of distribution and sale of judicial and non-judicial stamp paper in its physical form. The petitioners’ contention was that their members were in business of sale of stamp and if printing of physical stamps was stopped by the government, they would be out of business which would be in violation of Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of India which guarantees a citizen to practise a business, trade or profession.The state government’s contention was that licensed vendors have no fundamental right to trade or carry on the business of physical stamps since the conditions of their engagement is circumscribed by the terms of the licence that is granted to them. It was contended that a stock of physical stamp papers valued at ₹17,000 crore still exist in the state and therefore the apprehension that licensed vendors would be deprived of a right of livelihood was clearly misplaced.Advocates Kshitij, Shailendra and Sumeet Kakker appeared for stock holding corporation which is ‘Central Record Keeping Agency’ for administration and implementation of mechanism of e-stamp. They argued that the corporation was appointed as per Uttar Pradesh E-Stamping Rules, 2013 and the rules were not challenged by the petitioners. Hence, the petition was devoid of any merit.The court after hearing the concerned parties observed that, “Introduction of this system rests on sound, germane and weighty reasons such as avoidance of fraud and forgery of stamp paper, securing collection of state revenue and a host of other factors which were taken into consideration. E stamping in essence represents a policy initiative formulated by the state. The aforesaid policy decision has neither been assailed nor has it been established to be arbitrary.”“It would be wholly inappropriate for the Court to frame any direction commanding the State to continue the system of physical stamping in perpetuity,” observed the bench while dismissing the petition.It may be relevant to mention here that the petition was placed before the single bench of Justice Yashwant Varma after the division bench of Justice SP Kesarwani and Justice Ajay Bhanot differed on the issue. Justice SP Kesarwani in his judgment had dismissed the petition while in a separate judgment Justice Ajay Bhanot directed the state government to file a reply in the matter.The judgment was reserved on March 24 and delivered on April 8.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-continuation-of-printing-of-stamps-101618511290960.html
15-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj: Special Ramzan helpline starts to clear doubts of rozedars||The Imam of Wasiabad Masjid Mufti Saif-ur-Rehman has started special Ramzan helpline numbers for Muslim community members who have questions regarding namaz, zakat and fasting during the Ramzan. The initiative had been taken to ensure that lesser people arrive at the mosque to clear their doubts during these pandemic times and stay safe from coronavirus. Only a day ago, district magistrate Bhanu Chandra Goswami and senior police officials have sought the help of religious leaders in controlling the spread of Covid-19 among the masses. Ramzan helpline started on April 14 will continue during the holy month between 12 to 4 pm on which members of the Muslim community may call for disposal of their questions from their homes and take advice on religious matters. Besides making calls on helpline numbers, people may also send their queries on WhatsApp numbers 9415253718, 7800714245, 9140367779 and 7007120735. Moreover, questions can also be sent on email id millifoundationalld@gmail.com. Mufti Saif-ur-Rehman said, “Now people do not need to approach him with their questions at the Mosque and instead may call or message on the helpline numbers besides mailing their queries.” He appealed to people to stay home and venture out only when extremely necessary while wearing masks and taking other precautions. People should get them vaccinated and avoid rumours while cooperating with the government in controlling the spread of the global pandemic, he added. As per guidelines issued by the government, only five persons are allowed inside religious places. In compliance with the guidelines, tarabee prayers are being offered at mosques of the city with only five persons while following social distancing, wearing masks and taking other precautions. The tarabee prayers are offered for a short period after night prayers. With the start of helpline numbers arrival of people to Wasiabad Masjid for the solution of their religious questions will also lessen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-special-ramzan-helpline-starts-to-clear-doubts-of-rozedars-101618510990868.html
15-04-2021||Other||Nihangs assault shopkeeper in Bathinda; four booked||Bathinda A Talwandi Sabo shopkeeper was injured, allegedly by Nihangs, after he objected to their shoplifting attempt on Thursday. Victim Atinderpal Singh claimed that a group of Nihangs visited his shop and when he objected to their stealing a few objects, he was attacked with swords. He alleged that the assailants even tried to loot cash kept in a safe at the shop.“When we objected to their behaviour, they started an altercation with my family members at the shop. They attacked my father. As I jumped to his rescue, the Nihangs attacked me at least thrice with swords,” he told reporters. He has suffered a deep wound on his left arm and is being treated at Bathinda civil hospitalDr Puneet Kaur at the emergency ward at the civil hospital said Atinderpal got first-aid at Talwandi hospital and he is under the observation of an orthopaedician.Talwandi DSP Manoj Gorsi said four assailants have been booked after the incident. “Preliminary investigation shows that a child in the company of Nihangs stole an article from the shop. An altercation over this turned violent and the victim was rushed to the hospital for treatment. An FIR will be lodged after getting detailed medical report of the victim,” the DSP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nihangs-assault-shopkeeper-in-bathinda-four-booked-101618510871461.html
15-04-2021||Other||Police firing incidents: Punjab Cong chief says govt will take probe to logical conclusion||Punjab Pradesh Congress Committee (PPCC) present Sunil Jakhar on Thursday said the Captain Amarinder Singh government will take the probe into Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan firing incidents and the sacrilege cases of Guru Granth Sahib to a logical conclusion. In a statement, Jakhar added that the chief minister’s (CM’s) resolve to ensure punishment for those who committed this heinous act is unflinching. He targeted the SAD and the BJP for trying to scuttle the probe by manipulating central agencies. “When the SAD was an ally of the BJP, both tried to suppress the probe through the CBI, but it was the Punjab government which had through legal channels ensured the transfer of case files from CBI to the state to complete the investigations at the earliest,” he said. The PPCC chief said that even now on the high court verdict, the CM has already made it clear that state government would challenge the decision in the Supreme Court to ensure all those guilty of this heinous act of sacrilege are put behind bars. “I will meet the CM to request him to investigate and fix responsibility of anyone found responsible for creating obstacle in the probe. This sensitive case is concerned with religious sentiments of lakhs of people,” he said. Jakhar, while referring to assertions that SIT probe had been completed, said in that case if there is no legal hurdle in filing further appeal, then the report should be made public. He said that people of the state have a right to know at whose behest these incidents were committed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-firing-incidents-punjab-cong-chief-says-govt-will-take-probe-to-logical-conclusion-101618510511366.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram’s 1st cloth bag bank distributed over 100,000 bags in 4 months||After four months it opened, the first cloth bag bank in Haryana has already distributed over 100,000 cloth bags across Gurugram, according to a release issued by the civic body on Thursday. As per the Municipal Corporation Gurugram (MCG) officials, the cloth bag bank has helped in eliminating over 500,000 polythene bags in the city.Depending on the size of the bags, residents could either purchase the bags from the bank at prices ranging between ₹3 and ₹20 or could give old clothes and plastic bottles from their homes to the bank and get cloth bags in exchange for the same.The MCG had set up the cloth bag bank in Nai Basti in Sector 8 on December 14, 2020. The civic body had opened the bank in collaboration with Buland Awaaz Welfare Society — an NGO — amidst the MCG’s growing push for making the city both plastic and polythene free.Kuldeep Singh, MCG brand ambassador for Swachh Bharat Mission, said, “We estimate that every cloth bag helps in reducing five polythene bags as they are more durable and sturdier than the former. The bank was opened amidst the MCG’s push for eradicating the use of polythene and plastic in the city, and we have been successful in distributing over 100.000 bags across Gurugram, mainly in sector markets and HUDA markets.”He also said that the MCG’s long-term objective is to set up a cloth bag bank in all its 35 wards in Gurugram, and subsequently in every residential or commercial sector of the city. “The establishment of the state’s first cloth bag bank has not only been successful in curbing polythene carry bags but has also given a boost to self-employment. 31 underprivileged women are also working at the cloth bag bank and earning income for their families. We are aiming to open more such banks in the city,” Singh added.Since its inception, the bank has distributed bags in markets in areas such as Sector 23, Sushant Lok 1, Wazirabad Mandi, Harijan Basti, Sector 46, and Sector 4 among others. Of these, Sushant Lok 1 Vyapar Kendra, Sector 46 market, Sector 4 market, and Sector 23 market are currently under the MCG’s radar. The civic body wants to turn these areas polythene and plastic free. The MCG has banned various types of polythene under the Haryana Non-Biodegradable Garbage (Control) Act, 1988, since February 27. The violators would have to pay penalties up to ₹25,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugrams-1st-cloth-bag-bank-distributed-over-100-000-bags-in-4-months-101618510271478.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Noida woman missing for five days||The case of a missing 19-year-old woman on April 10 is yet to be solved.According to her family, she had left home in the morning for some work in sector 38 and had not returned.“We tried calling her also but were unable to reach her,” said the woman’s brother who filed the missing person’s complaint with the sector 49 police.None of her friends had heard from her, he said.Police said that a probe was underway.“We are on the lookout for the girl,” said Sudheer Kumar, station house officer, sector 49 police station.Police said they could not gather much information on tracing her phone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-woman-missing-for-five-days-101618510270740.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Sanitisation, containment only after complaint, alleges residents’ body of Ghaziabad high-rise||Ghaziabad: The residents of Ajnara Integrity in Raj Nagar Extension are a worried lot as several people in the high-rise have tested positive for Covid-19 in the past few days. Office bearers of the apartment owners’ association (AOA) of the society on Thursday alleged that the district administration took up sanitisation of the affected towers only after they submitted a complaint that no sealing or sanitisation was taken up despite detection of 33 positive cases in the past four-five days. However, district administration officials said that they took up sanitisation in the residential society on Thursday and also restricted movement of people as soon as they came to know about the positive cases. Ajnara Integrity has 13 towers with 1,492 flats and is occupied by about 1,250 families. “We submitted a written complaint to the administration officials on Thursday morning and also gave them a list of 33 cases which we found in 13 towers. We suspect that there are more cases in the society, but a few residents are not revealing their health status. We have taken up sanitization of different floors and also requested the residents to restrict their movement,” said KK Yadav, general secretary of Ajnara Integrity AOA. He said that about 250 domestic helps come to the high-rise daily and a testing camp is required for screening of other residents as well. After the complaint was submitted, the district administration on Thursday evening put up a tape at the two of three entry/exit gates. “They have sealed two of three entry/exit gates and asked for restriction of movement. They also took up sanitisation of some towers,” said Neeraj Tyagi, president of AOA. According to the official list of containment zones, the high-rise has only one flat listed having three Covid cases till April 14. “At present, we have a list of only three cases in the high-rise. We have sealed the high-rise and also taken up sanitisation. More comprehensive sanitisation will also be taken up on Saturday. Upon enquiry, we found that many residents have got themselves tested at private labs and these labs have not updated entries on the portal. So, the information could not get to the health department,” said Vipin Kumar, city magistrate and incident commander for containment of the Raj Nagar Extension area. “From Saturday, we will be taking up a comprehensive sanitisation of other high-rises in RNE. Members of the AOAs/RWAs are advised to inform us about positive cases so that we can take up containment and sanitisation activities,” he added. When asked, chief medical officer Dr NK Gupta said that a testing camp will soon be organised at the high-rise to find out health status of residents.Shailendra Kumar, additional district magistrate (city), who is also the nodal officer for handling the containment zones, said that all required measures will be taken up soon.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/sanitisation-containment-only-after-complaint-alleges-residents-body-of-ghaziabad-highrise-101618510210756.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Noida, Ghaziabad extend night curfew hours amid surge in Covid-19 cases, state board exams deferred||Ghaziabad/Noida: Amid an alarming surge in Covid-19 cases, the Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday extended the night curfew hours in 10 worst-hit districts, including Ghaziabad and Gautam Budh Nagar, and also deferred the state board exams till May 15. District administrations of Ghaziabad and GB Nagar said that they have extended the timing of night restrictions, which will be now from 8pm to 7am, till further orders. Earlier, the night restrictions were from 10pm to 5am till April 17 in the two districts. The directions were issued by UP chief minister for districts having more than 2,000 active cases, and included districts like Lucknow, Prayagraj, and Meerut, among others, the officials said. “The night restrictions will come with immediate effect from 8pm to 7am. This will help us restrict movement of public further. A major proportion of the police force was also deployed for panchayat elections. But the voting was done on Thursday and the police will now be deployed fully to enforce night restrictions and taking up enforcement,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate, Ghaziabad. “Anyone, other than those involved in essential services, will be acted upon in case they violate night restriction timing and other Covid protocols. We will soon take a decision on curbs on weekly markets as well,” he added.The government has also ordered for the closure of all schools in the state till May 15, besides deferring the state board examinations for classes 10 and 12. The UP Board examinations were scheduled to start from May 8.“The new dates for the examinations will be decided in the first week of May after reviewing the Covid-19 situation. For students of classes 1 to 12, offline teaching will remain suspended till May 15 and no examination will take place during this period,” Suhas LY, GB Nagar district magistrate, said, adding that the night curfew restrictions will now begin from 8pm and end at 7am. “It has also been decided to conduct massive random sampling on Noida-Delhi borders from Friday,” he said. Meanwhile, with addition of 538 fresh cases on Thursday, Ghaziabad’s overall tally of infected patients crossed 29,000 and stood at 29,375, which included 104 deaths. Now, the district has 1,723 active cases, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. The members of the traders’ associations said that extension of night curfew timing is vital in present times in order to save lives and check any further spread of infection. “The extended timing of night restrictions would mean that shops, offices and other establishments will close down by 7.30pm. We have also conveyed to our members to fully abide by the new directions. We have also asked our members not to entertain customers coming to shops without wearing mask,” said Pradeep Gupta, convener of Vyapari Ekta Samiti – Indirapuram.On Thursday, GB Nagar reported 489 new Covid-19 cases, while one person died due to the infection, according to the state’s daily health bulletin. With fresh cases, the overall tally of infected patients in the district has reached 28,928, which include 2,334 active cases and 98 deaths. The GB Nagar DM said that strict measures are being taken in the crowded areas. “On the basis of the reports, main market of Dankaur and vegetable market of Kasna were sealed on Thursday afternoon for 24 hours by the incident commander concerned. We are also checking the safety measures by different industrial and commercial units in the district,” he said. Meanwhile, the sample positivity rate has further gone up in Ghaziabad. According to figures of the district health department, the sample positivity went up to 2.8% on April 15 with 2,084 test reports turning positive of the total 74,441 in April. The 2.8% positivity rate is the highest since December when it was 2.99%, the officials said. Sample positivity rate refers to the number of samples testing positive per 100 samples tested. “The positivity rate will increase further as spread of infection is on the rise. By extending the night restriction timing, the administration has taken a right step in putting more curbs on movement of public. In present times, the public should also consider that taking all precautions is of utmost importance,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). On April 13 while hearing a PIL, the Allahabad high court in an order said that we need to ensure that there is no unnecessary public movement even during day timings. “We need to restrict public movement at least for a week or 10 days to break the chain... We understand that complete lockdown for weeks together may not be feasible, but looking at the current surge of pandemic, we direct the government to look into the viability of complete lockdown in those districts where spread has increased alarmingly, for at least two weeks or three weeks and at least immediately all public gatherings must be restricted to 50 persons,” the high court said in its order. Meanwhile, Thakur Dhirendra Singh, the BJP MLA from Jewar, tested Covid-19 positive on Thursday. “As per the doctor’s suggestions, I’ve opted for home isolation at my farmhouse,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-ghaziabad-extend-night-curfew-hours-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-state-board-exams-deferred-101618510090749.html
15-04-2021||Other||BJP councillor found dead in his car||Bharatiya Janata Party councillor Manish alias Mintu ( 38) was found dead in his car, with a bullet injury in the skull, near Pawlikhas Railway station in Kankerkhera area on Thursday. Manish was BJP councillor of ward 40. SP (city) Vineet Bhatnagar said that primary facie it seemed a case of suicide but a case would be registered on the basis of the complaint given by family members. Bhatnagar admitted that family members suspected murder. Bhatnagar said that Manish had telephoned his wife on Thursday night at around 1 am and sounded depressed. “We are investigating the case from all possible angles,” he said. Manish came into limelight three years ago when he slapped an inspector after an altercation in his restaurant. The inspector had visited the place along with a woman and there was an altercation between him and the waiter over delay in serving food. A case was then registered against Manish and he was sent to jail. Later, he was bailed out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-councillor-found-dead-in-his-car-101618510030739.html
15-04-2021||Other||Minister offers MLA fund to open Covid test centres in Lko wards||In a letter to the Lucknow district magistrate on Thursday, state law minister Brijesh Pathak offered his MLA Local Area Development (MLALAD) fund for the establishment of centres in each city ward to carry out RT-PCR tests and to assist Covid positive patients in all possible ways.“Covid crisis is giving nightmarish experiences to the people here in the state capital. I willingly offer my MLA fund to establish centres in all wards of the city to carry out Covid test and to assist people in need,’ said the letter.The minister’s letter also suggested the administration to start telemedicine facility in the wards to assist those Covid patients who are under home isolation. In the letter, Pathak also said the administration should convert city’s marriage halls, guest houses and community halls into makeshift L I L 2 Covid hospitals.Earlier on April 13, the minister had written to the senior health officials expressing his concerns over the pandemic situation in the state capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/minister-offers-mla-fund-to-open-covid-test-centres-in-lko-wards-101618509910749.html
15-04-2021||Other||Yogi for strict action against hospitals declining Covid patients||Taking strong exception to reports of reluctance and dilly-dallying of certain hospitals in admitting Covid-19 patients, chief minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered that a case under the Epidemic Act be registered against all those who turn away patients sent to them on recommendations of district magistrates (DMs) and chief medical officers (CMOs).A state government press release said the state medical education department has issued orders in this regard to all the divisional commissioners, DMs and CMOs of Uttar Pradesh.It said Yogi had recently emphasised the need of setting up an oxygen generation plant to ensure that there was no shortage of oxygen in medical colleges and hospitals. Several oxygen plants have been set up in medical colleges and hospitals of the state on the CM’s initiative.The oxygen plants are also being set up at government medical colleges in Saharanpur, Ambedkar Nagar, Azamgarh, Banda as well as at autonomous state medical colleges at Firozabad, Ayodhya, Basti and Bahraich districts. It said the state medical education department had released about ₹1.15 crore, including 14.37 lakh for each plant at each medical college and hospital four day ago.Principal secretary, medical education, Alok Kumar said protecting the lives of people infected with coronavirus remained the state government’s top priority and any negligence or dilly-dallying on the part of hospital administrations in treating the patients would not be tolerated under any circumstances.It said the state government had already purchased adequate quantities of ventilators, HFNC and BIPAP for government hospitals and medical colleges to treat critical patients. The state boasts of having more than 5000 ventilators, 1600 high flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen supply system and 1000 bi-level positive airway pressure (BIPAP) machines in medical colleges and hospitals in addition to those in private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-for-strict-action-against-hospitals-declining-covid-patients-101618509731489.html
15-04-2021||Other||Lko traders join hands, aim to break virus chain||Traders across the city closed their shops on Thursday in an attempt to break the coronavirus chain here. “Almost all the traders’ organisations have called for closure of city markets from April 15 to 21,” said Amarnath Mishra, senior general secretary of the Lucknow Vyapar Mandal. Sandeep Bansal, president of the Uttar Pradesh Udyog Vyapar Mandal said , “The traders have done what everyone wanted to do. The closure is not as effective as a lockdown, but still, it’s an effective way to stop large gatherings in the markets. They voluntarily closed the major markets of the city from Thursday to Sunday to break the corona chain. All the major markets like Hazratganj, Lalbagh, Aminabad, Mohan Market, Pratap Market, Nazirabad, Alambagh, Chowk, Bhootnath, Indira Nagar and Gomti Nagar remained closed to break the virus chain. Such voluntary closure without any political reason was seen for the first time.” Sanjay Gupta, president of the Uttar Pradesh Adarsh Vyapar Mandal said, “I am happy to see that traders have selected humanity over money. They have done the best thing to break the virus chain. Over one lakh traders and their staff members remained inside the house. Above all, around three to five lakh consumers didn’t visit these shops. They, too, remained at home.” Kishan Chand Bhambwani, president of the Hazratganj Traders’ Association said, “Despite the marriage season, Navratri and the holy month of Ramzan, traders have sacrificed their business for stopping the pandemic.” Jaspreet Singh of Aminabad Vyapar Mandal said that the markets of Aminabad, Mohan Market, Pratap Market, Garbarjhala, Nazeerabad, State Bank crossing, Mumtaz market and Moulviganj remained closed. The traders of Alambagh, too, closed their establishments. Ratpal Singh Goldie of Alambagh Vyapar Mandal said, “The traders have decided to close their shops till Sunday following the call by Lucknow Vyapar Mandal.” Bhootnath market in Indira Nagar remained shut on Thursday and the market will stay closed till Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lko-traders-join-hands-aim-to-break-virus-chain-101618509610665.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Not allowed to acquire, transfer plots to GMDA, says highways authority||Officials of the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) said that the authority cannot acquire land along the Dwarka Expressway, from the Delhi border to Kherki Daula, and transfer the same to the local authority for the construction of 30-metre roads on both sides of the highway. The Gurugram Metropolitan Authority (GMDA) had proposed that the NHAI acquire the land and hand it over to the local agency. However, in a letter to GMDA, the NHAI stated that the mandate of the highways authority did now allow for the acquisition of the required parcels for the purpose.“A proposal had come from the side of GMDA in January regarding the acquisition of land on both sides of the Dwarka Expressway and handing it over to GMDA for construction of access roads. This proposal was discussed by the authority and it became clear that NHAI could not hand over the land as it is not a land acquisition authority. We can acquire the land and build this road within a year but handing it over is not in our mandate,” said a senior NHAI official, privy to the matter, who wished anonymity.NHAI officials said that service roads are crucial to provide access to commuters to the highway through the sector-dividing roads in developing sectors. A meeting on the acquisition of this land and the construction of access roads between the two agencies is scheduled for Friday. NHAI officials said that access roads are required along the length of the expressway, as vehicles can’t move directly onto the main carriageways of the access-controlled highway. “Either the NHAI can acquire the land and build it or GMDA can acquire it and build it. We have received only ₹70 crore from the state government for land compensation, while the total amount is close to ₹270 crore,” an official familiar with the matter said.A letter written by the NHAI to GMDA said in the last week of March said, “It is to submit that land is acquired by NHAI under the NH Act for building, maintaining and operation of national highways. There is no provision in the act for acquiring land to hand it over to state government for constructing their roads, which will be in contradiction to public purpose for which the acquisition is intended under the NH Act.”The GMDA, which is the primary agency in the district for planning, developing and maintenance of key infrastructure, however, said that they were constructing a service utility duct on the acquired land but will not be able to comment further on this matter without looking into the details. Jitendra Mittal, chief engineer (infrastructure), GMDA said, “We are undertaking the construction of a service utility duct on plots that have already been acquired. Apart from this, I would not be able to comment, without looking into the details.”Last month, Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari conducted a detailed inspection of the Dwarka Expressway project, accompanied by Gurugram Lok Sabha member (MP) Rao Inderjit Singh, and announced a deadline of August 15, 2022, for its completion.The 29-kilometre-long Dwarka Expressway is being developed in four phases and it will connect Kherki Daula and Mahipalpur, in Delhi, on national highway 48 via Dwarka. It will also provide an extension to the IGI Airport through a tunnel. Phase three and four of the project, which fall in Gurugram, are expected to be completed by December 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/not-allowed-to-acquire-transfer-plots-to-gmda-says-highways-authority-101618509433723.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Authority plans GIS system to improve air quality, address environmental concerns||In a bid to improve air quality and analyse ecological concerns in the city, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority is working on an environmental and climate monitoring system for micro-level monitoring and better policymaking, officials familiar with the matter said. The system will be deployed in Gurugram and Faridabad and will employ geographical information system (GIS) technology.The GIS technology is a framework for gathering, managing, and analysing data that organises layers of information into visualisations using maps and 3D projections. A network of approximately 200 monitors is likely to be set up by the GMDA for this purpose.Sultan Singh, chief geospatial officer and head of the GIS division for GMDA, said that a system will be worked out to monitor the environment of Gurugram and Faridabad. “We have different data, forecasts to monitor the environment, but the source of this data (meteorological station) is not always close to the specific location, giving us an average and not complete accuracy. So, GMDA is planning to set up appropriate infrastructure like automatic weather monitoring systems, air quality monitoring stations, meteorological stations across Gurugram and Faridabad, based on which micro-level monitoring can be done, leading to better policymaking for the fight against pollution,” said Singh.The agenda for GMDA’s 8th authority meeting, held on April 9, stated, “The GIS applications can be used for modelling water harvesting sites and their selection based on topography with the implementation of new technologies like a continuous dense network of weather stations for effective management of water resources and also for measuring temperature, wind speed, air quality and pollution level. This will help in identifying the areas with less pollution or higher pollution. The reasons may then be identified for pollution and make proper plan for improvement. This will enable the participation of authority and citizens for making the environment better.”The new monitoring systems will be installed after a study of the existing infrastructure and areas where devices are required. Singh said that the number of weather stations in the Gurugram-Faridabad region would be revealed after the survey. Haryana has a total of 14 meteorological centres set up by the India Meteorological Department, located at least 100 kilometres from one another.A senior official of the GMDA, requesting anonymity, said that weather monitoring systems will be installed in grids of 9-10kms under the project. “With monitoring systems in close proximity, we will be able to closely monitor aspects like air quality, humidity, level of pollution. This will further help us in understanding why a particular area is reporting high levels of pollution or if certain areas are doing good work. Over 200 monitoring systems are likely to be installed as part of the project, but it is still being decided as to when work on the ground will start,” said the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/authority-plans-gis-system-to-improve-air-quality-address-environmental-concerns-101618509432010.html
15-04-2021||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar reports 6133 new cases, 24 fatalities, active caseload nears 30,000-mark||With 24 fresh fatalities the death toll due to coronavirus increased to 1675 on Thursday in Bihar, where with 6133 new infections the tally of Covid cases has crossed three lakh mark.According to the health department bulletin, seven fresh deaths have been reported in Patna, three each in Gaya and Katihar, two each in Darbhanga and West Champaran and one casualty each in Begusarai, Bhojpur, Jehanabad, Madhepura, Munger, Muzaffarpur and Rohtas.A total 6133 new cases surfaced in the state in past 24 hours, out of which Patna alone accounted for 2105 infections.Among districts Patna had maximum share of 66,913 cases out of total caseload of 3,01,304 in Bihar.Other major affected districts are-Bhagalpur with 601 cases, Gaya (431), Muzaffarpur (265) and Begusarai (174).A total of 755 patients recovered in last 24 hours while 2,70,550 Covid patients have been cured in the state since the start of the pandemic last year.Recovery rate of Covid patients has further gone down to 89.79 per cent in the state Thursday.A total of 1,01,236 samples were tested in last 24 hours, while the total samples clinically examined in the state so far stand at 24944876.There are 29,078 active cases in the state.On the vaccination front, a total of 97,283 eligible citizens were administered jabs during the day. Total 56,05,889 people have been inoculated in the state so farChief Minister Nitish Kumar took second dose of vaccine at state-run Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) here.Deputy chief ministers-Tarkishore Prasad and Renu Devi- besides senior ministers of the state including Vijay Chaudhary, Bijendra Prasad Yadav and Principal Secretaries to the chief minister Dipak Kumar and Chanchal Kumar also got the second dose of vaccine at IGIMS Thursday.Shops and business establishments closed at 7 pm as part of the curbs imposed in the state to check spread of the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-bihar-reports-6133-new-cases-24-fatalities-active-caseload-nears-30000mark-101618508237138.html
15-04-2021||Other||UP defers board exams, shuts schools till May 15, prolongs night curfew in 10 districts||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday decided to postpone the class 10 and class 12 exams of the UP Board till after May 20, suspend teaching work for students from class 1 to 12 till May 15 and prolong the night curfew by two more hours with immediate effect in 10 districts having over 2000 active Covid-19 cases. However, essential services will not be impacted. During this period, no examinations should be held, chief minister Yogi Adityanath said. The new dates for the UP Board exams will be announced in the first week of May, said chief minister after a Covid review meeting with officials via video conferencing. Instead of 9pm to 6am, the night curfew will now be enforced from 8pm to 7am in 10 districts including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar, Gautam Buddha Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur. Yogi, who isolated himself following Covid-19 positive report on Wednesday, gave orders in this regard after reviewing the situation with Team-11 at a video conference on Thursday. The steps came even as Uttar Pradesh on Thursday reported 104 coronavirus deaths, including 26 in Lucknow, and 22,439 fresh infection cases, the highest single-day spike since the outbreak of the pandemic. The state capital alone logged 5,183 fresh cases. As Covid-19 surge continued at a fast pace, the government also released the first instalment of ₹750 crore of the Vidhayak Nidhi (state legislature area development fund) for 2021-22 a year after keeping it under suspension to provide funds for fight against Covid-19. Simultaneously, in a letter to the Lucknow district magistrate on Thursday, state law minister Brijesh Pathak offered his MLA Local Area Development (MLALAD) fund for the establishment of centres in each city ward to carry out RT-PCR tests and to assist Covid positive patients in all possible ways. “Covid crisis is giving nightmarish experiences to the people here in the state capital. I willingly offer my MLA fund to establish centres in all wards of the city to carry out Covid test and to assist people in need,’ said the letter. University and degree colleges’ exams across the state have also been postponed till May 15. A decision about these exams will be taken in the first week of May, said deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma in a tweet on Thursday. In a letter addressed to all the vice chancellors, special secretary, UP government, Abdul Samad said Universities and degree colleges should not hold any theory or practical exams till May 15. Universities and colleges were asked to continue only online classes and students should not be allowed to come to campuses.Meanwhile the decision on postponing the UP Board exam comes a day after the Central Board of Secondary Examination (CBSE) cancelled exams for class 10 and deferred exams for class 12 due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-defers-board-exams-shuts-schools-till-may-15-prolongs-night-curfew-in-10-districts-101618509377972.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||MCM to crack down on encroachments||The Municipal Corporation of Manesar (MCM) has decided to crack down on encroachments in areas under its jurisdiction, and gave violators a week to remove encroachments, failing which they were warned of action. The newly formed MCM cautioned violators regarding encroachments for the first time since its constitution last December and said that teams of officials were constituted for conducting an anti-encroachment drive over the next two weeks. The teams will be handing over notices to violators on the spot and giving them a week to remove the encroachments, said officials.“A meeting was held with enforcement team members and they were issued necessary guidelines. They will be conducting a special survey in the MCM area over a week’s time and give notice to encroachers concerned. If the encroachment is not removed despite the notice, then in the next week, a special campaign will be carried out by the MCM to remove all encroachments. Encroachment will not be tolerated under any circumstance,” said RS Bhath, district town planner (enforcement), MCM.MCM officials said that they have noticed encroachments mainly in sectors 81, 82, 83, 84, 92, 95, 102 and 110, besides the presence of unauthorised vegetable and fruit markets across the city. The MCM, earlier this week, demolished around 25 illegal structures with the help of earthmovers.The MCM was formed by the Haryana government in December last year, following demands of residents in newer sectors and factory owners.MCG removes encroachment near Sadar BazarThe Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) removed encroachments between Bada Bazar, located next to Sadar Bazar, and Mor Chowk in Civil Lines on Thursday. MCG officials said that unauthorised vendors, illegally constructed ramps and temporary structures (shops) were removed during the drive taken on a two-kilometre-long stretch to ease traffic congestion in the area.On April 8, a four-storey hardware store and two-storey plywood store were gutted following a major fire in the Bada Bazar area. Despite the Bhim Nagar fire station being located just three kilometres away, the fire department officials took up to 20 minutes to reach the blaze site as the market was heavily encroached and congested that proved to be a major obstacle for rescue operations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcm-to-crack-down-on-encroachments-101618509375123.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Daily Covid-19 infections at 1,434; containment zones increased||The daily spike of Covid-19 cases continued its exponential rise on Thursday, with 1,434 new cases being reported from across the district, the third time more than 1,000 cases have been reported in the last four days. One person died due to the Covid-19 infection, taking the total number of deaths to 372 while the weekly positivity rate remained at 10%, according to the health department data.The district on Thursday increased the number of micro-containment zones from 61 to 119 to curb the spread of infections. “In view of the rising cases, we had recommended an increase in the number of containment zones to the district administration, which accepted it. The objective is to isolate the localised spread. We are also testing over 10,000 people every day. We have also decided to conduct antigen testing on a large scale for mass screening,” said Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer. Yadav said that he was accompanied by the deputy commissioner during a visit to the Medeor Hospital and SGT Medical Hospital, where steps to increase the number of ICU and ventilator beds were discussed with both hospitals.To provide isolation facilities to Covid-19 patients, the district administration also issued directions for setting up 17 isolation centres in the city. Twelve of these centres would be paid facilities while five will be government-paid ones. For the paid facilities, the authorities fixed the rate between ₹1,200 and ₹3,500 per day, for which patients will be given three meals a day.Due to concerns over the sharp spike in Covid-19 cases over the last few days, the district and sessions judge Surya Pratap Singh late Thursday suspended the physical hearing of cases in district courts till April 30. The state government has also cancelled board exams for class 10 students and deferred the exams for class 12 students due to the sharp spike.According to the health department data, the district recorded 1,084 cases on Sunday, 1,132 cases on Monday, 998 cases on Tuesday and 1,151 cases on Wednesday. Health officials said that the total number of cases reached 74,856, of which 7,741 are active cases. As many as 10,079 samples were collected on Thursday for testing. On Thursday, 722 patients recovered from the infection, taking the recovery rate to 89%. Officials said that 58 Covid-positive persons were also lodged in government-run facilities for isolating themselves. Officials said that 2,102 people received the vaccines on Thursday across 97 vaccination sites in the city.Yadav said that the number of government session sites was fewer as it was a regular inoculation day for the department. Overall 295,000 people of the 428,000 eligible beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the district. The district administration, in a related development, also curtailed the number of people allowed at functions and social gatherings, following an announcement by the chief minister earlier in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/daily-covid-19-infections-at-1-434-containment-zones-increased-101618509374372.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Car thefts: Alertness of cops at checkpoints tested||Senior officials of the Gurugram police said they are taking measures to curb rising car thefts in the city by testing the preparedness of the personnel deployed at checkpoints during the night. Officials said that the success rate of personnel on the ground in spotting stolen cars increased to 80% so far in April, from 20% in March, in an initiative wherein a car bearing the registration number of a stolen vehicle is driven through checkpoints.Officials said that teams performing poorly in the test were warned of strict action, as the city is witnessing at least three car thefts per day, with as many as 299 car thefts reported till March. Last year, 268 vehicles were stolen till March, as per the data available with the police.KK Rao, the commissioner of police, said, “We planned this exercise and hired private cars. We informed the police control room and shared the registration number of the car, which, we said, was stolen.”Rao said that during the initial days of the initiative, launched in the second week of March, the cars passed through without much trouble, despite the information being relayed by the control room. “We started taking action, following which the teams became alert and started checking suspected vehicles,” he said.The city police decided to crack the whip on vehicle thieves, as the number of thefts continued to rise. More than 50 people from Nuh, Faridabad, Delhi and Rajasthan, were arrested from January to March for stealing cars.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said that gangs involved in the crimes often are from nearby districts and the vehicles are mostly sold in northeastern states and Uttar Pradesh at knockdown prices. “We are equipped with the latest technology, GPS and wireless communication devices, which are provided to officials deployed throughout the night at 147 spots, and in 79 police control room vans and 123 patrol bikes,” he said.Officials said that for the exercise, they are analysing the spots through crime mapping analytics and predictive system, which accesses real time data from the police control room.Rao said that a cop calls the control room claiming to be a robbery victim and shares the direction the car was taken in, following which the control room relays the same to the personnel deployed closest to the spot. “Even the colour of the car and description is shared to make it easy to identify the car, despite which they were not able to get hold of the drivers, initially,” said Rao.Rao said that teams deployed at as many as 74 of the 114 police posts were warned over their poor performance, while 40 teams were rewarded for spotting the stolen vehicles. On repeated failure, personnel were shuffled and some even sent to Police Lines, following which fresh deployment was processed for the spots, said Rao.Rao said that the exercise not only checks the alertness of the personnel but also the response time to crimes. “The force needs to be attentive and ensure it is doing its best. People have high hopes from the police and if we delay in taking action, their faith in us will weaken,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/car-thefts-alertness-of-cops-at-checkpoints-tested-101618509373681.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Man arrested for distribution of liquor to woo voters||Greater Noida: Days ahead of the panchayat polls in Gautam Budh Nagar district, police on Thursday arrested a 32-year-old person for allegedly distributing liquor to voters at a village in Greater Noida. The suspect was identified as Mukesh Bhati alias Mukki, 32, a resident of Nangla Nainsukh village in Dadri. Vishal Pandey, additional deputy commissioner of police, Greater Noida, said that Dadri police and Noida STF on Thursday received information that someone is distributing liquor to voters in Nangla Naisukh. “A joint team reached the spot and arrested Mukesh with five cartons of illegal liquor. As many as 250 liquor bottles were in the cartons which were smuggled from Haryana,” he said. Raj Kumar Mishra, additional SP (Noida STF), said that besides the liquor consignment, the police team also recovered a countrymade gun, two live cartridges, and ₹10,000 from the suspect’s possession. According to Mishra, the investigation revealed that Mukesh is brother of Manoj Bhati, a sharpshooter of Randeep Bhati gang. Manoj’s wife Sundri Devi is contesting election for zila panchayat member from ward no. 4 in Greater Noida, he said. The panchayat elections in GB Nagar will be held on April 19.“Manoj is presently in Luksar jail and he has over 40 criminal cases. Mukesh had bought the liquor from Haryana and he was distributing it to local people,” Mishra said. A case has been registered against Mukesh under sections 60 and 63 of the Excise Act. Police said that the suspect was wanted in seven criminal cases, including attempt to murder, and rioting. On April 11, a team of Dadri police had conducted a search at his house, but Mukesh managed to escape after opening fire at the police team, police said. The suspect was produced in court and sent to judicial custody, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-arrested-for-distribution-of-liquor-to-woo-voters-101618509372980.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Unable to find alternative sites for landfill, say MCG officials||A week after the National Green Tribunal (NGT) asked the state government to closely monitor the waste remediation process at Bandhwari landfill, officials on Thursday said that they have hit a roadblock in finding an alternative landfill site due to “not in my backyard syndrome”. Officials from the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) said that waste remediation is being done at the landfill site and it (treatment capacity) is being expanded gradually. However, they are unable to find an alternative site for a landfill, with residents protesting plans or filing petitions in courts.Sites were previously identified in Farrukhnagar and Sihi of Gurugram last year, but waste disposal could not be started at these sites due to public protests. Thereafter, over the last month, refuse-derived fuel was being temporarily stored on a plot near the Pali crusher zone in Faridabad, but it was stopped after officials learnt that there is status quo on the plot by the high court.A senior MCG official, requesting anonymity, said, “The problem is of a site which is saturated due to legacy waste and continuous dumping of fresh waste. As per the directions of NGT, legacy waste is being processed but fresh waste is also being dumped. To delink fresh waste from legacy waste, multiple efforts have been made to identify an alternative site, but at all the places we were met with resistance. The corporation wants to resolve the issue, but residents are affected with this syndrome called ‘not in my backyard’.”Officials said that at present, they have over 50,000 metric tonnes of refuse-derived fuel (RDF) ready for processing at either a cement plant or brick kiln. The official said that it is taking time to process RDF as there is “no cement plant nearby and waste-to-energy plants in Delhi, that could have used the RDF, are already saturated.” Meanwhile, RDF was being temporarily stored at a plot near the Pali crusher zone in Faridabad, but due to ongoing litigation in the high court over the plot ownership, storage has been stopped. At present, officials of the MCG have sought clearances from the forest department for setting up a solid waste management plant on the Aravalli forest land.In a report submitted to the NGT on April 5, the MCG said, “…land measuring 92 acres in the revenue estate of Gothra Mohabatabad, district Faridabad is also under consideration for the SWM plant. The ownership of land belongs to Municipal Corporation, Faridabad and is protected by sections 4 & 5 of Punjab Land Preservation Act -1900 and is categorized as Aravalli Plantation area. The process to obtain environment clearance has been also initiated by MCF.”The report further stated, “Drone survey of the site has been conducted and it has been decided to engage reputed institutions such as IIT, NEERI etc. to conduct a survey and prepare detailed project report for fresh waste processing facility within two months in coordination with municipal corporations of Gurugram and Faridabad. This facility is planned to operate till commissioning of a waste-to-energy plant in October 2023.” However, citizens engaged in waste management activities in the city said that instead of searching for an alternative site to store waste, an integrated solid waste management approach at the ward level may help the situation. Ruchika Sethi Takkar, a resident working for proper waste management in the city, said, “In this crisis (of finding alternative landfill sites) lies an opportunity to give Gurugram a scientific waste management system, by setting a goal of at least 75% landfill diversion through mandatory recycling and composting or biogas ordinances. A waste reduction hierarchy must be adopted as a chief operating principle that is to prevent waste, reduce and reuse first and then recycle or compost.” She said, “An integrated solid waste management approach is required in all 35 wards for managing the total waste through a combination of composting units and biogas plants for treating the organic matter, which is roughly 60% -65% of the waste. The rest of the dry waste can be collected separately for recycling or processing. This will automatically reduce the load on landfills.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/unable-to-find-alternative-sites-for-landfill-say-mcg-officials-101618509371458.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||200 allowed for open gatherings, 50 for indoor events: Haryana govt||Taking cognisance of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Haryana, the administration issued an order on Thursday to prevent large crowding at public gatherings. According to the statement, from now on, maximum 200 people can attend public functions in open spaces, and maximum 50 in indoor events. Also, only 20 people attend funerals.On Thursday, Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar had directed the district administration to focus on implementation of the coronavirus safeguards strictly, while imposing curbs on gatherings. The state government had also issued an official statement on this.Dr Yash Garg, deputy commissioner, Gurugram, said on Thursday, “There will be a curtail in public gatherings in view of the rising Covid-19 cases. The number of people allowed in open spaces is 200, and 50 in closed spaces. The economic activities will continue as before, but everyone will have to follow Covid-19 safeguards strictly to prevent the spread of the virus.”CM Khattar had issued these directions while holding a meeting in Chandigarh with senior officials, deputy commissioners, and health department officials through video conferencing. The CM also directed the police to enforce mask discipline, and social distancing among the people. He asked urban local bodies and district administrations to focus on contact tracing, sanitisation, and better enforcement of micro-containment zones, according to the officials, privy to the meeting.The CM had indicated during the meeting that there is no plan to impose lockdown like last year “to keep the economic cycle running”. “The economic activity had stalled due to the lockdown last year, which took about six months to get back on track. Therefore, we have to keep in mind that the economic cycle should keep going in the state, and that no one is adversely affected,” Khattar had said during the meeting.He also directed all the deputy commissioners to issue an advisory in their respective districts to ensure that night-time ceremonies, including Navaratri programmes, be conducted during the day.The officials, privy to the meeting, said that the CM directed the police department and other civic agencies to impose penalties for not wearing masks and violating social distancing. “The police department was asked to take strict action against the violators and issue challans, and also distribute masks among the people. The urban local bodies and district administrations have been asked to focus on contact tracing, improving sanitisation, and manage micro-containment zones in a better way,” said an official, who was at the meeting.Haryana health minister Anil Vij, who also attended the meeting, said that the government wants to deal with the coronavirus situation with strictness, instead of imposing lockdown in the state. “We can withstand the resentment of people by acting strictly but cannot see people dying. The virus is more aggressive this time,” Vij said.The CM has also reached out to the farmers and asked them to withdraw their movement on humanitarian grounds. If they want to hold protests for their demands, they can do it when the situation improves, he said, adding that the deputy commissioners have been directed to contact the agitating farmers, and try to persuade them.Meanwhile, Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer (CMO), said that the health departments across the state were asked to increase testing and vaccination, and boost the health care facilities in terms of general beds, ICU beds, and ventilators. “Gurugram is already testing over 10,000 people per day, but in line with the directions, we will try to increase the testing numbers. The session sites for vaccinations will also be increased,” said Yadav, adding that the health department is working closely with the district administration to expand testing and vaccine outreach.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/200-allowed-for-open-gatherings-50-for-indoor-events-haryana-govt-101618509370661.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19 patient dies by suicide in Greater Noida||Greater Noida: A 52-year-old woman allegedly set herself on fire and ended her life in Badalpur on Thursday morning. The woman had tested positive for the coronavirus disease four days ago and was under home quarantine. Elamaran G, addl deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said, “The woman lived with her family in Raj Enclave. She had complained of fever and cough and her Covid-19 report returned positive on April 11.” Dinesh Kumar, SHO Badalpur police station, said that on Thursday the other family members were woken up from screams. He said the woman had broken quarantine and set herself on fire. “They said they tried to douse the fire. However, the woman was critically injured and died,” he said. The woman’s husband informed police. “We have sent the body for cremation as per the covid protocol. The victim’s family members are Covid negative. They have been advised to follow the guidelines,” Kumar said. He said the police have not received any complaint in this regard. Gautam Budh Nagar does not have a dedicated helpline to deal with such situations. A few major suicide prevention helpline numbers in India are 011-23389090 from Sumaitri (Delhi-based) and 044-24640050 from Sneha Foundation (Chennai-based).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-patient-dies-by-suicide-in-greater-noida-101618509130627.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Man fires in the air after dispute during cricket match; FIR lodged||Noida: A disagreement between two teams during a neighbourhood cricket match on Thursday morning in a Noida village allegedly led to shots being fired in the air. A case was filed at the Phase 3 police station, police said, adding that nobody was injured in the incident.According to the police, a call was made to the police helpline around 9am by a caller who alleged that shots were fired in Bahlolpur village.“A team was rushed to the spot and it came to light that the incident occurred during a neighbourhood cricket match,” said Jitendra Kumar Dikshit, station house officer, Phase 3 police station.Police said that there were two cricket teams, allegedly being led by two men identified as Nitin and Koshinder, both residents of Bahlolpur village. During the match, there was a disagreement between the two which resulted in a fight. After a while, Koshinder allegedly fired shots in the air in order to threaten the others and then fled from the spot, after which police were called.“Nobody was injured in the scuffle and efforts are on to find Koshinder. They are all young, in their late teens and early twenties, and all of them are locals and known to each other,” said the SHO.Police said that the teams often play together and it was the first time such a violent incident occurred. Based on the complaint by locals, a case of attempt to murder (Section 307 of the Indian Penal Code) is being registered at the Phase 3 police station while a search is on for the shooter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/man-fires-in-the-air-after-dispute-during-cricket-match-fir-lodged-101618509010642.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Covid-19: Class 9, 11 exams in Delhi government schools cancelled, says deputy CM Manish Sisodia||Class 9 and 11 exams in Delhi government schools have been cancelled in view of the spike in Covid-19 cases and the assessment criterion decided by the CBSE for class 10 students will be adopted for these two classes, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Thursday.Sisodia announced this during a live interaction with students on suggestions for the assessment criteria for class 10 board exams which were cancelled on Wednesday by the CBSE.Considering marks of mid-term exams, evaluation of worksheets, open book exams and viva voices were among the suggestions received by Sisodia regarding assessment for class 10 exams."The class 9 and 11 exams in government schools have been cancelled. Whatever criteria the board decides for evaluation of class 10 students, we will adopt the same for class 9 and 11 too," he said."I will convey the suggestions received from the students to higher authorities including the CBSE," he added.Asked about class 12 exams, Sisodia said, "I still feel the exams should be cancelled but the CBSE has said that it will review the situation on June 1. I request the students to be patient and not let it affect them".The CBSE on Wednesday cancelled class 10 board exams and deferred class 12 exams in view of the surge in coronavirus cases.While the situation will be reviewed in June for conducting class 12 exams, the result for class 10 will be declared on basis of an objective criteria to be decided by the board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/covid19-class-9-11-exams-in-delhi-government-schools-cancelled-says-deputy-cm-manish-sisodia-101618505972061.html
15-04-2021||Other||J&K’s active Covid cases cross 10,000-mark again||Jammu and Kashmir’s active Covid-19 cases crossed the 10,000-mark again after 1,141 fresh cases were reported on Thursday taking the UT’s case tally to 1,42,877, health officials said.Of the new cases, 707 are from Kashmir division while 434 are from Jammu. Of the day’s cases, 258 are travellers“Number of active cases, which has been rising steadily in the last two months, has reached 10,040,” officials said.Four persons lost their lives – three in Kashmir and one in Jammu division - owing to the virus, taking the death toll to 2,046. So far, 52 people have lost their lives to the disease this month.In three days, the UT has recorded above 1,000 cases with this year’s highest daily count of 1,269 cases on Tuesday.Officials said with 418 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 215 in Jammu, 136 in Baramulla, 93 in Reasi, and 47 in Udhampur.On Thursday, 487 patients were discharged, including 371 from Kashmir and 116 from Jammu.Total 1,30,791 people have recovered so far, taking the recovery rate to 91.54%. Over 6.64 million Covid tests have been conducted in the UT so far.Ladakh logs over 800 cases in 10 days
15-04-2021||Pune||Pune dist records 9,961 fresh Covid cases, 59 deaths in 24 hours||PUNE Pune district reported a spike with 9,961 fresh Covid positive cases in 24 hours. Also, 59 Covid-related deaths were reported in the district on Thursday, with seven deaths in Pune rural, 42 in Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and ten in Pimpri-Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC).As per the state health department, PMC has reported 3,59,285 Covid cases and 4,943 deaths till Thursday. Whereas PCMC has reported 1,70,724 cases and a total of 1,434 deaths due to Covid.Pune rural has reported 1,59,265 total cases so far and 2,318 deaths due to the virus infection.In the Pune district, there are a total of 6,89,274 lakh Covid cases. Out of this, 5,67,602 patients have recovered and 8,749 have been reported dead and at present, there are 1,12,923 active cases.As per the state health department, 53,335 patients were discharged on Thursday in Maharashtra taking the total to 29,59,056 in the state. The recovery rate in the state is 81.3%.Across Maharashtra, 61,695 new cases of Covid were diagnosed and 349 deaths were reported. The case fatality rate in the state is 1.63%.The state health department stated out of 2,30,36,652 laboratory samples, 36,39,855 have been tested positive till Thursday. That is 15.8% of patients till Thursday.Currently, 35,87,478 people are in home quarantine and 27,273 people are in institutional quarantine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-dist-records-9-961-fresh-covid-cases-59-deaths-in-24-hours-101618506731666.html
15-04-2021||Other||J&K cancels Class 10 exams, postpones Class 12 exams by a month||In view of rising number of Covid cases in J&K, L-G Manoj Sinha on Thursday cancelled ongoing Class 10 exams of remaining subjects and postponed Class 12 exams by a month.The Jammu and Kashmir Board of School Education has been directed to act upon the decision.“In view of rising cases of #COVID19, Class 10 ongoing exams for remaining subjects has been cancelled and their promotion to Class 11 will be decided on the basis of their performance in subjects already undertaken in present exam and internal assessment,” he posted on his official Twitter handle.“In case of ongoing Class 12 exams, it has been postponed and will be reviewed after one month,” he added.Closure of schools extended till April 30The J&K government has also extended closure of all schools up to Class 12 till April 30.The government has also directed private coaching institutes and tuition centres to adhere to the directives and keep their institutes closed till April 30.State executive committee member secretary Simrandeep Singh issued an order on Thursday evening which read: “All schools in the UT will remain closed for imparting on campus education to students of all classes till April 30.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jk-cancels-class-10-exams-postpones-class-12-exams-by-a-month-101618506731016.html
15-04-2021||Other||Amid spike in Covid cases, L-G defers bi-annual Darbar Move to Srinagar||Following surge in Covid-19 cases across Jammu and Kashmir, lieutenant governor (L-G) Manoj Sinha on Thursday deferred the bi-annual practice of shifting the Darbar Move offices – seat of power to Srinagar.All the Move offices, including civil secretariat and Raj Bhawan, were scheduled to close in Jammu on April 30 and May 1. They had to reopen in Srinagar on May 10. However, the spike in Covid cases prompted Sinha to defer the bi-annual exercise.The exercise was introduced by the princely rulers of the erstwhile state during the regime of the then Maharaja Gulab Singh in 1872 to escape extreme heat during summer in Jammu and the biting cold winters in Srinagar.In a series of posts on his official Twitter handle, the L-G relayed the information to people.“As J&K is witnessing surge in Covid cases, the threat it poses to people/staff on the move and implementation of e-Office in both the secretariat, in move offices, it has been decided to defer the #DarbarMove this time,” Sinha had tweeted.The secretariat will function in Srinagar as well as Jammu with staff equitably split between both locations.Lakhanpur Covid control measures reviewedMeanwhile, Jammu divisional commissioner Dr Raghav Langer on Thursday visited Lakhanpur corridor — the gateway to J&K, to take stock of Covid control measures and other amenities for inbound travellers.Langer called upon the officers to keep high degree of vigil and ensure strict adherence to the SOPs at Lakhanpur in view of recent surge in Covid cases.He directed Lakhanpur authorities to strengthen the staff at the control room to ensure testing of all incoming travellers.It was decided that testing of travellers going to Samba, Jammu, Reasi and Udhampur will be done at Thandi Khui in Samba, whereas rest of the travellers have to undergo Covid testing at Lakhanpur entry point.He also directed the Kathua DC to make adequate arrangements for isolation, administrative quarantine and notify paid quarantine facilities for proper handling of Covid positive cases.He called for keeping full track of all travellers and ensure mandatory disclosure of relevant information by all inbound travellers in Lakhanpur.“Only those with negative RT-PCR testing report not older by 48-hours will be exempted for testing in Lakhanpur,” Langer said.Provision of backup for uninterrupted electricity at Lakhanpur facilitation centre, proper cleanliness and a dedicated ambulance for Lakhanpur and other amenities were among the issues discussed during the visit.Later, Langer inspected a 70-bedded Covid care centre established at Kharote and directed CMO Kathua to make all necessary steps for proper care of Covid patients as per protocol.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/amid-spike-in-covid-cases-l-g-defers-bi-annual-darbar-move-to-srinagar-101618506611342.html
15-04-2021||Other||Himachal logs 1,034 fresh Covid cases, 11 deaths||Himachal Pradesh on Thursday recorded 1,034 fresh Covid-19 infections taking the state’s caseload to 73,353. The death toll climbed to 1,146 after 11 patients succumbed to the contagion.Of the new cases, 197 were reported in Kangra, 170 in Solan, 151 in Mandi, 99 in Sirmaur, 98 in Hamirpur, 78 in Kinnaur, 77 in Una, 58 in Bilaspur, 49 in Shimla, 35 in Chamba, 19 in Kullu and three in Lahaul-Spiti.In Kinnaur, more than 50 Border Roads Organisation (BRO) labourers are among those infected. Active cases shot up to 7,362 while recoveries reached 64,807 after 589 patients recuperated.Four fatalities were reported in Una, two each in Shimla, Kangra and Solan, and one in Sirmaur. In Shimla, both the deaths were reported from a family of Jashla village in Kotkhai tehsil.Their contacts have been isolated and the house where the family resides has been declared a micro-containment zone. This is for the first time that two deaths have been reported from a family in Himachal.Shimla is the worst-hit district with 11,875 cases, followed by Kangra (11,384), and Mandi (11,278). Solan has 8,942 cases, Una 5,080, Kullu 4,866, Sirmaur 4,541, Hamirpur 4,255, Bilaspur 3,817, Chamba 3,414, Lahaul-Spiti 1,445, and Kinnaur 1,422.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-logs-1-034-fresh-covid-cases-11-deaths-101618506135593.html
15-04-2021||Other||CM launches ‘Veerangana on wheel’ scheme to check crime against women||In a bid to check crime against women, the Himachal Pradesh government launched ‘Veerangana on wheel’ service that will let women get prompt help and lodge complaints at their doorstep.Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur, who holds the home portfolio, on Thursday launched the scheme on the occasion of Himachal Day and flagged off 135 two-wheelers meant for women constables of the help desks being established across all the police stations in the state.“These dedicated two-wheelers will be used by women constables reach a woman at her doorstep once a complaint is flagged,” said director general of police Sanjay Kundu. Union government had provided ₹1.35 crore under the Nirbhay funds for upgrading the facilities at the police stations to fight crimes against women. Police bought one two-wheeler and two helmets for each police stations. Besides, separate computers are being provided at the police stations for registering crimes against women.Himachal Pradesh Police have set up women help desks at every police station. These help desks are meant for facilitating a safe and welcome experience for women who visit police stations and for prompt action in complaints by women. “It was felt that in order to reduce the response time for complaints made by girls and women, these help desks needed dedicated mobility,” said Kundu.Last year, the police introduced a separate register to maintain crimes against women.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cm-launches-veerangana-on-wheel-scheme-to-check-crime-against-women-101618505953913.html
15-04-2021||Other||Jai Ram lays foundation stones of projects worth ₹50 crore in Padhar||Himachal chief minister Jai Ram Thakur laid foundation stones of developmental projects worth around ₹50 crore in Padhar assembly segment of Mandi district on Thursday.Major projects included 45m span steel truss bridge over Baggi Nallah, helipad at Prashar, 60m span steel truss footbridge over Uhl river from Barot to Multhan, functional household tap connections’ augmentation, and improvement of water supply scheme. Thakur also flagged-off an awareness van regarding checking forest fires on the occasion.Addressing a public meeting at Hardgalu, Jai Ram said that in the last three years, developmental projects worth ₹250 crore are being implemented in the public works department whereas 16 IPH schemes worth ₹19 crore are being implemented in the constituency.He said that despite being represented by a senior leader, there was water crisis in Drang. He added that development of Drang was on priority list of the government.The CM said that the present state government has created 412 new panchayats in state to ensure participation of people in strengthening the grassroots institutions by ensuring their active participation.He said that the BJP-supported candidates won more than 75% seats in the Panchayati Raj elections. He urged the elected representatives of Panchayati Raj institutions to help the families of Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jai-ram-lays-foundation-stones-of-projects-worth-50-crore-in-padhar-101618505891664.html
15-04-2021||Ranchi||Death toll rises eight times in 15 days across Jharkhand||Covid-19 toll is soaring alarmingly in Jharkhand with death rate rising by eight times in a fortnight as compared to the state’s total figure reported in March. Similarly, the cases rose by more than five times in two weeks compared to the previous month. An analysis of the Covid-19 bulletin issued by the state health department shows that as many as 179 people lost lives due to Coronavirus disease between April 1 and April 14. In entire March month, merely 23 people infected with Covid-19 had died. Scarier is the fact that as many as 100 people died in just past four days (from April 11 to April 14) due to the deadly virus. As far as cases are concerned, the state had registered 4,252 Covid cases in entire March month, while 23,591 cases have been recorded in just 14 days (from April 1 to April 14) this month. The state recorded highest cases of the year on Wednesday with 3,198 people found infected with coronavirus, while 31 people lost lives due to the disease, as per the Covid-19 bulletin. Medical experts warned that the situation would turn more alarming if stern restrictions and precautions were not taken immediately. Ranchi president of Indian Medical Association (IMA) Sambhu Singh said there are many reasons behind increasing death toll that include massive violation of Covid protocol, change in viral variant and mismanagement of health care facilities. “We see everyday, many people have been dying due to the virus in want of treatment. People are running one hospital to another hospital but beds are not available, particularly the oxygen supported and ICU beds. Hospital management has turned bad to worse. Hospitals are facing shortage of anti-viral medicines. Mismanagement of health system has also caused rise in death rate,” he said. Singh said, “The new variant of the virus is deadlier. Violation of Covid protocols such as social distancing and use of mask and absence of strict restrictions in crowded places, the virus is transmitting very fast. The second wave of the pandemic is more dangerous for persons with comorbidity. Now, only complete lockdown could improve the situation or it will turn worse.” Due to high death rate in past few days, Ranchi’s cremation ground is over-burdened. Ranchi’s saw cremation of 52 Covid-19 infected persons on Monday night at temporary cremation ground in Ghagra due to sudden breakdown of the gas-based cremation machine at Muktidham in Ranchi’s Harmu on Sunday morning. The cremation developed technical snag due to over-burden, officials at Ranchi Municipal Corporation said. Ranchi mayor Asha Lakra said the burners of cremation machine have got damaged, which would be replaced in next two-three days. Twenty eight bodies were cremated on Tuesday, while 22 bodies were cremated on Wednesday at Ghagra. Ranchi sub-divisional officer (SDO) Utkarsh Gupta said Ranchi is having state tertiary care hospital, Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences. “Critical patients from all districts across the state are treated here. If any Covid-19 infected person from any district of the state dies in Ranchi, his/her cremation will be done here following Covid protocol. But, the Covid case/death will be counted in their respective district’s record,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/death-toll-rises-eight-times-in-15-days-across-jharkhand-101618505890258.html
15-04-2021||Patna||Bihar: After long wait, work on SAV campus set to begin||Eleven years after its establishment, for Simultala Awasiya Vidyalay (SAV), billed as Bihar’s answer to undivided state’s pride Netarhat Vidyalay, things have finally started moving for the institution. After the belated finalization of the service condition of its teachers and non-teaching staff, the government is also contemplating to soon lay the foundation stone for its own sprawling campus in Simultala. Officials said chief minister (CM) Nitish Kumar may do it online in view of spike in Covid-19 cases. Bihar education minister Vijay Kumar Choudhary said, “The government will soon decide the date for the foundation laying of the school.” Since its inception in 2010, the boarding school, with an annual intake of 120 students (60 boys and 60 girls) through statewide screening test, has been running from rented buildings having prefab structures, though the SAV project was to be initially completed by March 2012. EdCIL— a public sector undertaking under the Union ministry of education— had also prepared its detailed project report for construction on the 46-acre mostly procured via donation from locals and earmarked for another proposed school Gautam Awasiya Vidyalay (GAV). Later, it was handed over to the SAV Education Society. SAV society had superseded the proposed GAV. However, it was decided to build the campus on a different site and the government acquired around 25 acres for it. “The acquisition process is almost complete,” said Jamui district magistrate Avaneesh Kumar Singh. The foundation laying, which was earlier tentatively scheduled this week, could be extended in view of the pandemic. On August 9, 2010 also, the CM had inaugurated the school via video conferencing. Despite deficiencies in infrastructure, the school has been able to prove its credentials in Class 10 Board exams. In its debut class 10 board exams in 2015, 19 SAV students had secured more than 96% , a record since the inception of the Bihar board in 1952. A year later, all the 42 students in the top 10 were from SAV, while in 2017, 12 of the 22 students in top 10 were from the same school. In 2018, out of 24 students in top 10, 17 were from SAV, while in 2019 SAV accounted for 16 of the 18 in the top 10. Last year, however, only three of the SAV students could figure in the top 10 having 41 students, while this year its 13 students figured in the list of 101 students in the top 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/biharafter-long-wait-work-on-sav-campus-set-to-begin-101618505770222.html
15-04-2021||Other||Bihar decides to divert oxygen for industrial use to hospitals||With a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the state government on Thursday decided to divert all oxygen reaching Bihar for industrial use to meet the growing demand in hospitals. The decision was taken at a meeting chaired by additional chief secretary (industry) Brajesh Mehrotra and attended by Deepak Kumar, principal secretary to the chief minister, divisional commissioner Sanjay Agarwal and Patna district magistrate Chandrasekhar Singh, besides 50 representatives of private hospitals and four owners of oxygen refueling plants.Patna divisional commissioner was asked to procure all the empty oxygen cylinders for their refilling to meet the growing demand in the state capital, which is worst hit in the state by the pandemic.Patna district magistrate Chandrasekhar Singh was also asked to arrange gas/liquid tankers. As the pandemic situation worsens across the country, the Centre has started mapping states with greater need of oxygen. Though oxygen production in the country is more than the demand, the challenge lies in ensuring smooth supply to needy states. Meanwhile, reports from several parts of the state capital suggested that private hospitals refused to admit Covid patients mainly due to shortage of oxygen cylinders needed for seriously infected patients as the virus affects lungs and makes it difficult to breathe.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-decides-to-divert-oxygen-for-industrial-use-to-hospitals-101618505719985.html
15-04-2021||Other||Himachal Day celebrations: Special allowance for lower-grade Covid warriors, loan subvention for tourism sector||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Thursday announced ₹1,500 special honorarium for April and May to all the Class-III and IV employees such as staff nurses, ward boys and Asha workers, who deal with Covid patients. He also announced loan subvention scheme for three months till June 2021 for the tourism industry.He said that all hotels, tourist lodges, tourism units will be exempted from paying demand charges for two months with no late charges and option to pay in instalments.Felicitating the people on Himachal Day, Thakur paid tributes to people who strived hard to accord special identity and status to the state. He also paid respects to state’s first chief minister Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar.He said the state started its development journey from a scratch. “Himachal today is reckoned among the prosperous and progressive states in the country,” said Thakur.Listing achievements of his government, the chief minister said Jan Manch programme has proved a boon to the people of the state in redressing their grievances. So far, 200 Jan Manch sessions have been organised in all the assembly constituencies to establish direct communication with the public and resolve their grievances expeditiously. He said that more than 91% complaints and demands received at such events have been redressed.The CM said the government started Grihni Suvidha Yojna on the analogy of Ujjwala scheme of the Centre and over 2.91 lakh women have been provided free gas connections under this scheme.State government’s Himcare scheme on the lines of Ayushman Bharat by the Centre covered 1.25 lakh people and provided them free treatment worth ₹129.27 crore.He said that to create employment and self-employment opportunities, the government launched Mukhyamantri Swavalamban Yojana for those in the age group of 18 to 45 years. Thakur said over 2,700 units have been set up under the scheme by providing a subsidy of ₹70 crore, which eventually provided jobs to 8,500.Thakur said the state has received several national level awards for its excellent performance in the field of education. Himachal was ranked first in the country in the Annual Status of Education Report 2017-18 and has been awarded the ‘Best Performing State Award’ in the survey conducted by India Today in the year 2019. He said Himachal has become the first state to distribute free textbooks to all students from Classes 1 to 8.Earlier, the chief minister unfurled the Tricolour and took salute from the contingents of police and home guards.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-day-celebrations-special-allowance-for-lower-grade-covid-warriors-loan-subvention-for-tourism-sector-101618505718529.html
15-04-2021||Patna||EC, state poll panel break EVM deadlock for panchayat polls||After almost two months of deadlock over procurement of multi-post EVMs for upcoming panchayat polls between the State Election Commission (SEC) and Election Commission of India ( ECI), there are indications that both sides have resolved the issue and favoured the use of general EVMs for conducting upcoming rural local bodies polls in Bihar. The development comes following talks between ECI and SEC in New Delhi on Thursday.Sources said ECI has assured the state poll panel that it would provide EVMs ( models that are used in assembly and parliamentary polls) based on availability of the voting machines , a proposition the SEC is now open to. “We have discussed the option of using EVMs used by ECI in assembly and general polls. It is a viable option and we will now work on it.The talks have been positive and we feel the panchayat polls would now be conducted at the earliest through EVMs,” said Yogendra Ram, secretary, SEC, on phone from New Delhi. Sources said ECI and SEC representatives held several round of talks on Wednesday and Thursday where all issues regarding procuring of multi-post EVMs model B-3 SSDM from the ECIL (Electronic Corporation of India Limited), Bangalore, were discussed. But the proposition was not found feasible as the ECIL has expressed its inability to provide as many as 15,000 multi-post EVMs of B-3 model in a short time owing to difficulties being faced in importing some equipment due to restrictions owing to Corona pandemic, sources said. “ECIL has communicated it would take at least several months to provide EVMs as per specifications by SEC . That would inordinately delay the panchayat polls. This is why we feel it is feasible to use general EVMs that would be made available by ECI,” said a senior SEC functionary. The task of holding panchayat polls through simple EVMs is said to be more challenging since polling station would require at least six EVMs for the six posts to which election would be held., which means a few lakh EVMs in the state. “There are logistics involved. All these points would be put before the Commission,” said the SEC secretary. In February this year, the SEC had filed a writ petition in the Patna High Court seeking judicial remedy over the ECI’s reluctance in giving permission to ECIL, Bangalore, to provide multi-post EVMs. The court, during the last two hearings, had ordered that both poll panels settle the matter amicably, even as the case is still pending.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/ec-state-poll-panel-break-evm-deadlock-for-panchayat-polls-101618505719155.html
15-04-2021||Other||Vaccination of jail inmates hits technical hurdle||Covid-19 vaccination for jail inmates in the state has hit a technical hurdle as they don’t have cell phone and Aadhar card numbers mandatory for those being vaccinated. While cell phones, on which an intended vaccination beneficiary receives notifications, are not allowed in jails, Aadhar cards are not collected when a person is jailed. The computer software being used for vaccination registration seeks these details as mandatory.In Bihar, there are more than 55,000 prisoners lodged in different jails, of which 25,000 are aged above 45 years and hence eligible for vaccination in the current phase. The problem was encountered when a medical team reached Shahid Khudi Ram Bose Central Jail in Muzaffarpur to administer vaccine to inmates at the initiative of jail superintendent Rajiv Kumar Singh. There are more than 1,700 inmates at the jail, of which 800 are aged 45 years or above.“But the team had to return as the registration of jail inmates for vaccination could not take place since the computer software fails mandates furnishing of mobile numbers and Aadhar numbers. We can’t proceed further due to these two important data requirement for the registration,” civil surgeon Dr SK Chaudhury said, adding that he has informed jail authorities of this technical issue.The jail superintendent said he has written his superiors seeking their direction in this regard. Inspector general (prisons) Mithilesh Mishra said the issue was serious as Covid infected persons were also being taken to jails on judicial remand. “I have sent an SOS to the state police headquarter seeking their intervention as rules don’t permit us to allow inmates to carry their cell phones with them in the jail premises. Even their Aadhar card is not taken at the time of their entry into the prison,” he said.Social distancing is hardly possible in jails where 40-50 inmates share a ward, which, jail officials say, could lead to a serious situation if the inmates were not vaccinated at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/vaccination-of-jail-inmates-hits-technical-hurdle-101618505650198.html
15-04-2021||Patna||24 dead in 24 hours; NMCH is a Covid hospital again||Hospital beds for patients with coronavirus continued to fall short, as did oxygen in some private clinics, as Bihar reported 6,133 new cases, the highest in a day so far, with 24 deaths during the last 24 hours on Thursday. State capital Patna, the worst affected, with a cumulative death toll of 486 and case load of 66,913 out of Bihar’s 3.01 lakh cases and 1,675 deaths so far, breached all previous records, when it reported 2,105 cases, the highest in a day so far. Patna contributed to 10,068 active cases in Bihar’s 29,078 on Thursday. All 50 beds, which the AIIMS-Patna increased during the day, were filled up in a couple of hours. The AIIMS had now increased its bed capacity to 200, with the state government pushing it to scale it up to 250. Similarly, the 50 ICU beds, which were made operational at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) were also filled up in quick time. Meanwhile, the state government had decided to convert its 750-bed Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital. It was declared a Covid-19 dedicated hospital, along with AIIMS-Patna, last year too. “We have decided to convert the NMCH into a dedicated Covid-19 hospital,” said state health minister Mangal Pandey. He said the IGIMS would add another 100 beds for COvid-19 patients in the next three days. Pandey had also instructed the department’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit to ensure that there was no shortage of oxygen, amid reports of shortage of oxygen at some private nursing homes and clinics. Amrit held discussions with the industries department in this connection. Some private facilities like Sai Hospital and Satyabrat Hospital at Kankerbagh locality in Patna reported of shortage of oxygen on Wednesday. Sources said the crisis had arisen as one of the three suppliers in Patna had shut its unit for two days due to maintenance. Meanwhile, Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh, who held a meeting with oxygen suppliers and hospital representatives, had instructed suppliers to make available 90% of their supply to hospitals. He asked the three suppliers — Usha Air Products Ltd, Bypass Road Sipara; Patliputra Industrial Gases Private Limited, Sabalpur, Deedarganj; and Banshi Air Gas Private Ltd at Fatuha — to ensure regular supply of oxygen so that there was no scarcity. Singh also advised all hospitals and nursing homes not to hoard any oxygen cylinder and take them as per their daily requirement to ensure seamless supply as its demand had peaked with a spike in Covid-19 cases in the last couple of days. He also deputed a magistrate at each of the three supply centres to monitor supply to hospitals and ensure there was no hoarding and blackmarketing. The district administration had also sealed a private engineering coaching institute at Kankerbagh, which was functioning despite government’s instructions to keep them closed and was also not conforming to Covid-19 norms. Around 200 students were crammed in two rooms when the raiding party visited the institute on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/24-dead-in-24-hours-nmch-is-a-covid-hospital-again-101618505290152.html
15-04-2021||Bhopal||Madhya Pradesh: CM Chouhan appeals to people to make ‘janata curfew’ a success to break Covid-19 transmission chain||Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday appealed to the public to cooperate in curbing the transmission of the coronavirus disease. He also assured that the state is taking all necessary actions on a “war footing” to tackle the Covid-19 pandemic.In a series of tweets briefing the measures taken so far, the chief minister said Covid-19 care centres have been set up in all 49 districts in Madhya Pradesh. “In all 49 districts, Covid-19 care centres have been set up. Action is being taken on a war footing to combat the infections of the coronavirus epidemic at every level, but it is very important to break the chain of transmission. I appeal to the public to make the curfew a success to break the chain,” Chouhan tweeted in Hindi.Also read | Possibility of lockdown in Madhya Pradesh: Shivraj Singh Chouhan weighs inWhile a night curfew between 10pm and 6am was imposed on all urban areas in Madhya Pradesh on April 8, a Sunday lockdown was also announced by the state government. Additionally, a week-long complete lockdown was announced on Chhindwara district and on April 12, another week-long ‘corona curfew’ was imposed on the capital city of Bhopal until April 19, according to a report by news agency PTI.Chouhan also said that the number of beds in hospitals is also being increased in the state. “At AIIMS, Bhopal, there will be more beds for Covid-19. In Indore, a 500-bed Covid-19 care centre is being built with the help of Radha Swami Satsang Vyas and it will soon be increased to 2000 beds,” he said. Earlier on April 13, Indore’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Amit Malakar had announced the construction of the 500-bed Covid-19 care centre in the city, news agency ANI reported.Also read | Over 2 lakh new cases, weekend lockdown in Delhi | Covid-19 in top 10 headlinesThe chief minister also expressed confidence that the shortage in Remdesivir injections would end soon. “10,000 injections have come in the evening, they are being sent to different places. 50,000 injections have been ordered and delivered. Apart from this, talks are going on with many companies. I am confident that the injection crisis will end soon,” he said. He also thanked Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Dharmendra Pradhan for approval to provide 450 metric tonnes of Oxygen to Madhya Pradesh from places like Gujarat, Bhilai and Rourkela.Madhya Pradesh has reported 9,720 new cases of coronavirus infections and 51 patients succumbed to the disease on April 14. The state also reported 49,551 active cases of Covid-19, according to a state government bulletin released on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/madhya-pradesh-cm-chouhan-appeals-to-people-to-make-janata-curfew-a-success-to-break-covid-19-transmission-chain-101618503387320.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi zoo to remain closed on coming weekend||The Delhi zoo will remain closed this coming weekend in compliance with the city government's curfew order, a senior official said.Earlier in the day, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced that a curfew will be imposed in Delhi on April 17 and 18 to break the chain of transmission in the city."As per DDMA guidelines dated April 15, the National Zoological Park will be closed on Saturday and Sunday. Friday is the weekly off at the zoo," Delhi zoo director Ramesh Pandey said.According to an official order, the weekend curfew will be effective from 10 pm on April 16 (Friday) to 5 am on April 19 (Monday). Gymnasiums, auditoriums, malls, spas, entertainment parks and assembly halls will remain closed in the national capital till April 30.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-zoo-to-remain-closed-on-coming-weekend-101618502150195.html
15-04-2021||Other||Attack and robbery at liquor store: 5 of 9 booked under MCOCA arrested||PUNE: Five of the nine people booked under the stringent Maharashtra control of Organised crime act (MCOCA) for assaulting and looting local businessmen in Sahakarnagar area of Pune, have been arrested by the Pune police on Wednesday.MCOCA was invoked in a case registered at Sahakar nagar police station, involving assault and robbery at a liquor store.The five arrested men have been identified as Gaurav alias Lalya Suhas Phadnis (30), a resident of Parvati Darshan; Akshay Kailas Garud (20), and Sachin alias Gharya Pandurang Sondkar (31), both residents of Upper Indiranagar; and Mahadev Suresh Nandure (20), and Chirag Sanjay Deshmukh, both residents of Gujar Nimbalkarwadi, Katraj. The police are on the lookout for four others.On March 3 at around 10:10pm, under the leadership of Gade, six men burst into a liquor store at Aranyeshwar corner along Satara road, where a 42-year-old manager was working with one staff member, according to the police. They assaulted the manager with a metal object and a blade, holding him at gunpoint, while they fled with ₹57,000 in cash.A case was registered at Sahakarnagar police station.On March 4, a similar incident was reported by a 50-year-old newspaper vendor, who was attacked at his shop in Dhankawadi. He was robbed of ₹90,300.The police have accused the same gang in both the cases and found them to have collectively committed a total of nine crimes in Pune. These men collectively have a record of over 66 past cases against them, including, murder, robbery, attempted murder, theft, and assault, according to the police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/attack-and-robbery-at-liquor-store-5-of-9-booked-under-mcoca-arrested-101618501569839.html
15-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka sees another record daily new Covid-19 infections with 14,738 cases, active cases move close to 100,000-mark||A day after reporting its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 cases, Karnataka on Thursday witnessed yet another record spike in its daily new infections as the state reported 14,738 cases, according to a bulletin from the state government. With this, the state’s tally reached 1,109,650 cases. Also, 66 people lost their lives to the disease on the day pushing the state’s death toll to 13,112.On Wednesday, 11,265 new cases were reported in the state, which was its highest single-day spike. Previously, the state’s highest 24-hour tally was 10,913 cases on October 9, 2020.Meanwhile, 3,591 people were discharged on Thursday and the overall recoveries reached 999,958 and the recovery rate stands at 90.11 per cent. Also, the active caseload stands at 96,561, a massive increase of 11,081 from the 85,480 reported on the previous day.Also read | ‘Right to lead healthy life…’: Karnataka HC on violation of Covid-19 normsBengaluru Urban, the worst-affected district in the state, also reported its highest single-day spike with 10,497 cases, adding 71.22 per cent to the new cases reported in the state. This follows the previous record high on Wednesday when the district witnessed 8,155 cases in a 24-hour time span. Also, 30 patients died in the district on the day, accounting for nearly half of the 66 new deaths in Karnataka. So far, 512,521 cases have been detected and the active caseload stands at 71,827 in the district. However, the district also contributed the most to the number of total recoveries (435,730 patients) and vaccination coverage with 1,064,667 doses administered so far, the bulletin showed.Among other districts, Kalaburagi with 2,666 cases, Tumakuru with 2,634 cases, Mysuru with 2,508 cases and Bidar with 2,314 cases add the maximum to the state’s active caseload.The spike in the number of daily new cases in the state follows an increase in the number of samples tested. Medical workers have tested 129,400 new samples on the day, an increase from the 113,242 samples tested on the previous day. So far, 23,170,964 samples have been tested for the coronavirus disease in the state, according to the latest update.As many as 6,274,260 doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered to beneficiaries in the state, with no severe or serious adverse effects following immunisation (AEFI) reported, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-sees-another-record-daily-new-covid-19-infections-with-14-738-cases-active-cases-move-close-to-100000mark-101618501075593.html
15-04-2021||Other||Wakad resident duped of Rs65K in “special SIM card” scam||PUNE A man from Wakad, Pimpri-Chinchwad, was duped of ₹65k by a caller who falsely promised to get him a choice phone number at a price.The victim was identified as Shankar Manohar Jadhav (45), a local businessman living in Pink City, Wakad.Jadhav received an SMS claiming that he could get a SIM for a lucky number. He then received a call from the same number which had sent that SMS.The caller convinced Jadhav that he was speaking on behalf of a major mobile service provider and claimed that he could give him a SIM card with a phone number of the complainant’s choice.The caller provided a bank account number and asked Jadhav to deposit ₹65,554.90 in it in order to get his choice number.A case under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code along with section 66 of Information Technology Act was registered at Wakad police station against the unidentified caller, on Wednesday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/wakad-resident-duped-of-rs65k-in-special-sim-card-scam-101618501209755.html
15-04-2021||Other||3,500 Remdesivir injections land in Pune on Thursday evening||As the shortage of Remdesivir is worsening in Pune, 3,500 injections landed in Pune on Thursday, by the flight from Delhi. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said that these injections were given to the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) and Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC). The centre issued an order Sunday, April 11, banning the export of Remdesivir. Rajesh Deshmukh was managing director of the Haffkine Institute in Mumbai, before his tenure as Pune district collector. Deshmukh said that he managed to get 3,500 injections for Pune which were meant for export. “I personally used my Haffkine input and got this stock which was meant for export. These injections are given to PMC and PCMC,” Deshmukh said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/3500-remdesivir-injections-land-in-pune-on-thursday-evening-101618500849656.html
15-04-2021||Other||Pune Railway division offers 50 train coaches as isolation wards||PUNE The Pune railway division is now willing to provide railway coaches that can be used as isolation cabins.The Railways is prepared to convert 50 coaches into isolation wards, with a total capacity of 450 beds. In April last year, the Railways had converted 60 coaches with a capacity of 1,080 beds into isolation wards. These coaches are fully equipped to admit and treat Covid patients.“We all know about the critical situation in Pune district due to the increasing number of Covid cases and serious patients who need oxygen and other facilities. To help the local administration, we are fully prepared and will provide isolation coaches whenever required. Once we get an official request from the district administration, within four to five days these coaches will be ready,” said Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division’s spokesperson. Non-AC sleeper coaches will be used and one toilet is converted into a bathing room. Both the middle berths are removed in each cabin. Extra bottle holders are provided in each cabin for medical equipment, two per berth. Also mosquito nets are installed on windows.The first cabin near the bathing room will be used as store and area for paramedics. Two oxygen cylinders are also being provided by the Railways’ medical department. Pune district collector Rajesh Deshmukh said, “There is no requirement for isolation coaches from the Railways as of now. When we need it, we will certainly take help from the Railways.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-railway-division-offers-50-train-coaches-as-isolation-wards-101618500489749.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 16,699 new Covid-19 cases, 112 deaths in last 24 hours, active caseload tops 54,000||With 16,699 new Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities in the last 24 hours, Delhi’s cases tally reached 784,137 and the death toll climbed to 11,652, a health department bulletin released on Thursday showed. Earlier on Wednesday, 17,282 patients tested positive for the coronavirus disease in the city, its highest tally in a 24-hour period.Active cases in the capital city witnessed an increase of over 3,500 cases and currently stands at 54,309 from the 50,736 reported on the previous day.Also read | Are you exempt from Delhi weekend lockdown? Check hereThe bulletin also showed that as many as 13,014 patients recovered from the disease on the day, taking the overall recoveries to 718,176. With this, the recovery rate reached 91.58 per cent.Medical workers in the capital city conducted 82,569 tests, comprising 59,401 RTPCR, CBNAAT or TrueNat tests and 23,168 Rapid Antigen Tests, for the coronavirus disease on the day. With this, the city has so far conducted 15,944,203 tests and the tests per million count stands at 839,168, according to the bulletin. Also, the daily positivity rate on Thursday was recorded as 20.22 per cent.Cumulative positivity rate in the city, considering the total tests done and the total confirmed cases, stands at 4.92 per cent and the case fatality rate (CFR) is 1.49 per cent, data from the bulletin showed. Currently, 8,661 containment zones are in effect in the city and 26,974 patients are in home isolation, the bulletin also showed.Also read | Maharashtra records over 60,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, 349 deaths in 24 hoursEarlier in the day, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal imposed fresh restrictions on the city due to increasing Covid-19 cases. A weekend curfew has been announced by the CM, during which only essential services would be allowed. Also, malls, gymnasiums and spas would remain shut and restaurants will be closed for dine-in services, while home delivery of food will be allowed.As far as vaccinations are concerned, 71,030 beneficiaries were vaccinated in the last 24 hours, taking the overall beneficiaries jabbed to 2,373,782. Of the cumulative vaccinations, 1,968,056 beneficiaries have received their first dose and 405,726 have received their second, the bulletin showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-16-699-new-covid-19-cases-112-deaths-in-last-24-hours-active-cas-101618499447170.html
15-04-2021||Other||MSMEs unhappy with government orders on lockdown for non-essential services||PUNE New orders from the state government have hit micro, small and medium scale (MSME) industries hard, as all non-essential units have been ordered to remain shut till May 1.“We should have been allowed to remain functional like we were functioning in the min-lockdown. At Least our work would not have impacted. We agreed that 100 per cent oxygen supply should be diverted to hospitals. We could have run our units where oxygen is not required, but now complete closure makes things difficult for industries and employees,” said Sandip Belsare, president, Pimpri Chinchwad Small industries Association.Belsare claims that there are 8,000 MSMEs employing 50,0000 people in , Pimpri-Chinchwad.“If companies are shut, we will not be able to pay salaries to employees and we have not been provided relief packages like other sectors have got,” added Belsare.Riyaz Shalik who works in Chakan said, “Till last October, we got deducted salaries. Now this 15-day lockdown raises concerns like last year.”“If the 15-day lockdown extends the company suffers more losses. In such a scenario the can decide to cut salaries,” said Balwant Raj from Lucknow, working in MIDC Bhosari for the last five years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/msmes-unhappy-with-government-orders-on-lockdown-for-non-essential-services-101618499949619.html
15-04-2021||Other||Remdesivir on the black market: police arrest 5, recover 4 vials||PUNE The Pune police have arrested five men and recovered four vials of the Remdesivir injection used for Covid-19 treatment and currently in short supply.The accused were trying to sell the vials on the black market, police said. The recovery was done through raids carried out by officials of Unit 4 of the Pune police crime branch on Wednesday.In one raid, the police caught four men and recovered two vials of the drug from near a petrol pump along the Ahmednagar road. In the other raid, two vials were recovered from one person in Wagholi.The four arrested men have been identified as Mohammad Mehboob Pathan (28), a resident of Railway Quarters in Daund; Imtiaz Yusuf Ajmeri (52), a resident of Kharadi, Chandan nagar; Parvez Mounoddin Shaikh (36), a resident of Tukai nagar in Daund; and Ashwini Vijay Solanki (41), a resident of Yerawada.The two vials found in their possession had tags that read: “For use of GOVT. Of Maharashtra Not for sale”. The men were selling the vials for ₹18,000 per piece, whereas the Maharashtra government has issued a price-cap of ₹1,400 on the drug.“These injections are from the stock provided by the government to government hospitals and were being taken by the accused from the government hospital in Daund for financial gains by selling them in the black market, as per preliminary information,” read a statement issued by Pune police.A case has been registered at Chandan nagar police station against the four.In the other case, a man was found selling the drug vials for ₹10,000 a vial. The man was identified as Rohidas Gore.A case against him was registered at Lonikand police station after a decoy customer was sent to trap him.Two separate Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials were called in to check and lodge complaints in the two cases.Both the cases have been registered under Section 420 (cheating) of Indian Penal Code, and relevant sections of Drugs (Prices Control) Order (DPCO), 2013; Essential Commodities Act; and Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940.In similar raids, Unit 1 of crime branch recovered a vial from a man in Dattanagar, Katraj, on April 11, while Unit 3 of the crime branch recovered two vials from another man in Bhavani peth on April 12. In five days since April 11, the Pune police crime branch has arrested seven people and recovered seven vials of the drug that were being sold on the black market.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/remdesivir-on-the-black-market-police-arrest-5-recover-4-vials-101618499529573.html
15-04-2021||Pune||Day 1: Lukewarm response to curfew in Pune||PUNE Though the state government has imposed Section 144 and other restrictions to curb the rising Covid cases, at some places there was a usual movement of people.Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code prohibits the assembly of five people and above in public.All the essential shops and roadside food vendors were also seen doing business with only take away and parcel service. Also, a heavy rush was seen at the Market Yard and Mandai, prominent markets in the city. There was no control or monitoring by the local administration and even by police on the crowd.Atul Namekar, secretary of Sinhagad road - Warje residents association, said, “These restrictions are of no use, people are roaming all around the city. There is hardly any checking done by the police and at this rate, the number of Covid cases will increase.”Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited (PMPML) public transport buses, auto rickshaws and other modes of transport were running on the city roads, but the number was less.“I stepped out of the house in the morning to buy milk and some vegetables for the family, I was surprised to see such a rush on the roads. These restrictions are not enough the break the chain, there is a need for complete lockdown,” said Mahindra Kengale, a resident of Kothrud.In spite of police bandobast at various important chowks in the city to keep a watch and enforce the restrictions, on Satara road, Karve road, Sinhagad road and others, the roadside vegetable and fruit hawkers were seen in large number. People were seen crowding at these roadside vendors to purchase vegetables and other groceries.“The state government need to make it either more strict up to complete lockdown or open all things so that there is no limitation of timings and no crowding by the public,” said Namekar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/day-1-lukewarm-response-to-curfew-in-pune-101618499109558.html
15-04-2021||Other||Pune’s demand for 40,000 vials of Remdesivir met with supply of 2,000 doses: FDA||The shortage of the Remdesivir injection continued to haunt families and relatives of Covid positive patients on Thursday. Despite procurement of the medicine and regulations made by the district administration and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the shortage of the medicine continued.Dinesh Khivasara, assistant commissioner of FDA, said that as the demand has increased multifold, there is a shortage.“The demand for Remdesivir is 40,000 vials. There is a huge deficit and it will take at least a week to address this deficit. On April 17, Pune is due to get 2,000 doses of the injection. However, at present the shortage continues,” said Khivasara.A family member, Aditya Vani, said he has visited all major hospitals in the city to get the injection. His father has tested positive and is critical.“I tried the helpline number for the Remdesivir injection, but in vain. I have tried all possible ways to get the injection, however, I couldn’t find it anywhere. Hospitals do not have the stock and even chemists in my area are saying that there are no injections available,” said Vani.A city-based private hospital said that they don’t have stock for Remdesivir.“We don’t have any injections with us. We have received several calls from patients hoping to get the medicine, but as we don’t have the injection, we could not help them,” said the hospital official, who asked not to be named.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punes-demand-for-40-000-vials-of-remdesivir-met-with-supply-of-2-000-doses-fda-101618498929612.html
15-04-2021||Other||PMC floats tenders for tanker water supply to 11 merged villages||PUNE The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) is struggling to supply water to 11 villages merged in the corporation limits in 2017. The PMC, on Thursday, has floated a tender for water supply through tankers to these 11 villages.The Khadakwasla Irrigation department, meanwhile, has issued a letter to the PMC pointing out excessive use of water. In 2017, the state government merged 11 fringe villages with the PMC. The area under PMC’s jurisdiction before the delimitation exercise was 250 sqkm, which was increased to 333 sqkm with the inclusion of the 11 villages.The state government is also finalising the process of merging 23 more villages, following which the local area of the PMC will increase to 518 sqkm. The population of the 11 newly-merged villages is 0.278 million as per the 2011 census and after the merger of 23 villages, there will be addition of another 0.5 million. The corporation has raised demand of 18.50 thousand million cubic feet (TMC) of water from the Khadakawasla Iirrigation division. At present, the corporation is getting 11.50 TMC of water from Khadakwasla.After the merger of 11 villages, PMC supplied two TMC of water every year to these areas, 80 per cent of which was through tankers.Pune irrigation department’s chief superintendent engineer, S D Chopade, has written a letter to PMC as regards the controlled usage of water in the city.According to the letter, PMC is getting 1460 million litres per day (MLD) of water from Khadakwasla. Now, PMC is also getting 100 to 150 MLD of water from the Bhama-Askhed dam. The PMC water supply department, in its reply to the irrigation department has stated that it has reduced water usage from 1,460 MLD to 1,380 MLD. Manisha Shekatkar, executive engineer of the water supply department, said, “We need around 2 TMC water to supply to 11 merged villages. However, we don’t have enough water or a distribution system to supply water through tap. So, we are supplying tankers to the merged villages and every year, we are spending ₹10 crore for that. It is a very difficult situation.” “Besides that, now another 23 villages are coming into the PMC limits. The water supply problem will become more critical. We have demanded 18.50 TMC of water, but the decision is still pending,” she added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pmc-floats-tenders-for-tanker-water-supply-to-11-merged-villages-101618498569449.html
15-04-2021||Other||Tin walls set up to block view of cremation site in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Tin sheets have been installed by the Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) as a cover to block the view of the Bhainsakund cremation site in Lucknow. Citizens allege this has been done to stop people from taking photographs of the number of bodies being consigned to flames at the site. Some videos of bodies being burnt were in circulation on social media platforms on Wednesday, allegedly exposing the number of deaths due to the pandemic.“More than 630 cremations have taken place in the city over the last 10 days. As many as 97 bodies were brought to Bhainsakund and Gulalaghat cremation sites on Wednesday. On Tuesday, these sites received 87 bodies,” said Ashutosh Varma, spokesperson of the Samajwadi Party (SP).“On Friday, Saturday and Sunday, tokens were issued for the cremation of bodies and there is no place for the dead at the cremation ground and no beds for patients in hospitals,” he claimed.He added, “Blocking the view of Bhainsakund crematorium is a blatant attempt to conceal the real number of bodies being brought for cremation. Instead of hiding facts, the state government should focus on improving health facilities and saving lives.”Even Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi tweeted about tin sheets covering Bhainsakund cremation ground. “Instead of wasting time, resources and energy on hiding the tragedy, please take steps to control the pandemic. Take concrete steps to check the pandemic, this is call of time,” she tweeted.“In Ahmedabad, they had built a wall to hide slum area from Trump. Now they are covering a crematorium in UP to hide sight of burning bodies of COVID patients,” read a tweet by Sandeep Singh, roving journalist. “Lucknow has seen a sudden spurt in Covid cases. In the last one week, over 20,000 Covid cases have been reported from the state capital. For the last few days, Covid count has been over 5,000 per day,” said Girish Mishra, corporator of Congress. However, municipal commissioner Ajay Dwivedi said, “Only the Covid cremation area has been barricaded from the non Covid cremation area. This has been done on the advice of experts.”“As a number of Covid positive bodies are also being cremated traditionally, barricading of the Covid area was essential,” he added.“The segregation is to separate the Covid area from non Covid area. Don’t you think it’s necessary? Some see a problem everywhere. There is no point in doing politics on bodies,” said Harish Srivastava, spokesman, UP BJP.Munna, who cremates bodies at the electric crematorium, said: “We are working till late at night. But last week from Wednesday to Sunday, we worked 24x7. Things are better managed now as 50 more platforms for traditional cremation have come up at the site.”Labourers hired to shift bodiesIn wake of more bodies being brought to the cremation site, the LMC has hired 100 labourers on contract to shift the infected bodies from buses to the cremation platforms. As no one accompanies many of these infected bodies, these workers do the needful. Fifty labourers are working in two shifts, said the municipal commissioner. Extra platforms for cremation“These labourers are provided PPE kits, gloves and sanitisers for protection. The corporation also raised 50 extra platforms for the cremation of bodies at Bhainsakund and Gulalaghat,” he added.There was a shortage of wood at the site on Friday, Saturday and Sunday due to an increase in the number of bodies, but after that LMC regularised supply of wood at the cremation ground, said Pandit Narendra Mishra, who performs last rites in a traditional way. Blaze in waiting area of BhainsakundThere was a blaze in the waiting area between platform no. 3 and 4 at the Bhainsakund crematorium on Thursday noon, after a plastic sheet caught fire. But no one was injured in the incident.“The sheet caught fire after a pyre was lit up on platform no, 4. The plastic sheet was installed between these two platforms to create a waiting area for people who come with a body. The fire started around 3pm and it was controlled by 5.30pm,” said Mahendra Mishra ‘Sonu’, the priest at platform no. 3 and 4. Ram Nagina Tripathi, chief engineer, rubbish removal department at LMC stated, “This minor fire is a big lesson for us. Fortunately, no one was injured. Now, we will arrange fire hydrants at the site. The place has no shortage of water so having fire hydrants would not be a problem. In future, use of plastic sheet would also be avoided. We will try to increase the height of the roof and use material which is fire proof.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/tin-walls-set-up-to-block-view-of-cremation-site-in-lucknow-101618497854096.html
15-04-2021||Other||“Corona chariot” ensures seniors, differently abled beneficiaries get vaccine in Sangvi||PUNE To promote the vaccination drive and make the commute to vaccination centres easier, activists are operating a “corona chariot” - an electronic vehicle that will pick-up and drop senior citizens and differently abled beneficiaries in Sangvi.The “chariot” has gained a huge response as people can come independently from their home to the centres by calling the vaccination centre and requesting a pick up.“Many senior citizens may face commuting problems as their children have to go to the office, or they are busy with the work-from-home routine. This service will make things easy for families. We make sure senior citizens complete the vaccination process smoothly,” said Prashant Shitole, a former corporator from the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP), Sangvi.The total capacity of the vehicles is eight seats, but only five people are being ferried allowed due to social distancing norms.“Following social distancing is a must and our intention is to increase the vaccination percentage. We have received good responses so far,” added Shitole.There are a total 87 vaccination centres in Pimpri and Chinchwad, of which 59 are run by the administration and 28 by private hospitals. There are 305 major containment zones in Pimpri-Chinchwad.“Due to this service the work routine of my son was not disturbed. After informing at the vaccination centre, the vehicle was sent to my home and once the process was over, I was dropped home safely,” said Deepti Sugre, a senior citizen living in Sangvi.Another senior citizen, Dilip Mirdhe, who used the service, said, “It was a comfortable ride. I came with four others, as we stay in the same society. It is a very good initiative.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/corona-chariot-ensures-seniors-differently-abled-beneficiaries-get-vaccine-in-sangvi-101618497489347.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Are you exempt from Delhi weekend lockdown? Check here||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Thursday released a detailed list of Delhi weekend lockdown dos and don'ts specifying what will be allowed to function during the weekend lockdown. While the Delhi government has orders all shopping malls, gyms, spas, auditoriums, assembly halls, entertainment parks and similar places to be closed till April 30, weekend lockdown will be imposed on April 17 and 18 this week. The restrictions will come into place on 10pm April 16 (Friday) and will be in place till 5am on April 19 ( Monday). People arriving in the city or departing will be allowed to move without any restriction. Weddings will not be affected and people attending weeding events will be allowed movement, Kejriwal saidA night curfew is already in place in the Capital and to seek exemption one needs to apply for an e-pass on delhi.gov.in.List of services, people exempt from weekend lockdown> People associated with public health, police, prisons, home guards, civil defence and other government departments on production of their valid identity cards.> All judicial officials of courts of Delhi on production of their identity card.> All doctors, nurses, paramedical staff of private clinics.> Pregnant women and patients if they are travelling to get medical services.> Officials of diplomats.> Electronic and print media personnel.> No restriction on interstate intrastate movement. No e-pass will be required for such movements.> People going for vaccination.> People associated with essential services, including grocery, milk, fruits and vegetables shops.> People associated with banking services, ATMs.> People providing telecommunication, internet, IT services etc.> E-commerce delivery services.> Petrol pump, LPG, CNG staff.> Power generation, distribution staff, people associated with cold storage services, private security services.> Staff of production units of services which require continuous process.Do weekend lockdown work?Night curfews, weekend lockdowns are being imposed in several cities as a soft measure, instead of clamping down a total lockdown. Kejriwal has reiterated that he doesn't believe in lockdown as it only slows down the spread of the infection. States should bring in lockdown only when the health infrastructure gets overloaded. The weekend lockdown which will be in force this week will ensure people do not come out on the streets and indulge in recreational activities at a time when the Capital is seeing the maximum spike in the number of daily infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/are-you-exempt-from-delhi-weekend-lockdown-check-here-101618496070017.html
15-04-2021||Other||Relatives of Covid patients unable to procure Remdesivir, protest in front of Collector’s office||PUNE Relatives of Covid patients unable to procure the drug Remdesivir, staged a protest in front of the Collector’s office on Thursday morning.There is an acute scarcity of Remdesivir in Pune and frustrated relatives of Covid patients protested in the hope of gaining access to the injection.The district authorities have admitted that supply is low and insisted that the administration is trying to ensure equitable distribution of Remdesivir. A relative of a Covid patient who had come in from Pimpri-Chinchwad in search of Remdesivir, stated that he has to get 18 injections as his whole family is Covid positive. “Hospitals are saying that we don’t have stock. I have visited all the main chemist centres and hospitals in the city, but failed to get even a single injection,” he said. A control room has been set up at the collectorate to regulate supply and distribution of the injections. Responding to questions raised about the scarcity of Remdesivir, the district administration said that Pune requires 45,000 injections and has got a fragmented supply of 12,000 in the last few days. Pune received 1,200 injections on Wednesday night.“Doctors should not give Remdesivir prescriptions to the patients. It is creating panic. They should place the Remdesivir’s order through the hospitals. Pune district has a demand of 45,000 Remdesivir injections. Whatever amount of Remdesivir we are getting, we are directly providing it to hospitals. We have also appointed flying squads who are ensuring Remdesivir reaches the hospitals,” said Vijay Deshmukh, additional collector Pune. “Supply is low, but we are trying for the equitable distribution,” added Deshmukh.Due to the non-availablity of Remdesivir, the plight of patients’ relatives is not getting better. “My father is hospitalised in Saksham hospital, Kalewadi. The hospital administration said that the government will give us the injections. We don’t want to protest, but there is no option left. Today’s the third day I am standing in the line for this injection. People are buying it for much higher prices in black,” said the daughter of a Covid patient, part of the protest on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/relatives-of-covid-patients-unable-to-procure-remdesivir-protest-in-front-of-collector-s-office-101618496589299.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Can I visit a friend? Are restaurants open? Delhi weekend curfew FAQs answered||With Covid-19 cases increasing at an alarming rate in Delhi, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced fresh curbs on Thursday, including a curfew this weekend. Kejriwal’s announcement came an hour after he met Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal to discuss the city’s Covid-19 situation, as the positivity rate spiked to 15.92% on Wednesday, a sharp rise from 13.14% on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Delhi reported 17,282 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike, and 104 deaths.This is what the new set of restrictions means for the residents of Delhi:What’s a weekend curfew?A weekend curfew will be imposed in Delhi starting 10pm on April 16 (Friday), till 5am on April 19 (Monday), wherein only people engaged in essential services will be allowed to commute. An existing night curfew is already in place in Delhi (from 10pm to 5am).Will I be fined if I don’t follow the order?In case you violate the instructions, you shall be proceeded against as per the provisions of sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of IPC and other applicable laws.What essential services will be allowed?Shops dealing with foods, groceries, fruits and vegetables, dairy and milk booths, meat and fish, animal fodder, pharmaceuticals, medicines and medical equipment; banks, insurance offices and ATMs; print and electronic media; telecommunications, internet services, broadcasting and cable services, IT and IT-enabled services will be open. Delivery of all essential goods including foods, pharmaceuticals, medical equipment through e-commerce is allowed. Those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes upon request.Can I go to a shopping mall/cinema hall/theatre/gym/restaurant over the weekend?No. Shopping malls, gyms, spas, auditoriums and dine-in services at restaurants are shut on all days until further notice. The seating capacity of cinema halls has been reduced from 50% to 30% during the week. However, they will be closed over the weekend. Is my domestic help allowed to come to work?The order does not categorically mention the prohibition of domestic help, but if they are coming from faraway places, they might be stopped. So, it is best to ask them not to come over the weekend, especially, if they stay far away.Am I allowed to travel for non-essential activities within the city?You are not allowed to travel for non-essential activities within the city, either during the weekend curfew or during the night curfew.Will e-passes be needed, or will identity cards work?Government officials, healthcare and frontline workers, diplomats and journalists will need to produce identity cards; those providing essential services will need to produce e-passes upon request.If I need an e-pass, where do I get one?E-passes can be obtained by applying on the website www.delhi.gov.in.Can I go jogging/walking/cycling on the road/in a park? If I go, will I be fined?No, you can’t go over the weekend when the curfew is in place.Can I walk my pet?Yes, if it is extremely urgent, but only within your residential colony. You may be questioned, though.Am I allowed to visit a friend?No. The idea is to keep people indoors and reduce human interaction as much as possible.Can I drive to friend’s place in a private vehicle?No. The idea is to keep people indoors and reduce human interaction as much as possible.If petrol and diesel pumps are operational, can I go to fill fuel?You are not expected to drive around during the weekend, so it is best to postpone refuelling to Monday.Can I order food online or directly from restaurants?Yes.Can I eat at a food stall on the roadside?No, you can’t.Can I visit a weekly market?No weekly market will be allowed to operate over the weekend. Prominent markets such as Khan Market, Connaught Place, Sarojini Nagar will also be shut over the weekend.During the week, only one weekly market in a zone will be allowed to open per day and authorities will take steps for crowd management. Instead of cramped lanes, weekly markets will be held in open fields and playgrounds in schools to ensure maximum physical distancing.If I place an order on an e-commerce website, can it be delivered on the weekend?Yes, if the delivery agent has an e-pass, (s)he will be allowed to commute.What if I have to attend a wedding or funeral this weekend?You will need an e-pass to attend a wedding or funeral. But only if you are one of the 50 guests invited to the wedding or one of the 20 guests required to attend the funeral.Can I call a plumber/carpenter/electrician/cleaner/pest control/repairman?No. The order does not include them in the essential category.Can I buy alcohol or tobacco products over the weekend? No.Can I visit monuments or public spaces?No, public spaces such as parks and tourist spots, including Qutub Minar or India Gate, will be closed over the weekend.What if I have to travel to/from the airport or a railway station or an ISBT?You can commute, but you will need to produce an e-pass or tickets upon request.Now that vaccination has been opened 24x7, what if I need to get the jab?You will need an e-pass to travel to the vaccination centre.What if I need to go to a hospital?Ambulances can ferry patients; if you are feeling sick, you can travel to meet a doctor, even if you are not carrying a relevant document. You might be questioned. But, if your cause is genuine, you will be allowed.Can I use public transport?No, unless you are engaged in an essential service. As per the latest order, the capacity of Delhi Metro and DTC buses has been brought down to 50%. Over the weekend and during the night curfew, only those engaged in the essential services mentioned above will be allowed to use public transport such as buses and the Metro.What if I need to travel outside Delhi? Can I travel on an interstate bus?Yes, movement of interstate buses is allowed. However, you will need an e-pass or a valid ticket to travel to the ISBT you are riding your bus from. There is no restriction on interstate movement and transportation of essential and non-essential goods.Can I get a ride on an app-based cab aggregator?You can, if you are travelling for an essential service or have arrived in the city via train, airplane, etc. In that case, you need to have a valid e-pass or travel ticket.Can I hail an auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw or cycle rickshaw?You can, if you are commuting via an auto-rickshaw, e-rickshaw or cycle rickshaw for essential services or are going to get vaccinated against Covid-19 (with an e-pass) or for medical treatment. However, if you are caught travelling for reasons other than this, you will be prosecuted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/can-i-visit-a-friend-are-restaurants-open-delhi-weekend-curfew-faqs-answered-101618496410297.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Scientists predict record wheat production this season||The wheat production in the country this Rabi season may break all records to touch 112 million tonnes, predict scientists of the Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR), Karnal. Even as the Union government is yet to give third estimate, the scientists are hopeful that the wheat production will cross 112 million tonnes (MT) against 107.06 million tonnes of the previous year.Interestingly, the production estimate for Punjab is marginally lower than the grain state had produced last season, while it has gone up slightly in Haryana.Agriculture experts say besides favourable weather conditions in major wheat-producing states of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana, another major factor behind this prediction is that the area under wheat cultivation has also reported an increase of around 5% or 1.5 million hectares in states of Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh and Haryana, taking it to 31.3 million hectare this year. As per the estimates, the government has set a target of procuring 135 lakh tonnes from Madhya Pradesh, 130 lakh tonnes from Punjab, 80 lakh tonnes from Haryana , 55 lakh tonnes from UP and 22 lakh tonnes from Rajasthan.According to Dr Gyanendra Pratap Singh, director of IIWBR, “As per our estimates, there is a strong possibility that the wheat production in country may break all previous records.” He said the prediction is based on several factors, including an increase in the acreage in several states, favourable weather conditions, development of high yielding varieties like HD-2967, HD-3086 and DBW-187 and efforts of farmers and scientists.Moreover, the agriculture experts are of the view that Minimum Support Price, currently ₹1,975 per quintal, is also a reason behind increase in wheat acreage.Dr Narender Goyal of Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Damla in Yamunanagar district, said wheat crop was very healthy this year even though hot weather in February had affected yield in some parts, but the overall production of wheat is good.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/scientists-predict-record-wheat-production-this-season-101618495997694.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||3 decades on, Kashmir’s Wular gets fresh lease||A major portion of Wular, Asia’s second largest freshwater lake on the foothills of the Khuehami and Ajaz forest ranges of Kashmir, looks placid and serene. The action is in the distance as five hi-tech cutter suction dredgers besides long and short boom excavators dig out silt deposited over decades. Dozens of workers from across the country are on the job 24x7, cleaning the lake metre by metre as the project to restore its lost glory nears completion before the June deadline. Equipped with helmets, gloves and special shoes, the workers operate the machines unmindful of the slush as they lay pipes inside the lake. Officials say 48.94 lakh cubic metres of silt has been removed. “We’ve been at it even during subzero conditions. Snow, rain or shine, work doesn’t stop here. This is why we are ahead of schedule,” says Neeraj Mishra, the operational head of Reach Dredging Limited, a Kolkata-based company working to increase the holding capacity of the lake. “At present, more than 300 people, including non-locals, are engaged at the eight project sites,” he says, showing the desiltation process being undertaken by the dredgers deep inside the lake. A kilometre away, another group of workers cuts down willow trees that have grown inside the lake and threaten to choke it. Wular has been Kashmir’s saviour during floods with its vast water-carrying capacity that got reduced due to silt and willow plantation over a period of time. The willow plantation altered the hydrological process of the wetland and acted as barrier to silt laden waters of the Jhelum river. As many as 99,162 trees have been axed and auctioned and 16.76 lakh saplings have been planted in the catchment area. Shallow lake in deep waters The shallow lake with a maximum depth of 5.8 metres covers 130 sqkm and is spread over two districts of North Kashmir. It provides 60% of the Valley’s fish produce and is home to lakhs of local and migratory bird species. Known for water chestnuts and lotus stems, the lake is the lifeline of the 30 villages surrounding it. It was designated as a wetland of international importance under the Ramsar Convention in 1990. Officials of the Wular Conservation and Management Authority (Wucma) are upbeat as the first phase of desiltation will be complete by June. “The first part of the restored portion is ahead of schedule,” says Irfan Rasool Wani, the Wucma coordinator. “This lake serves as a hydrostat, absorbing moisture during the peak months and releasing it in the lean winter months. It’s a flood sink since the water that drains from the catchment areas of the Jhelum river falls into Wular,” he says. Over the past three decades, Wular had been losing its carrying capacity due to plantation and encroachment. The water quality deteriorated after untreated sewage and solid waste was disposed in it, while the inlet and outlet channels were blocked and forest degradation in the catchment areas added to the problem. Work in progress on fast pace since 2020 Wucma was set up for the lake’s conservation in September 2012 but it’s only since May last year that work picked up pace. A sum of ₹200 crore is being spent under the UT’s fund for developing ecotourism in the first phase, while the total tentative cost of project is ₹1,600 crore. Besides land and water resource management, the authority will work for biodiversity conservation, eco tourism, construction of a shoreline around the lake, recreational parks, bird watching points and developing the Wular Boulevard. At present, the first phase of the lake’s demarcation is nearing completion. “We have installed 1,159 geotagged boundary pillars around the lake using GIS technology,” he says. Wucma assistant engineer Mohammad Ashraf says though this project was launched a decade ago, desilting was done by small JCBs and manually. “For the first time last year, we started desiltation with hi-tech dredgers. In this phase, we had to clear 3.1sqkm we and have completed 2.27 sqkm. We have to take out 63 lakh cubic metres of silt from this portion and are done with 48.94 lakh cubic metres.” Villagers demand compensation for demolition Abdul Majeed Dar, a resident of Banyari, says 300 houses are being demolished in his village alone and the government compensation is unlikely as villagers are being blamed for encroachment. “The government should compensate all those whose houses are being demolished as they have lived here for decades,” says Dar. Environmentalist Jalal Jeelani welcomes the restoration of Wular but says the size of the lake’s catchment area is unprecedented. “A holistic approach is needed. Merely clearing a few stretches is insufficient. Reclaim encroachments and involve people in conservation efforts,” he says. Wani says, “In records, 34 hectares of lake land has been encroached upon and most of it is in the shape of plantations.” IN A NUTSHELLSpread over 130sqkm covering two districts of north Kashmir, Wular is the only drainage for the Jhelum, Arin and Madhumati water bodies. It serves as the lifeline for hydro projects during the lean period for power generation on the Jhelum river. 27.73 sqkm is a critically silted area in different parts of Wular. All critical areas will be desilted over three phases. Eight areas are being covered in the first phase. The lake is one of the 42 Indian wetlands designated as a Ramsar site.  ₹200 crore is being spent under the UT’s fund for developing ecotourism in the first phase, while the total tentative cost of project is ₹1,600 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3-decades-on-kashmir-s-wular-gets-fresh-lease-101618493229788.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana squeezes number of people at gatherings||With the Covid-19 infection hitting Haryana with vengeance, the BJP-JJP coalition government on Thursday further squeezed the number of people who can assemble in outdoor and indoor functions while imposing the restriction of 20 people in funerals. “It has been decided that from now on, not more than 200 people can gather in open spaces during public functions and not more than 50 in indoor functions. Similarly, not more than 20 people will be able to attend funerals,” an official spokesperson said. Earlier, beginning April 5, the state government had announced fresh guidelines for indoor and outdoor gatherings, besides funerals. While the gathering at funerals had been restricted to 50 people, at indoor events, 50% of the hall capacity and not more than 200 people were allowed to assemble. For outdoor functions, the state government had decided to allow 500 people to assemble. Thursday’s decision to impose stricter curbs comes a day after Haryana recorded 5,398 fresh cases, the highest ever single day surge in new cases ever since the pandemic broke out last year. Presiding over a meeting to review Covid-19 cases and vaccination in Haryana, chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said this time the spread of Covid-19 started from educational institutions. He directed all the deputy commissioners to issue advisory in their respective districts to ensure that night-time ceremonies should be shifted to the day time and the Navratra programmes be held during the day. He appealed to the people of the state to only leave their homes only if necessary and to wear masks, use sanitiser and maintain social distancing whenever they go out of the house. He said that there is proper arrangement of oxygen, ventilators and beds in the state and people need not panic. During the meeting, home and health minister Anil Vij said there are two ways (lockdown or strictness) to prevent Covid-19 from spreading. “We want the situation to be dealt with strictness instead of imposing lockdown in the state,” Vij said. “We can withstand resentment of people by acting strictly but cannot see people dying,” the health minister said, pointing out that this time Covid-19 is more aggressive. Last year, he said, the number of cases increased gradually. BOX End stir on humanitarian grounds, Khattar tells farmers Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday again appealed to the agitating farmers to call off their stir on humanitarian grounds. Reiterating that it is the constitutional right of every person to protest and that the state government has no problem with those who protest, he said: “However, at this time, due to Covid-19, life may be put in danger and this is not the right time to protest. If they have to hold protest for any of their demands, they can do it when the situation improves,” he said, directing the deputy commissioners to contact the agitating farmers and try to persuade them.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-squeezes-number-of-people-at-gatherings-101618493053275.html
15-04-2021||Pune||Nagpur Covid-19 patients share beds at govt hospital. Administration ‘clarifies'||After photos of Covid-19 patients sharing beds at the Government Medical College in Nagpur surfaced on Thursday, the hospital administration claimed that it might be a one-off case when there is an emergency requirement of medical oxygen.News agency ANI released photos showing patients sharing beds at the hospital as they waited for proper medical attention.Maharashtra: In a video, #COVID19 patients seen sharing beds at Govt Medical College, Nagpur. Medical Superintendent says, "It generally doesn't happen. It's a 900-bed hospital. Patients come from neighbouring districts & state. So it's important to give them oxygen quickly." pic.twitter.com/pI0od9OoKrMedical superintendent of the medical college Dr Avinash V Gawande said that such measures are taken only when there is an influx of several patients in a short period of time. He said that the 85-bed ward for emergency patients acts as a station to give them medical oxygen. “It does not happen generally. It is a 900-bed hospital and patients come from neighbouring districts and states hence it is important to give them oxygen quickly,” Gawande was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.“Our 85-bed emergency ward acts as a station before we shift patients. At times several patients come in simultaneously so in such situations there is a possibility of two patients being kept on a single bed but we shift them within 10-15 minutes,” he saidSeveral hospitals in Nagpur are battling to address the rise in hospitalisations. Nagpur is among the worst-affected districts as it currently has over 63,000 active cases of Covid-19. Nagpur recorded 5,993 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday which pushed the tally in the district to 2,97,036. The death toll also rose to 5,960 as Nagpur recorded 57 more casualties. Nagpur, which is under the imposition of Section 144, like the rest of the state, saw the minimal presence of people on Thursday, according to an ANI report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/nagpur-covid-19-patients-share-beds-at-govt-hospital-administration-clarifies-101618488964818.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Starting April 21, all flights from Mumbai airport to operate from T2||All domestic flights to and from Mumbai will operate from Terminal 2, beginning April 21. Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) had shifted low cost airlines and a few IndiGo flights to Terminal 1 only in March. Due to the imposition of Section 144 in the state, Air Asia, GoAir , Star Air, TruJet and few flights of IndiGo will now be operating from T2 instead of T1.Confirming the same, CSMIA spokesperson said, “In the light of the latest developments in the ongoing pandemic situation, Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has decided to re-consolidate all domestic passenger flights currently operating via Terminal 1. With effect from April 21, 2021, CSMIA will be conducting all international as well as domestic flight operations through its iconic advanced Terminal 2. All passengers of GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia, TruJet and IndiGo are requested to get in touch with the respective airlines for further queries.” Also Read | Mumbai Dabbawalas upset due to Covid restrictions; urge govt for financial help“During these challenging times, CSMIA has been working closely with its stakeholders and relevant regulatory and government bodies to curb the spread of the virus. The airport is strictly adhering to all guidelines laid down by the Ministry of Civil Aviation as well as the Government of Maharashtra,” the spokesperson added. Operations at T1 were suspended temporarily and were consolidated through Terminal 2 since the nationwide lockdown of March 2020. From March 10, the airport resumed operations from T1 which meant GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet began their operations from Terminal 1. Most of IndiGo flight operations continued to be managed from Terminal 2, barring a few base flights.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/starting-april-21-all-flights-from-mumbai-airport-to-operate-from-t2-101618488188971.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||'No curfew here?' Mumbaikars post traffic jam photos, ask police to take action||From 8pm on April 14, Section 144 of CrPC has been imposed in the entire state of Maharashtra barring the gathering of four or more people. The restrictions will be in place till May 1. In this period, only essential shops and services are allowed to function.However, the rules are being royally flouted on Thursday as people took to Twitter and shared photos of non-essential shops running, traffic congestion at a time when only essential workers are supposed to be on road, and that of small crowds in front of cigarette shops. Mumbai Police, which was tagged in such tweets, said it was constantly giving the social media feedback to police stations concerned. Complaints of people gathering for cigarettes, tea were plenty while several users posted photo of traffic congestion, ongoing construction work in Mumbai.We have informed the main control room.Please share exact location for necessary action.The restrictions have created confusion among traders and businessmen as to what falls under essential category. While all non-essential services have been disallowed in the city, home delivery is allowed. On Wednesday, as the city came under Section 144, Zomato founder Deepinder Goyal took to Twitter and said that the food delivery app won't deliver after 8pm according to the guidelines. After Mumbai police clarified that there is no time restriction for online services, Zomato said it will be delivering in the curfew hours starting from Thursday.Kindly read the Govt Notification. It says that Home Delivery is allowed but there is no time limit specified.Mumbai Police Commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Thursday reviewed the restrictions as he visited Gamdevi, Lokmanya Tilak Marg police stations and other places in the city and interacted with local constables."Police are deployed to implement the prohibitory orders, but we are not using any force on people," he said, according to news agency PTI. If any person is found outside without a valid reason, then the police personnel are giving him a warning and sending him back home, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-lockdown-no-curfew-here-mumbaikars-post-traffic-jam-photos-ask-police-to-take-action-101618487565372.html
15-04-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: Night curfew timings extended in UP districts, to begin from 8pm||Existing night curfew timings have been extended in some districts across Uttar Pradesh, including Noida and Lucknow, the state government announced on Thursday. The curfew has been extended by two hours overall and would now be in effect between 8pm and 7am. Earlier, the curfew was effective between 9pm and 6am.The timings have been extended in Noida, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur Nagar, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur, according to the new order.The announcement comes a day after Uttar Pradesh reported its highest-ever, single-day surge in infections of the coronavirus diseases with 20,510 new cases. With this, the tally in the state reached 744,021, according to a bulletin released by the state government on Wednesday. Also, 68 people succumbed to the disease on Wednesday, which pushed the death toll to 9,376, the bulletin also showed.Also read | UP records 20,510 fresh Covid-19 cases, in highest single-day surge﻿Among the districts where the night curfew is elongated, Lucknow reported the highest new cases on Wednesday with 5,433 infections, followed by Prayagraj with 1,702 cases, Varanasi with 1,585 cases and Kanpur Nagar with 1,221 cases. Of the other places, Gautam Buddh Nagar reported 483 new cases, Ghaziabad logged 277 new cases, Meerut reported 412 new cases and Gorakhpur reported 591 new cases, data from the bulletin showed.Noida reported its highest single-day spike of Covid-19 infections with the 483 new cases on Wednesday, news agency PTI reported. Also, the active caseload crossed the 2,000-mark and reached 2,027, according to the government bulletin.In terms of active caseload, Lucknow (31,687 cases), Prayagraj (11,902 cases), Varanasi (10,206 cases), Kanpur Nagar (6,047 cases) and Gorakhpur (3,419 cases) remain the top five contributors in the state.Meanwhile, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath tested positive for the coronavirus disease on Wednesday. “After initial symptoms, I got myself tested. My report is positive. I am in self-isolation and following doctors advice. I am doing all the works virtually. All the activities of the government are running normally,” he tweeted in Hindi.Former Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav too contracted the disease. “My reports for COVID-19 have come positive today. I have isolated myself and treatment has started at home. All the people who have come in contact with me in the last few days please get tested. They are also requested to remain in isolation for a few days,” the opposition leader tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-night-curfew-timings-extended-in-up-districts-to-begin-from-8pm-101618485849441.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Uddhav writes to PM Modi for financial aid, asks Centre to declare Covid-19 ‘natural calamity’ in Maharashtra||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking financial assistance from the Centre as Maharashtra along with the rest of the country battles a surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.Thackeray in his letter asked PM Modi to extend the timeline of the submission of GST returns for the months of March and April by three months for small and medium taxpayers. He also requested the Prime Minister to notify the pandemic in the state as a natural calamity so that the state can access funds from the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF).Thackeray said the situation in Maharashtra will lead to an imposition of a mini-lockdown and fund from the SDRF will be used to pay gratuitous relief (GR) to families which come under the Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and the Priority Household (PHH) as these families will be adversely affected during the lockdown. Maharashtra government will pay ₹100 per adult per day and ₹60 per child per day as gratuitous relief (GR) during the lockdown period.“The first installment of the central share of the SDRF may be released to the state to tide over the financial situation during the current financial year,” Thackeray wrote in his letter.Requesting the Centre to extend a helping hand to startups, small and medium scale enterprises and various businesses which took loans under different schemes launched by the government the Maharashtra CM urged the Modi government to request banks to defer due instalments in the first quarter of the current financial year without interest. “This is akin to force majeure for business relationships between these entrepreneurs and banks,” the letter said.Maharashtra has been reeling from a severe spike in Covid-19 cases with the state recording more than 50,000 cases daily for more than a week. The state reported 63,294 cases of Covid-19 on April 11, recording the highest single-day tally since the onset of the pandemic. Maharashtra active cases tally stood at 612,070 on Wednesday and the death toll touched 58,804 with 278 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-uddhav-writes-to-pm-modi-to-release-sdrf-funds-101618483804808.html
15-04-2021||Pune||Taste of life: How this community dinner gave orthodox Maharashtra a wake-up call||The day was May 10 and the year 1928. The residents of Gaekwadwada (now known as Kesariwada) in Narayan peth, the Tilaks, had woken up quite early in the morning to prepare for a special feast. Some 200 guests of different castes and religions were invited for dinner. Shridhar Balwant Tilak, son of Lokmanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak, was the host and he himself was overseeing the arrangements. Considering that this was the first time such a “sahabhojan” (community dinner) was being arranged in Gaekwadwada, known to be the headquarters of orthodox Maharashtra, Shridharpant wanted the event to be a success.The occasion had another significance. It was also the first time that one of the most brilliant minds of the 20th century and one of the tallest leaders in India, who also happened to be Shridharpant’s close friend, was coming over for dinner. In fact, he was the guest of honour. His name was Dr Bhimrao, alias Babasaheb Ambedkar.Shridharpant had been in awe of Ambedkar’s philosophy and social reforms since 1925. They would regularly meet and communicate with each other and discuss methods to get rid of upper-caste hegemony. Shridharpant not only wanted social equality, but also aimed to end malpractices like child marriages and the tonsuring of widows. Two of his strongest and closest supporters in this journey were Prabodhankar Keshav Seetaram Thackeray and Babasaheb Ambedkar.In 1927, during the Mahad Satyagraha, also known as Chavdar Tale Satyagraha, Ambedkar established Samaaj Samata Sangh, an organisation meant for “upper caste” allies of the Dalit movement. In April 1928, Shridharpant started a branch of the said organisation in Gaekwadwada in Pune. This was a scandalous move and created a furore in the conservative circles of Pune.Especially agitated were the trustees of the Kesari Trust. NC Kelkar and GV Ketkar could not digest the liberal approach of Shridharpant and his brother Rambhau. These disciples of Lokmanya Tilak did not want the bastion of orthodoxy encroached on by “those influenced by the philosophy of Agarkar and Ambedkar”.They launched a systematic attack against the Tilak brothers. Rumors were circulated. The brothers were threatened with legal action. The trustees were already engaged in a legal battle with the Tilak brothers over the ownership of the newspapers “Kesari” and “Maharatta”. Several well-wishers advised Shridharpant to renounce the progressive line of thought and strike a deal with the trustees to gain a role in the running of the newspapers. He firmly refused. He was opposed to untouchability and the Chaturvarnya system and had no intention of compromising on his ideals. So despite several warnings from his detractors, he went ahead with his plan to host a sahabhojan in the presence of Ambedkar.Food was always used as a tool of humiliation for Dalits. Dalit narratives are replete with stories of being unable to eat with upper castes, of being refused food or being given, at best, leftovers which would be dropped into their hands from above; of going thirsty until someone could be found to pour water into their cupped hands. They were almost never allowed to use common wells or tanks in villages and cities. Ambedkar too experienced this. He would go thirsty in school if a peon was not present to pour water in his cupped hands. When a young Ambedkar was asked to solve a numerical on the blackboard, students ran to collect their lunchboxes placed behind the board, claiming his touch would pollute the blackboard and their food.After returning from Columbia, Ambedkar had come to live in Vadodara where he had to work to fulfil his scholarship contract. But, his caste proved an obstacle in him finding a place to eat and live in the city. No inn and boarding house would allow him on their premises. An influential king like Maharaja Sayajirao was helpless in this matter. He asked a dejected Ambedkar to return to Bombay.That is why, sahabhojan was increasingly being used as a tool to break the taboos surrounding food and caste. People from various castes and religions would come together and share food. This movement was largely opposed by the majority of population, but was being consistently endorsed by liberals and rationalists like Shridharpant Tilak.On May 10, 1928, when the trustees realised that all their attempts to thwart the sahabhojan had failed, they switched off the power supply to Gaekwadwada, just before Ambedkar was about to arrive. A small pandemonium broke out.Shridharpant immediately took charge of the situation and requested his friends to bring lanterns and lamps from their homes. In a few minutes, Gaekwadwada was lit up with hundreds of lamps and lanterns. Ambedkar arrived, met his friend. The sahabhojan went on quite peacefully after that.But, orthodox society in Pune did not let Shridharpant work in peace. The legal battle over the ownership of the newspapers and the harassment at the hands of the conservatives because of his liberal and rational thoughts proved too much for him to tolerate. He died by suicide the same year. His suicide note was addressed to his dear friend Ambedkar. He wished him all the luck in his fight to end untouchability and discrimination.Ambedkar later wrote – “If anyone who is worthy of the title Lokamanya, it is Shridharpant Tilak.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/taste-of-life-how-this-community-dinner-gave-orthodox-maharashtra-a-wake-up-call-101618484221635.html
15-04-2021||Bangalore||‘Right to lead healthy life…’: Karnataka HC on violation of Covid-19 norms||In a stinging observation, the Karnataka High Court on Thursday remarked that the right to lead a healthy life is an “integral part” of the Constitution which cannot be obstructed by those who refuse to wear masks or follow social distancing even as daily cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) see a record rise in the state and across the country, Bar and Bench has reported.“Right to lead healthy life is an integral part of Article 21 of the Constitution of India. Right to lead healthy life cannot be obstructed by individuals who do not bother to follow the rules regarding masks, maintaining physical distancing, congregating etc.” a division bench, headed by chief justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka, said, according to Bar and Bench. Directing state agencies to take strict view of the violations made, the bench further said, “It must be remembered that it is being done for upholding fundamental rights of citizens under Article 21 of India, of leading a healthy life.”Coming hard on celebrities and religious leaders for violation of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases (Amendment) Act, 2020, the court was of the opinion that “none should be spared for violating the provisions of the Act.” The court was hearing a plea moved by Letzkit Foundation seeking strict implementation of the Covid-19 norms.The chief justice-headed bench also directed the state police chief to educate his officers about the provisions of the Act, also demanding an immediate registration of a First Information Report (FIR) over offences related to violations of Covid-19 norms.On Wednesday, Karnataka’s Covid-19 tally saw its highest rise since the beginning of the pandemic, increasing by 11,265 fresh cases, thus reaching 1,094,912, according to a health department bulletin. Also, with 38 more deaths, the death toll reached 13,046. Total 996,367 people have defeated the viral disease while 85,480 people are still in its grip. Bengaluru Urban is the worst-hit district in the southern state, with a caseload of 502,024 of which 8,155 infections were reported on Wednesday.Also Read | Karnataka reports highest single-day jump of 11,265 new Covid-19 cases, Bengaluru Urban contributes 72%Chief minister BS Yeddiyurappa has ruled out a lockdown and has called for an all-party meeting on April 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/right-to-lead-healthy-life-karnataka-hc-on-violation-of-covid-19-norms-101618482198397.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport to conduct all flight operations through Terminal 2 from April 21||The city’s Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) has decide to once again consolidate its flight operations to one terminal - T2 - from April 21 amid rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city. The private airport operator had only on March 10 reopened its domestic passenger terminal T-1 for regular flight operations after keeping it closed for nearly a year.“In light of the latest developments in the ongoing pandemic situation, CSMIA has decided to re-consolidate all domestic passenger flights currently operating via Terminal 1. With effect from April 21, the airport will be conducting all international as well as domestic flight operations through its Terminal 2,” CSMIA said in a statement.All passengers of GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia, TruJet and IndiGo have been asked to get in touch with the respective airlines for further queries, it said. The Mumbai airport has two terminals T1 and T2. Terminal 1 caters to domestic passengers and Terminal 2 has international services besides domestic operations of some of the Indian airlines. Prior to the pandemic, some airlines were carrying out their operations from T 1. However, after the resumption of domestic commercial passenger services in late last year, following a nearly two-month shutdown in the wake of the pandemic, the flight services were being operated only from T2 till March 9 this year.From March 10, GoAir, Star Air, Air Asia and Trujet resumed all their domestic operations from Terminal 1.In addition to this, while IndiGo was operating most of its flights from Terminal 2, its base flights were being operated through Terminal 1.CSMIA has been working closely with its stakeholders and relevant regulatory and government bodies to curb the spread of the virus, the airport operator said in the release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-to-conduct-all-flight-operations-through-terminal-2-from-april-21-101618482359958.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police chief asks personnel to take precautions amid Covid-19 spike||Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, Delhi Police Commissioner S N Shrivastava on Thursday asked the personnel of the force to take adequate precautions, maintain social distancing and wear N-95 or 3-ply surgical masks to protect themselves.In a video message, the police chief told his personnel to be extra cautious and follow the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), saying the new wave of coronavirus was "far more serious" in nature than the previous one."In the last few days, some of our personnel have been found coronavirus positive and this number is increasing, which is a cause of worry," he said, stressing that the Delhi Police has played a vital role in fighting Covid-19.According to the data provided by the police for this year, 73 personnel tested positive for Covid-19 in January, 33 in February, 24 in March and 390 in April.Shrivastava asked the personnel of the force to take adequate precautions while discharging their duty especially during interactions with each other, conducting verification drive, issuing challans, at picket duty or during hospital visits, so that the chances of getting infected remains less.He said if any personnel of a unit is found Covid positive, they can contact senior officers of their unit as well as those at the headquarters so that proper treatment can be ensured and beds can be made available for them in the hospital.He also told them to not be "careless" even if they have been vaccinated.As part of the precautionary measure, Shrivastava asked his force to avoid wearing masks made of thin fabric and instead stressed on using N-95 masks or 3-ply surgical masks."Wear N-95 or 3-ply surgical mask. Avoid wearing mask made of thin cloth as it may not be sufficient. Maintain social distancing while working and sanitise your workplace as well as your vehicle," he said.He asked the personnel to wash hands with soap constantly and take immunity boosters like Ayurvedic Kadha, Vitamin C and zinc tablet according to doctor's advice.To stay healthy, he asked his personnel to and exercise and practice yoga."We have to take care of ourselves and our family members. Only if you are safe, you will be able to look after the safety of others," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-chief-asks-personnel-to-take-precautions-amid-covid-19-spike-101618481717183.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana cancels Class 10 exams, defers Class 12 board exams||The Haryana government on Thursday cancelled that the Class 10 board exams and put off the Class 12 exams in view of the Covid-19 surge. “On the lines of the Central Board of School Education (CBSE), we have decided to cancel the Class 10 board exams and postpone the Class 12 exams. Class 10 students will be evaluated based on their internal assessments,” state education minister Kanwar Pal Gujjar said. Also read: No board exams till May 20 in Uttar Pradesh, announces governmentA revised schedule for the Class 12 exams will be announced once the situation is conducive. Students were advised to visit the Haryana Board of School Education’s website for updates. Earlier, the Haryana board’s Class 10 and 12 exams were scheduled to begin on April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-cancels-class-10-exams-defers-class-12-board-exams-101618481580437.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Curfew call: Weekend chill is out of question, say Delhiites||With Delhi reporting 17,282 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the highest single-day surge in the Capital since the pandemic erupted, it was announced on Wednesday afternoon that Delhiites will have to observe weekend curfew, and “break the chain of transmission” to tackle a steep rise in Covid cases. This implies that auditoriums, malls, gyms and spas will remain shut, and people will not be able to dine in at restaurants as only home delivery of food will be allowed. The weekly markets, however, will be allowed but with restrictions. Only essential services, and people going for weddings will be issued curfew passes.Restauranteurs feel this move will make a further dent in their sales. Umang Tewari, owner, Local, Junkyard, and Liv Bar, says, “With the night curfew, our business was already 70% down. And people were only coming over the weekends, as they were busy on weekdays. With the weekend curfew, our business will be zero because people don’t come out much from Monday to Friday, during the day time.” And Zorawar Kalra, founder, Massive Restaurants Pvt Ltd, adds, “The pandemic has affected the entire world and most industries have been hit hard. Especially the already beleaguered food and beverage industry. The past year has been a very difficult one for all. The new measures in place are understandably the need of the hour but will have a huge impact on sales and on the survivability of the industry as a whole. Delivery alone cannot sustain a restaurant enterprise. Already the restaurants were operating on 50% capacity and now with the measures in place it is definitely going to effect business in a huge way!” For Delhiites, such as Vaibhavi Ananya, a final year student of Delhi University, the weekend curfew spells “depressing” vibes. “The whole week we have our online classes so we really don’t have time to go out. Evening tak padai chalti rehti hai. So it’s usually just over the weekend when we get some time, when we can chill a bit while managing our assignments. We have a really short window to take off our mind off these things, but with the weekend curfew, we’ll have to just stay back home. It’s indeed required, but is too depressing to handle.”Mayank Ghai, a fitness expert from Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh, says it’s better to shift the workouts permanently to home! “I’ll do home training. Thankfully, I have a gym at home also. Ab aur kya sakte hai. Gym jaate the, friends se bhi milte the to better feel hota tha, Covid mein bhi. Ab woh bhi roz roz nahi ho payega,” says Ghai, and Ayush Jain, a BBA student from Gurugram adds, “I usually took my camera along for weekend trips to places in Delhi, so that I could take part in photo walks. Woh toh nahin ho paayega ab... And I had planned to visit the mall for shopping, which I won’t be able to do either. Ab toh online zindabad!” But some feel that this was the need of the hour. Gaya Kashyap, another DU student, says, “I think it’s a fantastic move, to be fair. I mean people are dying because of Covid, and if we have to sit indoors again for a little while so that it ceases, I don’t think much is lost. I’ve the privilege to make that choice, to choose to stay indoors rather than have fun outdoors. So I don’t mind prioritising seclusion when others have no option but to step outside and work. This much we could do for the society.” Author tweets @Nainaarora8Follow more stories on Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/curfew-call-weekend-chill-is-out-of-question-say-delhiites-101618479479891.html
15-04-2021||Pune||Five held in Pune for black marketing of Remdesivir injections||The Crime Branch of Pune City Police has arrested five people in two different cases for black marketing of anti-viral drug Remdesivir used in COVID-19 treatment."During patrolling crime branch officials had received information about a person selling Remdesivir in ₹18,000 per injection. Accordingly a trap was set and the team of police officials arrested him. With his arrest, involvement of three of his more associates including a driver who was working on a vehicle transporting medicines to civil hospitals was revealed," the police said.All four accused were arrested and a case was registered against them at Chandannagar Police station.During prima facie investigation, it was revealed that the two Remdesivir injections recovered from their possession were taken from the civil hospital of Daund in Pune.In another case, the accused had demanded ₹10,000 per injection from the relative of the patient. "As soon as crime branch officials received this information they set a trap and arrested the accused. A case has been registered at Loni Kand police station in this regard," police added.All five accused arrested in two different cases have been identified as Rohidas Gore, Imtiaz Ajmeri, Parvez Shaikh, Ashwin Solanki and Mohammad Mehboob Pathan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/five-held-in-pune-for-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-injections-101618478795542.html
15-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan man arrested for allegedly raping and biting off daughter’s nose||The Rajasthan police have arrested a man for allegedly raping, physically assaulting, and biting off his 15-year-old daughter’s nose in Jodhpur.Parmeshwari, a local police officer, said the girl filed a complaint against her 45-year-old father for allegedly biting off her nose and beating her. She added the girl later told an activist about the repeated sexual assaults after she was hospitalised on April 6. The girl’s parents are separated, and she lived with her father, uncle, aunt, and grandparents in Luni.“Two years ago, her father raped her when she was 13...” said Parmeshwari. She was later allegedly raped multiple times even as the girl shared her ordeal with her grandmother. The girl’s grandfather later shifted her to a rented house in a nearby locality a few months ago.Also Read | 1 held, 5 booked over rape of minor girl in Bihar’s MuzaffarpurThe activist on April 8 filed another complaint against the father for raping his daughter and he was booked under which Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and India’s Penal Code’s Section 376 (rape).Parmeshwari said they have recorded the girl’s statement accusing her father of rape amid reports in local media that another man also sexually assaulted her. Parmeshwari said they will record the girl’s statement about the other man as well. “...but as of now, we have a complaint of rape against her father,” Parmeshwari said. The officer added they will also record statements of the girl’s grandparents.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-man-arrested-for-raping-assaulting-his-daughter-101618478939718.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai Dabbawalas upset due to Covid restrictions; urge govt for financial help||Dabbawalas of Mumbai are facing a tough time due to the fresh Covid-19 restrictions in Maharashtra. "Out of 5,000 dabbawalas, only 400-500 were working. With new lockdown restrictions, only 200-250 are now left. We are again urging the govt for financial help: Vishnu Kaldoke, Mumbai Dabbawala spokesperson told news agency ANI.Maharashtra is the worst-affected state by coronavirus infection. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray has written a letter to the Centre, urging to consider the Covid-19 pandemic as natural calamity, so that the government can use the state disaster response fund (SDRF) to provide financial assistance to the affected people.“We are imposing strict restrictions… Section 144 to be imposed in the entire state from tomorrow. I will not term this as lockdown,” Uddhav Thackeray said. “People have to decide whether they want to help corona or the government that is working to curb it…” he added during his address to the state, which is battling a massive surge in the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).Thackeray said his government will spend ₹5,400 crore to support the people of Maharashtra as he announced the 15-day long statewide curfew. Food will also be distributed for one month under the government's flagship economy meal scheme, Shiv Bhojan Thali.On Wednesday, Maharashtra reported 58,952 fresh coronavirus cases, taking the tally to 35,78,160, while 278 new fatalities pushed the toll to 58,804, the state health department said.In view of an alarming rise in cases, the state government has announced stricter measures for 15 days which came into force at 8pm on Wednesday and will remain in operation till 7am on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-dabbawalas-upset-due-to-covid-restrictions-urge-govt-for-financial-help-101618476748342.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Raman Goyal becomes first woman mayor of Bathinda||Raman Goyal became the first woman mayor of Bathinda municipal corporation on Thursday amid allegations of favouritism by a veteran party leader. Ashok Pardhan (ward number 37) was elected senior deputy mayor, while Master Harmandar Singh Sidhu (ward number 28) was elected the deputy mayor. Also read: Students of Classes 5, 8 and 10 to be promoted without exams in PunjabTechnical education minister Charanjit Singh Channi, who oversaw the election in the Congress-dominant House, said that all three were elected unanimously. The Congress has 43 members in the 50-member House, and all were present during the meeting, which was also attended by state finance minister and local Congress MLA Manpreet Singh Badal. Veteran Congress leader gets cold shoulder A first-time Congress councillor, Goyal, had defeated BJP’s Seema Arora by 1,134 votes from ward number 35. Her election came as a surprise as veteran Congress leader Jagroop Singh Gill, who successfully contested from ward number 48 , had won the civic elections for a record seventh time and was being seen as the strongest claimant for the mayor’s post. Ahead of the local elections, he was asked to quit as chairperson of the district planning board to contest the municipal corporation elections. He polled 1,452 votes, whereas his nearest rival Nirmal Singh of the Shiromani Akali Dal got only 876 votes. Gill had also held the posts of the chairperson of the Bathinda Improvement Trust, vice-president and president of the local civic body and the president of the District Bar Association. Before the formal announcement in the House, Gill expressed his displeasure at being ignored. He said the names of the top three positions were decided two weeks ago and Channi came only as a formality. Mayor’s husband close to Manpreet’s family: GillWithout naming anyone, Gill said certain sections tried to defeat him during the civic body polls, but electors reposed faith in him. “I’m winning the local body elections since 1979 and it was popular opinion that an experienced person should head the MC. But she (Raman Goyal) was favoured only because her husband, Sandeep Goyal, a wine contractor, is close to Manpreet Badal and his core team,” he alleged. Meanwhile, Manpreet and Channi rubbished the charge of favouritism. “No specific criteria were fixed for finalising names for top posts, but it was decided according to popular opinion among the councillors. During the meeting with party candidates today, Gill did not oppose any candidature,” Channi said. Goyal’s election as mayor is seen as one with an eye on the state elections next year. “Bathinda was always a political bastion of the former Shiromani Akali Dal-Bharatiya Janta Party alliance. It is the first time that the Congress has managed to get a majority in the local body and by nominating Goyal to the top position, the party is looking to consolidate Hindu votes as the SAD-BJP alliance is over now,” said a political analyst, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/raman-goyal-becomes-first-woman-mayor-of-bathinda-101618478039782.html
15-04-2021||Ranchi||Cong MLA performs puja at Baidyanath Dham, BJP MP Dubey demands his arrest||Jharkhand's Congress MLA Irfan Ansari on Wednesday performed puja at the famous Baidyanath Dham temple at Deoghar, considered to be the most sacred abode of Lord Shiva, creating a controversy.Claiming that entry of non-Hindus is not allowed in the temple, BJP MP Dr Nishikant Dubey demanded immediate arrest of Ansari.The MLA of Jamtara, along with his companions, entered the sanctum sanctorum of the temple and performed the puja. Photographs of the act were also taken.Ansari claimed that he has been coming to the Baidyanath Dham temple since his childhood to take the blessings of Lord Shiva."Whenever elections come, I have been blessed by Baba Bhole (Lord Shiva) and I have won. Who is Nishikant Dubey to take me away from Baba?" Ansari said.Dubey, the MP of Godda, demanded that the states JMM-led government order arrest of Ansari and take action against the deputy commissioner and the superintendent of police of Deoghar for allowing this to happen. "No non-Hindu has entered the sanctum sanctorum of the Baba temple till date. Just as the entry of non-Muslims is forbidden in the Kaaba in Mecca, the entry of non-Hindus into the Baba temple is also forbidden," he told a press conference.Kaaba is a small shrine located inside the Great Mosque in Mecca and considered by Muslims as the holiest spot on Earth.Dubey said that once National Confrence leader Farooq Abdullah, when he was a Union minister, came to Deoghar and bowed down to Baba with folded hands from outside, but did not enter the sanctum sanctorum.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/cong-mla-performs-puja-at-baidyanath-dham-bjp-mp-dubey-demands-his-arrest-101618477467005.html
15-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka government asks Kumbh Mela returnees to self-isolate, undergo Covid-19 test||The Karnataka government has asked those returning from Kumbh Mela at Haridwar to get themselves quarantined and get tested for coronavirus infection."Pilgrims returning to the state after taking part in the holy Kumbh Mela at Haridwar must isolate themselves at home and undergo tests for coronavirus. I urge pilgrims to continue with their regular activities only after their COVID negative test report," Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar tweeted.The Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Services K V Thrilok Chandra too issued a circular to this effect.Citing a Standard Operating Procedure issued by the government of India for the pilgrims visiting Kumbh Mela at Haridwar, Chandra said, "The pilgrims or visitors attending Kumbh Mela should be advised to strictly comply with the SOP."On their return, they should be informed to isolate themselves at home and immediately undergo compulsory RT-PCR testing and following the negative report, should resume normal activities.The circular has been marked to the municipal commissioners, deputy commissioners of the districts, chief executive officers of the Zilla Parishad, district surgeons, district health officers and district surveillance officers.A large number of people have thronged Haridwar, an important pilgrimage place for the Hindus, for Kumbh Snan, which occurs once in 12 years, following planet Jupiter's transit in Aquarius (Kumbh) sign.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-government-asks-kumbh-mela-returnees-to-self-isolate-undergo-covid-19-test-101618476424555.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Students of Classes 5, 8 and 10 to be promoted without exams in Punjab||Amid the continuing Covid surge, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that all Class 5, 8 and 10 students be promoted to the next class, without any exam. A decision on Class 12 Punjab School Education Board (PSEB) exams, which have already been postponed, will be taken later based on the emerging situation. The chief minister took these decisions during a virtual Covid review meeting with top officials and medical experts in Chandigarh. Also read: Are more people dying in India’s second Covid wave?Captain Amarinder Singh said while the state has closed all educational institutions till April 30, bringing down the positivity in the 11-20 age group, relief is needed to be provided to schoolchildren going for exams. For Class 5 students, since exams for four out of five subjects have already been conducted, results may be declared by the PSEB on the basis of the marks obtained by the students in respect of four subjects, ignoring the fifth subject. Results for Classes 8 and 10 will be declared on the basis of the pre-board exams or the internal assessment of the respective schools, the chief minister told the education department. The chief minister, who had earlier this week written to the Union education minister in this regard, also expressed satisfaction at the Centre’s decision to postpone Class 12 CBSE exams and cancel the Class 10 CBSE exams in view of the pandemic. Medical education minister OP Soni, education minister Vijay Inder Singla, chief secretary Vini Mahajan, DGP Dinkar Gupta were among those who attended the meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/students-of-classes-5-8-and-10-to-be-promoted-without-exams-in-punjab-101618475880568.html
15-04-2021||Bhopal||MP government to rush Remdesivir to various districts by aircraft||The Madhya Pradesh government on Thursday roped in its aircraft to rush Remdesivir injections from Indore to various other districts in the state for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, an official said. Two hundred boxes containing 9,264 Remdesivir injections (a key anti-viral drug) have arrived at the Indore airport, an official from the Chief Minister's Office said. Out of these, 42 boxes will be airlifted to Bhopal, 39 to Jabalpur, 19 to Gwalior, 18 to Rewa, he said. Besides, 75 boxes of the Remdesivir injections would be kept for Indore, the worst coronavirus-hit district in the state, and some stock will also be sent to Sagar, Ratlam and Khandwa, the official said. In the wake of a rise in Covid-19 cases, the drug is in high demand as it is used especially in adult patients with severe complications. The state government is trying to ramp up its health infrastructure in view of the rising number of coronavirus cases in the second wave of the pandemic. On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh recorded 9,720 fresh cases of coronavirus, the biggest single-day spike so far, pushing the infection count to 3,63,352. The fatality tally rose to 4,312 with 51 more deaths, also the highest one-day count so far. This month, the state has so far reported 67,841 new Covid-19 cases and 326 fatalities, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/mp-government-to-rush-remdesivir-to-various-districts-by-aircraft-101618475365093.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Weekend curfew announced in Delhi: Check what’s open and closed here||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday announced a weekend curfew in Delhi in the face of rising cases of Covid-19 disease in the national capital. The curbs followed after the city recorded over 17,000 cases on Wednesday, the highest single-day surge in the number of infections. The city is also facing a crisis over hospitalisations for Covid-19 even as the chief minister assured that adequate beds are available in Delhi.A post shared by Hindustan Times (@hindustantimes)Here is a list of restrictions which will come into effect in Delhi during the weekend:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/weekend-curfew-announced-in-delhi-check-what-s-open-and-closed-here-delhi-weekend-curfew-lockdown-coronavirus-cases-101618474514122.html
15-04-2021||Indore||Indore traders see rising demand for dates during Ramadan||Despite the restrictions imposed due to surge in Covid-19 cases, dates traders in Indore said they are happy with an increase in demand of the fruit during the holy month of Ramadan which began on Wednesday.According to dates traders, last year, very few people were able to purchase dates during Ramadan due to the lockdown, and sellers had to incur huge losses. However, this time, dates are being sold and bought in large quantities in the market.Riyaz Ghazi, owner of Bhartiya Traders, which extensively imports wholesale dates at Indore's Siyaganj, one of the largest wholesale grocery market in Madhya Pardesh, told ANI, "Eating dates is a sunnah (Sunnah, are the traditions and practices of the Prophet, Muhammad). Prophet Muhammad was fond of dates.""Last year, the sale of dates was down due to Covid-19 and lockdown. But this time, from today till 4 pm in Indore, the district administration gave an exemption, so that we are able to do our business. In other cities, there is not enough access to dates. Since the supply of dates has not been able to reach the adjoining cities in sufficient quantity, the purchase of the fruit in Indore is very high. People are sending purchase orders from many nearby cities," said Ghazi.He further added that his company imports dates from Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia among others.Dates are a staple on iftar tables during Ramadan. Prophet Muhammad's iftar table always had dates. Accordig to Islamic scholars, at iftar time, Prophet Muhammad used to break his fast with either a few fresh or dried dates or a sip of water.Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar and is celebrated by people belonging to the Muslim community all around the world. This year, the Muslim holy month of Ramadan began in India on April 14.During Ramadan, people have their first meal before sunrise known as 'sehri' (also called suhoor) and the other meal is iftar, which is served after sunset.This annual observance is regarded as one of the five pillars of Islam. It lasts between one sighting of the crescent moon and the next. It is said that Ramadan is the commemoration of Prophet Muhammad's first revelation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/indore-traders-see-rising-demand-for-dates-during-ramadan-101618473430623.html
15-04-2021||Dehradun||Uttarakhand: Injured tigress dies while being taken to Nainital rescue centre||A 5-year-old tigress died on the way to a rescue centre at Nainital’s Ranibagh from the injuries sustained in a territorial fight in the Peepal Parao range of forest in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district on Wednesday, forest officials said.Dhrub Singh Martolia, sub-divisional officer of forest, Haldwani said, “It was spotted and rescued by our officials and doctors but the condition of the big cat was very critical. She was provided medical treatment but died on the way to the rescue centre.”On Wednesday, forest officials of Peepal Parao range under Terai east forest division noticed an injured and limping tigress, whose movement was watched till veterinary doctors arrived and tranquilized her before providig first aid, the official said. After she was given first aid, the tigress was being moved to the rescue centre but succumbed on the way, he added.“Tigress might have been injured in a territorial fight as she sustained several wounds on the body and head due to the attack of the rival tiger. Some of the wounds had developed severe infections. Wounds were one month old. Tigress’ body was destroyed after post-mortem,” Martolia said.A 6-year-old leopard was also found dead on Wednesday in Surai range in Khatima under Terai east forest division itself. It was also suspected to have succumbed to injuries sustained in a territorial fight, but its body parts were safe, a forest official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/uttarakhand-injured-tigress-dies-while-being-taken-to-nainital-rescue-centre-101618473599365.html
15-04-2021||Jaipur||Theft of Covaxin doses from Rajasthan hospital serious situation: BJP's Satish Poonia||Rajasthan Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Dr Satish Poonia on Thursday sharpened his attack on the Congress-led state government over the theft of Covaxin doses from the cold storage of a hospital in the capital city Jaipur on Tuesday. Calling it a ‘serious situation’, Poonia said the Rajasthan government is negligent and should take cognizance of the entire matter.“There used to be a lot of thefts in Rajasthan, but the theft of vaccine is surprising. It clearly shows the government is not alert and is negligent in such a matter. This is a serious issue and the government should take cognizance of it,” he was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.On Wednesday, Poonia tweeted that under chief minister Ashok Gehlot’s leadership, thieves were having fun while the public was living in a shadow of fear. “Home burglary, theft from the temple, theft from a police station, theft of files from the secretariat, theft of medicine from the hospital, theft of examination papers and now in the time of Covid crisis, the theft of vaccines -- the only thing which was left, happened today,” the BJP leader wrote on a microblogging site.राजस्थान में बहुत चोरियां होती थी लेकिन वैक्सीन की चोरी होना ताज्जुब की बात है। ये साफ संकेत करता है कि सरकार सतर्क नहीं है और इस मामले में लापरवाह है। ये गंभीर मसला है जिसका सरकार को संज्ञान लेना चाहिए: सतीश पूनिया, राजस्थान भाजपा अध्यक्ष #COVID19 https://t.co/80Bzf24wPB pic.twitter.com/8APrBp3c9LMore than 300 doses (320 exact) of Covaxin, manufactured by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, went missing from Kanwatiya government hospital in Jaipur’s Shastri Nagar on Tuesday. The hospital’s authorities informed Jaipur’s chief medical and health officer (CMHO) about the theft on Tuesday night following which a First Information Report was lodged on Wednesday. Dr Narottam Sharma, Jaipur’s CMHO said on Wednesday the theft allegedly took place on Monday and a departmental investigation has been ordered.Also Watch| 320 doses of Covaxin go 'missing' from Jaipur hospital, police register caseA police official told ANI on Wednesday the investigation into the incident of theft will be done after scanning through the hospital’s CCTV footage and action will be taken accordingly.Rajasthan has so far reported over 381,000 Covid-19 disease cases of which 3,008 have died, 333,379 have been discharged or have recovered while the active cases stand at 44,905.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/theft-of-covaxin-doses-from-rajasthan-hospital-serious-situation-says-bjp-101618473164983.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to witness weekend curfew, gyms, malls to be shut, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal as Covid-19 cases spike||Delhi will observe a weekend curfew in view of the rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday after his meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal.Arvind Kejriwal said that gyms, spas and malls across the city will remain closed while cinema halls will operate at 30% capacity throughout the week. Essential services will remain functional and people going for weddings will be issued curfew passes, the chief minister said during a digital press briefing.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here No restaurants in Delhi will be allowed to provide customers with the dine-in facility, only takeaway and delivery services will be available, the chief minister announced, and added that only one weekly market per day per municipal zone will be allowed to operate to arrest spread of coronavirus in Delhi. Special provisions will be made to avoid overcrowding in the market, Kejriwal said.Also watch | Delhi Covid crisis: Kejriwal announces weekend curfew; malls to remain closed﻿Kejriwal’s announcement comes a day after the capital reported over 17,000 cases, the highest single-day spike, on Wednesday. He said that restrictions are necessary to curb spread of fourth wave of coronavirus in the city and asserted that enforcement of Covid-19 norms will be strictly implemented in all public places.Also Read| Weekend curfew announced in Delhi: Check what’s open, what's closed Even as cases are rising at a rapid pace, Kejriwal assured Delhiites that there is no shortage of Covid-19 beds in the city hospitals. On Sunday, during a media briefing, the chief minister had reached out to those who have tested positive so far and appealed to them that those with mild or no symptoms should not rush to hospitals and leave beds vacant for patients with severe symptomsOn Sunday, when the daily cases in the city had hit 10,000, Arvind Kejriwal had said that lockdown was no solution to the pandemic but the government may be compelled to impose full restrictions if the health care system collapses. The chief minister has time and again urged citizens to step out of their homes only if absolutely necessary.The total infection tally of Delhi has reached 767,438. There are 50,736 active cases so far. With 104 additional deaths in the last 24 hours, the overall Covid-19 death toll of the national capital now stands at 11,540.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-witness-weekend-curfew-gyms-malls-to-be-shut-announces-cm-arvind-kejriwal-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101618472081944.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: All you need to know about Maharashtra’s latest curbs||In a bid to clear any confusion regarding the rules of curfew and other restrictions in the state due to the surge in Covid-19, the Maharashtra government on Thursday issued a list of frequently asked questions. To control the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and to break the chain of transmission, the Maharashtra government announced the imposition of Section 144 across the state from 8pm on April 14 till 7am on May 1.However, since the order was issued by the state government on Tuesday evening, there was some confusion leading to chaos in some parts of the state on Wednesday. Here’s all you need to know about Maharashtra’s curfew and other restrictions:Can maids, drivers, cooks come to work and can they travel by local trains/ buses? The state has allowed local disaster management authorities to take a decision on this.Can people shift homes and use the services of movers and packers?No. However, if there is a genuine reason to do so, the local disaster management authority may grant permission. Is travel within Maharashtra by private vehicle allowed? Not without the valid reasons mentioned in the order. One may take public transport-- tickets are enough to move to and fro between stops/ stations of public transport vehicles and one’s residence.Also Read | India’s single-day spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysWill wine shops and cigarette shops be open? No. No shop is to open unless it is in the essential category. Will people be allowed to walk/jog cycle in the morning? No. Will construction material stores like steel, cement, ready-mix be open? If a construction site is open as per orders, material movement is allowed in and out. Orders may be placed online/ telephonically and deliveries may be made to the location. But no shutters to be open for any material shop to conduct business over the counter.Will courier services be available?Only for essential services.Can NGOs conducting relief work for people and animals function? Not without the consent of the local disaster management authority. Will textile/ garment factories be allowed to stay open?No.Will Maharashtra University MBBS exams continue as scheduled from April 19?Conduct of all exams shall be decided by the department concerned and will be separately notified. This order means that if an exam is being conducted, hall ticket is the document to prove the movement of a student and an accompanying adult to be a valid reason during these restrictions.What qualifies as essential e-commerce?All goods and services that qualify under the essential services mentioned in the order. For example, all items that are needed for health or medical reasons, groceries, food items, etc.Can plumbers/ carpenters/ electricians work? Cleaning, disinfection, pest control? Refrigerators, AC, and other home appliances repair technicians?If it is unavoidable. Similarly cleaning, disinfection, pest control, as well residential or home appliance repairs may be considered as essential. But it should be done if needed immediately. Will dental clinics function as essentials? Yes Will stationary, book shops be open?NoWill travel agencies be open? Travel, visa, passport assistance be open?Travel agencies will not be open physically but they will continue to operate over the internet. As far as visa/ passport assistance is concerned, the state has allowed single window systems -like those of CSC-SPV in villages, Setu in collector offices. Visa/ Passport services that are being run by government office’s authorised agencies will be considered a part of government offices and thus can operate on working days.Are ancillary industries supplying to essential manufacturers/ services allowed to operate?In principle, essential for essential is essential. If there is any confusion, the industry department’s decision shall be final.Are only those workmen / employees staying at walkable distance or same locality near a factory allowed to work or can workmen from other municipalities or panchayats of Maharashtra can report to work. ( eg. workmen staying in Kalyan going to work in Thane)In the case of industries producing essentials as per the government order dated April 13, the workforce can travel. In case of other industries, only those who provide accommodation to their labour either inside the campus of the facility or at an isolated facility from where travel to and fro to the facility happens in an isolated bubble can function.Will general public be allowed to use local trains? What constitutes valid reasons?Yes, if they have a valid reason. Valid reasons are enumerated in the Section (2) of the order.Will essential services be allowed only between 7am and 8pm?They are allowed throughout the day --24/7. If these services are being provided by establishments that have been given timings of operation by local authority under some other act (like timings for restaurants in regular days), their operations may be allowed between those times. But there is no restriction under the disaster management act.Can private vehicles ply during the day time to work/office? What constitutes ‘valid reasons’? If their offices/ works are allowed to operate in the order--essential as per Section (2) or exemption as per Section (5)-- their employees can travel by private cars and it constitutes a valid reason. What about long-distance trains? These are essential services and will be operational. Will the working of petroleum supplies locations/ aviation stations/ LPG bottling plants in all three shifts be covered under essential services?Yes.For delivery of essential goods to stores, is the rapid antigen test still required?No.Can delivery of essential items like food be done post 8pm - either by restaurants themselves or through e-commerce sites?There is no restriction for essential services and home delivery timings as per the order dated April 13. Times of operations for establishments is decided by local authorities. Home delivery is correspondingly within these times.Thus if regular operations timings are beyond 8pm, home delivery is permitted beyond 8pm. Local authorities may, if so desired. vary these operations’ timings.What about roadside eatable vendors?Both parcels and home deliveries (though home delivery from them is very rare) are allowed from roadside vendors between 7am and 8pm.Is working of petroleum supplies locations/ aviation stations/ LPG bottling plants in all three shifts covered under 25 essential services?Yes.For very large housing society, will the entire society be a micro containment zone?If there are more than five cases on a campus, it will be declared a micro containment zone. If a society is very large, the local authority will decide whether all the cases are in a limited area that can be practically isolated (no porous boundary) and then declare that as micro containment zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-all-you-need-to-know-about-maharashtra-s-latest-curbs-101618471919110.html
15-04-2021||Bhopal||Migrant workers returning from Maharashtra to MP allege extortion||Migrant workers returning from Maharashtra to their native places in state including Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh, are complaining of extortions at the hands of Maharashtra police, following the announcement of 15-day curfew by the Uddhav Thackeray government.Coming to the rescue of the returning migrants, Indore's Rau Thana police, along with an NGO, is providing refreshments to workers arriving in the city."We are returning to our homes because there was the problem of earning livelihood after curfew announcement. I had migrated back last year also during lockdown but returned after the situation improved. This time too, like the last year, the police extorted heavily from us," a taxi driver said.More than 50 migrant workers were seen near Indore bypass crammed into two loading jeeps going to Jabalpur.Sanaullah Khan, a worker returning from Maharashtra said, "We are coming from Pune. There a Travellers bus took ₹2,500-3000 per ticket from them. Still, they made us get off the bus at the Maharashtra border and asked to board these two vehicles. The Police and transport department at the Border Checking Point overlooked the jeeps."Besides food and a place to rest, doctors and medicines are also available for those who come here. If the need arises, we provided help from the hospital. People coming here are in need of food and shelter as they are were tired. That is why, with the help of the police administration we set up this tent to provide them some relief to the migrant," said Shailesh Kumawat, a social worker.After the Maharashtra government on Tuesday announced the imposition of Section 144 in the state from Wednesday in view of rising COVID-19 cases, many migrant workers have started returning to their native places.The migrant workers were seen leaving for their home states at key transit points in the city including, Lokmanya Tilak Terminus in Mumbai.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/migrant-workers-returning-from-maharashtra-to-mp-allege-extortion-101618469499727.html
15-04-2021||Patna||Bihar woman and her brother in law arrested for killing husband||Bihar police claimed to have solved a case of abduction and murder in 24 hours with the arrest of the victim’s wife Ristana Khatun, 22, and her lover Mohammad Chand, 30, in Purnia district on Wednesday.The victim, Mohammad Babul, 25, was kidnapped from his cycle repairing shop at Kaliganj on Monday, allegedly by Md Chand- brother in law and lover of Ristana, Md Babul’s wife. Chand and three of his henchmen abducted Babul in a Scorpio and took him to Tulsikuriya village in Dhamdaha, where they strangled him before dumping the body in a bush, about 50 km from where he was kidnapped.Police traced Chand’s mobile’s location to Pirpainti in Bhagalpur, from where he was arrested. Ristana was the next to be arrested from her in-law’s house at Kaliganj in Purnia. She later confessed to have asked Md Chand to eliminate Babul—who she married about eight months back. Ristana wanted to marry Md Chand after Babul was killed. The Scorpio used in the kidnapping (BR-10 PB 6305) was also seized.“During the interrogation, Ristana confessed to have planned the killing of her husband with Md Chand. It was her adulterous relation, which led to Md Babul’s murder,” said Purnia superintendent of police (SP) Daya Shankar.The body of the victim was sent to Purnia district hospital for post-mortem, said police. “Police are carrying out raids to arrest three persons who were allegedly with Md Chand in the kidnapping and killing of Md Babul,” the SP added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-woman-and-her-brother-in-law-arrested-for-killing-husband-101618467898484.html
15-04-2021||West||Congress candidate dies due to Covid-19 at Kolkata hospital||Congress candidate Rezaul Haque, who was undergoing treatment at a hospital here after testing positive for Covid-19, died early on Thursday, health department sources said.Haque, the party's nominee from Samsherganj assembly constituency in Murshidabad district, was initially admitted to a private hospital in Jangipur on Wednesday, but later referred to a medial facility in Kolkata after his condition deteriorated at night.He died around 5 am, the sources said.Samsherganj goes to polls in the seventh phase on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/elections/west-bengal-assembly-election/congress-candidate-dies-due-to-covid-19-at-kolkata-hospital-101618465044359.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||208 new Covid cases, one death due to virus in Ladakh||The Union Territory of Ladakh has a total number of 1,051 active cases of Covid-19 with 985 registered in Leh district and 66 in Kargil district. A release issued by the directorate of health services in Ladakh said that 208 new cases were reported on Wednesday itself. Also read: India’s single-day spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysThe chief medical officer of Leh reported one Covid death on Wednesday, taking the total number of fatalities due to coronavirus infection to 132. These comprise 88 in Leh and 44 in Kargil. Seven Covid patients were discharged on Wednesday. As many as 2,043 passengers were screened at the Leh airport and 99 passengers, including drivers and helpers of trucks and light motor vehicles, were screened at the Khaltsi checkpost on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/208-new-covid-cases-one-death-due-to-virus-in-ladakh-101618466458138.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||4/5-star Mumbai hotels to function as facilities for Covid patients from today||As Mumbai’s bed occupancy rates cross 80%, with over 98% of the total number of ICU and ventilator beds being occupied, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said it has approved two five-star hotels that can be used by private hospitals to admit patients who are not critical. The two private hospitals will make 42 beds available.According to BMC, more hotels wherein non-critical patients can be admitted will be added to the list in the next few days. Further, in the coming week, BMC plans to set up an additional 2,000 beds (a combination of ICU and oxygen beds).In a circular, BMC stated, “Step-down facilities-linked hotels shall admit patients referred by linked private hospitals only. They shall be responsible for providing round-the-clock hospitality.”Also Read | India’s single-day spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysThe circular added, “The hospitals shall charge up to ₹4,000. This includes charge of beds and meals. Additionally, the medical expenses on the patient will be charged separately. In case there are two members from a family, they can share twin sharing room for which the cost will be up to ₹6,000.”Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal said, “Four- or five-star hotels will be extensions of major private hospitals for ... Covid patients. Two hotels will begin with facilities from today [Thursday]. Additionally, 250 Covid-19 beds in Jaslok Hospital will be made available with 40 separate ICU beds by Saturday.”Chahal added, “In addition to the above, 30 more ICU beds will be added to Seven Hills Hospital today [Thursday]. Further, 1,500 additional beds will be added in the NESCO jumbo centre in the next one week. These beds will mostly be oxygenated.”Maharashtra recorded 58,952 fresh Covid-19 infections and 278 deaths, pushing the tally to 3,578,160 and toll to 58,804, the ninth straight day of over 50,000 new cases, even as the state began its 15-day curfew from 8pm on Wednesday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/45star-mumbai-hotels-to-function-as-facilities-for-covid-patients-from-today-101618465797997.html
15-04-2021||Jaipur||320 doses of 'Covaxin' go missing from Jaipur hospital; FIR lodged||320 doses of Bharat Biotech's Covaxin went missing from the cold storage of Hari Bux Kanwatia Government Hospital in Jaipur on Wednesday. An FIR has been registered in the Shastri Nagar police station as vaccines went missing."There is a systematic record of doses coming at the centre. So it is suspected that vaccines went missing from the store," said Dr. Vasant Kumar, the Nodal Officer of the vaccination centre.Police Station in Incharge, Shastri Nagar, Dilip Singh stated, "We received a report from the hospital that 320 doses of Covaxin are missing from there. We have registered an FIR with charges of theft. The investigation is underway, CCTV footage will be checked. Action will be taken if any hospital staff is found involved."Covaxin Covid-19 vaccine was given emergency use approval by the Indian government for vaccination of citizens, which commenced on 16 January 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/320-doses-of-covaxin-go-missing-from-jaipur-hospital-fir-lodged-101618464892171.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC allows two 5-star hotels to be used for admitting non-critical Covid-19 patients||The BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said it has approved two five-star hotels in Mumbai which can be used by private hospitals to admit Covid-19 patients who are not critical.A total of 42 beds — 22 in the InterContinental hotel in Marine Drive and 20 in the Trident Hotel in Bandra Kurla Complex (BKC) — will be made available, the BMC said. It added that more hotels can be used for admitting such patients in the coming days if such a need arises.Thursday’s update comes three days after BMC chief Iqbal Singh Chahal told news agency PTI on Monday that the Maharashtra government has decided to set up three ‘jumbo field hospitals’ in Mumbai and convert certain four-star and five-star hotels into Covid-19 care centres for patients.This decision comes in the backdrop of the massive spike in Mumbai’s Covid-19 disease tally which is posing a severe problem for the city’s health infrastructure. Bed occupancy rates in Mumbai have already crossed 80% with more than 98% of Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and ventilator beds fully occupied.Also Read| ‘Rise in double-mutant strain in Maharashtra cities’The civic body chief further said these hotels will be “dovetailed and run by professionals from major private hospitals” and steps will be taken to make more beds available for patients who are in need by shifting the substantially recovered patients to Covid-19 care facilities which will be managed by professional doctors.Mumbai on Wednesday added 9,931 new Covid-19 disease cases and 54 more related deaths, taking the caseload and death toll to 545,195 and 12,147 respectively. Maharashtra, on the other hand, recorded 58,952 cases and 278 more deaths in the last 24 hours.Being the worst-affected state from the pandemic across India, Maharashtra -- which is already observing night curfew and weekend lockdown – has also been placed under section 144 from 8pm on April 14 till 7am on May 1. Residents are not allowed to step out without valid reasons and all essential services will operate between 7am and 8pm.(With inputs from Mehul R Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-allows-two-5-star-hotels-to-be-used-for-admitting-non-critical-patients-101618461362857.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Fire breaks out at slum cluster in Delhi's Paschimpuri; 30 shanties destroyed||Around 30 shanties were gutted after a major fire broke out in a slum cluster in Shaheed Bhagat Singh Camp of west Delhi's Paschimpuri, a Delhi Fire Services official said on Thursday.No injuries were reported in the incident that occurred on Wednesday night, the official said.According to the fire department official, a call about the blaze was received at around 9.55pm and 25 fire tenders were pressed into action.The fire engulfed around 30 shanties including pucca structures spread across 1,500 square yards, he said.Two more tenders were rushed to the spot later and the fire was doused while the "cooling process" continued at least till 1:30 am, he added.The cause of blaze is being ascertained, the official said.Despite the night curfew in place, over 200 people had gathered near the spot before they were dispersed by police and fire personnel, he said.“I think a cylinder blast was the cause of the fire as I heard an explosion at around 9:50 pm. I came out in the balcony but couldn’t see anything but after about a few minutes I saw huge flames,” said Deepika, who lives in a locality opposite the slum cluster.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fire-breaks-out-at-slum-cluster-in-delhi-s-paschimpuri-30-shanties-destroyed-101618459757655.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hold Covid-19 review meet with L-G Anil Baijal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal will meet Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal today to discuss the city’s Covid-19 situation.The meeting comes a day after Delhi reported 17,282 fresh cases, the highest single-day spike the national Capital has seen so far. The number of daily Covid deaths has also been increasing, with 104 deaths recorded on Wednesday alone. “In view of the spread of Covid-19 infection, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will discuss the situation with the Lieutenant Governor at 11am on Thursday,” the chief minister’s office said.An official, however, clarified that this is not a Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) meeting, which last took place on April 9. Also Read | Delhi in a Covid-19 spiral as experts call for tighter curbs“The cases are increasing rapidly. This is a meeting to review the situation because there’s an urgent need to do the same. Everything from hospital beds, hospital management, Covid deaths, vaccination to exploring the implications of a lockdown if required will be discussed,” said a government official on condition of anonymity. Delhi’s positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive—has also spiked to 15.92 %, a sharp rise from 13.14 % on Tuesday.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday termed the Covid-19 situation in Delhi as “worrisome” and issued a stark warning asking people to step out of their homes only if it is urgent.With a sharp rise in deaths due to the latest surge in Covid-19, crematoriums and burial grounds in the city are struggling to manage resources.On Wednesday, health minister Satyendar Jain said that the Covid-19 cases are rising very rapidly every single day and “there is no slow down” in the spread of the pandemic in the national capital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-cm-arvind-kejriwal-to-hold-covid-19-review-meet-with-l-g-anil-baijal-101618459376706.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Farmers’ protest: Key Delhi borders remain shut, traffic diverted||Motorists travelling to Delhi from Uttar Pradesh’s Indirapuram, Ghaziabad and Meerut as well as Uttarakhand continued to face traffic disruptions as all the entry points to the national capital at Ghazipur-Ghaziabad (UP Gate) border remained closed on Tuesday due to the ongoing farmers’ protest against the three contentious farm laws.Only one carriageway – National Highway-24 towards Ghaziabad – is open at the border. The other five carriageways of Nainital highway number-9 and NH-24 (up and down), including slip side service roads, are closed because of the farmers’ agitation that entered its 139th day on Thursday.Apart from the UP Gate border, Singhu, Tikri, Harewali and Mungeshpur borders connecting Haryana and Delhi are also closed because of the protest.Also Read | ‘National lockdown not needed but...’: NK Arora on containing Covid-19Motorists travelling to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Meerut or other places in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand are being advised to use alternative borders to enter Delhi. These alternate entry points are Apsara, Bhopra, Loni, Surya Nagar, Anand Vihar, Kaushambi, and Kondli borders. The diversions have caused an increased volume of traffic and jams on these roads, especially during the morning and evening peak hours. Those coming to Delhi from Ghaziabad, Vasundhara and Vaishali are advised to take the Anand Vihar (Maharajpur) border and take a left on the road towards Ghazipur roundabout from where they can use the NH-9 and NH-24 as well. The other route they can take is the EDM Mall border from where the motorists can either use the Ghazipur Mandi roundabout and can access the Delhi-Meerut expressway, NH-24 and NH-9 towards Delhi, or they can move towards the road leading to the Ghazipur roundabout and further on. Delhi Traffic Police officers say that while updates regarding closure of the borders and alternate routes are posted on social media, people seeking traffic updates can also contact their 24X7 traffic police control room’s helpline 1095 or 011-25844444.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/farmers-protest-key-delhi-borders-remain-shut-traffic-diverted-101618458356599.html
15-04-2021||Patna||Mercury crosses 41°C in Patna, Gaya as Bihar records above normal temperatures||Several cities in Bihar including Patna and Gaya recorded above normal maximum temperatures over 41 °C for the second consecutive day on Wednesday, said the weather department. It also predicted some relief from the scorching heat after 48 hours with light rains expected in some parts of the state.Patna Meteorological department officials said that in most places across the state, the maximum and minimum temperatures were 2°C to 4°C above their corresponding normal range.As per the daily weather bulletin, Gaya recorded a maximum temperature of 42°C, Patna 41.6°C, Bhagalpur 40.8°C, Valmikinagar 39.2°C and Purnea 36°C. Places like Motihari, Bhojpur, Araria, Jamui also recorded maximum temperatures above 40°C. Temperature in most other places in the state was around 36°C to 38°C.A weather department official attributed clear sky for the rise in temperature and added that any respite from the soaring heat was unlikely due to the prevailing meteorological conditions.“Due to mainly clear sky, sunlight directly hits the ground resulting in rise in temperature. Besides, dry westerly winds are blowing which has created adverse conditions for dip in the temperature. As per current numerical model, no significant change in day or night temperature is likely within 24 hours,” said weatherman SK Mandal.“Residents may expect little reprieve from the heat after Thursday. Due to humid formation, light rain accompanied with thunderstorm and lightning is expected in the north-east region after 48 hours,” he added.Patna residents said it was difficult to step out during the day.“Stepping out has become very difficult. Hot air gives a burning sensation on skin. I carry an umbrella and cover my body before going out to avoid direct sunlight,” said Rajni Singh, an office-goer.Dr Sarita Sinha, health expert at a private hospital, advised residents to stay hydrated. “Many people are observing fast due to ongoing festivals but they are advised to take plenty of water. Fruits like orange, tender coconut water, sugarcane juice will help them to stay hydrated. One should not leave home empty stomach as it increases the risk of a heat stroke. Special care should be given to children as they are more prone to falling sick during this season,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/mercury-crosses-41-c-in-patna-gaya-as-bihar-records-above-normal-temperatures-101618457156360.html
15-04-2021||Lucknow||First phase of UP panchayat polls today despite surge in Covid cases||The first phase of the three-tier panchayat polls is being held across 18 Uttar Pradesh districts on Thursday amid calls for postponing them in view of a surge in Covid-19 cases in the state.Over 30 million people are eligible to vote at 51,176 polling booths. The counting of votes in all 75 districts will take place on May 2 after the last phase of polling on April 29. As many as 6,9541 panchayat members, 85 village heads, 550 regional panchayat members, and one district panchayat member have been elected unopposed in the 18 districts.Also Read | UP panchayat polls begin today: All you need to know about first phase of votingBharatiya Janata Party lawmaker Kaushal Kishore has been among those who have sought deferment of the polls.Samajwadi Party leader Rajendra Chaudhary called the deferment of polls at the eleventh hour impractical. “...the [State] Election Commission must ensure that voting takes place with Covid-19 protocols in place.”Additional chief secretary (Panchayati Raj) Manoj Kumar Singh said the polls will be held as per the schedule. “The government has no plan to propose deferment of polls.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/first-phase-of-up-panchayat-polls-today-despite-surge-in-covid-cases-101618457036462.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky; Delhi AQI in moderate category today||The national Capital is likely to witness a partly cloudy sky on Thursday and the maximum temperature is predicted to touch 39 degrees Celsius (°C), 1°C less than Wednesday’s maximum temperature, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The minimum temperature is likely to remain 18°C.On Wednesday, the minimum temperature was 20.6°C and the maximum temperature was 40.3°C-- four degrees above normal. On Tuesday, the minimum and maximum temperatures were 18°C and 39°C respectively.Delhi’s air quality was in the moderate category on Thursday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 200. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 199, which is the higher end of the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, between 51 and 100 is satisfactory, between 101 and 200 is moderate, between 201 and 300 is poor, between 301 and 400 is very poor, and between 401 and 500 is severe.On Tuesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category as forecasted. The PM10 (coarse dust particles) continues to remain as the prominent lead pollutant. Surface winds are high and west-southwesterly. Air quality is expected to stay in the moderate to poor category for the next three days. Under the influence of approaching Western Disturbance, thunder storms with gusts winds are likely to increase dust emission on April 16. AQI is likely to improve on April 17.”As far as the weather forecast for other parts of India is concerned, thunderstorm with lightning, hail and gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) are likely on Thursday at isolated places over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, according to IMD. Lightning and gusty winds with speed reaching 40-50 kmph are predicted at isolated places over Assam and Meghalaya while similar condition but with winds speed reaching 30-40 kmph is expected at isolated places over Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh,Jharkhand, Gangetic West Bengal, Nagaland, Manipur, Mizoram and Tripura, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal and Kerala and Mahe and with lightning at isolated places over East Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, Sub-Himalayan West Bengal, and Sikkim, Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada, Odisha, Coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam, Rayalaseema, Arunachal Pradesh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Karnataka and Lakshadweep.IMD has predicted heavy rainfall on Thursday at isolated places over coastal and south interior Karnataka, Kerala and Mahe and Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Karaikal while dust storm/thunderstorm with gusty winds (speed reaching 30-40 kmph) very likely at isolated places over west Rajasthan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-delhi-aqi-in-moderate-category-today-101618456616254.html
15-04-2021||Bhopal||Covid-19: Congress MLAs stage dharna in Bhopal over shortage of medical oxygen||Bhopal (Madhya Pradesh) [India], April 15 (ANI): Congress MLAs on Wednesday staged a silent sit-in at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Bhopal with empty oxygen cylinders protested against the alleged poor state of health services in Madhya Pradesh.The opposition party MLAs, including PC Sharma, Jitu Patwari, and Kunal Choudhary, staged the protest at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Bhopal.Complaining about the health services in state, Jitu Patwari told ANI that the hospital has stopped admitting people as there is a shortage of medical oxygen in the state.He also urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to urgently address the matter."We request the PM Modi to provide oxygen to the state. We do not trust the CM," Patwari said."The CM should save the lives of the people who require the medical oxygen. The supply from Maharashtra and Gujarat has now stopped," Sharma said.Madhya Pradesh has 43,539 active Covid-19 cases in the state, while the death toll due to infection in the state has mounted to 4,261.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/covid19-congress-mlas-stage-dharna-in-bhopal-over-shortage-of-medical-oxygen-101618452517060.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Alarm for Capital as new Covid-19 cases hit 17,000||India’s daily tally of new infections of Covid-19 stopped just short of the 200,000 mark on Wednesday, as the number of new infections in Delhi soared past previous records with an alarming 17,282 cases recorded in a single day.India reported 199,506 cases on Wednesday, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard, taking the total number of infections in the country to 14,070,831. A total of 1,036 new deaths were lodged across the country on Wednesday, for a toll of 173,170.In Delhi, the test positivity rate – a crucial proxy for outbreak severity – was 15.92%, higher than it had been in the city’s last two waves, bringing yet more signs that the crisis has taken an unprecedented turn and may now require stringent curbs.Over the last two weeks, new cases in Delhi have increased by 586%, and the city now has over 50,000 active cases – the most it has ever had – in what may turn into an unmanageable threat for the health care capacity.Experts believe the curbs announced last week may have come too late, and the Capital may have little option but to enter a circuit-breaker lockdown in which non-essential activities are temporarily barred.Apart from Delhi, the onslaught of the virus was particularly evident in metros such as Chennai and Bengaluru, with these cities setting new records for daily infections on Wednesday, even as Mumbai, India’s worst-hit urban centre, went under a 15-day curfew.A record 8,155 new cases were reported in Bengaluru on Wednesday, while Chennai also set an all-time record with 2,564 new cases.In Mumbai, 9,931 new cases were reported on Wednesday as the city, along with the state of Maharashtra, entered a curfew until the end of April to battle the expanding outbreak. The state, which accounts for about a quarter of the country’s total coronavirus cases, reported 58,952 new infections on Wednesday.Nationally, the number of cases on Wednesday continued a sharp increase from the 185,287 reported on Tuesday, which itself was an all-time single-day record.The seven-day average of national positivity rate has now soared to 11.7% for the week ending Wednesday, the second highest it has ever been. This means that more than one positive case is emerging out of every 10 samples being tested for Covid-19 across the country.The last time the national positivity rate was higher than this was for the week ending July 25.The seven-day average of daily infections, which denotes the case curve of a region, has now surpassed the peak of the first wave in at least 12 states and Union territories across the country, a statistic that shows the geographical spread of the current outbreak.These are Chandigarh, Chhattisgarh, Daman and Diu, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh.All these regions have been setting new records for daily infections on a near-daily basis over the past few weeks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/alarm-for-capital-as-new-covid-19-cases-hit-17000-101618442236324.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi in a Covid-19 spiral as experts call for tighter curbs||The number of new Covid-19 infections in the Capital soared past previous records, with 17,282 cases recorded in the 24 hours till Wednesday and the test positivity rate – a crucial proxy for outbreak severity – was higher than it had been in the city’s last two waves, bringing yet more signs that the crisis has taken an unprecedented turn and may now require stringent curbs.Over the last two weeks, new cases have increased by 586%, and the city now has over 50,000 active cases – the most it has ever had – in what may turn into a threat for the health care capacity. Experts believe the curbs announced last week may have come too late and the Capital may have little option but to enter a circuit-breaker in which non-essential services are shut.The 104 new deaths reported in Delhi’s health bulletin on Wednesday was the highest since November 30, while the test positivity rate of 15.92% was the highest since June 26, when tests were far fewer in number. In the last 24 hours till Wednesday, 108,534 tests were carried out.“The number of deaths have also started going up. If the surge in cases continues at a current pace, the deaths will go up further proportionally. Among the people who have tested positive today, the deaths will be reported after about two weeks,” said Dr Puneet Mishra, professor of community medicine at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS).Dr Mishra warned that the number of deaths will climb faster if the health infrastructure buckles under the load of new cases. “If we do not follow all the Covid appropriate behaviour strictly – and the markets are still crowded – the situation will get worse. We will reach a situation where hospitals start running out of beds in the next few days,” he said.Of the 50,736 people with Covid-19 in Delhi as on Wednesday, close to 17.5% are in hospitals.After cases began climbing last month, authorities in Delhi last week announced a night curfew and curbed the number of people that can gather for weddings, eat at restaurants or attend offices. Save for some services such as swimming pools, most activities are allowed.“India saw 185,000 cases, which have surpassed the last peak of 99,000. In Delhi, just like the entire country, the cases are steadily increasing. The trend has not slowed down yet; unlike last time, when the number went down with each passing day,” Delhi’s health minister Satyender Jain on Wednesday.Officials in Delhi have attempted to increase the number of beds.“In the Delhi Govt app, the total bed count was 6,000 one week ago. Now, the count is more than 13,000. Orders have been given to increase the number of beds. We are increasingly adding more beds. I can assure you that the number of beds in Delhi is double that of any state,” Jain added.Jain said the Delhi government has asked the central government to up bed capacity as well. “During the last peak, 4,100 beds were available with the central government. Today the count is 1,100. We have requested them to increase the beds and discussions are being held daily. The surge has been unprecedented, and the Delhi Government has ramped up the infrastructure in the hospitals. I’m sure they will too. They have not refused to do so, and are working towards it,” said Jain.But there are now questions whether these will be adequate without more curbs. A similar surge in India’s financial capital Mumbai forced authorities to order lockdown-like curbs as hospital beds became scarce and medical oxygen shortages became widespread.The sudden surge in the Capital has raised several other questions: whether the city is battling a more transmissible variant or if the wave of infections being recorded now are a result of the wedding and festive season last month?Experts say the curbs announced last week may have come too late. “We should expect more of the same over the next few days. All the restrictions that are being put in place in Delhi now should have been taken a few weeks ago when we saw an increasing trend in the number of cases,” said said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.“Delhi ministers said that there is no need to worry, there are enough beds. Very little was done to prevent the infections. I do realise that there are economic constraints; but the same constraints are in place even now and we are still implementing the restrictions, aren’t we,” he added.A second expert said at the least, the focus must be on Covid-safe behaviour. “Now that the infection is the community and it is affecting people indiscriminately, the only thing that we can do is maintain Covid appropriate behaviour and treat those who get sick. If beds start getting full, we have to ensure that patients receive good support and care at home so that most of them do not rush to hospitals,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.He added that a Maharashtra-like lockdown or a country-wide lockdown may complicate the situation further. “If you see Maharashtra, the lockdown has had little impact on the number of cases, but it has resulted in migrant workers leaving the city again. This will just lead to spreading the infection to the other parts of the country,” he said.Kejriwal to meet L-GDelhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal will discuss the coronavirus situation in the city with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal during a meeting on Thursday, the chief minister’s office said on Wednesday.The city recorded 17,282 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, the highest single-day surge here till date, and over 100 fatalities, according to Delhi government’s daily health bulletin data.“In view of the spread of Covid-19 infection, Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal will discuss the situation with Lieutenant Governor at 11 am on Wednesday,” the Chief Minister’s Office tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-in-a-covid-19-spiral-as-experts-call-for-tighter-curbs-101618434339934.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong govt’s handling of police firing cases exposes Capt-Badals nexus: Mann||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) Punjab president Bhagwant Mann on Wednesday alleged that the Congress government’s fiasco in the 2015 Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases has exposed the collusion between chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh and the Badal family. Addressing a press conference in Patiala, the Sangrur MP said, “I have been saying it for a long time that Amarinder Singh and the Badals are hands in glove. But now, there is no need to place any evidence of this.”It was shocking that the state government’s lawyers opted to form a new special investigation team (SIT) by rejecting the options of getting the matter probed either by the CBI or Haryana Police as were given by the high court, said Mann. “The Amarinder-led government had appointed state advocate general Atul Nanda who has a team of 150 lawyers only to lose the case. The CM has tainted the career of an honest police officer and is now enacting a drama by appreciating him. The officer has conveyed that he does not want to continue in such an atmosphere,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-govt-s-handling-of-police-firing-cases-exposes-capt-badals-nexus-mann-101618432613836.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikh jatha from India celebrates Baisakhi at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Pakistan||An 818-member Sikh jatha from India celebrated the Khalsa Foundation Day on the occasion of Baisakhi at Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Pakistan’s Hasan Abdal city on Wednesday. The batch of pilgrims, which crossed over to the neighbouring country via the Attari-Wagah border on Monday, remained stuck at Gurdwara Dera Sahib in Lahore over security concerns.The jatha reached Gurdwara Panja Sahib on Tuesday night, where the main function was scheduled to be held on Wednesday.“We celebrate Baisakhi on April 14 every year. On Tuesday, the bhog ceremony of akhand path (non-stop continuous reading of the Guru Granth Sahib) was performed. Then the guests from India and other countries were honoured. The jatha will leave for Nankana Sahib late Wednesday evening,” said Pakistan Sikh Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (PSGPC) president Satwant Singh on phone.The PSGPC and the Evacuee Trust Property Board (ETPB) officials have made all arrangements for travelling, accommodation, langar, security of the pilgrims, he said. “The jatha will stay in Nankana Sahib for two days. A one night stay at the Kartarpur Sahib has also been arranged for the pilgrims for the first time,” he added.After visiting the local gurdwaras at Nankana Sahib on Thursday, the jatha will go to Gurdwara Sacha Sauda, Sheikhupura, the next day, Gurdwara Dehra Sahib in Lahore on April 17 and 18, Gurdwara Kartarpur Sahib on April 19. The pilgrims will then visit Gurdwara Rori Sahib and Gurdwara Dehra Sahib, Lahore on April 20 and 21, and then will return home the next day.The pilgrims were stranded at Lahore after violence erupted between the followers of Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan chief Saad Hussain Rizvi and the police in Lahore on Tuesday morning. They were apprehensive that they wouldn’t be able to reach Gurdwara Panja Sahib to celebrate Baisakhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikh-jatha-from-india-celebrates-baisakhi-at-gurdwara-panja-sahib-in-pakistan-101618432554571.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Setback in 2015 police firing case: Bajwa wants Punjab AG to step down, Capt backs Nanda||Chandigarh: A war of words erupted in the ruling Congress in Punjab on Wednesday with Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa demanding advocate general Atul Nanda’s resignation in the wake of the setback suffered by the state government in the Punjab and Haryana high court in the 2015 Kotkapura violence case. The criticism of the advocate general and other lawyers engaged by the state government to fight the case was summarily dismissed by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh who termed it “baseless” and “totally unjustified”. Though Amarinder and Bajwa did not directly name each other, their statements signal the resumption of a fresh slugfest between the two after a brief four-month lull. The Congress MP’s demand came a day after party MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu targeted the state government. The high court had last week quashed the probe reports submitted by Punjab Police in two FIRs registered in connection with the violence, directing the state government to constitute a new SIT, excluding inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. Bajwa fired the first salvo by asking Nanda, who was handpicked by Amarinder for the post, to take responsibility for repeated professional failures and resign from his position. “If he is unwilling to do so, I urge the state government to relieve him from his position and appoint a new AG,” he said in a written statement. The MP said that by refusing to take responsibility, the advocate general would seem to be more interested in remaining in his post, rather than focusing on his duties. “In the present case, Punjab has an AG who does not appear himself but gets lawyers from Delhi to appear in front of the HC. This clearly shows that the AG himself is aware of his own failings,” he alleged, claiming that the state paid ₹5.5 crore to Delhi lawyers for the job. Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) state president Bhagwant Mann also blamed the state government, claiming that the fiasco has exposed the collusion between Amarinder and the Badal family. “The Amarinder government had appointed state advocate general Atul Nanda who has a team of 150 lawyers only to lose the case,” he alleged at a press conference in Patiala. Reacting sharply to allegations against Nanda and other lawyers, Amarinder said the opposition parties and their leaders were deliberately trying to provoke public sentiment on the sensitive issue to create trouble ahead of the 2022 assembly elections. He accused vested interests of attempts to confuse the people with their deliberately misleading statements on different aspects of the sacrilege litigation. Contrary to what these vested interests, including leaders of the SAD and AAP, were projecting, the fact was that the cases relating to the sacrilege of the Guru Granth Sahib were being handled separately in the courts from the Kotkapura and Behbal Kalan police firing cases, he said, defending the AG and his team.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/setback-in-2015-police-firing-case-bajwa-wants-punjab-ag-to-step-down-capt-backs-nanda-101618432495143.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Behbal Kalan case also hangs in the balance as IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap resigns||With the Punjab and Haryana High Court quashing the special investigation team (SIT) report in the Kotkapura police firing case and now the probe team member inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh putting in his papers, the fate of the Behbal Kalan case is also hanging in the balance. As Vijay Pratap had said one chargesheet is left to be filed in the firing cases, lawyers dealing with the Behbal Kalan case said if he retires, the final challan may never see the light of day. Faridkot district attorney Rajnish Goyal, who led the prosecution in both the cases in the trial court, said, “One chargesheet is pending, but the SIT did not clear in which case (Behbal or Kotkapura). We have not received any official copy of the chargesheet. We are waiting for the complete order.” Now, all eyes are on the hearing of a petition of former Punjab director general of police (DGP) Sumedh Singh Saini, suspended IGP Paramraj Singh Umaranagal and Kotkapura ex-station house officer (SHO) Gurdeep Singh Pandher cops by the HC bench of Justice Alka Sarin on April 20. The three, who are accused in the Kotkapura case, had approached the court levelling allegations against Vijay Pratap, seeking his ouster from the SIT. The last week’s order of quashing the SIT findings came on a petition of Pandher who claimed he was falsely implicated in the Behbal Kalan case as he submitted a complaint to the DGP against Vijay Pratap. Two youths had died in the Behbal Kalan firing on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari on October 12. The police also opened fire the same day on protesters at Kotkapura, leaving many injured. Initially, IG Vijay Pratap was appointed to probe the Kotkapura case, while the Behbal Kalan case was entrusted to IG Arun Pal Singh and later SSP Satinder Singh who were also SIT members. In March 2019, the SIT filed first chargesheet naming former Moga SSP Charanjit Singh Sharma as accused in the case. The chargesheet was filed by the Satinder Singh-led team which was working separately from Vijay Pratap’s. The probe into the Behbal Kalan case came to a standstill for nearly a year after a rift between the SIT members. It was in June 2020 that the investigation of the case was also entrusted to Vijay Pratap whose team made several arrests and named serving and retired police officers, including former DGP Saini and IG Umaranagal, as accused in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/behbal-kalan-case-also-hangs-in-the-balance-as-ig-kunwar-vijay-pratap-resigns-101618432494002.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cop with a rebellious streak calls it quits||Chandigarh: Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh, currently serving in the rank of inspector general in Punjab Police and the face of the special investigation team (SIT) probing the 2015 Behbal Kalan and Kotkapura police firing cases, surprised many when he shot off a letter to chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Sunday, seeking premature retirement.The 50-year-old 1998-batch IPS officer is reportedly upset after the Punjab and Haryana high court on April 9 quashed a probe report submitted by the SIT in the case and asked the state government to reconstitute the SIT without him. An upright cop with a rebellious streak, Kunwar Vijay has often found himself in crosshairs of controversies. Also, his self-righteousness has put him at odds with his seniors and politicians many times.During his posting as Ferozepur SSP in 2004, the officer made headlines when he ordered an FIR against his DIG Hardish Singh Randhawa. As Amritsar SSP in 2009, he locked horns with then BJP MLA Anil Joshi, who sat on dharna against his own government demanding Kunwar’s transfer. When Amarinder government came to power in 2017, Kunwar was posted as Ludhiana police commissioner. But he was transferred in less than three months after some Congress leaders complained that the officer “deliberately keeps the elected representatives waiting when they seek appointment with him.” In 2016, he was posted as Jalandhar police commissioner but was transferred within two months. In 2019, during the Lok Sabha polls, his transfer had kicked up a controversy. Following a complaint by the Akali Dal to Election Commission of India which subsequently issued directions to Congress government, Kunwar was relieved from the post of IGP (crime) Bureau of Investigation and IG (organised crime control unit) with immediate effect and posted as IG (counter intelligence), Amritsar. After the model code of conduct ended on May 26, the state government posted Kunwar back as IG (OCCU) with additional charge of IG counter intelligence, Amritsar, the next day (May 27). Earlier, various Sikh organisations and activists raised a big hue and cry over “shifting” Kunwar from the SIT, alleging that same was done under ‘political pressure’ to protect Badals.Locking horns with SIT members In the SIT too, Kunwar was initially inducted as a member, with ADGP-rank officer Prabodh Kumar heading the team. Soon, the officer was at loggerheads with the other members who claimed that Kunwar filed challan in the Kotkapura firing case, without consulting them. The SIT head and other members wrote to the DGP against Kunwar. However, within few months, the other SIT members were ‘sidelined’ and Kunwar was handed over both the cases. Considered to be a well-meaning cop in public perception, the officer is credited with probing high-profile cases of a kidney scam in Amritsar and a sex-scandal. Many of his colleagues, however, term him as self-obsessed and headline hunter --- a charge which Kunwar has often denied, claiming himself to be a an officer who goes by the rulebook. He is popular with a section of press, especially the vernacular media that often addresses him as ‘Punjab’s Singham’ and ‘Super Cop’.Kunwar, who originally hails from Bihar, describes himself to be an ardent follower of Guru Gobind Singh and often quotes Gurbani verses in his interaction with the media. Many in the Congress feel that the free hand given to Kunwar in probing the police firing cases has actually backfired for the state government. “Kunwar was made part of the SIT on the insistence of some ministers. He was given full powers. But if you look at his interviews, he has always projected himself above all. He didn’t even shy away from blaming the state government on many occasions. His resignation at this stage to my mind appears to be part of his larger plan,” said a senior minister, who didn’t want to be named.Readying for political plunge? Though Amarinder has rejected Kunwar’s resignation, the officer has hinted that he will stick to his decision. “I will continue to serve society in the best possible manner. Not as IPS,” he posted on Facebook, showing he is in no mood to relent. Political circles are abuzz that the officer might take a political plunge and contest the 2022 assembly polls using his resignation as a high-morale ground. During 2017assembly elections, there were some unconfirmed reports about the officer coming in close contact with the AAP. Those close to him say the officer is keen on contesting from Amritsar as the officer has made the holy city his home ever since he came in Punjab. Kunwar has a few admirers on both sides of state’s political spectrum, including former BJP minister Laxmi Kanta Chawla and Congress leader Raman Bahl. The officer was not available for comments despite repeated efforts to contact him.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cop-with-a-rebellious-streak-calls-it-quits-101618431893851.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Self-quarantine for a week: CM To HP residents coming from high caseload states||Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on Wednesday asked people coming from states with heavy caseloads to self-quarantine for a week. “At present, Himachal is not stopping anyone from outside the state from entering,” chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said on the sidelines of a function organized at Chaura Maidan to mark the 130th birth anniversary of Bhim Rao Ambedkar, the father of the constitution. “The Covid situation in the country is such that people coming from seven states with heavy caseloads will have to isolate themselves at home for seven days before going out to work.” he said. The state government had earlier made it mandatory for people coming from the heavy caseload states — Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerela , Delhi, Punjab and Rajasthan —to bring their negative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) reports after April 16. “The situation has begun to deteriorate in the other states of the country. Shortly, we will be compelled to impose other restrictions in Himachal too,” he said. In the wake of increase in infections, the government has asked district health authorities to increase its capacity to accommodate patients. “The government will ensure that economic activity in the state is not halted as the tourism industry in Himachal has already borne heavy losses,” the CM said, adding that hoteliers had been asked to strictly follow standard operating procedures (SOPs). “Its is mandatory for hoteliers to check the RT-PCR reports of tourist coming from other states,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/selfquarantine-for-a-week-cm-to-hp-residents-coming-from-high-caseload-states-101618431593834.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Prayers held in mosques on first day of Ramadan with precautions in place in J&K||People thronged mosques, shrines and markets in the Valley on Wednesday, the first day of the holy month of Ramadan. Though, the Valley has been witnessing a huge surge in novel infections since March but religious and tourist places have been allowed to remain open with adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs). Last year, the month was observed amid a strict Covid lockdown. This year too, a night curfew has been observed in urban areas of eight districts. However, lieutenant governor Manoj Sinha directed deputy commissioners and superintendents of police to facilitate observance of prayers and other religious functions during Ramadan amid night curfew. Mosques and shrines reverberated with special Ramadan (tarawih) prayers in the Valley on Tuesday evening after the new moon was sighted. At places people maintained social distancing. Ramadan is the ninth month of the Islamic calendar, based on the appearance of the moon, which Muslims follow across the world for their Islamic rituals.A crowd was seen in markers where shops were burgeoning with essential items and foods consumed during the holy month. “A significant rush was observed Srinagar markets. People purchased dates, dry fruits, fresh fruits and essential items,” said Aijaz Ahmad, a Srinagar resident.Regular prayers were also held at the two biggest religious places of Kashmir — Dargah Hazratbal on the banks of Dal Lake and Jamia Masjid at Nawhatta in the old city. Both these places were closed last year in the peak of Covid.“All five prayers as well as ‘tarawih’ prayers are taking place at the Jamia Masjid. The turn out was good but all SOPs were observed,” said a representative of Jamia Masjid management.“We are following all the guidelines of the World Health Organisation as well as local authorities. People wear masks and since the mosque is huge social distancing is not a problem,” he said. At Dargah Hazratbal, people from the Hazratbal locality and adjoining areas joined the regular as well as ‘tarawih’ prayers.“Last year, we could not offer prayers at the dargah but this year we are offering ‘tarawih’. People do wear masks and there is also social distancing. The mosque administration also makes regular announcements urging people to take precautions,” said a local, Faheem Mir. At some places where iftar arrangements used to be the norm. However, in the wake of the pandemic the gatherings were not organised.“Iftar arrangements were not made in the wake of Covid. Although volunteers make sure that social distancing is observed in the mosque, Iftar arrangements could have caused indiscipline,” said Fayaz Punjabi of Masjid Bilal at Lal Chowk. The Jammu and Kashmir Waqf Board, which controls more than 100 shrines and mosques, has been directed to impose a fine against those violating the Covid SOPs in mosques. The government has also instructed the board to ensure the availability of masks for those coming to mosques for prayers and to deploy medical officers for implementation of Covid protocols.“ Mosques and shrines are being opened with all the precautions. SoPs, including social distancing and masks, are being followed. People are aware of all issues and there is no indiscipline,” said Mufti Fariduddin, Waqf chief executive officer. Some people also avoid going to mosques particularly in small neighbourhoods where social distancing is difficult owing to the small size of mosques.“I think it is better to offer prayers at home amid the pandemic,” said Majid Ahmad, a resident of the Old City. Jammu and Kashmir on Wednesday recorded 1,086 infections and five deaths, taking the UTs case tally to 1,41,736 and death toll to 2042, health officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/prayers-held-in-mosques-on-first-day-of-ramadan-with-precautions-in-place-in-jk-101618431235540.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaishno Devi pilgrimage: 11,000 devotees reach Katra on Day 2 of Navratras||Around 11,000 pilgrims reached Katra to pay obeisance at the Vaishno Devi shrine in Reasi district on Wednesday. Amid the pandemic, the Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Shrine Board has made it mandatory for all pilgrims to furnish a Covid negative report. A senior board official, requesting anonymity, said, “The Vaishno Devi shrine is one of the few places of worship in the country that are still seeking Covid-negative reports from pilgrims. Other shrines in the country have gradually removed all curbs and are allowing pilgrims, provided they wear face masks and follow social distancing protocols.” The official said the devotional singers that had been invited for ongoing Navratri festival at the Shrine had been first tested at the Jammu airport before being allowed to proceed towards Katra. “Should they test positive at the Jammu airport, they will not be allowed to proceed to Katra,” he said. 1,709 travellers tested, 69 test positive A health official informed said that of 3,199 travellers who had reached Katra by train, 1,709 were tested for Covid-19 while the remaining had the requisite Covid negative reports with them.“Of 1709 travellers, 69 tested positive and were sent home in specially designed cabs,” said the official.On Tuesday 14, 281 yatris had reached in Katra. Last year, the shrine had been closed on March 18 and re-opened on August 16 after a hiatus of almost five months. A health official said 71 travellers had tested positive in Katra on the first day of the festival. At 5,200ft, the cave shrine is one of the holiest Hindu pilgrimages and devotees from all over the country and abroad visit the shrine on auspicious days. The administration has fixed a ceiling of 25,000 pilgrims a day. Pilgrims arriving in trains to Katra will undergo rapid antigen tests (RATs) at the Katra railway station where Covid kiosks have been set up. Those arriving via road will undergo the test at Lakhanpur—the gateway to Jammu and Kashmir. Local devotees will be tested at Banganga and flying in will be tested at the Jammu airport. However, it is advisable for pilgrims coming from outside J&K to bring their Covid-19 negative reports, preferably RT-PCR test, not older than 72 hours. The cave shrine was visited by 13,089 pilgrims on April 11. Last year, in August, the figures had dipped to 7,253 and 27,427 in September before picking up momentum in October when 1,21,661 pilgrims visited the shrine followed by 1,03,749 devotees in November and 2,07,533 in December.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaishno-devi-pilgrimage-11-000-devotees-reach-katra-on-day-2-of-navratras-101618431053839.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||First-of-its-kind: Children’s library setup in Chamba’s Salooni||Hoping to inculcate a reading habit among children, a dedicated children’s library and activity centre has been set up at Talori village in the remote Salooni sub-division of Chamba.Salooni sub-divisional magistrate Indian Administrative Officer Kiran Bhadana, who ideated the concept, inaugurated the ‘children’s learning centre’ on Tuesday. A second such centre will be opened in the same subdivision on Friday.These centres have been built to nurture the natural curiosity of children, said Bhadana. Around 200 English and Hindi books have been made available in each centre for children from ages 3 to 15. Besides this, a wide range of materials for fun-and-learning activity, including puzzles, globes, modeling clay, trampolines, games and toys have also been procured.“The floors at the centres have also been designed as an educational tool, following the building as learning aid (BaLA) system. We have augmented existing unused and under-utilised infrastructure,” she said.The officer said the model had successfully been applied previously while setting up five libraries in Salooni for those state service examinations. These centres were set-up with the help of corporate social responsibility (CSR) funding provided by the Satluj Jal Vidyut Nigam Limited (SJVNL) facilitated by Chamba deputy commissioner DC Rana, pradhan of Sundla panchayat Deep Raj and Salooni’s Vyapar Mandal head Pawan Kumar.The anganwadi workers of the concerned areas have been tasked with running and overseeing the functioning of the centres. Bhadana hopes that the Children’s Learning Centres will not only provide kids with a platform to learn through activities, but set a new benchmark for the functioning of Anganwadi centres, leading to integrated early childhood development in a region which has been hitherto underdeveloped.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/firstofitskind-children-s-library-setup-in-chamba-s-salooni-101618430513653.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Himachal postpones Class 10, 12, UG exams till May 17||In the wake of a sharp spike in Covid cases, the Himachal Pradesh government postponed Class 10, 12 and undergraduate examinations on Wednesday.In an order, secretary (education) Rajeev Sharma, said, “Given the increasing Covid cases in the state, the ongoing Himachal Pradesh Board school examinations for Classes 10 and 12, and under graduate university examinations starting April 17 were reviewed. Keeping in view students’ health, the state government has decided to postpone the examinations till May 17.” The state government will review the situation at government level on May 1 and further directions will be issued accordingly, it states. Class 10 and Class 12 examination had commenced on Tuesday with around 2.47 lakh students are appearing.Himachal clocks 925 Covid infections
15-04-2021||Patna||Negative RT-PCR test reports mandatory now at Patna airport||People coming from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala will now have to produce a negative RT-PCR test report at the Jayprakash Narayan International Airport, commonly known as Patna Airport, for hassle-free travel due to the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases.Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh has written a letter to the director of the Patna Airport to ensure mandatory checking of negative Covid-19 test report on arrival of visitors to Patna. “Passengers coming from Maharashtra, Punjab and Kerala are supposed to show a negative test report, issued not late than 72 hours before one’s journey. As these states have witnessed the highest number of Covid-19 cases recently, we are keeping a strict vigil on passengers coming from these states to curb the spread of Covid-19. Those who fail to produce RT-PCR test will have to undergo Covid-19 test at the airport and they will be allowed to leave only after testing negative. Airlines are also directed to inform flyers to go for 10 days home quarantine after arrival,” he said.At present, Patna Airport operates around 85 domestic flights ferrying more than 10,000 passengers on a daily basis. Patna Airport’s director B C H Negi said the order has already been implemented and passengers coming to Patna from the mentioned states are being home quarantined for 10 days. He said all Covid-19 safety protocols are being followed at the airport and outbound passengers were also being screened.“As per guidelines issued by the Airports Authority of India, all passengers are undergoing rapid antigen test upon arrival. In case any passenger travelling from the above-mentioned states fails to furnish a negative Covid-19 report, they undergo Rapid Antigen Test at the airport. If they are found Covid-19 positive, they are being sent to institutional quarantine and further medical care is provided to them,” said an official of Patna Airport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/negative-rt-pcr-test-reports-mandatory-now-at-patna-airport-101618430094811.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid guidelines violated during SAD event at Fazilka village, organiser fined||Senior Congress leader and two-time legislator from Jalalabad Hansraj Josan joined the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday.SAD president Sukhbir Singh Badal chaired an event at Josan’s native village Chat Sotrian in Fazilka district where a large number of people gathered and Covid guidelines were violated. SAD leaders and their supporters were seen without face masks and social distancing was not maintained.According to the state government’s directives, there is a complete ban on political gatherings.Taking action, the Fazilka police recovered a fine of ₹10,000 from the brother of Hansraj Josan. It is the first challan issued in the state for violating government’s ban of all political, social, sports or cultural gatherings to curb Covid spread.SSP Harjeet Singh said the penalty under Epidemic Control Act was imposed on Sher Chand, brother of Josan. He said the event was organised at the property owned by Sher Chand in the violation of rules.Josan, who won the 1992 and 2002 elections and remained ministers on both occasions, said 700-800 people had come from Jalalabad and Fazilka assembly segments at the event. “But Covid guidelines were followed at the function,” he said. “I quit the Congress as the party failed to perform on all fronts. People with no mass support are leading the party and resourceful leaders are given preference over those who remained connected with the grassroots-level workers,” said Josan, who had quit on Tuesday as the chairperson of the Fazilka District Planning Board.Lauding his political base, Sukhbir said Josan’s candidature for the forthcoming assembly polls would be announced soon.Sukhbir has already announced to contest from Jalalabad that he represented thrice in 2009 byelection, 2012 and 2017.In 2009 and 2012, Josan had contested unsuccessfully against Sukhbir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-guidelines-violated-during-sad-event-at-fazilka-village-organiser-fined-101618430093749.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sikhs in US mark toned-down Baisakhi celebrations amid coronavirus concerns||Sikhs across the United States are holding toned-down Baisakhi celebrations this week, joining people of other faiths in observing major holidays cautiously this spring as Covid-19 keeps an uneven hold on the country.While the pandemic has many people celebrating remotely this year just as in 2020, some, especially in the United States, are joining in masked, socially distant Baisakhi gatherings.“Sikh community members, especially those who faced hardships and loss during the pandemic, view Baisakhi as a fresh start and a sign of hope that things will be better once again,” said Sahej Preet Singh, community development manager at the Sikh Coalition, a national organsation based in New York. “The Sikh worldview embraces resilience and chardi kala (relentless optimism).”For the second year in a row, outdoor festivities at the Midwest Sikh Gurdwara and the traditional parade in the city of Shawnee, a suburb of Kansas City, Missouri, have been cancelled. But in an improvement over 2020, some events will be held at the temple and via social media.Komalpreet Kaur, a 16-year-old high school student in nearby Olathe, Kansas, said the parade is “the one big event of the year where everyone gets together, and we welcome other members of the community to participate. ... This is like our Christmas, and it’s something we look forward to so much. But we are going to find alternatives this year to celebrate,” she added.Kaur has been lobbying officials in several area cities trying to get them to declare April Sikh Awareness and Appreciation Month, so far winning one such proclamation from Lenexa, Kansas. Kaur, who was raised in New York City before moving with her family to Kansas in 2017, said she wants to make others more familiar with her faith.In California’s San Joaquin Valley, the Stockton Gurdwara organised a Tuesday evening service of prayers, readings from the Guru Granth Sahib while following health guidelines, said Tejpaul Singh Bainwal, a gurdwara member and student of early Sikh American history. A more involved celebration, including a vaccination clinic, will be held this weekend, also under masking and social distancing rules.At Guru Nanak Darbar of Long Island, in Hicksville, New York, normally there’s a giant tent set up in the parking lot to accommodate crowds of up to 2,000 people at a time coming for festivities and treats. This year, the celebrations were marked by temperature monitors, social distancing and bagged meals to take home. Gurdwara members set a more restrictive attendance level than required, allowing about 150 into prayer services that can normally accommodate 600.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sikhs-in-us-mark-toned-down-baisakhi-celebrations-amid-coronavirus-concerns-101618429913960.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||3,329 fresh Covid cases, 63 more deaths in Punjab||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Punjab surged to 2,82,505 on Wednesday as 3,329 more people tested positive for the virus, while the death toll climbed to 7,672 with 63 new fatalities, according to a medical bulletin.Of the latest deaths, 11 were reported from Amritsar, seven from Jalandhar and six each from Ludhiana and Patiala.Mohali reported the maximum fresh cases at 508, followed by 489 in Ludhiana, 347 in Patiala, 316 in Amritsar and 276 in Jalandhar.The number of active cases in the state stands at 28,250. Fifty-one critical patients are on ventilator support, while 374 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.As many as 3,173 more coronavirus patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the total number of cured persons to 2,46,583, it stated.So far, 64,40,181 samples have been collected for testing in the state, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/3329-fresh-covid-cases-63-more-deaths-in-punjab-101618429733848.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Six arrested in Hoshiarpur for stealing ENA to make illicit liquor||Police and excise officials on Tuesday night apprehended six persons for allegedly stealing 40,000 litres of extra neutral alcohol (ENA) from tankers in Talwara’s Baringli village. The chemical spirit was meant to be used in preparing illicit liquor, police said. A police party raided a dhaba in the village where the alcohol was been stolen from two tankers. Fifteen cans of the chemical had been loaded in two cars. The tanker and car drivers were arrested and the entire stock was seized, police said. Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Navjot Singh Mahal said Narinder Lal, alias Rinku, a resident of Sohal in Gurdaspur district, and Rakesh Baba of Gangwal, Kangra, were habitual offenders and had several smuggling cases registered against them. The other accused included Gurcharan Singh of Tanda Churian (Hoshiarpur), Gurvinder Singh and Dara Khan of Patiala and Dinesh of Dinanagar.The SSP said one of the accused told the police that Rohit of Gurdaspur was the kingpin of the gang. Raids were on to nab him, the SSP said, adding the chemical was to be smuggled to Baddi and Parwanoo in Himachal Pradesh for manufacturing illicit liquor.A case has been registered against the accused under Sections 379, 380, 328 and 420 the IPC and 61, 63, 71-1-14 of the Excise Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/six-arrested-in-hoshiarpur-for-stealing-ena-to-make-illicit-liquor-101618429493783.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab-origin truck driver jailed for 22 yrs over deaths of 4 Australian police officers||A 48-year-old Indian-origin drug-affected and sleep deprived truck driver was jailed on Wednesday for 22 years for ploughing his heavy vehicle into Australian police officers and killing four of them last year on Melbourne’s Eastern Freeway, according to media reports.Mohinder Singh was sentenced in Victoria’s Supreme Court after pleading guilty to four counts of culpable driving causing death, three charges of trafficking a drug of dependence, and one charge of possession of a drug of dependence.Singh was fatigued and drug-affected. He stopped on his route to do a drug deal, before veering into the emergency lane of the freeway in Kew and ploughing his 19-tonne prime mover into officers and their stationary vehicles on April 22 last year, The Age newspaper reported.Constable Lynette Taylor, senior constable Kevin King and constables Glen Humphris and Josh Prestney died at the scene, The Guardian reported.Singh was jailed for 22 years, with a non-parole period of 18 years and six months, the report said.Justice Paul Coghlan said the crash had “shocked the public conscience” and described footage of the incident as chilling.“Such grief is heightened by the sudden and unnecessary nature of the deaths. We can only hope ... as time goes by, some amelioration of their suffering can come about.” He was “actively psychotic” as he claimed he had seen a witch before killing the officers in the crash.The officers had pulled over Porsche driver Richard Pusey for allegedly speeding at the time. Multiple CCTV cameras showed footage of Singh “repeatedly drifting” into the emergency lane of the freeway before the crash, 9news.com reported.The heartbroken families of the four fallen police officers say “no amount of punishment” can ease the grief they feel over losing their loved ones, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjaborigin-truck-driver-jailed-for-22-yrs-over-deaths-of-4-australian-police-officers-101618429253552.html
15-04-2021||Other||121 more ICU/HDU beds added to Lucknow’s med instts in 24 hrs: Minister||LUCKNOW The medical education department has increased 121 ICU/HDU beds in medical institutes in the last 24 hours and efforts are on to further increase the numbers, said medical education minister Suresh Khanna, in a press statement on Wednesday. He said the target is 400 beds at Integral institute, 700 at Era Medical College and 500 at TS Mishra Medical Colleges and work is being done in this regard. “Era is now a dedicated Covid facility. There are 120 ICU beds at Integral Institute and 200 more will be arranged. Also, 150 ICU/HDU beds will be available by April 15, while 100 beds will be made available at Super Speciality Institute. At Career Institute, 300 beds, including 50 ICU beds, will be made available,” said the minister. He said 1,000 beds are available at KGMU, SGPGI and RMLIMS while work is on to increase these numbers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/121-more-icu-hdu-beds-added-to-lucknow-s-med-instts-in-24-hrs-minister-101618428832985.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Rise in double-mutant strain in Maharashtra cities’||A rising number of double-mutant strain of SARS-CoV-2 is circulating in Maharashtra, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC) confirmed on Wednesday. “Different kinds of mutations have been found in Maharashtra, but there is definitely a rising trend of double-mutant variants in several cities. This trend has not been noticed across the state,” Dr. Sujeet Kumar Singh, NCDC director, said. A senior official said over 60% samples from various cities in Maharashtra whose genome was sequenced were found to be of this particular double mutant variant.It is as yet unclear how many samples have been sequenced from the state, and which cities the double-mutant samples belonged to. When asked for this information, Singh refused to comment.For Maharashtra, which has been recording country-wide high numbers in the second wave of the pandemic, the trend is particularly worrisome as these mutations could make the coronavirus spread more readily and, at least to a degree, resist immunity from a past infection or triggered by vaccines, the Centre had said last month.The Union government has on March 24 confirmed the presence of mutations and said that a novel variant with a combination of two mutations E484Q and L452R -- now classified as B.1.617 lineage-- was found in 206 samples taken from Maharashtra since December. The majority of double-mutant variants were found in the samples sent from Nagpur. Doctors across Maharashtra and other parts of the country have been noticing variation in the presentation of Covid in the second wave.“Last year, we saw the involvement of lung infections in over 70% of the cases, but this year we are seeing more and more involvement of the gut,” said Dr Om Shrivastav, infectious disease specialist and member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force.“Another alarming trend is patients getting better and then returning with more sickness. Such clinical evidence of possible mutations has been noted by many doctors,” he added.Many experts also pointed that there is not enough data on variants and said that states like Maharashtra should have sent at least 5% to 10% of their samples for genome sequencing, a process to identify the genetic makeup of the organism and study its changes. Mumbai’s civic body sends 50 samples for genome sequencing of infected patients with travel history, from hot spots and families with higher infection rates each week, Suresh Kakani, additional commissioner, Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation, had told HT last month. “Mutations are commonly seen in single-cell RNA viruses like the coronavirus,” said Vellore-based virologist Dr T Jacob John. “Which are the variants prevalent in states like Maharashtra with a high number of Covid-19 cases? Is the local variant spreading faster than the UK, South African, and Brazilian variants? A clear variant profile helps in answering these questions,” said John. “We need to know if the vaccines are effective on these variants, from a laboratory perspective. And if there is a need to quickly modify them,” he said.A consortium of 10 national laboratories called -Indian SARS-CoV-2 Consortium on Genomics- was formed in December 2020 to carry out genomic sequencing of circulating viruses and correlate the findings with other trends. The Ministry, in its statement last month, said that 771 of the 10787 samples that were sequenced were found to have the UK, South African, and Brazilian mutations, which were identified as variants of concern (VOC). The Centre last month said that three known VOCs were also found in Maharashtra, the Centre revealed: 56 of these were of the UK variant (B.1.1.7), five of the South African variant (B.1.351) and one of the Brazilian variant (P.1).It was further revealed that of the 220 samples from Mumbai sent to the National Institute of Virology in Pune for sequencing, only 22 of them had the B 1.1.7 variant. Of those, half the persons had a travel history, while the other half comprised close contacts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rise-in-double-mutant-strain-in-maha-cities-101618428772926.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra board to study CBSE formula, ICSE parents demand similar decision||Hours after the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) decided to cancel its Class 10 board exams, the Maharashtra government said it will study the board’s decision implying that it is still exploring options other than physical exams, while parents of Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE) urged the board to cancel its exams. In her video message sent on Wednesday afternoon, state education minister Varsha Gaikwad said, “The health of our students is our topmost priority. Keeping this in mind, we are now going to ask experts in the state to study the decision taken by CBSE today as per which exams are replaced with internal assessments.” On Wednesday, the CBSE board announced the cancellation of Class 10 exams and the postponement of Class 12 exams across the country this year. Students of Class 10 will be marked based on an objective criterion to be developed by the board. The criteria for marking students are yet to be declared. After the announcement, parents from ICSE urged the board to come up with a similar decision for the students of the board. “If CBSE can cancel its exams, so can ICSE. Students are already under tremendous stress and it would be great if this uncertainty is addressed altogether instead of just postponing the exams,” said the parent of a Goregaon based ICSE school. Reema Lokesh, another parent said parents will write to the board again if a decision does not come in by Thursday. “We are hoping ICSE considers the decision by CBSE and announces a similar decision. We will wait for a day to see if an announcement comes in and will write to the authorities again if it doesn’t,” she added. Gerry Arathoon, chief executive and secretary of the ICSE board said, “The ICSE Board will take a decision regarding the ICSE and ISC examinations, 2021 and will inform all concerned at the earliest.”In the coming days, the state government will await guidelines from CBSE on the marking criteria for Class 10 students. An expert who works with the state government said the government will wait to see what formula CBSE arrives with. “We will see what components they consider and check the feasibility of using the same in the state board. A common formula for all boards might also help in the sense that it will address issues of equivalence for admissions in future. We hope to study the formula and will then arrive at a decision,” said the expert. On April 12, the state government postponed HSC exams to the end of May and SSC exams to June, following which the state had written to CBSE and ICSE officials requesting postponement in their board exams. While HSC exams were earlier scheduled to take place between April 23 and May 21, SSC exams were planned between April 29 and May 20. Nearly 33 lakh students appear for Class 10 and 12 exams from state board every year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-board-to-study-cbse-formula-icse-parents-demand-similar-decision-101618428652948.html
15-04-2021||Other||10 test positive at national wrestling camp in Lucknow||LUCKNOW As many as 10 people, including three women wrestlers, tested positive for Covid on Wednesday evening at the national women’s wrestling camp at the Sports Authority of India’s regional centre here.These included wrestlers Pinki, Gurpreet and Indu, one physio, one nursing staff and five mess staff. On Tuesday itself, the authorities had shut down the national camp here along with the men’s national camp at Sonepat.“The camp was called off on Tuesday, but their RT-PCR tests, which were conducted on Monday, revealed the results,” SAI’s executive director, Sanjay Saraswat said on Wednesday. “The athletes have been asked to cancel their journey and they will be quarantined and taken care of as per protocol,” he added.“There were 11 wrestlers at the camp when we decided to shut it down on Tuesday. Those with negative test reports have been allowed to go home, whereas the rest have been asked to stay back on the campus,” he said. However, the three-day trials to select the Indian taekwondo team for the next month’s Olympic qualifying event will begin here on Thursday under strict guidelines of the SOP, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/10-test-positive-at-national-wrestling-camp-in-lucknow-101618428532970.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai airport to see drastic fall of passengers with lockdown: Experts||Mumbai airport is likely to once again suffer low passenger footfalls with the state government imposing a lockdown in an attempt to contain the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the city and the state at large. The Chatrapati Shivaji Maharaj International Airport (CSMIA) city, which is the second busiest airport in the country recorded 50.91 lakh passengers from January to March 2021. According to the data, CSMIA saw 41,00,639 passengers from October to December last year.Even though the state has not imposed restrictions on air travel, Jyoti Mayal, president of Travel Agents Association of India (TAAI) said no passenger is likely to fly to Mumbai and Maharashtra. “People who have just re-started their business will suffer again. Already 40% business of the travel and aviation sector has been affected due to the night curfew imposed in the state. Covid-19 cases are increasing not only because people are not wearing masks, but they are also increasing because there are no protocols in place.”Mayal said the government needs to come up with unilateral policies for the lesser affected and hard-hit states so that a customer is not confused with changing norms in states. “The environment created currently is too negative for people to travel to Mumbai, because of which, not only the city airport but also other businesses will have to face severe repercussions soon,” she added.Subhash Goyal, general secretary of the Federation of Associations in Indian Tourism and Hospitality (FAITH) said citizens will have to learn to live with the virus, hence lockdowns aren’t a solution to control the spread of the virus. According to Goyal, effective control by the government and discipline in people will lead to the containment of the virus. “If a person in Singapore is caught without a mask for the first time, he is fined S$ 500 and if he is caught for the second time then he is imprisoned. Currently, with the domestic sector seeing some tourism, only hotels are seeing some business, as the remaining business continues to suffer. Mumbai sees maximum business travel along with some visiting friends and relative (VFR) traffic, however, with the news of lockdown and most Covid-19 cases in the city and state, no one is currently willing to travel to Mumbai. The only key to having controlled cases is maintaining hygiene protocols,” Goyal said.Goyal also said that he fears more people dying of economic hunger than from the Covid-19 pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-airport-to-see-drastic-fall-of-passengers-with-lockdown-experts-101618428472964.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: IIT-ians train sights on Sars-CoV-2||As Covid-19 shut down campuses and put the brakes on academic schedules the world over, researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology-Bombay (IIT-B) turned their attention to solutions for the pandemic. “We worked on three specific verticals during the pandemic: helping society fight Covid-19 through research; keeping all academic activities alive; and demonstrating that the tough time could also be a good time for innovation and an opportunity,” said IIT-B director Subhasis Chaudhuri. Within days, the institute set up a five-member committee comprising senior faculty members, and convened by Milind Atrey, dean, research and development, to seek proposals from researchers across various academic levels, on solutions directed towards fighting Covid-19. The committee sifted through short-term and long-term proposals from various professor-led research groups and collated a list of expertise available for government and industry partnership for technology transfer, licensing and commercialization of technologies and products. A year on, we take a look at three innovations that emerged from the institute: A mask that fights viruses Researchers from biosciences and bioengineering (BSBE), who had been working on technologies for the prevention of Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome (ARDS), were quick to extend their research to the coronavirus-induced disease, which also exhibited often as ARDS in acute cases. “As soon as the pandemic broke out, we started exploring ways of extending some of the technologies we were working on to this new virus,” Rinti Banerjee, professor, BSBE, said. Her team, comprising a PhD and three post-doctoral research fellows first developed a wash-resistant biodegradable coating for textiles for environment-friendly masks and PPEs. They called it Duraprot (a combination of two words: durable, protection) technology. The team developed natural biodegradable material (bio-nano polymers), which acts directly on the covering of the Covid-19 virus – or any bacteria – by breaking it down and thus making it inactive. It developed an emulsion into which cloth could be dipped to coat it. The coating would not come off even after 20 wash cycles. “It’s almost as easy as cooking dal at home,” said team member Kapil Punjabi, a post-doctoral research scientist. This technology is awaiting two patents. The only person in team with access to the lab was Roshan Keshari, 23, a student from Nepal. The PhD student was unable to return home when the campus shut down in March as all international borders were sealed. The rest worked from home, reformulating and designing experiments on the coating. They relayed detailed instructions to Keshari, who would then perform the experiments in the lab on campus. He would then send his observations to the team who would analyse the observations and tweak the experiments accordingly. “There was a lot of back and forth. Our goal was to build solutions quickly and get them tested and ready for industry integration. So, it was a stressful time as we had to design experiments, look for standards, test out products, send samples for those tests, get validation,” said Punjabi. “We then decided to apply this technology to develop masks and personal protective equipment for clinical personnel and those exposed to harmful effects of air pollution. We wanted to have an environment-friendly version of N95 masks, which are made of nondegradable polymer/ plastic components,” said Banerjee. Around three months after the lockdown was announced, the Duraprot technology was ready and was licensed to manufacturers such as Ants Innovations, Meemansa and EcoStyleCrafts who launched a range of products such as masks and sanitisers. The key highlight for the team is a social initiative that was launched soon after. The processes associated with the technology of producing these masks were simplified so that around the country could safely and repeatedly make the coating material and the coated masks in low resource settings. The team conducted training sessions with women self-help groups around the country, in states like Kerala and Bihar. Both, the coating material, and coated masks could be made in low-resource settings, which allowed the team to conduct the trainings virtually. “We would let the women know about the materials and chemicals they would need. They would keep these ready for the training sessions, which were held completely online,” said Punjabi. “While the research part was stressful, what we found most fulfilling was training the women virtually. We trained women from Kerala, Bihar and many other states. Training material was developed in vernacular languages and we used a lot of pictures,” said Banerjee. A helmet to breathe easy The first wave of the Covid-19 pandemic exposed the country’s poor inventory of respiratory support. Continuous Positive Airway Pressure or CPAP machines, which increase air pressure in the throat -- so airways do not collapse while breathing in -- were in short supply. For patients with breathing trouble, respiratory support is essential to ensure the pressure in the lungs doesn’t fall below the prescribed limit. Three professors from the department of Mechanical Engineering designed a low-cost helmet interface that would help. This helmet, when connected to a CPAP supply, enables enhanced oxygenation for the patients. One of the biggest advantages of this helmet is that it minimised re-breathing of carbon dioxide. “One of the disadvantages of mask-based CPAP devices is that the carbon dioxide breathed out goes back in through the nose. The helmet, however, minimises this rebreathing as the carbon dioxide, a heavy element, settles at the bottom of the helmet,” said Ramesh Singh, project lead. The helmet is designed ergonomically to avoid irritation to patients while allowing them to speak, listen, drink, and wear glasses while being treated. “The device is also embedded with many safety features such as high-efficiency particulate absorbing (HEPA) filter for inhaling pathogen-free air, as well as audio-visual alarms for low/high pressure, battery fault or low battery. Separate flowmeters were installed for measuring oxygen and total air flow,” said Soham Mujumdar, an assistant professor was also part of the team. “Studies show that around 5% of the Covid-19-infected patients needed effective oxygenation with approximately 2% needing ventilator support. Therefore, the idea was to develop a non-invasive ventilation device for Covid-19 patients in mild to medium distress,” Mujumdar added. The project was done in collaboration with Thermax, a Pune-based energy and environment engineering company, and modeled itself on clinical studies done in Europe last year. With the lockdown in place, it was extremely difficult to procure the raw material, sensors, and other testing equipment for the project. “The design and manufacturing of the final prototype of HPI is complete. The device has been tested comprehensively for mechanical integrity and flow performance at IIT Bombay. Stage I clinical studies have been successfully conducted with the help of the IIT Bombay ethics committee and IIT Bombay hospital,” Mujumdar said. The design of the CPAP helmet has been optimised and prototype tested. “We are looking for potential industry partners for manufacturing and scaling-up,” said Singh. The helmet was developed at a cost of ₹8,000 a unit, and it can be re-used after properly sanitising the unit, Singh said. Detecting Sars-CoV-2 Sanjeeva Srivastava, a professor of proteomics in BSBE, was travelling from Delhi to Mumbai by air on March 17, 2020, just ahead of the lockdown. Seeing how the number of travellers outnumbered the security personnel, he realized that screening was absolutely essential. “All I could think of was we have a mass spectrometry facility in the proteomics lab on campus and how we can put it to use in diagnostics,” said Srivastava. Simply put, proteomics is a technology to study proteins. Srivastava’s Proteomics Lab at IIT-B uses a mass spectrometer device to expose proteins in biological samples like blood, tissue and urine, using an analytical technique to calculate the molecular weight of the components in the sample. This technology was already being used by Srivastava and his team for cancer and malaria research. He decided to extend this technology to determine protein variants in swab samples for early detection of the coronavirus. A team of 35-40 researchers including clinicians from Kasturba Hospital, the city’s infectious diseases hospital and one of the first Covid-designated centres, precipitated protein from swabs of infected persons. Unique peptides (amino acids) from the swabs were detected rapidly using mass spectrometry-based proteomics approach. Proteomics also helped identify the potential panel of marker proteins which could distinguish the severe from the non-severe cases. The team received clinical samples of Covid-19 from government hospitals like Kasturba, Nair and Jaslok, on which it performed a comprehensive proteomics-based investigation. “The study established a panel of host proteins using high-resolution mass spectrometry—a technique to measure mass to charge ratio of ions. There was a spike in the presence of host proteins such as Interleukin-6, L-lactate dehydrogenase, C-reactive protein, Ferritin, and Aspartate aminotransferase in Covid-19 infected swabs. The proteins identified in the study can be potential targets for the Covid-19 therapeutics,” said Srivastava. Their study, which was published in the international peer-reviewed Cell Press journal on February 3, also revealed a set of potential prognosis markers and drug candidates for circumventing the Covid-19 infection. The team has filed for two patents for potential biomarkers it identified for detection and prognosis of Covid-19 using the mass-spectrometry approach. “The mass-spectrometry-based identification of altered host proteins can reveal key information on why a group of population remains asymptomatic whereas few succumb to the infection. It would be interesting to consider the asymptomatic group along with the severe and non-severe groups for the study. Along with this, we also plan to conduct a longitudinal proteomic analysis of patient plasma samples at different time points leading to severity to study the disease progression at the individual level,” said Srivastava. “Even though the samples brought to campus were deactivated, it was still risky. The institute’s Ethics Committee was very strict with guidelines,” said Kruthi Suvarna, an institute post-doctoral fellow from BSBE, who worked on the project. Three PhD scholars were assigned the duty of collecting samples and deactivating them at Kasturba Hospital. “There were travel restrictions so the scholars were put up in a hotel near the hospital. The institute provided for the PPE kits while we handled the logistics of purchasing the reactive agents that would help the scholars deactivate the virus,” said Suvarna. WHERE THE MONEY CAME FROM The institute’s research and development (R&D) department released seed fund – between Rs2 to 10 lakh -- depending on the project. Agencies under the Union ministry of science and technology also released funds for Covid-19 related projects. By December 2020, the institute had received over ₹150crore for all research projects, majority of which were related to Covid-19. With the lockdown in place and limited access to resources, industry collaboration helped set things in motion for researchers. Organisations provided access to laboratories, machines, chemicals and fabrication units. Thermo Fisher Scientific, a global company that supplies scientific equipment helped Sanjeeva Srivastava, a professor of proteomics in BSBE, with engineers and application scientists; Thermax not only funded the prototype of the CPAP helmet but also shared expertise of its scientists to IIT-Bombay in the project. According to annual reports, the institute received ₹395 crore in 2016-17; ₹312 crore in 2017-18; ₹362.08 crore in 2018-19; and ₹331.24 crore in 2019-20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-iit-ians-train-sights-on-sarscov2-101618428425073.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana approves purchase of 200 acre for setting up of AIIMS, Rewari||The Haryana government has approved purchase of 200 acre for setting up of the All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS) in Rewari.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Tuesday presided over a meeting of the high power land purchase committee to buy the land available on e-Bhoomi portal for AIIMS and seven other projects.The approval was given after the landowners agreed on the price, an official spokesperson said.The spokesperson added that for the AIIMS to be built, the committee has approved the purchase of 200 acre at the rate of ₹40 lakh per acre. For identifying the land for this project, the deputy commissioner concerned was asked to prepare a detailed report of the available land.Approval for purchase of land for seven other projects has cleared way for the bypass in Hathin. This will help Hathin get rid of traffic congestions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-approves-purchase-of-200-acre-for-setting-up-of-aiims-rewari-101618428417395.html
15-04-2021||Other||8 months on, Rohtak contractual supervisors still await salaries||As many as 50 contractual supervisors working in the department of agriculture corporation and farmer welfare in Rohtak said that they are still waiting for their salaries for the last eight months.The supervisors are working in the department since August last year but their payments have not been made. They alleged that the senior officials have failed to fix their DC rate.“On April 12, we had received a salary of ₹12,700 for a month, which is lower than a labourer’s income. The supervisors working in other districts had received a monthly salary of ₹24,065 but senior officials did not pay any heed to our demands,” they said.“Due to their negligence, our salary is stuck and we received only ₹12,700 for a month. We will not accept this. If our demands are not me, we will go on an indefinite strike,” they added.Three supervisors had even resigned from their post after their salaries were not paid.Rohtak deputy director (agriculture) Rohtash said that he has informed the senior officials about the matter and the supervisors will get their dues after finalisation of DC rate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/8-months-on-rohtak-contractual-supervisors-still-await-salaries-101618428294267.html
15-04-2021||Other||5,433 fresh cases, 14 more succumb to virus in Lucknow||LUCKNOW Fourteen more people lost their battle against Covid in the last 24 hours, pushing Lucknow’s fatality count to 1,384 while 5,433 fresh cases – the highest single-day spike so far, took the infection tally to 1,12,118 on Wednesday. During the day, the health department collected 30,289 samples for Covid testing – the highest number in a day. The total sample count in Lucknow crossed the 23-lakh mark, including 12 lakh RT-PCR tests, said Yogesh Raghuvanshi, spokesperson for the office of chief medical officer, Lucknow. “Lucknow has reported 1,12,118 Covid cases, of which 89,047 have recovered and the recovery rate is 79.42%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors. A total of 31,687 patients were under treatment (active cases). Amid the Covid spike, getting beds for Covid patients remains a tough task. The number of beds available went up to 3,901 in Lucknow, including 1,384 HDU and 813 ICU beds. But only 264 HDU and 24 ICU beds remain vacant, according to health department’s data updated at 4 pm. A high level meeting was conducted by the health department and local administration on how to increase bed strength for Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/5433-fresh-cases-14-more-succumb-to-virus-in-lucknow-101618428292841.html
15-04-2021||Other||At 86%, Karnal has lowest Covid recovery rate in Haryana||Despite all efforts by the Haryana government and the district administration, keeping a check on the spread of Covid-19 continues to be a challenge for the authorities.As per the district health department figures, Karnal has reported 916 new Covid cases in the last three days. On Tuesday, the district reported 359 cases - highest single-day spike.A bulletin of the state health department revealed that at 86.08%, Karnal has the lowest recovery rate in state.Meanwhile, the positivity rate in Karnal has also increased significantly from around 1% in February to 5.64% in March, pushing the number of active patients to 2,502 on April 13. Total 201 of them are hospitalised.The poor recovery rate has pushed Karnal to third position in state in terms of number of active cases (17,700), preceded by Gurugram and Faridabad, which have reported 72,285 and 51,135 positive cases, respectively.With 187 deaths reported due to Covid so far, Karnal is at fourth position in state after Faridabad (428), Gurugram (370) and Hisar (342).Total 47 patients are in a critical state in district - 11 of them are on ventilator and 36 on oxygen support.On reasons behind rise in cases, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said besides the farmers’ agitation, social and religious functions, opening of schools, and halts of travellers at eateries on NH-44 have pushed the number of infected persons higher.He said that efforts are being made to ensure that people strictly follow the Covid guidelines and do not move out during night curfew.Karnal chief medical officer Yogesh Sharma said, “Of the new cases reported in district in the past two months, over 50% are school students and their families.He said that following rise in cases, Kalpana Chawla Government Medical College has been made a dedicated Covid-19 hospital with 250-bed capacity, 116 of which are already occupied. He said that the strength of Covid ICU has been increased to 100 beds from the earlier 40.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/at-86-karnal-has-lowest-covid-recovery-rate-in-haryana-101618427995482.html
15-04-2021||Other||Govt won’t impose lockdown in Haryana: Deputy CM||Haryana deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala on Wednesday said that the state government is not going to impose lockdown amid rise in Covid-19 cases and is taking critical steps to break the chain of the virus.After unveiling the statue of Dr BR Ambedkar in Rewari, he assured that people employed in Haryana need not worry as the state is not moving towards a lockdown.“The state is trying to make the system run smoothly so that the pandemic does not spread further. I want to assure everyone that no industrial activity will be stopped in state. We have developed more infrastructure and medical facilities as compared to other states so the recovery rate is much better here. Our government has imposed night curfew to break the chain of the virus,” he added.Even as the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha leaders had announced that Dalit organisations will oppose the visit of CM Manohar Lal Khattar and deputy CM Dushyant Chautala on the Ambedkar Jayanti despite that Dushyant went to Rewari and attended the event.On being asked about protests being launched against the ruling party leaders, Dushyant said that everyone has the right to hold protests but it should be done as per law.“If anyone tries to violate norms, strict action will be taken against them. I urge PM Modi to hold talks with farmers, who are sitting on borders for the last 4-5 months and initiate talks with them to end the deadlock. Few people with vested interests had claimed that the mandi system will be scrapped, but I want to tell them that our government is procuring crops on MSP and farmers have started receiving payments for their produce,” he added.Twelve farm leaders were detained by the Rewari police before arrival of Dushyant. The farm leaders had come to protest against the deputy CM.SOCIAL DISTANCING NORMS VIOLATED IN BHIWANISocial distancing norms were violated during Ambedkar Jayanti event in Bhiwani which was attended by Haryana BJP state chief OP Dhankar and state agriculture minister JP Dalal.People who remained present in the meeting were seen sitting close to each other without wearing masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-won-t-impose-lockdown-in-haryana-deputy-cm-101618427813473.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 5,398 new Covid cases, Haryana records highest ever single-day jump||Haryana continued to report a huge spike in Covid-19 cases with the state on Wednesday recording 5,398 fresh cases, the highest ever single-day surge since the pandemic broke out last year.Meanwhile, 18 people died of Covid, taking the death toll to 3,316, according to the health bulletin.On Tuesday, Haryana registered 3,845 new Covid cases and 16 fatalities.Of these, Gurugram reported 1,151 cases, Faridabad 838, Sonepat 387, Jind 378, Karnal 359, Panchkula 276, Hisar 261, Yamunanagar 219, Ambala 202, Panipat 188, Rohtak 184, Sirsa 170, Fatehabad 165, Jhajjar 160, Kurukshetra 156, and Bhiwani 110 cases.Among the 18 fatalities were three deaths in Karnal and two each in Ambala, Yamunanagar, Fatehabad and Kaithal.In the last 24 hours, 39,543 samples were taken and the active cases rose to 27,421. Total 2,166 patients recovered across state on Wednesday but the recovery rate came down to 90.68%.In the last four days of Tikka Utsav that began on April 11, Haryana health department administered 6.37 lakh vaccine doses, said additional chief secretary (ACS), health, Rajeev Arora.He added that 1.13 lakh vaccine doses were administered on April 11, 1.79 lakh on April 12, 1.68 lakh on April 13, and 1.75 lakh doses were administered on the concluding day. With this, Haryana has vaccinated 29.91 lakh people so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-5-398-new-covid-cases-haryana-records-highest-ever-single-day-jump-101618427753721.html
15-04-2021||Other||31 persons succumb to Covid at PGIMS, Rohtak in 2 weeks||In the past two weeks, 31 persons have succumbed to Covid-19 while undergoing treatment at the Post-graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS) Rohtak.PGIMS spokesman Dr Gajender Singh said that they are conducting 600 tests per day and this month, 31 people have lost their lives due to the virus.“Maximum people who died of the virus had co-morbidities. We are conducting RT-PCR tests and there is no shortage of beds, medicines or injections at the institute. If the situation worsens, we will turn other wards into Covid special wards,” Dr Singh added.On spike in cases, he said that the second wave is severe and they are acting swiftly to check spread of the contagion and provide rapid vaccination.“In January-February and the first two weeks of March, when cases started to decrease, safety norms were not followed by people. This led to spike in cases during the second wave,” the PGIMS spokesman added.“We will be able to find out whether the first wave was more severe or the second one after seeing the nature of the virus by May. Our focus is on testing, tracking and providing treatment,” a senior PGIMS doctor said.“People should come forward for vaccination. We have two options to tackle the virus - get the vaccine and develop antibodies in our body. People have to take precautions and follow safety guidelines,” the doctor added.He said that people are still reluctant to get the vaccine and need to be made aware of its importance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/31-persons-succumb-to-covid-at-pgims-rohtak-in-2-weeks-101618427583597.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Four of gang held for stealing BSNL cables in Chandigarh||Almost a week after 16 quintals of underground BSNL cables were stolen from Sectors 4 and 10, the police arrested four persons for the theft on Wednesday.The accused, identified as Manjoor Alam Haq, 46 of Ghaziabad, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar residents Shajid, 29, Toshiq, 21, and Tahmid, are part of a gang involved in stealing underground cables using rented JCB machines and impersonation, police said.They were arrested by the police from Ghaziabad and brought to Chandigarh. The accused were on Wednesday produced before the court and remanded to six-day police custody.Call to hire JCB helped nail accusedThe police traced the accused with help of a phone call made by the accused to hire the JCB machine used in the crime. Police used the phone number and tracked down the thieves. They were on their way to sell the stolen network cables to a scarp dealer in Ghaziabad when the arrests were made.Police said the accused used to work as labourers in Chandigarh and knew cable-laying work.Theft disrupted internet services On April 8, the thieves had managed to steal around 16 quintals of underground BSNL cables using a JCB machine in Sector 4 and 10. As a result, internet connection of various government offices was disrupted.Police said cables from the rear of the BSNL office in Sector 4 and from near a petrol pump in Sector 10 were stolen. Internet services of Punjab and Haryana High Court, Haryana Vidhan Sabha and other government offices were disrupted. The police had registered a case under Section 379 of IPC at Sector 3 police station.Role in other crimes suspected Meanwhile, police will be questioning the accused with regards to another cable theft bid in Manimajra. An attempt to steal around 400 metres of wire from Manimajra was reported on the intervening night of March 21-22, but the suspects had fled the scene after being spotted by a passerby. A case was registered under sections 379, 427 and 511 of the IPC at Manimajra police station on April 11.The gang is also suspected to be involved in the theft of a quintal of wires which were stolen from the rear of Punjab Police headquarters in Sector 9 last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/four-of-gang-held-for-stealing-bsnl-cables-in-chandigarh-101618427393389.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||17 test positive in Tihar in a day, officials scamper to create isolation spaces||Two jail doctors and 15 more prisoners have tested positive in the last 24 hours till Wednesday evening, taking the total number of people infected with the virus to 76 in Tihar, during the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in Delhi.Prison officers said the infection has spread rather quickly inside the jail premises in the last 10 days, even as the administration scambles to create more space for isolation and quarantine. Currently, there are 67 active cases among prisoners and nine among jail staff, including two doctors who were vaccinated earlier this year.An analysis of the cases shows that, till March 16, a total of 120 prisoners had tested positive for the disease.But between March 18 and April 14, this year, as a fourth wave of infections raged, the prison witnessed more than 75 fresh cases, of which three later recovered.On Wednesday, the city reported an alarming 17,282 new positive Covid-19 cases in all.Prison officers attributed the increase in number of cases to a rapid rise in the inmate population in Tihar, which Asia’s largest prison.While the sanctioned capacity of Tihar prison is 10,026, it currently has over 20,000 inmates.The prison’s director general, Sandeep Goel, said that the administration was taking all possible measures to conduct medical test of the inmates, and was creating spaces within the prison for social distancing. The officer said that in-person meeting of families with the inmates, which happened twice a week inside the jails, have been suspended for the time being and court hearings of prisoners are happening virtually.Last year, after the pandemic broke out, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole to ensure social distancing inside the jail.However, between February 6 and March 18, almost all of them surrendered, leaving little space for isolation of new inmates and undertrials.Until February, the prison population was below 13,000. It has now crossed 20,000, making it difficult for officials to ensure social distancing inside jails, one officer said, asking not to be named.Experts, such as former law officer of Tihar Sunil Gupta and advocate Ajay Verma last week suggested that the administration should release all prisoners with “good conduct”, and those who surrendered well on time after being granted the special parole during the start of the pandemic last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/17-test-positive-in-tihar-in-a-day-officials-scamper-to-create-isolation-spaces-101618427177734.html
15-04-2021||Other||Yamunanagar couple booked for pushing 13-yr-old into prostitution||The Yamunanagar police have booked a couple identified as Sonu and Riya alias Rita for allegedly pushing a 13-year-old girl into prostitution.According to the police complaint, the Class 6 student is six months pregnant.Childline district director Anju Bajpai said that as per preliminary investigation, the accused had pushed her into prostitution for their drug needs.“We were intimated about the girl’s situation by the civil hospital. We counselled the parents, both of whom are working. Doctors said that abortion at this stage is difficult but they are getting medical tests done and might approach the HC,” Bajpai said.As per police statement by the girl’s mother, Riya and her husband used to take her daughter daily to different locations, where some men would rape her.“She had intimidated my daughter of dire consequences if she reveals anything to us,” the woman told police.The FIR was lodged under the POCSO Act and the IPC at Gandhinagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yamunanagar-couple-booked-for-pushing-13-yr-old-into-prostitution-101618427333371.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tardy lifting of wheat has Ambala mandi jam-packed||Even as procurement was stopped for a day to prioritise lifting of produce, the Ambala City grain market remained jam-packed with trailers and heaps of wheat on Wednesday.Farmers have been facing problem unloading their produce, as there is no space left in the mandi, resulting in extended queues and longer wait outside the counters to get the gate passes in the scorching heat.An elderly farmer from Garnala, who didn’t wish to be named, said that he arrived at the mandi with 40 metric tonnes of wheat crop at 9am, but had to wait for the gate pass till 3pm.Manveer, a farmer from Lol Sanli village, too had to wait for the pass for more than three hours.“My brother waited with me for hours, but then he left for some urgent work, and I had to stand in the queue to get the pass. There was no purchase on Tuesday, so there is more inflow today,” he said.Mandi board secretary Asha Rani didn’t respond to the calls made to her.Meanwhile, Duni Chand arhtiyas association president said tardy lifting was witnessed at the mandi despite a one-day procurement halt.“Only a couple of trucks have transported the sacks to the agencies since Tuesday,” Chand claimed.However, deputy commissioner Ashok Kumar Sharma said that more than 1.17 MT of wheat had been procured by the agencies till Tuesday. He was unavailable for a comment on the slow lifting issue.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tardy-lifting-of-wheat-has-ambala-mandi-jampacked-101618427274727.html
15-04-2021||Other||B’luru yet to witness reverse migration of labourers, but fear of lockdown lurks||Bengaluru: The Bengaluru division of the South Western Railway (SWR) has been releasing statements and photographs over the last week to debunk several videos claiming large crowds at railway stations in the city. One such video claimed that the overcrowding was because of a second wave of the reverse migration from the city to various parts of the state. However, the Railways, industry experts and activists claim that unlike Mumbai and New Delhi, Bengaluru was yet to witness mass reverse migration like last year. Ashok Kumar Verma, Divisional Railway Manager, Bengaluru Division, clarified that there was no rush or overcrowding at the railway station, adding that the department was running enough trains to cater to the demand. “As per the request from the Karnataka government, we had operated 20 extra trains in the view of Ugadi, festival holidays and strike by State Road Transport Corporation employees. We are ready to run more trains if required. There is no extra demand for trains,” he said. A senior SWR official, who did not wish to be named, said many of the trains, especially those running to north India, are not full during their trips. “Last year, there was a huge demand with many waiting for days to get a train, but the situation is much different now. If there was a mass movement of people, we would be first to know,” said the official. Gayathri Vasudevan, CEO and co-founder of LabourNet, a Bengaluru-based social enterprise working in the unorganised sector, said those who left Bengaluru during the last lockdown are still returning. “We have been organising buses from various parts of the state to bring labourers back to Bengaluru and many are opting for these buses. So, if you ask, so far there is not big reverse migration,” she said. She, however, added that any fear of the lockdown could adversely affect this process. “People leaving Bengaluru to various parts during Holi and other festivals is common. But if there is a sense of fear of a lockdown among workers…many who left won’t come back and there could be reverse migration,” Vasudevan said. K Mahantesh, national secretary of the Construction Workers Federation of India, said, “While there is no big movement so far, workers are very careful. Many were stuck without jobs or food last time and they don’t want to be in a similar situation again. So, it is up to the government to give the right assurances,” he said. The availability of transportation is the difference between last year and this, said Chandrabhushan Sahani, who had hitchhiked to Bihar from Bengaluru during the 2020 lockdown. He added that he had no choice but to return to Bengaluru. “There were not enough jobs back home, so we returned. Now, trains are still running. That is a good sign. We can go anytime we need. But we are unsure if they will shut it down. There is a lot of talk about a lockdown,” he said. Karnataka labour minister Shivaram Hebbar said the government does not believe in extreme steps, like lockdown. “The chief minister has made it clear, and we will take care of those working in our state,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bluru-yet-to-witness-reverse-migration-of-labourers-but-fear-of-lockdown-lurks-101618427273319.html
15-04-2021||Other||Navy joins search for fishermen missing off Mangaluru coast||The Indian Navy has deployed surface and air assets for the search and rescue of missing fishermen at sea off the coast of Mangaluru, the ministry defence said in a statement on Wednesday. Three fishermen were killed and nine went missing after a fishing boat collided with a foreign vessel off the coast of Mangaluru early on Tuesday.The statement added that the two rescued fishermen have been shifted to safety ashore and three bodies have been recovered so far. The search is on for the remaining nine fishermen, the statement said.Watch: Indian Navy divers recover 3 fishermen’s bodies off Mangaluru coast“It was reported that an Indian Fishing Boat ‘IFB Rabah’ with 14 fishermen embarked had suffered a collision with a Singapore flag merchant ship ‘MV APL Le Havre’, 40 nautical miles west of New Mangalore at about 0200 hours (2 am) on April 13. Indian Naval Ships Tillanchang and Kalpeni along with naval aircraft from Goa were deployed in the area to augment SAR efforts of Coast Guard vessels,” read the statement from the ministry.“To assist in the rescue efforts INS Subhadra, a patrol vessel was sailed from Karwar with a Diving Team embarked. The ship arrived on the scene in the early hours of April 14. Two specialist diving teams are undertaking snagline search in the area in an effort to locate the sunken fishing craft,” the statement added.C K Jaffar, the owner of the mechanised boat Rabah from Beypore in Kerala, on Tuesday said the delay in the rescue had resulted in the death. “The Singapore cruise liner which hit the boat alerted Coast Guard officials. Coast Guard began the search in the morning. Delay resulted in the loss of lives,” he said.On Tuesday, the rescue operations were led by the Indian Coast Guard with the help of local fishermen. The two rescued have been identified as Sunil Das of West Bengal and Velu Murugan of Tamil Nadu. Seven of the fishermen are from Tamil Nadu and the remaining from West Bengal and Odisha.Meanwhile, the Mangaluru Police said that as per the preliminary information, the boat set sail from Beypore in Kerala. Officials in Kerala police said that Rabah had 14 fishermen on board.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/navy-joins-search-for-fishermen-missing-off-mangaluru-coast-101618427272777.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s 24x7 water supply project to be high on green gains||Reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, conservation of groundwater and cutback in water wastage in the city from existing 36% to 15% are some of the environmental gains that will come along the 24x7 water supply project once it’s fully implemented. The work on the ambitious ₹500-crore project is set to start in February 2022.“In addition to 24x7 water supply to Chandigarh households, the project will reduce carbon dioxide emission by 5.2 lakh tonne up to FY 2039-40,” said Chandigarh Smart City Limited chief general manager NP Sharma. He added that the project qualifies as ‘climate’ as well as ‘clean technology’ programme as the total greenhouse gas emissions will reach a lower level than the carbon dioxide emitted by the existing system.Chandigarh Smart City Limited will get a loan of about ₹400 crore from French firm Agence Française de Développement (AFD) and the remaining ₹100-crore grant from the European Union (EU) to execute the project, which will ensure 24-hour water supply daily.“The project envisages improving the water supply system with better energy efficient devices and increasing the reach of water supply to every household. This will help in energy saving, ultimately leading to reduced greenhouse gas emissions and lesser demand of groundwater,” Sharma said.Water is the primary medium through which climate change influences the earth’s ecosystem. In Chandigarh, due to continuously rising population, the water demand is being met by the groundwater resources.There are 248 tubewells provided by the Chandigarh municipal corporation for water supply directly into the underground reservoir as well as the distribution network. The tubewells are operated for six to 22 hours daily. However, due to substantial pumping, deeper aquifers are under great stress and have been depicting declining water levels.“Chandigarh is growing warmer since it came up in 50s. This is due to rapid development and change in intensified climate conditions of hydrological cycle. Such climate variability and change influence the groundwater systems both directly through replenishment by recharge and indirectly through changes in groundwater use, which are further modified by the land use change activities in Chandigarh,” states the project report. “The project scheme will decrease and ultimately cutoff the usage of groundwater, which would ultimately lower the pressure on underground water. This will help in improving the groundwater condition and micro-climatic conditions of Chandigarh,” Sharma said. The project also aims to improve the social conditions in the city. “Improved water supply system will upgrade the overall socio-economic condition too. Also, decrease in water-related diseases; leakage reduction; improved usage-based billing will provide community-based adaptation, which aims to achieve climate change adaptation in tandem with development goals,” he added. Green Impact||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-24x7-water-supply-project-to-be-high-on-green-gains-101618427154989.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid farmers’ protest threats, Haryana CM, Dushyant give Ambedkar Jayanti events a miss||The boycott call given by the agitating farmers against BJP-JJP leaders forced Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar to cancel his visit to Jat community-dominated Sonepat, where he was to attend a function of the BJP to mark Ambedkar Jayanti and inaugurate some developmental projects.VIRTUAL INAUGURATION Coinciding with the state-wide celebrations of Ambedkar Jayanti, the CM opted for video conference and inaugurated two hostels named after Swami Vivekananda and Ahilyabai, built at a cost of ₹17 crore on premises of Dr BR Ambedkar National Law University, Rai, Sonipat.Khattar was chief guest at a programme organised on Vidhan Sabha premises to mark the 130 birth anniversary of Dr BR Ambedkar. Vidhan Sabha Speaker Gian Chand Gupta also paid tributes to Dr Ambedkar.DEPUTY CM FACES PROTESTMeanwhile, following reports of Haryana deputy CM Dushyant Chautala’s visit to Kaithal to attend a programme to mark Ambedkar Jayanti, hundreds of farmers gathered near the venue to protest the visit.On call of BKU (Charuni) leaders, farmers and women gathered near the venue and threatened to oppose the deputy CM to express their anger over the ongoing farmers’ agitation against Centre’s three farm laws.Farmers returned back after Kaithal DC Sujan Singh and SP Lokender Singh unveiled a statue at Bhim Rao Ambedkar College.The Kaithal SP said that elaborate security arrangements were made following threat of protest by farmers to avoid any law and order situation.BKU district president Hoshiar Gill said they had come to protest after finding out that Dushyant will unveil a statue of Dr BR Ambedkar, but due to huge gathering of farmers, the deputy CM did not turn up.NOT A FIRSTAmid protest threats, Khattar had skipped his two scheduled visits in state in the last four days.Last Sunday, Khattar was to attend a function in Rohtak on April 11 as chief guest, and the government, in a late night press release on April 10, had said that in view of “exponential rise in Covid-19 cases and as a precautionary measure”, the CM will not attend the Rohtak programme. On Wednesday also, officials said that Khattar decided not to visit Sonepat due to surge in Covid cases.Last Sunday, farm leader Rakesh Tikait had said that the Sanyukta Kisan Morcha will not allow Khattar to enter Badauli village for an April 14 event.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-farmers-protest-threats-haryana-cm-dushyant-give-ambedkar-jayanti-events-a-miss-101618427153746.html
15-04-2021||Other||Video shows cop being slapped in Uttam Nagar||New Delhi: A video clip of a policeman repeatedly being slapped by some people inside a house in West Delhi’s Uttam Nagar earlier this month has promoted an enquiry, the Delhi Police said on Wednesday.According to Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka), until some weeks ago, the policeman seen being assaulted in the video was deployed as the personal security officer (PSO) of a local man, Sanjay Gupta. Gupta runs a gymnasium, the officer said.“As per the initial probe, on April 1 the policeman went to meet Sanjay Gupta in Uttam Nagar. Some argument happened there and some people began beating the policeman,” said the DCP.The video footage showed two men repeatedly slapping the policeman who was seated on a sofa, even as a second policeman made some attempts to intervene.The policeman being assaulted was in his uniform and appeared to be carrying a gun, but the video did not show him attempting to strike back.What issue led to the alleged argument and the assault remained unclear, the DCP said.The matter was not directly brought to the police’s notice and it emerged only after the video clip surfaced.“Prima facie a case of assault on police person appears to be made out. However, Delhi Police takes such matters very seriously. An enquiry into the incident is underway and appropriate action will be taken in due course,” part of a statement released by the DCP said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/video-shows-cop-being-slapped-in-uttamnagar-101618427032826.html
15-04-2021||Other||How ‘micro’ bluetooth devices and lax checks due to Covid helped run an exam cheating racket||New DelhiAn exam cheating racket busted in outer-north Delhi a few weeks ago was made feasible due to lax physical checking at exam centres owing to the Covid pandemic and use of face masks to hide sophisticated bluetooth devices, police said, adding that they have arrested seven persons involved in facilitating the cheating.The alleged cheating racket unravelled on February 28 when the Delhi Police received a tip-off that some aspirants for the job of peon at the Tis Hazari court were using bluetooth devices while taking the competitive examination at a school in Shahbad Dairy. Police caught three candidates who had covered their bluetooth mics under their masks, said Rajeev Ranjan, deputy commissioner of police (outer-north). While they were initially unable to locate the earpiece, a doctoral examination later revealed “micro” audio devices hidden in the ears of the candidates. Police said the audio devices used in the racket were not the usual ones available in the market and were specially procured to carry out the crime.A subsequent probe eventually led to the arrest of a man from north Delhi’s Burari who worked as a peon for the Haryana government. “This peon revealed that he too obtained the job by similar means. We are verifying that,” said Ranjan.According to the DCP, the peon, after getting the job, saw an opportunity for cheating using these tiny bluetooth devices which could be easily hidden inside masks. “The gang also noticed that searching and frisking of candidates at examination centres were being avoided due to the pandemic,” said the DCP.He allegedly had a network of people who would help the candidates with answers from outside the examination centre. “Candidates for the court peon exam were charged ₹7 lakh each,” said Ranjan.While police went on to arrest six more of his associates, apart from the three candidates, they have not revealed the names of the accused as they fear it may alert the others involved in the racket. While the peon allegedly appeared to be a central figure in the racket, police said the mastermind is still absconding.According to police, the arrested peon would allegedly scout for prospective applicants not only among his contacts in the government sector, but also through his Youtube channel which promised help in cracking the exams.The use of a SIM card registered using fake documents and posing as an exam consultant allegedly helped the peon use the Youtube channel without fear of getting caught.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/how-micro-bluetooth-devices-and-lax-checks-due-to-covid-helped-run-an-exam-cheating-racket-101618426975314.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi HC dismisses plea seeking postponement of DSGMC elections||The Delhi high court has dismissed a plea seeking postponement of the Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) elections, scheduled for April 25, saying that it will not interfere in policy matters.The court’s decision came while hearing a plea registered on a letter by petitioners Jagmohan Singh and Manjeet Singh Chugh, voters in the list maintained by the Directorate of Gurdwara Elections on April 7.The petitioners sought the postponement of elections on the grounds that there is an unprecedented spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capitalOn April 8, a bench of justices Rajiv Sahai Endlaw and Amit Bansal noted that guidelines have been laid to ensure the conduct of the elections do not lead to the spread of Covid-19.“The Delhi government as well as the central government is already taking all steps to prevent the spread of Covid-19, without however restricting day to day life any more than necessary,” the bench said.It added besides the general restrictions put in place by the government, each institution is taking its own steps for restricting the spread of Covid-19 virus.“We are confident that a body such as DSGMC will take all possible steps to ensure that the conduct of elections is not a source of spread of the Covid-19 virus,” the court said in its order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hc-dismisses-plea-seeking-postponement-of-dsgmc-elections-101618426974739.html
15-04-2021||Other||Week-long digital exhibition to mark 130th birth anniversary of Ambedkar||New Delhi: The Delhi government on Wednesday launched a week-long digital exhibition to mark the 130th birth anniversary of B R Ambedkar.“The Department of Art, Culture and Languages (ACL) of the Delhi government has launched the first edition of Babasaheb Ambedkar Digital Kala Festival, a week-long exhibition marking the 130th birth anniversary of social reformer and revolutionary BR Ambedkar. The festival will commemorate the memory of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, an ardent advocate of human rights and education, who has played a pivotal role in drafting the constitution of India. Through such a festival, the Delhi government seeks to promote the teachings of Baba Saheb Ambedkar in the people, especially the youth in Delhi,” the government said in a statement.Delhi’s art and culture minister Manish Sisodia said, “The Delhi government is constantly striving to promote the values and teachings of Baba Saheb Ambedkar, along with his contributions to framing India’s constitution. Such events will instil and encourage a sense of pride in the people, while they work around the theme of equality for all, which is, in today’s times, struggling to regain its lost essence.” In the 2021-22 budget, the Delhi government had set aside ₹10 crore each for programmes to be organised on Bhagat Singh and Dr B R Ambedkar, as part of the government’s larger plan to mark 75 years of India’s Independence with celebrations over 75 weeks.The government will also conduct a social media contest as part of which participants can upload their content on Instagram, Twitter or YouTube, tagging the ACL handles on each of the platforms. They would also be required to send the following information -- a social media link of their submission and a brief description of their work -- to ambedkar.delhigovt@gmail.com. “The categories of the submissions include reels or short video format, poetry/song/rap, or visual arts,” the press statement said. “The winner of the competition, which will be announced on May 1, will be awarded ₹75,000, the first runner-up will be awarded ₹50,000 and the second runner-up will be awarded ₹25,000. For more information, the participants can visit artandculture.delhigovt.nic.in,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/weeklong-digital-exhibition-to-mark-130th-birth-anniversary-of-ambedkar-101618426974009.html
15-04-2021||Other||Special 24x7 cells at Delhi govt hospitals to monitor admission, treatment protocols||New Delhi On the direction of chief secretary Vijay Dev, the health department has constituted special 24x7 cells in all 11 hospitals of the Delhi government and one at the health department headquarter, each having a senior IAS officer as its nodal officer, to monitor compliance to hospital admission and treatment protocols and analyse each Covid-19 death. “In view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases, the competent authority is pleased to constitute 24x7 cells in 11 GNCTD hospitals as well as HQ to ensure that prompt and appropriate systems are in place in each hospital to ensure compliance of timely management of hospital admissions as per protocol, proper treatment protocol, satisfactory level of patient care and analysis of Covid-19 deaths,” said an order issued by the health department on Monday, a copy of which HT has seen.The order further said, “Each cell will have three members which will work in an eight-hour shift. Each cell will have a nodal officer.”Standard operating procedure (SOP) annexed with the order require the cells to ensure that each case of Covid-19 death is reported immediately to the death analysis committee with case summary and medical files elaborating the number of days between being tested positive and death, co-morbidities, primary reason for death, and oxygen levels at least six hours before death and immediately before death are recorded.The SOP mandates the cells to ensure proper recording of time spent by the patient in the hospital before death, condition at the time of hospitalisation, number of days between testing positive and hospitalisation, reasons for delay in admissions, if any, and, whether the death has taken place in ward or ICU and the number of days spent therein, the document said.A senior health official said the cells have also been entrusted with identifying geographical areas from which more instances of delayed hospital admissions and death on arrival are recorded for “targeted awareness activities” to be undertaken by district magistrates, and monitoring death to admission ration across hospitals on a daily basis.The order was issued hours after chief secretary Vijay Dev took a review meeting on Covid-19 deaths and hospital management on Monday. Dev issued a four-point instruction to all concerned officials in the meeting which included ensuring every family having a COVID positive cases gets a pulse oximeter and that there is early reporting to hospitals if the oxygen saturation levels (SpO2) of the patient drops below 94.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/special-24x7-cells-at-delhi-govt-hospitals-to-monitor-admission-treatment-protocols-101618426913958.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||At least 500 take ill after consuming buckwheat flour||Several residents of Kalyanpuri in east Delhi had to be admitted to different hospitals after they complained of stomach aches, ostensibly after consuming buckwheat flour between Tuesday night and Wednesday evening. While no deaths wee reported, police fear the total number of people affected is around 500.Police suspect food poisoning, and have already arrested the proprieter of a general store. Buckwheat flour is usually consumed during Navratri.The alleged mass food poisoning came to light on Tuesday night after several residents reached Lal Bahadur Shastri hospital, complaining of stomach ache, vomiting, and diarrhoea; some even lost consciousness. A stream of patients kept reaching hospitals, officials said. “Till Wednesday evening, roughly around 500 people were reportedly affected. Most of the patients have reported that they had consumed buckwheat flour in some form or the other,” said a senior police officer.DCP (east) Deepak Yadav said they have registered a case under IPC sections 273 (selling noxious food or drink), 284 (using poisonous substance to endanger human life) and 337 (causing hurt or endangering life negligently) at Kalyanpuri police station, and arrested Bunty Lal, the proprietor of Bunty General Store.“Further investigation is on. Our teams are trying to find out who had sold the flour to the residents and from where it had been sourced. Source of the adulterated flour is being traced. It is also being checked if more shops in the area had sold the flour to people,” the DCP said.In a similar case reported from south Delhi, six members of a family from Mehrauli also fell ill after consuming buckwheat in the early hours of Wednesday. Police said they were all admitted in Fortis hospital, and were discharged after treatment.DCP (south) Atul Thakur said the family members are now stable. “We have collected samples of the flour from the shop from where they had bought it. No other customer who had bought the flour from there made a similar complaint. The sample has been sent for testing. We have registered a case under similar sections,” Thakur said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/at-least-500-take-ill-after-consuming-buckwheat-flour-101618426912719.html
15-04-2021||Other||Portal to map evictions in Delhi since 1990||New Delhi: Hundreds of families reportedly lost their homes in 13 slum clusters in Delhi during the coronavirus outbreak last year, as per the Missing Basti project--a web portal launched on Wednesday for mapping evictions in the national capital.The Missing Basti project--started by a group of civil society members and land rights activists--is an initiative to archive past and ongoing evictions in Delhi to “question as well as mobilize action for the prevention of further evictions,” said members. Gautam Bhan, urban researcher and member of the Missing Basti project, said, “This is an attempt to put all the data available on eviction in one place. Close to 300 evictions have happened in the city since 1990. How can you build an inclusive city by evicting the workers who run the city? All the new highways, roads, buildings which have come up in the city are built on the back of evictions. On one side, we have the narrative for housing for all and inclusive city, but on the other side, there are evictors who have destroyed the homes of people who have spent years constructing them...This is the beginning of asking questions about the city.”Shakeel Ahmed, convener of Basti Suraksha Manch, and a member of the project, said, “It is unfortunate that people were rendered homeless during the pandemic, which was a tough period for everyone. These people didn’t even have a place to go.”As per information available on the website, people from at least 280 slum clusters have been evicted since 1990. Members of the project said information about future evictions will be updated on the portal on a regular basis.Swati Janu, architect and founder of Social Design Collaborative, said, “It (the portal) is a repository of evictions in Delhi since 1990. The data has been provided by various academics and housing rights organisations, who have been closely working with people living in slum clusters or JJ clusters.”Land rights activists said government agencies evict people from slums without rehabilitating them despite there being a policy for the same. Mukta Naik, a fellow member at Centre for Policy Research, said, “The idea is to show what is usually not seen. You hear of evictions in the city, but people don’t realise the scale of it. We wanted to create a visual archive to help the general public, who are not working on urban issues, get an idea about the scale of the eviction and where it has happened. Though there is a policy in place for rehabilitation in Delhi, it has not been very successful.”Janu said while some evictions, such as the one in Kathputli Colony, were widely reported, there are many which don’t get the due attention due to various reasons. “Our attempt has been to record all the evictions. We don’t always know the exact number of people impacted by these evictions, but we are working on adding more information so that the general public can get an idea about the severity of the problem.”Janu added, “There are many similar initiatives world over such as Just Space and Living Maps in London or the Anti-Eviction Mapping Project in San Francisco.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/portal-to-map-evictions-in-delhi-since-1990-101618426913285.html
15-04-2021||Pune||Pune sees a stronger second Covid wave||The Covid pandemic has wreaked havoc on 31-year-old Shraddha Shinde’s family. Last August, the Sahakarnagar resident tested positive for Covid-19 along with her father-in-law. This year, her husband’s uncle tested positive and died on April 11. In both instances, Shinde’s family struggled for health care support – last year, for a bed, and this year, for oxygen support. “My father-in-law was a senior citizen and seeing the drop in his oxygen levels our family doctors recommended that we get him admitted. He was admitted at the PMC jumbo centre. Those were really tough days for our family but both of us recovered [Shinde isolated herself at home] and we were beginning to get back to normal life. However, this year again the virus struck, and we lost a family member.” On Wednesday Pune recorded 7,887 fresh cases, taking the tally up to 679,313 of which 112,213 are active. As cases in soar, patients are being turned away due to bed shortage. By comparison, during the first wave, the highest number of cases reported was on September 16 at 5,049. This month, most major hospitals in Pune city have already run out of ventilators and ICU beds; only 27 ICU beds with ventilators were free (out of 1,181 in the district), while 685 isolation beds with oxygen were free (out of 10,228). The demand for oxygen in the district has gone up by over 350% in the first four months of 2021. Overall, only 3,552 beds out of 23,640 beds were vacant on April 14 in Pune. In both waves, Pune district has been one of the worst hit. In fact, if Maharashtra is driving India’s second wave, Pune, Mumbai, Thane and Nagpur are the four big urban centres driving Maharashtra’s daily caseload; in the first four days of April, they accounted for 59% of the state’s cases. But this year, there is one crucial difference: vaccination. “While my father-in-law got the vaccine, my husband’s uncle did not take the vaccine and had co-morbidity conditions. Everyone must get themselves vaccinated without any delay as each day they are risking the exposure to infection,” Shinde said. Although Mumbai and Pune have more than 10 million population, the density in Pune district is less than that of Mumbai city, leading experts to ask an important question: why is Pune so highly affected this time around? Dr Pradip Awate, state surveillance officer explains that Pune had reported a similar trend during the H1N1 pandemic, and he attributes it to the city’s climate. However, studies have found little correlation between the spread of the disease and the climate, stressing on the fact that it is the behaviour of humans that affects how fast the virus actually spreads. Awate also pointed out that Pune’s density could also be a possible factor to consider. “40% of Pune’s population is urbanized, and the density is far higher than the state average. The decadal growth rate of Pune’s population density is 36 while Mumbai’s is -5.75.” Then there is the issue with Pune’s poor health infrastructure. He said, “Though Pune managed surveillance activities well in the initial phase of the pandemic with the help of manpower pulled from various other departments, it’s difficult to sustain the tempo once this manpower is withdrawn during the declining phase of the disease. In cities like Pune, it is breath-taking to keep pace with a rapidly growing population in terms of building health infrastructure. Sassoon hospital is the only government tertiary care centre for its 4 million population. Even for Covid-19, only 23 percent of dedicated beds are available in government institutions. Covid-19 pandemic laid open these inadequacies substantially.” Pune’s Naidu hospital which was the first Covid-19 hospital in the state and was pivotal in fighting H1N1 pandemic too did not have a ventilator for months into pandemic. During both waves, the city faced shortages: of beds, Remdesivir (the anti-viral drug) and also, oxygen supply. In terms of vaccination, however, Pune has taken the lead. For over a week the district vaccinated the highest number of beneficiaries in the state. Pune has administered 1,519,763 doses already. By comparison, Mumbai has administered 1,768,939 as of Tuesday. In the sero survey conducted reported on August 18 in five small wards in the highly infected areas, a sero positivity rate of about 51.5% was recorded, indicating that half the population had developed antibodies. This raises the question of the effectiveness of antibodies. DR Subhash Salunkhe, advisor to the state government for Covid-19, who himself got infected after taking the jab (to be sure, the jab does not give 100% immunity against the virus, but it does provide immunity against severity and death) said, “It remains to be seen what duration the antibodies remain effective for. Although people may be infected even after vaccination, the chances of hospitalization fall drastically like in my case.” He had also written to the state government to investigate whether the new double mutant strain of the virus – a variant found in samples from Maharashtra, announced by the Centre last month -- is escaping the antibodies. A Central team which visited the 30 most affected districts in the state, including Pune, last week found that adherence to Covid appropriate behaviour was lacking. This bears out: by April 9, the district administration had recovered ₹28.31 crores from 6.26 lakh violators for not wearing a mask or spitting in public. Pune was also one of the first districts to be declared as a containment zone on April 19, 2020, when Pune city, Pimpri Chinchwad and rural Pune was declared as a containment zone to contain the spread. Following this, multiple restrictions through mini lockdowns continued, but implementation remained a problem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-sees-a-stronger-second-covid-wave-101618426854528.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Pandharpur bypolls: Supriya Sule addresses campaign rally from outside Pawar’s hospital||Supriya Sule, Member of Parliament (MP) from Baramati and daughter of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar, on Wednesday addressed a rally for the by-election in Pandharpur constituency through video-conferencing. She addressed the rally standing outside a south Mumbai hospital where her father is undergoing treatment. The rally was held for Bhagirath Bhalke, NCP candidate for Pandharpur Assembly constituency which is going for polls on April 17.“Attended the campaign rally and interacted with the people through video-conferencing. Wanted to attend it physically but it could not be possible owing to the current circumstances,” Sule said in a series of tweets on Wednesday.The seat fell vacant following the death of sitting NCP MLA Bharat Bhalke in November last year. NCP decided to field Bhagirath, Bhalke’s son, a three-time MLA. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has fielded Samadhan Autade who had previously fought as Shiv Sena candidate in 2014 and as an independent in 2019 Assembly polls.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/pandharpur-bypolls-supriya-sule-addresses-campaign-rally-from-outside-pawar-s-hospital-101618426853346.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi starts rolling out Union govt’s ‘one nation, one ration card’ scheme||The Delhi government has implemented the Centre’s ‘one nation, one ration card’ policy in Seemapuri, a senior government official said on Wednesday.The order was issued on Monday under directions from Delhi food and civil supplies minister Imran Hussain. “‘One nation, one ration card’ scheme and portability option may be launched in fair price shops in Seemapuri circle and new fair price shops will be set up for doorstep delivery of food grains under the National Food Security Act on pilot basis,” said the order, a copy of which HT has seen.The development comes weeks after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government got into a tussle with the Centre after the latter objected to the state government’s doorstep ration delivery scheme. While the Delhi government has dropped the word “Mukhyamantri (chief minister)” from the name of the scheme, its implementation still remains uncertain.Besides the nomenclature of the scheme, the Centre had also objected to the Delhi government changing the mode of delivery of ration being provided under the National Food Security Act, which, it said, is not possible without amending the law.In its letter on March 19, red-flagging the proposed doorstep ration delivery scheme in Delhi, a copy of which HT has seen, the central government also asked the Delhi government why it had still not implemented the “one nation, one ration card” policy.The doorstep ration delivery scheme, too, was supposed to be launched in Seemapuri circle on March 25. The circle has 42 fair price shops, out of total 2,050 functional ration shops in Delhi.The senior Delhi government official quoted above said that since the implementation of the scheme on Monday, 38 ration card holders from other states – 19 of them from Bihar, 18 from Uttar Pradesh and one from Jharkhand -- have availed its benefit.Under the ‘one nation, one ration card’ policy, which was launched in 2019, a person holding a ration card issued under the National Food Security Act, 2013, can collect their monthly quota of food grains from any fair price shop in the country.The policy has so far been implemented in 17 states, including Gujarat, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Manipur, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Tripura, and UPEarlier this month, the Delhi government also started delivering ration with biometric e-PoS machines under a pilot project.The e-POS mechanism was discontinued in Delhi in 2018 based on complaints that many elderly or those who could not reach the shops were being deprived of their share due to technical glitches.A Delhi government spokesperson did not comment on the matter .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/one-nation-one-ration-card-scheme-takes-off-in-seemapuri-101618426792765.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Fix recurring water shortage problem, Raghav Chadhav asks Haryana CM in letter||Delhi Jal Board vice-chairperson Raghav Chadha on Wednesday wrote to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, seeking prompt solutions to the recurring water shortage problems in Delhi that the utility has long blamed on the neighbouring state.Chadha, who is also an Aam Aadmi Party MLA, on Tuesday warned that large parts of Delhi are likely to witness a shortage of water starting Wednesday, as Haryana, in violation of the Supreme Court guidelines, was sharing a lower than the mandated portion of Yamuna water with Delhi, and was not adhering to safe pollution levels.Chadha, in his letter to Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar on Wednesday, said that Delhi was facing a double whammy because of a significant reduction in raw water supply and high ammonia levels in the Yamuna water released from Haryana.“Delhi is facing frequent crises in terms of raw water supply... which adversely impacts the drinking water supply of major areas, including diplomatic missions/embassies, President House, Supreme Court, high court, and at hospitals treating Covid-19 patients of Delhi and neighbouring states. I implore you to, and I am sure you will, extend your cooperation on humanitarian grounds keeping in mind unprecedented emergency of Covid-19,” Chadha wrote.Several parts of Delhi faced water shortage on Wednesday after two of the three water treatment plants in the city could not be operated at optimum capacity because of high ammonia levels.The areas that were worst hit were Vijay Nagar, Timarpur, Khyber Pass, Old Secretariat, Civil Lines, Lahori Gate, Old Sabzi Mandi, Naya Bazaar, Peeli Kothi, Malka Ganj, Motia Khan, Jhandewalan, Baraf Khana, Patparganj, Pusa Road, Rajinder Nagar, Karol Bagh and Giri NagarA senior Haryana government official rejected the allegations by Delhi government, saying the state was receiving 20-25% less water received from the Bhakra reservoir and 50% less from the Yamuna river. This is causing shortage in drinking water supply in Haryana, he said.Chadha, in his letter, said that two water treatment plants in Delhi — Wazirabad and Chandrawal — sourced water from Yamuna. He said that the quantity and quality of water at the Wazirabad barrage depended on the release of raw water by Haryana. “On many occasions, the quality of water available at the Wazirabad barrage is not fit for treatment because of the concentration of pollutants, particularly ammonia, which results in partial or complete shutdown of two water treatment plants. Given that the two plants cumulatively produce about 228 MGD (million gallons per day) of potable water, thid shutdown, when accompanied by a short supply of raw water, adversely affects the availability of drinking water supply to the people of Delhi,” he wrote.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fix-recurring-water-shortage-problem-raghav-chadhav-asks-haryana-cm-in-letter-101618426735477.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||1,070 test Covid +ve, 7 succumb in Chandigarh tricity||The tricity continued to report 1,000+ cases, with 1,070 people testing positive on Wednesday. The peak was hit on Monday, with 1,310 cases, while 1,184 were reported on Tuesday.Chandigarh accounted for 421 fresh cases, while 373 surfaced in Mohali district and 276 in Panchkula.Meanwhile, three patients each died in Chandigarh and Mohali, and one succumbed in Panchkula district. In Chandigarh, the deceased have been identified as a 35-year-old man from Ram Darbar, who also had bronchopneumonia and alcoholic liver disease, and a 76-year-old man from Sector 24, who was also suffering from hypertension and diabetes, besides a woman, aged 86, from Dhanas, who was a hypertension patient.The toll has climbed to 404, while 3,371 cases remain active. Of 31,985 people tested positive so far, 28,210 have been cured and discharged.In Mohali, which has recorded a steep surge in fatalities, the death toll has reached 486. Of the 373 fresh cases, 172 surfaced in Mohali city, followed by 79 in Dhakoli, 52 in Kharar, 23 in Kurali, 20 in Dera Bassi, 10 each in Gharuan and Lalru and seven in Boothgarh. Of 32,984 patients so far, 27,660 have recovered and 4,838 are still undergoing treatment. In Panchkula, the death of a 55-year-old woman from Chandimandir took the toll to 160. She also suffered from diabetes. Among the 276 new cases, 187 were reported from Panchkula city. The total has reached 15,631, of which 13,792 cases have been cured and 1,679 are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1070-test-covid-ve-7-succumb-in-chandigarh-tricity-101618426735023.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||RSGNP shut for two weeks, forest dept halts eco-tourism activities||The forest department will be clamping down on all eco-tourism activities in several national parks and tiger reserves in the state, given the newly imposed Covid restrictions.Officials also confirmed that Sanjay Gandhi National Park (SGNP) in Mumbai, and the adjacent Tungareshwar Wildlife Sanctuary in Thane, will be shut for visitors till May 1. They added that crowds at SGNP had also been tapering off over the last few weeks amid the surge in Covid infections, with footfall dropping by about 50% between mid-February and mid-March this year. The park typically sees as many as 3,000-morning walkers each day, and footfalls, which drive revenue, were expected to increase with the onset of summer vacations.“As per orders, the park will be closed. We will wait for further instructions on when and how to reopen,” said G Mallikarjuna, chief conservator of forests, SGNP. Nitin Kakodkar, principal chief conservator of forests, Maharashtra said, “Restrictions on eco-tourism will be in place across the entire state for at least two weeks. Significant protected areas will be out of bounds for visitors. We will be talking with district collectors to see if public access in some areas can be allowed, depending on the local condition. We can’t say when safari and so on will resume. It will depend entirely on what the state government decides.”Orders were issued by authorities at the Tadoba-Andhari, Pench and Bor Tiger Reserves on Wednesday, while orders to halt eco-tourism services in Nawegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve are expected to be issued on Thursday, department officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/rsgnp-shut-for-two-weeks-forest-dept-halts-eco-tourism-activities-101618426672732.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Two arrested for killing friend in Bisrakh||Greater Noida: Police on Wednesday arrested two persons over allegedly killing their friend in Bisrakh last month. The suspects were identified as Nazrul Khan, 30, a resident of Jaitpur in Delhi, and Suleman, 40, a resident of Amnabad in Bisrakh. According to the police, they had allegedly murdered their friend Firoz, 32, a resident of Roza Jalalpur, outside Suleman’s rented accommodation on March 3.Elamaran G, additional deputy commissioner of police, Noida Central, said that the three were consuming liquor outside Suleman’s rented house in Greater Noida west. “The two suspects, under the influence of alcohol, attacked Firoz with bricks and killed him. The suspects dumped the body at a deserted location and fled the spot,” he said.The complaint in the matter was filed by sub-inspector Rajeev Kumar at the Bisrakh police station against unknown persons under Section 302 (murder) and Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence). Elamaran said there was no complainant and it was a “blind” case.The police team launched an investigation and started scanning mobile phones networks active in the area at the time. “We noticed a mobile number which had dialled 112 two-three times that day and the day after. We contacted the person, who identified himself as a local contractor. He informed that a person, later identified as Suleman, had been absconding from his home since the body was found in the neighbourhood,” he said. The police then arrested Suleman, who allegedly revealed that he and Nazrul killed Firoz, following which Nazrul was also arrested. “Nazrul revealed that he had talked to the victim’s wife on the phone a few times. The victim started blackmailing him and demanding liquor, or he would file a police complaint. On the day of the incident, they were drinking and had an argument over the same issue. The two suspects hit Firoz with bricks and killed him,” the senior police officer said. The police recovered the victim’s mobile phone and Aadhar card allegedly from suspects’ possession. The two suspects were produced in court and sent to judicial custody.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/two-arrested-for-killing-friend-in-bisrakh-101618426614395.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Class 12 students welcome CBSE move to defer exam||School principals and students on Wednesday welcomed the postponement of Class 12 CBSE board exams in view of the second surge of Covid-19 pandemic in the country, but questioned the feasibility of conducting exams after June, saying the board should come up with an alternative assessment scheme.The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday cancelled Class 10 board exams and postponed Class 12 exams. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The board exams were scheduled to be held between May 4 and June 14. The CBSE said it will review the situation after June 1 and announce the fresh examination dates for Class 12 at least 15 days in advance.The demands for cancellation of board exams had been raised from various quarters. Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and his deputy Manish Sisodia on Tuesday appealed to the Centre to cancel the exams, saying they could contribute to a large-scale spread of Covid-19.Rihan Sharma, a Class 12 student at a government boys senior secondary school in Karol Bagh, said: “I am really relieved that the board has postponed the exams and not cancelled them. We should have proper offline exams in Class 12, whenever the situation becomes normal.”Darshan Ram, a Class 12 student at Bluebells School International, said, “Postponing exams was the wisest decision in the present scenario. But what will happen if the situation continues to remain the same after June 1? It will delay the entire academic cycle once again. The government should have prepared some uniform alternative evaluation criteria for both classes 10 and 12 in the last one year, taking into consideration how exams were cancelled last time as well.”Ameeta Wattal, principal of Springdales School in Pusa Road, welcomed CBSE’s decision of postponing exams. “The safety of students and teachers is most important in the present scenario. The board has given a window that talks about a review of the situation. It’s an extraordinary situation wherein we can’t take decisions every minute,” she said.Many principals, however, did not agree with the demand for an alternative assessment method for Class 12. Tania Joshi, principal of The Indian School, said, “We cannot assess Class 12 students using some other method in the absence of any standardised way of internal assessments. Maybe some schools follow strict marking schemes in internal exams and practicals and others do not. This will be injustice to many students. Besides, Class 12 marks are directly linked with students’ college admissions. Many universities take admissions directly on the basis of these marks,” she said.Some schools heads disagreed with this view. They said some “innovative” way of assessment should be explored. Awadesh Kumar Jha, principal of Sarvodaya Co-ed Vidyalaya in Rohini, said, “Schools should allocate marks to their students. CBSE should instruct schools to issue scores based on the best of the previous three years of school’s result.”Education expert Meeta Sengupta said the board should try to come up with some “innovative” ways to assess Class 12 students. “The best possible decision right now was to postpone exam. But now the CBSE should come up with some innovative way to conduct Class 12 exams. They can call small groups of students in staggered manner and take exams in a different way,” Sengupta said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/principals-students-welcome-postponement-of-class-12-exams-101618426614919.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha lockdown: Inter-district travel allowed, no need for e-pass||Director-general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey on Wednesday said that the people travelling inter-district for important work would not be stopped and such citizens will not need any police permission or e-pass. Pandey said police will not use force if people follow the rules. “We have asked all our unit heads to show maximum restraint while imposing movement restrictions,” said the DGP. Last year several videos of policemen beating pedestrians and publicly punishing and insulting them for violating lockdown restrictions went viral on social media. Sensing the anger and frustration among the public, traders and daily wage earners, both the state police chief and the Mumbai Police commissioner have instructed the force to go soft on those stepping out for unavoidable important work. The state police chief said that a full force of nearly two lakh personnel would be on lockdown duty. In addition to this 22 companies of State Reserve Police Force (SRPF) and 13,280 home guards would be put on lockdown duty as and when required. Mumbai and Nagpur Police have been given three and two SRPF companies, respectively. “We will coordinate with other government agencies to ensure that the spread of the virus is prevented,” Pandey said.Speaking about the spread of infection among police personnel across the state, Pandey said since the pandemic began last year, a total of 36,728 police personnel got infected by the virus. Of them, 373 have died due to the infection. Presently, 3,160 personnel are infected by the virus, while the remaining have recovered and resumed duty.Policemen above the age of 50 years with co-morbidities have been asked to take rest.Additional director general of police Kulwant Sarangal said that 81% policemen in the state have been vaccinated with the first dose, while 41% have received the second dose as well.As regards to lockdown violations, so far 3.23 lakh FIRs have been registered across the state since the pandemic began last March and 47,302 offenders have been arrested.Top cop’s directivesMumbai Police commissioner (CP) Hemant Nagrale has urged the police personnel in Mumbai to adopt a humane approach when dealing with people compelled to step out and to not be ruthless while imposing the statewide lockdown.Given the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, the government has announced lockdown and night curfew across the state for the next 15 days, starting from Wednesday at 8pm. Against this backdrop, CP has also urged citizens to cooperate and help in battling the deadly infection.In a video message issued on Wednesday, Nagrale has instructed policemen in Mumbai to not hit, punish poor people venturing out for important work during the lockdown and instead help them. “Adopt a human approach while dealing with such people. Don’t punish them in front of their family members and insult them. Instead, help the needy,” he said. Nagrale has urged policemen to be careful and safeguard themselves from getting infected.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-lockdown-inter-district-travel-allowed-no-need-for-epass-101618426613807.html
15-04-2021||Other||Hotels and banquets to boost Covid-19 bed count||New Delhi: With the number of Covid-19 cases in the capital increasing at an unprecedented pace, the Delhi government on Wednesday ordered linking of 23 private and five government hospitals with hotels and banquet halls to manage moderate patients who do not need strict monitoring. According to the order signed by health secretary Amit Singla, the hotels requisitioned included Raddison Blue, The Surya, and Crowne Plaza. As many as 100 rooms were reserved in Raddison Blue hotel in Paschim Vihar, which is linked to Maharaja Agrasen hospital in Punjabi Bagh. At least 200 rooms will be reserved in Surya, which is linked to Holy Family hospital, 150 beds in hotel Crowne Plaza, Rohini, which has been linked to Fortis Shalimar Bagh and another 200 rooms in the hotel’s Okhla branch has been attached with Apollo hospital. BLK hospital has been linked with 60 beds in JP Siddharth. Last year too, the government linked hotels and banquet halls to the hospitals to provide additional beds for moderate patients. The linked hotels will provide room, housekeeping, disinfection, and food to the patients while the hospitals will provide the staff, all consumables such as PPE kits, N95 masks, gloves, medicines, and oxygen support. According to the order, five-star hotels will be allowed to charge a maximum of ₹5,000 per patient per day and the four and three star hotels can charge Rs4,000 for the services rendered. In addition, the hospitals can charge ₹5,000 per patient per bed and an additional ₹2,000 for oxygen support. Any investigations needed will be chargeable as per hospital rates, the order said. “The rates of the banquet halls/ other facilities will be provided by divisional commissioner in due course,” a second order signed by Singhla read. In a separate order, the health secretary also asked for 678 more ward beds, 182 more ICU beds without ventilators, and 28 more ICU beds with ventilators in three Delhi government hospitals, including the biggest hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, Guru Teg Bahadur. With the current addition, all 1,500 beds in the GTB hospital will be utilised for Covid-19 services. The civic authorities on Wednesday appealed to the government to utilise municipal establishments, such as community centres and sports complexes, for creating temporary Covid care centres (CCC) or isolation facilities. The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to make its Balakram Hospital in Timarpur a CCC. Authorities have also written to the state government to convert Hindu Rao Hospital into a dedicated Covid-19 facility. Earlier too, during the third wave of Covid-19 in October-November last year, the Hindu Rao Hospital, which has 980 beds, was turned into a dedicated Covid-19 facility. “Everyday 30-40 Covid-19 patients are coming to Hindu Rao Hospital. Hence, today (Wednesday), I have written to the Delhi government to make this a Covid-19 dedicated facility as was done before. We have also decided to start a Covid care centre of 200 beds at Balakram Hospital, where patients can get themselves tested and those with mild symptoms can also be isolated there,” said North MCD mayor Jai Prakash.“We are planning to create small isolation centres at our community centres and schools with 50 beds each. This infrastructure can be used by the government,” Prakash said.There are nearly 119 community centres, four stadiums and four sports complex with the North Corporation. Similarly the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) runs 97 community centres. The east civic body has 71 community centres.Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said that the municipality wants to support the government in fight against Covid-19 but they will have to provide resources.“Our dispensaries, mother and child care centres are already being used as vaccination centres, which has helped a lot in vaccination process. So in the same manner if the state government wants they can use over community halls and schools as covid care centres or isolation wards to increase the number of beds,” Chawla said.A senior official at the East Delhi Municipal Corporation, on the condition of anonymity, said that last year when there was surge in covid cases, the EDMC has on its own converted some community halls into isolation wards but they were never used by the government. “So to avoid any such situation this time, we will wait for the government’s requirement. We are offering our infrastructure in fight against covid and if they want they can use these community halls as extended covid facilities,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hotels-and-banquets-to-boost-covid-19-bed-count-101618426613236.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Greater Noida: 20 fall sick after consuming food made of kuttu flour||Greater Noida: Around 20 persons fell sick after consuming spurious food items in Rabupura in Greater Noida on Tuesday night. They have been admitted to a local hospital in Kakod, Bulandshahr where their condition is stable, said officials, adding that the food item in question was kuttu (buckwheat) flour.RP Singh, food safety officer, Gautam Budh Nagar, said: “We received information that some people fell sick after eating food items made from kuttu ke laddu, in Jochana village in Greater Noida. A team visited the spot and found that all these people had been admitted to a hospital in Kakod,” he said.Kakod and Jochana villages are near to each other. The patients had complained of stomach-ache and vomiting after consuming the laddu, said officials.Singh said that around 10 persons were treated and discharged on Wednesday morning. “Primary investigation showed that these people had bought kuttu flour from a local grocer. It appears there was some problem with the flour used in making the laddu.” The shop owner, Shushil, had allegedly bought the product from a wholesale market in Bulandshahr, said the officer, adding that food poisoning was reported from Hajipur and Jhanjhar as well, besides Jochana, and that these people had allegedly bought buckwheat flour from the same shop. The food safety department issued a fine to the shop owner and sealed the shop. “We have also taken a sample and sent it for investigation,” he said. The food safety department also conducted a raid at another grocery shop and seized 450 kg of buckwheat flour, which they said was looking suspicious, in Rabupura on Wednesday. Dinesh Kumar, station house officer, Rabupura police station, said that the food department is investigating the matter. “All the patients are admitted to a hospital in Bulandshahr. We have not received a complaint in this regard,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/greater-noida-20-fall-sick-after-consuming-food-made-of-kuttu-flour-101618426612692.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Noida: man’s body found stuffed in a suitcase in Sector 14A||NoidaThe body of a man, who police presume was in his late twenties, was found stuffed in a suitcasein and floating in a drain in Noida sector 14A on Wednesday evening. The incident came to light when a passerby informed police about a strange bag floating in the drain. A police team, which rushed to the spot, recovered the suitcase and found the body inside, following which it was sent for autopsy.“Our forensic and field units have already been sent to the spot. It seems the trolley bag has floated from somewhere upstream, may be from one of the neighbouring areas. We are coordinating with Delhi police as this is a border area,” said additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1, Kumar Ranvijay Singh.Police officers said that the man seems to have been strangled to death. “There was a rope wrapped around his neck and the body appears to be at least a day or two old. He was dressed in black clothes and there was no identity cards on him,” said Singh.Police suspect that the man must have been stuffed in the bag immediately after his death and then thrown in the drain. Police said they are awaiting the autopsy results to confirm the time and cause of death.Meanwhile, efforts are also on to identify the man which police hope will lead to a clue about the death. A case has not been registered in Noida yet but action will be taken following the preliminary investigation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-man-s-body-found-stuffed-in-a-suitcase-in-sector-14a-101618426554028.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Burglary reported in two units of police staff quarters in Noida||Noida: Two houses in police staff quarters located in Sector 40 have been allegedly burgled by unidentified persons who decamped with valuables worth lakhs of rupees, police said.The incident took place on Monday evening, they said. The houses belonged to a female constable, Ranju, deployed at sector 39 police station and a constable of the local investigation unit, Nitin. According to police, the houses were broken into when the two constables were on duty. A case of burglary (section 380 of the Indian Penal Code) was registered at Sector 39 police station.“We are looking at the CCTV footages of the area. Some labourers were working on the premises and their involvement is being looked at. A few people have been questioned and we will identify the burglars soon,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that the burglars decamped with cash, jewellery and other valuables worth lakhs of rupees, though the exact amount of the goods stolen has not been determined yet. The officials said that teams have been formed to look into the case while efforts are also being made to ensure that there are no security lapses. Police suspect it to be an insider job, but are keeping all avenues of investigation open, they said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/burglary-reported-in-two-units-of-police-staff-quarters-in-noida-101618426553326.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: CBI questions Anil Deshmukh about allegations of graft||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) questioned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for about 11 hours in connection with the allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh.Responding to summons issued by CBI, Deshmukh reached the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guest house at Santacruz (east) shortly after 10am on Wednesday. CBI officers said Deshmukh was questioned about the allegations and his statement was recorded. CBI had issued summons to the NCP leader on April 12 as part of its preliminary enquiry registered on April 6, a day after the Bombay high court (HC) directed the central agency to probe the serious allegations against Deshmukh. He stepped down from the post of home minister on April 5, shortly after the HC ordered the CBI probe.The central agency has so far questioned Deshmukh’s personal assistant Sanjeev Palande, personal secretary Kundan Shinde, Param Bir Singh, deputy commissioner police (enforcement) Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police (social service branch) Sanjay Patil, suspended assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze, and two police drivers attached to the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of Mumbai Police’s crime branch. CBI has also questioned a few bar owners in connection with the alleged extortion.In a letter addressed to Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on March 20, Singh alleged that on several occasions Deshmukh had summoned some Mumbai Police officers such as Bhujbal, Patil, and Vaze, who has been arrested by the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Antilia bomb scare case, and instructed them to extort ₹100 crore monthly from various establishments, especially dance bars, in the city.Singh’s letter also added that Deshmukh had told the officers that ₹50 crore could be easily collected by extorting ₹3-4 lakh from each of the 1,750 licensed establishments in Mumbai, and the rest from other sources. Singh said Vaze had informed him about Deshmukh’s demands. In addition, Singh also alleged that Deshmukh interfered in policing affairs.Singh was shunted out by Deshmukh from the post of Mumbai Police chief on March 17 and was posted as commandant general of Home Guards and Civil Defence, three days after the National Investigation Agency (NIA) arrested Vaze for allegedly planting an explosive-laden vehicle near Antilia, the residence of industrialist Mukesh Ambani, on February 25 with a threatening note, and also for his alleged involvement in Mansukh Hiran murder case.Soon after registration of an offence in the Antilia bomb scare case, Singh had transferred the case to the CIU, which was then headed by Vaze. NIA later also found that during the course of investigation for one-and-half day in the Antilia case, Vaze had collected and systematically destroyed evidence.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-cbi-questions-anil-deshmukh-about-allegations-of-graft-101618426552755.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Gardener riding moped shot at in Noida||Noida: A 40-year-old gardener was allegedly shot at by two unidentified persons on Wednesday morning while he was on his way to work near the Sector 50 metro station.The victim was identified as Krishna Kumar, a resident of Hoshiyarpur village who works at a residential society in Sector 50, police said, adding that his condition is now stable. According to police, he was on his moped when two unidentified persons on a Pulsar motorcycle fired at him.“A call was made to the police helpline by a passerby. He was shot once in his back and was rushed to a nearby hospital where his condition is now stable. A case has been registered at Sector 49 police station for attempt to murder,” said Kumar Ranvijay Singh, additional deputy commissioner of police, zone 1.Police officials said that prima facie the case appears to be that of a personal enmity and efforts are on to identify the assailants. Kumar has not shared any specific inputs with police, they said. Police said that they are looking at the CCTV footage of the area and the case will be worked out soon.The incident, however, has rattled residents in the area. “The shooting took place in broad daylight in F block that has at least 12 high-rises. There were a few snatching incidents in the area some time back following which patrolling was ramped up, and there is a police post nearby. But the shooting incident is scary for the residents. Our area needs more CCTV cameras,” said Rajiva Singh, a resident of Sector 50.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/gardener-riding-moped-shot-at-in-noida-101618426494366.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha lockdown: New curbs in effect, citizens still confused||As Maharashtra went under a 15-day curfew along with other strict restrictions from Wednesday evening to break the chain of transmission, confusion prevailed over who could travel in public transport and private vehicles, and services allowed under e-commerce. Senior government officials said the “chaos” prompted it to prepare/issue a set of frequently asked questions (FAQs).Hours before the curfew kicked in, citizens, especially in major cities, including Mumbai, Pune and Aurangabad, thronged shops and departmental stores to stock up groceries and other essential items. The state has exempted shops and stores selling essential items from the curfew. In Mumbai, migrants flocked to the Lokmanya Tilak Terminus and Dadar railway stations to return to their home states. However, there is no restriction on travel with valid tickets. Also, outstation trains, flights etc. will continue to operate.A senior bureaucrat said, “There was a lot of chaos. People went to train stations to leave the city. We wish to inform everybody that all outstation trains are operational and will remain so. Local trains too will be available to use for general public with valid reason such as visiting somebody in the hospital, vaccination etc.” The restrictions however will remain for people travelling far from home in private vehicles, the bureaucrat, who did not wish to be named, added. “If someone drives from Mumbai to Lonavala, they shouldn’t, unless they have a home there and a valid reason to visit.”The state in its order on Tuesday allowed supply of essential goods and services through e-commerce sites. However, there was confusion if non-essential items would be allowed. “E-commerce firms can only deliver essential items such as food grains and medicines etc. They will not be allowed to deliver items such as clothing, footwear etc.” the official added. The state faced stiff opposition from retailers’ association for allowing e-commerce sites to sell non-essential goods. Meanwhile, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Wednesday issued an order, in keeping with its previous order, allowing maids, cooks, drivers, medical attendants providing services to senior citizens at home between 7am and 10pm on all days. The order, issued by BMC commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal, allowed all online home deliveries of food and essential supplies through e-commerce service providers such as Zomato, Swiggy, etc for 24 hours, on all days of the week. During the weekend lockdown, takeaways from restaurants are not allowed in person. However, home deliveries are allowed. Besides, wine and beer shops in the city would also be allowed to sell liquor via home delivery only. While appealing to the people to follow all rules and support the police force, newly appointed state home minister Dilip Walse Patil said the restrictions will put a strain on the police force. “We are definitely facing a big challenge in the state and the government had put restrictions to curb the spread. They (the restrictions) will definitely put a strain on the police force. However, instructions have been given to the force to tackle the situation with utmost restraint,” he said.Meanwhile, as opposition party Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) continued its criticism of the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) over the relief package given to some sections of society, MVA ministers said that BJP has been affected by a “disease to criticize”, and also asked if the Centre gave any package to people when it announced a complete lockdown last year.State relief and rehabilitation minister Vijay Wadettiwar said, “The last time when lockdown was announced by the Centre no help was given to common man. Today, when the state has put a lockdown, we have given nearly ₹5,500-crore help to people.” Mumbai guardian minister Aslam Shaikh asked, “Did the Centre provide any such package when they announced a lockdown?” Leader of opposition Devendra Fadnavis said the government has left out sections of society that constitute a major work force in its relief package. Wadettiwar said that he is going to meet chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Thursday to seek inclusion of the barber community and Bara Balutedar community in the relief package. (With inputs from Mehul R Thakkar)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-lockdown-new-curbs-in-effect-citizens-still-confused-101618426493816.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Jewar airport gets security clearance from aviation ministry arm||Noida: The Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) on Wednesday gave its clearance to the Noida International Airport to be developed in Jewar, said officials of the Uttar Pradesh government. The BCAS, which comes under the ministry of civil aviation, is the regulatory authority for civil aviation security in the country.“A great news! The security clearance and vetting for Phase I of the Noida International Airport has been received from BCAS also, and has already been received from the other regulating authorities,” tweeted SP Goyal, additional chief secretary to UP chief minister. The UP government has also approved a proposal for land acquisition for the second phase of the project, officials of Gautam Budh Nagar administration said.Suhas LY, GB Nagar district magistrate, said that the clearance of BCAS is a milestone for Noida International Airport. “This means we are getting closer to the project. This is a significant project for this region, the state and the country. This will usher a new era in terms of development and growth multiplier,” he said. A total of 1,334 hectares were acquired for the first phase of the airport which will be developed in four phases. For the second phase, 1,365 hectares will be acquired, while 1,318 hectares for phase 3 and 735 hectares for phase 4 will be acquired. Balram Singh, ADM (land acquisition) GB Nagar, said that the UP government has approved the proposal for acquisition of land for the second phase. “The government also released ₹1,084 crore for the second phase of land acquisition. The administration will soon conduct a social impact assessment study and then start the land acquisition for phase 2,” he said.Meanwhile, the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority (Yeida), which is the nodal agency to monitor the project, has started preparations for the foundation programme of the airport. Yeida officials said that they have issued a request for proposal (RFP) to hire an agency for the programme which will be attended by the prime minister and UP chief minister. The RFP document states that the agency will be responsible for organising the inauguration, bhoomi poojan, and cultural programmes,among others. However, the date of the foundation programme is yet to be announced.“The Yamuna Expressway authority has decided to hire an agency for two years to assist it in organising big events where VIPs and higher dignitaries are expected to attend. This will help us make proper arrangements at a short notice,” said Shailendra Bhatia, officer on special duty, Yeida.Yeida CEO Arunveer Singh was not available for a comment.Swiss company Zurich Airport International AG has been selected as the concessionaire for developing the international airport at Jewar. In total, the airport is projected to have five runways when it is developed to its full capacity over a total of 5,000 hectares of land. There will be two runways in phase 1 and the airport is expected to become operational by 2023-24.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/jewar-airport-gets-security-clearance-from-aviation-ministry-arm-101618426493229.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Students heave a sigh of relief as board cancels Class 10 exams||Principals, parents and students on Wednesday welcomed the Centre’s decision to cancel the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 exams in view of the fourth wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in the country.The decision was announced by the Union education ministry following a high-level meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday. The Class 10 students will now be evaluated using an alternative assessment method.While CBSE did not immediately reveal the expected evaluation criteria, board officials said that “it might be done on the basis of internal and practical exams of students”. The board has also announced that if any candidate is not satisfied with the marks allocated, they will be given an opportunity to take an exam as and when the conditions improve.Alka Kapur, principal of Modern Public School in Shalimar Bagh, said: “It won’t be an issue to evaluate Class 10 students on the basis of internal exams, pre-boards, and practicals. In previous years also, we followed the Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) system in Class 10, and we have all the criteria in place. We can also do an aptitude test to allot streams to students in Class 11. Under the current circumstances, evaluating students on the basis of internal marks will be less problematic than exposing them to the virus.”Between 2010 and 2017, CBSE followed the CCE system under which students’ marks were replaced by grades which were evaluated through a series of curricular and extra-curricular evaluations along with academics. The external board exam was optional during this period. CBSE had reintroduced compulsory board exams in class 10 in 2018.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School said: “We have already completed all class 10 internal exams and practical exams. We had two pre-board exams as well that can be included while assessing the students.”Several Class 10 students said they are relieved with the cancellation of exams. Vedant Gidra, a Class 10 student at a private school in west Delhi, said: “My parents were really worried about my safety amid the rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi. We are thankful to the government for cancelling our exams and keeping our safety a priority. Most of my friends and I do not have any issue if we get evaluated on the basis of our internals.”Kushagra Sharma, the father of a Class 10 student of Delhi Public School in Vasant Kunj, said: “We are grateful that the government put the safety and security of our kids on top priority while taking this decision. We were really worried about the safety of my daughter. We have elderly people at home and her going to the examination centre would have compromised their safety as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/principals-students-welcome-move-to-cancel-class-10-board-exams-101618426433903.html
15-04-2021||Other||Govt allows 14 reserved pvt hospitals to use some beds for emergency care||New Delhi: Two days after designating 14 big private hospitals as dedicated Covid facilities, the Delhi government on Wednesday revised its order allowing the hospitals to use 10%-30% of their beds to provide emergency care as well as follow-up treatment to some of their patients. Only two hospitals, Max Smart Superspeciality hospital and Manipal hospital, remained completely Covid-19 centres after the revised order, which reduced the number of beds accrued from 4,337 beds to 3,553. Big hospitals such as Indraprastha Apollo and Sir Ganga Ram retained nearly 200 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients. “The remainder beds or additional beds in these hospitals shall be used for treatment of non-Covid follow-up patients and patients requiring emergent medical or surgical treatment. Further, the concerned 14 hospitals would be allowed to temporarily increase their bed capacity up to 35% and the additional beds may also be utilised for the treatment of non-Covid patients,” the revised order signed by medical superintendent of Delhi’s nursing home cell Dr RN Das read. The decision to free up beds was taken after a meeting between Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and the representatives from all 14 hospitals. “We met with the health minister today and explained our problems -- of the 14 hospitals, eight are located within 10km, seriously curtailing the chances of non-Covid patients in the region getting emergency care. These are also the biggest hospitals that provide specialised care such as transplant surgeries, complicated brain and spine surgeries and need to follow up these patients regularly. The minister understood our plight and we were told that some beds would be freed up in all the hospitals for non-Covid-19 patients,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary of Delhi Voluntary Hospital’s forum, an association of large private hospitals in the city. He said that during the meeting with the minister, he suggested that smaller nursing homes may be utilised instead to ramp up bed capacity, if needed. Girdhar Gyani, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India), said, “This is our partial victory. These 14 hospitals can carry out the critical procedures. We will therefore not go to court for time being.” The association had prepared a writ petition after the government order. In September, the association had sued the Delhi government after 80% of the ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals had been reserved for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/govt-allows-14-reserved-pvt-hospitals-to-use-some-beds-for-emergency-care-101618426432768.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena backs MES candidate in Belgaum; Raut campaigns, holds roadshow||Throwing its weight behind Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES), Shiv Sena leader Sanjay Raut campaigned for MES’s Shubham Shelke in Belgaum, Karnataka on Wednesday. However, Raut said the stage of the public rally he was scheduled to address was damaged before he arrived and instead staged a roadshow in Belgaum to campaign for Shelke.Belgaum will go to polls April 17 as a bypoll was necessitated after Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Suresh Angadi died due to Covid-19 in September 2020.The region is particularly important for the Sena as these areas have a majority of Marathi-speaking population. Earlier in January, Sena chief and Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had aggressively raised the Maharashtra-Karnataka border dispute and sought that the disputed areas be made Union Territory till the issue is resolved legally.“Shutting down the campaign rally of an opponent by destroying the stage, microphones and sound system despite permissions is against the democracy and the Election Commission rules. Whoever has given these orders, including the returning officer and district collector, have violated the Constitution today. This is oppression, but it does not affect us; we have been fighting against this injustice. I have come here at the orders of Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray. The people of Maharashtra are with Belgaum,” Raut told reporters in Belgaum.There is a triangular contest in Belgaum with the MES, BJP and Congress fielding candidates for the sear. The BJP has given the ticket to Mangala Angadi, wife of a former MP, while the Congress fielded Satish Jarkiholi. Shelke could make a dent into the BJP votes as the Marathi-speaking voters could back the party that seeks to include the region in Maharashtra.According to Raut, Shelke is giving a tough fight to the BJP as the national party has deployed Union ministers from Maharashtra to campaign. He said MES and Sena have come together to give “active support” to the young candidate. “It is clear that the MES candidate is giving a tough fight to other candidates. Karnataka CM campaigned here on Wednesday; tomorrow Nitin Gadkari is going to campaign —with such people coming to campaign, it shows that Shelke is giving a tough fight,” Raut said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-backs-mes-candidate-in-belgaum-raut-campaigns-holds-roadshow-101618426433305.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai records 9,931 new cases, tally is 545,195||The city on Wednesday reported 9,931 Covid-19 cases and 54 deaths, taking the tally to 545,195, and toll to 12,147. The city has 86,635 active cases and the case fatality rate is 2.2%. Throughout April, the number of deaths per day in Mumbai has been in double digits as opposed to the figures for February and March, even though the case fatality rate has been steady, owing to the increase in number of cases per day. In the past 14 days, throughout April, Mumbai has seen a total of 457 deaths, as opposed to 215 deaths in March. In the past 14 days, Mumbai has recorded a total of 130,422 covid-19 cases, as opposed to 88,856 cases in the whole of March. The case fatality rate in March was 0.2%, versus 0.3% in April. On April 13, Mumbai reported 27 deaths; on April 12, 43; on April 11, 79 deaths; on April 10, 28 deaths; on April 9, 35 deaths, and on April 8, 25 deaths. Experts and authorities say this is concerning. Dr Rahul Pandit, part of the Maharashtra government’s Covid-19 task force, said, “Every death due to Covid-19 is alarming. Our job in the task force is to suggest measures to reduce the number of deaths. Among the main reasons for the deaths in Covid are rapid spread of infections in lungs, delay in reporting to hospital and also delay in testing. Medical attention must be sought right away.” However, Mumbai is also dealing with an overburdened health infrastructure due to the spike in daily cases. Mumbai currently has 4,105 vacant hospital beds for Covid-19 patients, 20% of its total capacity of 20,022. Of the 2,664 ICU beds, only 41 are available in the city; 15 of 1,339 beds ventilator beds are vacant. Of the total capacity of 10,361, 1,444 oxygen beds are available. Dr Om Shrivastav, who is also a part of the government Covid-19 task force, said, “In a pandemic of this magnitude, health infrastructure is burdened. However, out of the total cases that come daily, 80% to 85% do not even require hospitalisation as they are asymptomatic. Not all patients who require hospitalization will require ventilator beds of ICUs.” As per information available with the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), for 86,866 active cases in Mumbai, 80% are asymptomatic, 18% are stable symptomatic, and 1.4% are critical. Dr Pandit said, “The present restrictions imposed by the government are needed, so we get time to scale our health infrastructure. In another 15 days, the burden on hospitals will hopefully reduce and more beds will be vacant, following these restrictions.” Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of the public health department in BMC, said, “The increase in the number of deaths is a matter of concern, even though the CFR is stable. The study is showing most deaths are in senior citizens, or citizens with severe comorbidities. In such cases, the most important aspect is to not waste a lot of time, and take the beds allotted by the civic body. Delay can cause complications in symptoms.” Of the 54 deaths reported on Wednesday, 33 patients had comorbidities, 2 deaths were below 40 years of age, 15 deaths were between the age of 40 years and 60 years, and 37 deaths were in patients above 60 years of age. While the highest number of cases reported in the city during this peak was 11,302 cases on April 4, in the past few days, Mumbai has been reporting under 10,000 cases a day. On Tuesday, Mumbai reported 7,873 cases, on Monday, it reported 6,893 cases, on Sunday it reported 9,986 cases, and on Saturday, it reported 9,330 cases. Kakani said, “We have seen under 10,000 cases per day for the past few days. However, in another week, the picture will become clearer about whether the cases will now begin to plateau, and the effect of the present restrictions in the city will begin to show.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-records-9-931-new-cases-tally-is-545195-101618426376237.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||How Amravati controlled Covid surge||Amravati district in Vidarbha was the first in the state to witness a surge in Covid-19 cases in the second wave. The sudden spike in cases in the second week of February in the district swung the entire state machinery into action, resulting in the imposition of a lockdown and more testing and tracing. The measures helped the machinery bring down the numbers in just four weeks and also set a model, ‘Amravati pattern’, which became a reference point while imposing the stricter curbs, which came into effect on Wednesday night. From less than 100 cases daily till January-end, Amravati reported its highest single-day spike of 1,067 cases in the third week of February. The number was rising rapidly in most urbanised pockets of Achalpur and Warud, straining the health infrastructure to a great extent. While cases were rising in other parts of the state steadily, the cases in Amravati were spiralling at a rapid pace. “We were worried as the health machinery was overwhelmed. We tried the weekend curfew, but it did not work, forcing us to go for the complete lockdown for two weeks until March 8. While imposing a lockdown, we also ensured tracing and testing was ramped up multi-fold. It helped us bring down the cases to 292 on March 9 and 241 on April 5. The positivity rate too was brought down to about 10% by then,” said women and child welfare minister and district’s guardian minister Yashomati Thakur. “We planned the lockdown as well as unlocking in a phased manner. Today, Amravati helps other districts like Buldhana and Nagpur and even other spots like Chhindwara in MP to treat critical patients in need of beds with oxygen and ventilators,” Thakur said. The district administration had identified the pockets with a high number of cases. “We have two huge markets, bordering Achalpur and Warud, with high mobility from Nagpur and even Madhya Pradesh. Most of the cases were from these areas. The positivity rate had gone up to 35%-40%. High-risk contacts were traced, taking the ratio to 19 people per infection and tests were doubled to 5,000 a day. The positive patients were sent to institutional quarantine, while home quarantine was allowed only after taking a ₹25,000 bond to avoid violation. This helped us in reducing the numbers in just two weeks,” said district health officer Dr Dilip Ranmale. “The number of cases in Amravati has reached the level it was two months ago. The number of cases in the state is expected to start reducing by April-end, two months after the rise began,” said Dr Avinash Supe, head of the state-appointed death audit committee.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/how-amravati-controlled-covid-surge-101618426375579.html
15-04-2021||Noida||CBSE’s decision on board exams relieves some, miffs few||Noida: The CBSE’s decision to cancel Class 10 exams and postpone Class 12 exams following a surge in Covid-19 cases has evoked a bittersweet response among students, teachers and parents in Noida and Ghaziabad. As per the CBSE order, the Covid-19 situation will be reviewed in June to take a call on the conduct of Class 12 examinations while the result for Class 10 will be declared on the basis of the objective criteria decided by the board.“I am confident about my internal assessment and I am sure I will be promoted to 11th standard. It is a relief that not just the exams are cancelled, we have also been given an option to appear for exams if we are not satisfied with the marks allocated,” said Atish Jha, who studies at Sun Valley International School, Vaishali, in Ghaziabad. Tyakshi Singh, who is a Class 10 student at Army Public School in Noida’s sector 37, was hoping to appear for the Class 10 board exams. “Though I am sure I will be promoted, I think I would have scored better in board exams than the internal exams that were taken by the school,” she said. Meanwhile, students of Class 12 are on the edge. “I had prepared a study schedule according to my board exams and college entrance exams. Now, I will again have to rework my schedule. I hope the board exams don’t get delayed later than June, else they may clash with other exams,” said Astha Singh, who studies at Amity International School, Noida.“It has been over a year that I am stuck in Class 12. I was looking forward to get done with my board exams. We aren’t sure what the Covid-19 situation will be like in future. Last year, board exams were held in September. If the same happens this year too, my whole year will go to waste,” said Saksham Sharma, a Class 12 student of DPS, Noida. The Class 12 exams were scheduled to begin from May 4. “The policy of internal assessment and the option of opting to sit for the exam should also be devised for Class 12 students if the situation remains the same till June to save the crucial year of the students and enable them to apply for courses in foreign universities,” said Rajiv Pant, retired bursar of Sardar Patel Vidyalaya. Meanwhile, school officials welcomed the government decision stating that given how cases are increasing, this is the only solution. “There are 78 CBSE board centres in Noida, where around 500 to 600 students are expected to take the exams. With Covid cases surging, we were worried as to how will the exams be conducted. I believe this is a fair decision,” said Renu Singh, principal of Amity International School, Noida. “I believe that health comes first and each student should be protected from Covid-19,” said Kamini Bhasin, Principal of DPS Noida. Welcoming the decision to cancel the Class X board exams, Sangeeta Hajela, principal of DPS, Indirapuram, said , “The focus should now be on addressing the learning gap that has already occurred. However, Class 12 board examinations have a different kind of sanctity attached to them because all higher study opportunities and career choices, both in India and abroad, depend on them,” she added.On the other hand, parents feel the postponement of Class 12 exams will add to the stress of the children. “Till when will you keep postponing the exams? When the coronavirus situation has not ended in the last one year, how can you expect it to get better by June? As parents, we feel the anxiety of our children and making them for the exam dates is not fair,” said Manoj Kataria, who is the president of Gautam Budh Nagar Parents’ Welfare Society. Yatender Kasana, president of All Noida School Parents Association, said, “The Class 12 students should be promoted without exams as in any case, they have to give the entrance exams for colleges and higher studies. Delaying exams is like playing with their future”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/cbses-decision-on-board-exams-relieves-some-miffs-few-101618426374401.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC suggests shifting prisoners to open prison||The Aurangabad bench of the Bombay high court (HC), while granting emergency furlough to eight of the nine inmates of Paithan open prison, suggested getting prisoners from congested jails transferred to the open prison to take care of the 220 cattle and 325 acres of sugarcane plantation under the prison administration. The suggestion was prompted after the court was informed that while the prison had a capacity of 500 inmates, it currently has only 41 inmates as the others had taken benefit of emergency parole/ furlough and were released as per the guidelines of the high-power committee (HPC). The division bench of justice Ravindra Ghuge and justice BU Debadwar, while hearing writ petitions filed by nine inmates lodged at Paithan Open Prison, was informed by advocate PP More that the petitioners had been in prison for five to 10 years and that with the exception of one, the remaining eight were never released on parole or furlough. In view of this, More added, that the inmates were aggrieved by the refusal of the jail superintendent to grant them emergency parole/furlough recommended by the HPC. On May 8, 2020 in light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the state government had issued a notification permitting release of prisoners temporarily to curb the spread of the virus and decongest jails. The state had, however, left it to the HPC to work out the modalities of the implementation of the notification. The HPC had laid down conditions for release of prisoners convicted and sentenced under the Indian Penal Code but refused parole and furlough to those found guilty under special Acts. More also said it would be discrimination if the petitioners were not allowed emergency parole/furlough, and hence sought directions to jail authorities to consider their application. The chief public prosecutor then informed the court that as many prisoners had taken benefit of emergency parole/furlough, the population of Paithan open prison was only 41 as opposed to its capacity of 500. He submitted that as there was agricultural land and cattle of the prison that needed to be taken care of, he would speak to the additional chief secretary of home department to clarify when and how the released prisoners were to be recalled as at least one-third of the prison’s strength would have to be maintained. After hearing the submissions, the court held the inmates could not be discriminated against just because the prison had to maintain a certain population, and suggested that the state get prisoners who were eligible to be placed in open prisons to be transferred from other congested jails to make up the shortfall.The court then directed the superintendent of Paithan jail to consider the applications of the eight petitioners but rejected the petition of one prisoner who was released on parole once.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-suggests-shifting-prisoners-to-open-prison-101618426374954.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Central team finds flaws in Mohali admn’s Covid management||The three-member team from the Centre that was in Mohali district to assess the Covid-19 situation has highlighted multiple flaws on the part of the administration in handling the pandemic.In the past six weeks, the district has reported around 12,500 Covid-19 cases and over 100 deaths. Around 70% cases have surfaced in Mohali city, and Dhakoli in Zirakpur accounts for 1,200 cases in April alone. While the district administration has failed to announce any curbs in Mohali city, sources said Dhakoli, with a population of around one lakh, was declared a containment zone late on Monday only after objections raised by the central team.The team, which was in the district for five days and submitted its report to Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan on Tuesday, said there is no government facility for critical patients requiring ventilators. The health department has done nothing to recruit manpower or purchase equipment to develop such a facility and all critical patients are being sent to Patiala, it said. The report also highlighted unsatisfactory contact tracing due to manpower crunch. Only addresses are asked and there is no real intent to trace the infection trail, it stated, adding that even containment zones are just on paper and there is nothing being done on the ground to contain the infection spread. The team, comprising two doctors, both named Naveen Kumar, and IAS officer VK Singh, also noted that there is poor coordination between Mohali and Chandigarh administrations regarding Covid-19 patients.The deputy commissioner said the administration has replied to various issues raised by the team. As far as the facility for critical patients is concerned, the civil hospital in Mohali is undergoing construction and the district has been mapped with Patiala for referrals of such cases. We have also directed private hospitals in the district to stop elective procedures to increase the bed capacity for Covid care. On the lack of coordination with Chandigarh, he said: “We have taken up the matter with the Prime Minister, urging him to ensure that all government hospitals in Chandigarh admit critical patients from Mohali, but a reply is awaited.” On contact tracing, Dayalan said Mohali is tracing the highest number contacts in the state, ie 20 per Covid positive patient.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/central-team-finds-flaws-in-mohali-admn-s-covid-management-101618426373953.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Journalists are frontline workers, must be vaccinated: Arvind Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday said the Delhi government will write to the Centre, requesting it to consider journalists as frontline workers so that they are considered for Covid-19 vaccination on priority.“Journalists are reporting from most adverse situations. They should be treated as frontline workers and should be allowed vaccination on priority. Delhi government is writing to the Centre in this regard,” Kejriwal tweeted.The Delhi chief minister’s tweet came hours after the Federation of All India Medical Association wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi urging the same.“Journalists cannot work from home, and have put their lives and health at risk on a daily basis to cover both the Covid-19 pandemic and other matters of public concern, including matters critical to health and safety of the public, and critical to our democracy… While others have the option to walk away from large crowds, or to avoid members of the public that don’t follow ICMR health guidelines, these journalists repeatedly put their own safety at risk to document what is occurring and inform their communities – large and small. As a result, we have seen journalists become infected, hospitalised and even, unfortunately, succumb to Covid-19,” read the association’s letter.Delhi is going through its worst phase of Covid-19, with daily cases crossing 17,000 and active cases above 50,000-mark, as per government data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/journalists-are-frontline-workers-must-be-vaccinated-kejriwal-101618426372733.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Hotels and banquets to boost Covid bed count in Delhi||With the number of Covid-19 cases in the capital increasing at an unprecedented pace, the Delhi government on Wednesday ordered linking of 23 private and five government hospitals with hotels and banquet halls to manage moderate patients who do not need strict monitoring.According to the order signed by health secretary Amit Singla, the hotels requisitioned included Raddison Blue, The Surya, and Crowne Plaza.As many as 100 rooms were reserved in Raddison Blue hotel in Paschim Vihar, which is linked to Maharaja Agrasen hospital in Punjabi Bagh. At least 200 rooms will be reserved in Surya, that is linked to Holy Family hospital, 150 beds in hotel Crowne Plaza, Rohini, which has been linked to Fortis Shalimar Bagh and another 200 rooms in the hotel’s Okhla branch has been attached with Apollo hospital. BLK hospital has been linked with 60 beds in JP Siddharth.Last year too, the Delhi government had linked hotels and banquet halls to hospitals to provide additional beds for patients with moderate symptoms.The linked hotels will provide room, housekeeping, disinfection, and food to the patients while the hospitals will provide staff, all consumables such as PPE kits, N95 masks, gloves, medicines, and oxygen support.According to the order, five-star hotels will be allowed to charge a maximum of Rs5,000 per patient per day and the four and three star hotels can charge ₹4,000 for the services rendered. In addition, the hospitals can charge ₹5,000 per patient per bed and an additional ₹2,000 for oxygen support. Any investigations needed will be chargeable as per hospital rates, the order said.“The rates of the banquet halls/ other facilities will be provided by divisional commissioner in due course,” a second order signed by Singhla read.In a separate order, the health secretary also asked for 678 more ward beds, 182 more ICU beds without ventilators, and 28 more ICU beds with ventilators in three Delhi government hospitals, including the biggest hospital in the trans-Yamuna region, Guru Teg Bahadur. With the current addition, all 1,500 beds in the GTB hospital will be utilised for Covid-19 patients.The civic authorities on Wednesday appealed to the government to utilise municipal establishments, such as community centres and sports complexes, for creating temporary Covid care centres (CCC) or isolation facilities.The North Delhi Municipal Corporation has decided to make its Balakram Hospital in Timarpur a Covid care centre. Authorities have also written to the state government to convert Hindu Rao Hospital into a dedicated Covid-19 facility.Earlier too, during the third wave of Covid-19 in October-November last year, the Hindu Rao Hospital, which has 980 beds, was turned into a dedicated Covid-19 facility.“Everyday 30-40 Covid-19 patients are coming to Hindu Rao Hospital. Hence, today (Wednesday), I have written to the Delhi government to make this a Covid-19 dedicated facility as was done before. We have also decided to start a Covid care centre of 200 beds at Balakram Hospital, where patients can get themselves tested and those with mild symptoms can also be isolated there,” said North MCD mayor Jai Prakash.There are nearly 119 community centres with the North Corporation. Similarly the South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) runs 97 community centres. The east civic body has 71 community centres.“If the government wants they can use over community halls and schools to set up covid care centres or create isolation wards in them to increase the number of beds for Covid patients,” Narendra Chawla, leader of the House in SDMC, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hotels-and-banquets-to-boost-covid-bed-count-in-delhi-101618426078315.html
15-04-2021||Noida||Covid-19 containment zones in Ghaziabad’s urban segments rise rapidly||Ghaziabad: With new Covid-19 cases coming in thick and fast, the number of containment zones in the Ghaziabad district has shot up from 169 on April 11 to 321 as of April 13. These 321 include 174 zones having a single case and 147 having more than one case.Officials said that containment zones having more than one case is a cause of worry and their share is about 45.79%. “High number of containment zones having multiple cases is a cause of worry. It indicates Covid spread among families and neighbours. This trend is more visible in city areas. It also indicated that the virus is spreading fast. Containment is one of the best strategies to curb Covid spread,” said Dr VB Jindal, former president of Indian Medical Association (Ghaziabad). “Nowadays, with multiple cases coming from the same family, it is hard to detect the source. So, containment is a must,” he added. According to official records, there were 169 containment zones with 519 cases on April 11 whereas on April 12, the figure increased to 233 containment zones with 709 cases. On April 13, city areas falling under Indirapuram police station area had 37 containment zones, with 157 cases, at an average of about 4.24 cases per zone. In Vijay Nagar, 16 containment zones had 103 cases, while in Kaushambi, there were 102 cases in 25 containment zones. Kavi Nagar, on the other hand, had 143 cases in 35 zones.Meanwhile, localities under Muradnagar police station have 50 cases in as many containment zones. Likewise, Bhojpur has four cases in as many zones and Modinagar also has 26 cases in as many zones.On April 3, UP chief secretary RK Tiwari had issued an order for surveillance in which areas having even one positive case was to be created as a containment zone in a radius of 25 metres (comprising about 20 houses), while areas having more than one case will be in form of a cluster with a radius of 50 metres (comprising about 60 houses). For each case in a high-rise, the entire floor will be contained while in case of multiple cases, the entire tower will be contained. In another order on April 11, the UP chief secretary had directed that the supply of essential commodities should be ensured in all containment zones. “We are ensuring strict compliance of containment zone guidelines. I have asked the respective incident commanders of different areas to ensure strict enforcement. We are ensuring that guidelines are properly followed in containment zones in order to check the spread,” said Ajay Shankar Pandey, district magistrate. The health department said that more cases in a lesser number of containment zones indicate that infected persons mixed up with others. “It could be their family or friends or neighbours. So, the movement of people having symptoms should be restricted and self-regulation is also a must. Otherwise, it is seen nowadays that the infection is spreading fast. In such a scenario, smaller areas have a risk of getting converted to containment zones,” said an officer from the district health department, requesting anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/covid19-containment-zones-in-ghaziabad-s-urban-segments-rise-rapidly-101618426315445.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Physical meetings only if related to Covid or court: Delhi govt to staff||Days after asking nearly 50% of its staff to work from home, the Delhi government has asked all its departments, agencies and state-run companies to strictly prohibit physical meetings -- unless they are related to Covid-19 management, court matters, or some urgent business. The three municipal corporations of Delhi have also issued similar orders to their staff.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) in an order issued on April 12, said that “besides the reduction in attendance in the offices of Delhi government, unnecessary interactions amongst officers/officials are restricted. Therefore, the competent authority has directed that no meetings in person shall take place except meetings related to Covid-19 management, court matters, and matters of urgent nature.”Public dealings in the offices of the district magistrates have been exempted from the restrictions.More than 23 revenue services categorised as “non-essential” were shut in Delhi since March 20 last year due to the pandemic and the nationwide lockdown. From June 8 last year, when the first unlocking guidelines were issued, Delhi government’s revenue department also gradually opened up its public services, including issuing income, domicile, marriage, caste and solvency certificates, mutation of properties, enrolment of Aadhaar, recruitment of civil defence volunteers, and registration of documents in sub-registrar offices.The three municipalities have also started following the DDMA directives.North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said that orders were issued to ensure that only 50% staff attends office at a time, and officials have been directed to make rosters to implement the order. “This work from home order will be implemented in every department except for public health and sanitation departments. Rosters are being made to call employees alternatively to offices. We have also suspended all physical meetings,” said Prakash.The east and south corporations are also following the same protocols.An East MCD spokesperson said that, by April 12, rosters were made to follow the 50% staff strength rule. “Only A grade officers, such as commissioner, additional commissioner and other senior officials, are asked to come to office every day.”An SDMC officer said, “We will soon make a roster which will ensure only 50% staff is present in offices at a time and rest work from home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/physical-meetings-only-if-related-to-covid-or-court-delhi-govt-to-staff-101618426314814.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha lockdown: Can travel by trains only for valid reason||With the lockdown in the state, restrictions are back on public transport, especially local trains, from Wednesday night. Although transport services have not been suspended, but the general public are not allowed to travel by local trains. People working in essential care, travelling for medical purposes and people travelling to and from vaccination centres across the city will be allowed to commute by local trains. Autorickshaws are allowed to have two passengers only, excluding the driver; taxis are allowed to operate at 50% of vehicle capacity, while BrihanMumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) buses are not allowed to ferry anyone standing in the vehicle. In order to ensure only authorised people travel by local trains, railway authorities will check passengers at entry and exit points. The Central and Western Railway will deploy additional staff, including Railway Protection Force (RPF) personnel and ticket-checkers, to inspect people on the station premises. Further, closing of multiple entry and exit points at railway stations is also being considered. “We will randomly check passengers entering the railway stations. We will study the situation and if the need arises, we will close multiple entry and exit points.” said Shivaji Sutar, chief public relation officer, Central Railway. The number of local train services is also likely to be limited. At present, the railways operate 2,985 local train services, of which 1,685 are operated on the Central Railway and 1,300 are operated on Western Railway. “The decision on limiting the number of local train services has not been taken yet. It will be decided after seeing the number of commuters. We do not want to reduce local trains immediately, as it could later result in overcrowding.” said a senior railway official. The Maharashtra government on Tuesday also announced financial relief of ₹1500 each for registered autorickshaw drivers. “How can one survive on ₹1,500? The condition of autorickshaw drivers is very bad. We had earlier demanded a financial relief of ₹10,000. We will approach the government. If they do not announce additional measures, we will agitate,” said Shashank Rao, leader, Mumbai Autorickshaw Mens Union.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-lockdown-can-travel-by-trains-only-for-valid-reason-101618426314137.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||No off-Centre talk: MVA’s counter to BJP on Covid-19||In view of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) government at the Centre going after it, the three-party Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government has decided to adopt an aggressive stance against the Central government. MVA leaders and ministers have started pointing out how the Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government is doing “injustice” to Maharashtra when it comes to supply of vaccines and other help needed to handle the Covid-19 situation, which has become a talking point in social media. The three parties also asked their legislators and leaders to get actively involved in helping the administration handle the pandemic and at the same time counter BJP’s allegations on poor handling of the same. MVA has also decided to identify sympathisers of the erstwhile Devendra Fadnavis regime who are still in the administration and sideline them.For almost two months, MVA has been at the receiving end of a series of allegations against its ministers. It was further cornered after two cabinet ministers — Anil Deshmukh and Sanjay Rathod — were forced to resign following controversies. For the ruling coalition, this episode is unlikely to end soon as the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has started its inquiry into the allegations against Deshmukh, former home minister, and it may look to expand its probe following fresh allegations of extortion made by Sachin Vaze, arrested police officer in the Antilia bomb scare case, against Shiv Sena minister Anil Parab, who is a close aide of chief minister Uddhav Thackeray.According to MVA leaders, the ruling allies have decided to take on the BJP-led Central government since they are being pushed to corner politically. “Will fight propaganda”Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar took a meeting of senior ministers last Friday where a strategy is said to have been discussed. He directed them to expose the BJP-led Centre’ over its “poor” handling of Covid-19 pandemic as they are facing a battle of perception.“Basically, they are creating a perception that the three ruling parties are involved in corrupt practices since they came to power. They have also started to misuse central investigation agencies to get the job done. This fight of perception needs to be fought accordingly. The way they are trying to defame the MVA government, we need to expose them at every front. This is what Pawar saheb wants us to do,” a senior NCP minister said, requesting anonymity.According to Sena insiders, the party has decided to take up matters related to Covid-19 and recent vaccine shortage to counter the BJP, at a meeting chaired by senior Sena leader and industries minister Subhash Desai, at the direction of party chief and chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, on Saturday. Sena ministers, MPs, MLA and legislators were a part of the meeting held via video conference and have allegedly been asked to mobilise party workers in the battle against Covid-19 as well. “The BJP has been at it since a year now. Baseless allegations upon allegations have been made. But we can only counter them with facts. Showing Maharashtra government in poor light with regards to handling of Covid-19 is clearly another campaign to defame the government. The BJP is targeting the government and CM personally. We will put out the facts on news, social media platforms, etc,” a party MP, who was present in the meeting, said.Congress leaders said they have already decided to be vocal against the propaganda of the BJP which is making efforts to dislodge the state government. Party leaders had earlier discussed the same in a meeting chaired by Maharashtra In-charge HK Patil on April 2. “The propaganda needs to be countered with the same aggression and facts which the party has been doing for quite some time now. Our leaders have been taking upon the BJP very often, compared to the other two ruling partners,” said a senior Congress functionary, wishing not to be quoted.Another Sena functionary, who was present at Desai’s meeting, said, “We will counter this [BJP’s campaign] with facts, by calling out the Centre’s partial treatment and injustice towards Maharashtra. Some of our leaders have been taking them on Twitter and on news channels, and it will continue. At the same time, we will put out Uddhav Thackeray’s decisions in the public domain for people to judge.” Weed out sympathisersIn addition, MVA will also start identifying sympathisers of the Fadnavis regime and move them to less significant positions, said a senior NCP functionary. “This will help the MVA government avoid unnecessary troubles in future. It is expected to start with the home department as the new home minister (DIlip Walse Patil) has been given the responsibility to get it done on priority basis,” he said.Days after NCP’s Dilip Walse Patil took charge as home minister, senior IPS officer Sanjay Pandey was appointed as acting director general of police (DGP). Pandey has also started a preliminary inquiry against former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh based on the report submitted by Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale. Pandey is expected to submit the report in few weeks.The home department is also mulling over action against senior IPS officer Rashmi Shukla as Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis allegedly used her report on corruption in police transfers to level allegations against the government, which indicates that she may have leaked the documents. “While we will have a legal battle against the inferences the CBI draws on the allegations against Deshmukh, the action [against Shukla] will send a message to those in the administration who have been hand in glove with the opposition,” said a senior NCP minister. The NCP, however, said that it is just fighting the propaganda against the government. “We have decided to counter their propaganda of lies by bringing out the facts before the people. This is the reason the MVA, especially NCP, has become vocal against the shortage of vaccine doses. People should know who is doing injustice with Maharashtra and what is going on in the name of politics. We will keep bringing the facts before them, as this is the only way to fight against the lies spread by the BJP,” said Nawab Malik, NCP chief spokesperson and minority affairs minister.Covid issuesSena MP and chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut also took on the Central government over fewer vaccine stock provided to Maharashtra and lack of availability of antiviral drug Remdesivir, which is used to treat critically-ill Covid-19 patients. Raut said the politics played by BJP is “condemnable”.“Today, vaccine and Remdesivir injections are readily available in the BJP headquarters in Gujarat, but not in Maharashtra, Punjab and Chhattisgarh. This is inhumanity, and we do not see this as an attempt to keep the country as one. The kind of politics that is being played, that too through the administration, is condemnable. The opposition party in Maharashtra should be the first to condemn this as this is an insult of the state. If they do not see this as an insult, then they do not have the right to practice politics in this state,” Raut said.Arif Naseem Khan, working president, state Congress unit, echoed Raut’s view and said, “There should not be any politics over handling of Covid-19. Maharashtra is the most-affected state and is taking all the efforts including stricter restrictions and a relief package of around ₹7,000 crore for the affected sections of the society. The Centre should support the state in this fight, and there should not be any shortage of vaccine, oxygen and Remdesivir doses.” Raut added, “I am surprised that the three states that the [Union health] secretary has mentioned have failed to tackle Covid are all non-BJP states. So, have only non-BJP ruled states failed and Covid-19 fled from the states where there is a BJP CM? The Centre must behave in a sensitive manner and desist from such allegations,” Raut said.To deal with the shortage of blood, the Congress state unit on Wednesday launched a statewide drive with a target of collecting 200,000 units of blood. The virtual event was attended by HK Patil, Mallikarjun Kharge, Mukul Wasnik, Prithviraj Chavan and other senior leaders. It has also decided to set up a helpline in each district to help Covid patients with getting beds etc.BJP hits backHowever, the BJP said the MVA is getting a bad reputation because of its own deeds. Madhav Bhandari, vice-president of state BJP wing, said the ongoing inquiry against Deshmukh was ordered by the Bombay high court and it was started following the allegations made by the former Mumbai Police chief, and added that the coalition partners are dragging the BJP in the issue for no reason.“Currently, only CBI inquiry is going on into the allegations against Deshmukh. It was also not started by the Centre. The allegations were made by Param Bir Singh, former Mumbai commissioner, and an inquiry was ordered by the high court. Even the Supreme Court refused to give any relief to the then home minister. So what is the Centre or BJP’s role in it and why is MVA blaming them,” Bhandari asked.Meanwhile, Fadnavis on Monday said that he will take appropriate action to dislodge the state government at an appropriate time. Campaigning for the party candidate in Pandharpur, he said, “Leave it to me when the government needs to be changed, but bypoll is necessary as the people of Pandharpur got the first chance to show the government, which is involved in all sorts or corrupt practices, its place … I will do the correct programme; don’t worry about that. You just elect Samadhan Autade,” Fadnavis said while campaigning for the party candidate in Pandharpur. The constituency is going for bypolls on April 17.Political analyst Pratap Asbe said the MVA partners took too long to start countering the BJP which has caused a major beating to their image. “The coalition partners remained defensive for too long a period and started countering the BJP and Centre over vaccine shortage only now. They should have started taking on them soon after the allegations were made over various issues. They should have become offensive instead of adopting a defensive stand in this political fight. The delay in giving appropriate response to the allegations has also dented MVA’s image which cannot be overlooked,” Asbe said.“On one hand BJP leaders assure that they will support the state government in the battle against Covid-19 and on the other, they talk about doing the correct programme (referring to Fadnavis’s statement at Pandharpur). They are exposing themselves by saying such things,” he commented.After the ruling coalition started pointing out a shortage of vaccine doses, the state Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) unit has decided to counter it by putting out daily vaccine stock data on social media platforms for the information of the people. For the last three days, state BJP spokesperson Keshav Upadhye has been sharing the details on his Twitter handle. “The state received 12,962,470 vaccines doses, of them, 11,164,812 doses have been administered to beneficiaries and 1,797,658 doses have been left till the morning of April 14,” Upadhye said in a tweet on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/no-off-centre-talk-mva-s-counter-to-bjp-on-covid19-101618426313512.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha lockdown: ‘200K free meals for poor not enough’||Even as the state announced it would provide 200,000 free meals under its Shiv Bhojan Thali programme to the poor affected by the curbs, food security activists say it is too little considering the number of people who are likely to be hit. There are more than 900 centres and 100,000 subsidised meals are being distributed everyday. The state is planning to increase the centres as well as the ramp up the quota of thalis given to each centre to accommodate another 100,000 meals. Social activist Ulka Mahajan said, “We have a population of more than two crore in the state which is extremely poor and will have no work due to these new curbs. This scheme will hardly cover one per cent of them. Also, we have seen that these thalis are available just in talukas and it is not possible for those living in far-flung villages to come there owing to lack of transportation.” She said that she had come across instances of manipulation. “In Roha district at Raigad, we saw two centres open, while five were registered on paper. This phenomenon is visible across Maharashtra.” The Shiv Bhojan Thali is an ambitious scheme unveiled by the Uddhav Thackeray government on January 26, 2020 to provide nutritious meal at highly subsidized rates of ₹10 to the poor. It was modelled on the lines of Amma Canteen of Tamil Nadu and Indira Canteen scheme of Karnataka. The meal consists of a bowl of rice, lentil, vegetable dish and two rotis. Ever since the 2020 lockdown, the state has slashed the rate of this thali to ₹5. Though the actual cost of the food will be ₹50 and ₹45 for urban and rural population, respectively, the rest of the money is subsidized by the state government. Every chosen centre is given a quota to feed 75 to 300 daily depending on the location and people staying in the vicinity. The state does not give them any food materials and they are paid for the number of thalis they give daily.The Bharatiya Janata Party has called the thali scheme a money-making venture for the Shiv Sena. “The contractors of this scheme are all Sena activists who specialise in manipulating figures by inflating the number of beneficiaries,” said BJP legislator Ram Kadam. “On one hand, the government is asking people not to step out of their houses and on the other, they will be distributing meals to citizens.”The Shiv Sena said the opposition parties have become very negative towards government schemes. “The opposition needs to understand that the government is trying its best to feed the poor. We have allowed parcel service for the Shiv Bhojan Thali to prevent crowding,” said Sena spokesperson Manisha Kayande. There are estimates that it will cost the exchequer at least ₹150 crore this month.Vilas Patil, secretary, food, civil supplies and consumer protection, said more centres will be added. “We will ensure that no one is turned away. We had received complaints against some centres that were flouting rules and took action against them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-lockdown-200k-free-meals-for-poor-not-enough-101618426312752.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||HC refuses permission for congregational prayers in Juma Masjid during Ramzan||Observing that the public order and safety was of paramount importance amid the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Bombay high court (HC) on Tuesday refused to grant any relief to the trustees of Juma Masjid in south Mumbai who had sought permission to hold congregational prayers with 50 persons five times a day in the mosque during the holy month of Ramzan.The HC observed that while the right to follow religious practices is important, priority needed to be given to public safety during the current Covid-19 surge. A holiday court of the division bench of justice RD Dhanuka and justice VG Bisht, while hearing a petition by the trust seeking opening of its mosque during the holy month of Ramzan for offering prayers, which was restricted as per the Maharashtra government circular dated April 13, was informed that the mosque was spread over an acre and could accommodate around 7,000 persons at a time. However, given Covid-19 restrictions, only 50 persons would be allowed at a time to offer prayers during the holy monthAfter hearing submissions, HC said, “Considering the prevailing situation, we cannot permit the petitioner to offer prayers at the mosque.”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/hc-refuses-permission-for-congregational-prayers-in-juma-masjid-during-ramzan-101618426252687.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha goes under curfew, sees 58,592 fresh Covid cases||Maharashtra recorded 58,952 fresh Covid-19 infections and 278 deaths, pushing the tally to 3,578,160 and toll to 58,804, the ninth straight day of over 50,000 new cases, even as the state began its 15-day curfew, along with other strict restrictions, to break the chain of transmission of coronavirus, from 8pm on Wednesday.Amid this, India’s worst-hit state continues to reel under the unprecedented Covid-19 surge, as a total of 765,094 cases were recorded in the past 14 days. The spike has led to a sharp rise in active cases at 612,070 — 17.10% of the total infections. With a rising number of active infections, occupancy of beds in hospitals and Covid-19 centres are also increasing rapidly, but the state government is more worried about the lack of oxygen. Responding to the request of the state government for providing oxygen from neighbouring states, the central government has allowed them to get it from Haldia and Durgapur in West Bengal, Bokaro (Jharkhand), Rourkela (Odisha), Bhilai in Chhattisgarh, Bellary in Karnataka, Hyderabad in Telangana, among other places. It has appointed a committee of three IAS officers to plan to bring the oxygen from there, said a senior official. Maharashtra produces around 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen daily and has started consuming the entire production for medical purposes, only owing to the increased demand from hospitals. “We will prefer bringing oxygen by railways, but will choose to bring them by road in a 30- tonne tanker each if there is no other option left. Since some locations are too far, we have planned for it. For instance, oxygen coming from eastern states will supply oxygen in districts such as Nagpur, Amravati, while oxygen coming from southern states will be used in Kolhapur, Osmanabad, Beed, Nanded etc. This will reduce the duration of the journey,” said Sitaram Kunte, chief secretary.He said that the state will require around 7,500 metric tonnes till April 30 in addition to what is going to be produced in the corresponding period.“We have been flagging the projection on the rising use of oxygen since we have started consuming 600 metric tonnes for medical purposes and have been demanding allocation of oxygen from the Centre. After following up the matter for so long, now they have allocated oxygen, which again is too far. Places like Bokaro will take almost seven days for a return journey for oxygen supply in the state,” said a senior officer, requesting anonymity.The health minister maintained that there is no shortage of oxygen in the state yet but they need more oxygen in the coming days. “Yet there is no shortage of oxygen and there is not a single patient who is not getting oxygen in any hospital,” Tope stressed.Thackeray in the meeting with local authorities informed that efforts are going on a war footing to get oxygen supply for the hospitals and thus their rational use has become absolutely necessary. He asked them to ensure rational use of the available oxygen.To arrest the spike, the state government has decided to impose stricter curbs from Wednesday evening till the end of April, but by when the cases are going to stabilize is yet to be seen.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that the impact is expected to be visible within a fortnight as peoples’ movement have been restricted. However, we all will have to be very careful as the case may start rising again once restrictions are lifted. “As soon as we restrict peoples’ movement the transmission level will start reducing as the number of people stepping out of the homes will get limited. This will reduce the number of transmissions and ultimately it will start reflecting in the daily figures in the next one or two weeks,” the health minister said.“But it doesn’t mean that the cases will not start rising again. As soon as the restrictions are lifted and people will behave with their callous attitude then no one can guarantee that there won’t be any spike again. We have to be very careful to allow the wave to settle down by means of restricting ourselves,” Tope added.For strict implementation of the fresh restrictions, chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held a meeting of local administration including divisional commissioners, district collectors, municipal commissioners and directed them to shut down facilities allowed by the state if Covid protocols are found to be violated.“We have not closed down essential services but it doesn’t mean they are allowed to violate Covid rules. Shut them down if found violating rules,” Thackeray said, while directing the local authorities.The government on Tuesday had announced stricter, curfew-like restrictions till May 1, however, there was some confusion among citizens over the movement of people via public transport and private vehicles, which services were allowed under e-commerce, following which senior officials issued a set of FAQs to address queries.In the last 24 hours, the state tested 242,149 samples and had a positivity rate of 24.34%. The overall positivity rate of the state stood at 15.86%. It has also reported recoveries of 39,264 patients on Wednesday taking the tally of recovered patients to 2,905,721.With 6,562 cases, Nagpur recorded the second-highest cases across the state. Of them, Nagpur city and district recorded 4,282 and 2,280 respectively in a day.The chief minister said it is a mutated strain and is infecting younger people more than others. “The current scenario is more difficult and challenging hence all the restrictions imposed need to be strictly followed. The responsibility for the same is on the collectorate and police administration. We cannot afford being careless,” the chief minister said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-goes-under-curfew-sees-58-592-fresh-covid-cases-101618426192704.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Woman constable killed in Chandigarh road mishap||A woman constable of Chandigarh Police was killed after being run over by a truck near Tribune Chowk on Wednesday afternoon. Identified as Poonam Yadav, 32, she was a resident of Zirakpur. Belonging to Mahendergarh in Haryana, she was recruited as a constable in 2011, and was presently posted at the police station in Sector 31. She is survived by her husband and a two-and-a-half-year-old son. Poonam’s colleagues said that her son was unwell and she had left the police station after taking permission from the seniors. After buying the medicines from Sector 29, she was on her way to Zirakpur when the accident took place around 2pm. Riding a scooter, as she took the slip road from Tribune Chowk towards Zirakpur, a truck hit her. She fell on the road, and was crushed under the truck’s rear tyre, said police. She was rushed to Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, but was declared brought dead. The truck driver, identified as Gagandeep Singh, 40, of Ropar, has been arrested. He was booked under Sections 279 (rash driving) and 304A (causing death by negligence) of the Indian Penal Code at the Industrial Area police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-constable-killed-in-chandigarh-road-mishap-101618426133178.html
15-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Women in Khaki help woman deliver baby in police van||In a heart-warming incident, three women police personnel from Worli on Tuesday helped a pregnant woman safely deliver her baby inside a police van while taking her to a hospital after finding her in an unconscious state in Worli Naka area. The woman, Pratiksha Kavle, a 32-year-old from Anand Nagar in Worli, was heading to Worli Naka around 5.30pm on Tuesday when she fell down due to dizziness. A local informed the police control room, following which two nearby mobile units were rushed to the spot. The teams found that the woman was in pain and needed immediate medical attention. Instead of waiting for an ambulance, sub-inspector S Patil, constables Reshma Patil and Poonam Sapkal along with other staff on the mobile units decided to take the woman, who was seven months pregnant, to BYL Nair Hospital in the police van. However, the woman was in labour and delivered the baby in the police van with the help of the police personnel. After reaching the hospital, the police team handed over the woman and the newborn to the doctors. The baby was premature and has been kept in intensive care unit (ICU). Police added that the baby was doing fine. “Timely help from the police saved the lives of both the woman and her baby,” said Anil Koli, senior inspector, Worli police station.Deputy commissioner of police (zone 3) Paramjit Singh Dahiya said the police team involved, especially the women personnel, would be rewarded for showing the humane side of Khaki and saving two lives.Details of the woman’s husband or family was not available with the police as she is still in hospital, and the same would be collected once she is fine, Koli said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-women-in-khaki-help-woman-deliver-baby-in-police-van-101618426012705.html
15-04-2021||Other||Fearing attachment of plot, proclaimed offender returns from Italy to surrender before court||Fearing confiscation of his property worth around ₹13 lakh, a fugitive in an assault case for the past four years has returned from Italy and surrendered before a court on Wednesday. SSP Vikram Jeet Duggal said under a special drive to arrest fugitives and attach their assets, Shambhu Police had started the process to attach the property of Jasmer Singh, a fugitive in a physical assault case, dating back on 2015. He had been declared a fugitive by a Rajpura court in January 2020. “The accused fled to Italy after the case was registered. His movable and immovable property was found out by Shambhu Police station as per the code of conduct,” the SSP added. “When the accused Jasmer Singh came to know about the ongoing proceedings of the Shambhu Police for confiscation of his plot, he came from Italy and surrendered himself before court,” he said, adding that was arrested.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fearing-attachment-of-plot-proclaimed-offender-returns-from-italy-to-surrender-before-court-101618425893127.html
15-04-2021||Delhi||Government allows 14 private Covid hospitals to use some beds for emergency care||Two days after designating 14 big private hospitals as dedicated Covid facilities, the Delhi government on Wednesday revised its order allowing the hospitals to use 10%-30% of their beds to provide emergency care as well as follow-up treatment to some of their patients.Only two hospitals, Max Smart Superspeciality hospital and Manipal hospital, remained completely Covid-19 centres after the revised order, which reduced the number of beds accrued from 4,337 beds to 3,553. Big hospitals such as Indraprastha Apollo and Sir Ganga Ram retained nearly 200 beds for the treatment of Covid-19 patients.“The remainder beds or additional beds in these hospitals shall be used for treatment of non-Covid follow-up patients and patients requiring emergent medical or surgical treatment. Further, the concerned 14 hospitals would be allowed to temporarily increase their bed capacity up to 35% and the additional beds may also be utilised for the treatment of non-Covid patients,” the revised order signed by medical superintendent of Delhi’s nursing home cell Dr RN Das read.The decision to free up beds was taken after a meeting between Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain and the representatives from all 14 hospitals.“We met with the health minister today and explained our problems -- of the 14 hospitals, eight are located within 10km, seriously curtailing the chances of non-Covid patients in the region getting emergency care. These are also the biggest hospitals that provide specialised care such as transplant surgeries, complicated brain and spine surgeries and need to follow up these patients regularly. The minister understood our plight and we were told that some beds would be freed up in all the hospitals for non-Covid-19 patients,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary of Delhi Voluntary Hospital’s forum, an association of large private hospitals in the city. He said that during the meeting with the minister, he suggested that smaller nursing homes may be utilised instead to ramp up bed capacity, if needed.Girdhar Gyani, director general of Association of Healthcare Providers (India), said, “This is our partial victory. These 14 hospitals can carry out the critical procedures. We will therefore not go to court for time being.”The association had prepared a writ petition after the government order. In September, the association had sued the Delhi government after 80% of the ICU beds in 33 big private hospitals had been reserved for Covid-19 treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/government-allows-14-private-covid-hospitals-to-use-some-beds-for-emergency-care-101618425496582.html
15-04-2021||Gurugram||Therapist at autistic centre booked for hitting nine-year-old||A therapist at a centre for autistic children in DLF Phase-2 was booked on Wednesday for allegedly assaulting and mistreating a nine-year-old boy on April 7, the police said, adding that the suspect is yet to be arrested.The boy’s mother filed a complaint with the police, alleging she found bruises on her son’s body. A case was registered under sections 75 and 82 of the Juvenile Justice (care and protection of children) Act, 2015, at the DLF Phase-2 police station on Wednesday.The complainant said that her son cannot express his pain or complain. On April 7, her son returned home crying and her driver, who had accompanied the boy, told her that the therapist had slapped her son, she said.“I could not believe it. So, I rushed to the centre to understand what had happened and my husband and mother accompanied me. We asked the centre head to show the CCTV footage as we already knew the key locations of the cameras installed. We were shocked to see that the therapist not only slapped my son thrice but also threw the ball at his stomach when his arms were down, forcing him to double down in pain. I recorded the video playing on the screen on my mobile phone for future evidence,” she said.The mother called the owner of the centre and the police control room, following which a police team questioned the suspect. The therapist allegedly told the police that he was giving a therapy pat, and not slapping the boy. The family then filed a complaint against the suspect and submitted a USB drive containing the video.Alpa, the owner of Dew Drops Child Health Care in DLF City Phase-2, said, “We have suspended the therapist and have taken a written apology from him. Though, he has given us clarification.”Karan Goel, the assistant commissioner of police (DLF), said that they have booked the therapist and are conducting an investigation. “We cannot share details regarding the case as the victim is a juvenile. We will arrest the suspect soon,” he said.The complainant said, “Overall, I am at a loss at how such centres are being run, and what action needs to be taken so that the therapists and the centres handle children, most of whom can’t communicate, with much more care and empathy.”Sonia Yadav, a member of the Child Welfare Committee (CWC), said that they are in touch with the family and will organise a counselling session.”We will be meeting the family members and the victim on Thursday and will help them get justice,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/therapist-at-autistic-centre-booked-for-hitting-nineyearold-101618425593344.html
15-04-2021||Other||Ambedkar Jayanti: 30% of development funds to be spent on SC welfare, says Punjab CM||Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Wednesday said the state government will spend at least 30% of funds under all government schemes for welfare of the Scheduled Castes (SC) population in the state. He announced this, while paying floral tributes to the architect of the Indian Constitution, Dr BR Ambedkar, on his 130th birth anniversary, at a virtual state-level event. The CM also announced the filling up of SC vacancy backlog in departments on priority, while promising to explore a post-matric overseas scholarship scheme for SC students. This scheme will be on the lines of the Baroda State Scholarship Scheme awarded to Baba Sahib under a scheme that Sayajirao Gaekwad III had set up. The CM announced a special ₹500 crore Rural Link Roads project for 2021-22, which will encompass the construction of new link roads to the settlements of SCs and other poorer sections of society, which do not have road connectivity. Cremation grounds and places of worship will also be connected through the project. A special allocation of ₹100 crore is proposed in 2021-22 for modernisation of villages with more than 50% SC population, the CM said. Smart phones will be given to Class-12 SC students in government schools. Over 150 village-level awareness camps and training at nine Training and Extension Centres will be conducted, with special emphasis on SC beneficiaries, he added. He added that his government also proposes to provide 30% reservation for SC applicants in villages under the ‘Har Ghar Pakki Chhat’ scheme, and 30% in the affordable housing scheme for EWS. A Dr BR Ambedkar Institute of Training at Jalandhar for competitive exams, including Civil Services. It will have 50% reservation for SC students. Lamenting the anti-dalit mindset that persists, he said only awareness could work against it. “Unfortunately, I do not have the resources to do all that I want to do to spread Dr Ambedkar’s message,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ambedkar-jayanti-30-of-development-funds-to-be-spent-on-sc-welfare-says-punjab-cm-101618425473211.html
15-04-2021||Other||To break virus chain, Lucknow traders’ announce voluntarily closure of markets||Prominent Lucknow markets, including Hazratganj and Aminabad, will remain voluntarily closed from Thursday to check the spread of Covid-19 virus in the city.“Markets in Hazratganj will remain close from April 15 to 18 in wake of pandemic,” said Kishan Chand Bhambwani, president, Hazratganj Traders Association after a late-night meeting of traders on Wednesday.Traders of Jhandewala Park Vyapar Mandal, State Bank Vyapar Mandal and Dildar Vyapar Mandal in Aminabad have also decided to close their business establishments from April 15 to 21 because of Covid.In a press release issued by these trader associations, the traders said that despite the ongoing marriage season, Navratri and Ramzan they have decided to close their establishments because saving lives was more important for them than business. “In absence of any announcement of lockdown from the government it is the duty of traders to break the chain of coronavirus,” said Sandeep Bansal, president of Uttar Pradesh Udyog Vyapar Mandal.He said, “I have appealed to traders for closure of markets in the city. Till now, Chowk Sarrafa Association has decided to close the market from April 15 to 18. Gomti Nagar Sarrafa Association will also keep its shutters down from Wednesday to Sunday. Not only this, Lucknow Electric Merchants’ Association has also decided to close its establishments from Thursday for next one week.”“Leader of Samajwadi Party, main opposition political party, and our chief minister both are down with coronavirus. This shows that the spread of virus can only be controlled through lockdown but if our government, considering some economic problems for the poor, is not announcing the lockdown then it is the responsibility of traders to voluntarily close their establishments for at least a week to break the chain of virus,” he said.“I have personally talked to traders of Indira Nagar, Gomti Nagar, Aminabad, Alambagh and Chowk to announce closure of their markets for one week. This has to be a collective decision. The traders have a social responsibility of saving lives of people and their staff,” said Sanjay Gupta, president, Uttar Pradesh Adarsh Vyapar Mandal.Vinod Maheshwari of Chowk Sarrafa Association said, “President of Chowk Sarrafa Association Kailash Chandra Jain is already admitted in Rajdhani Covid Hospital. Not only this, but number of other traders is also down with Covid. Keeping the widespread spread of virus in mind we have decided to go for closure of four days. The closure of market starts from Thursday to Sunday. There are more than 400 shops in sarrafa market where more than 2500 staff works, more than 50,000 customers visit these shops daily. We aim to break the chain of infection for safety of traders, their staff members and customers.”Suresh Chablani of Nazeerabad and Aminabad traders Association said, “Tomorrow the market is closed because of Thursday but in the morning an important meeting of traders is convened to discuss the closure of market for a week. Through WhatsApp almost every trader has given his consent for the closure of market.”Ratpal Singh Goldie of Alambagh Traders Association said, “We will decide on the issue tomorrow convey the decision to the district administration.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/to-break-virus-chain-lucknow-traders-announce-voluntarily-closure-of-markets-101618425052591.html
15-04-2021||Pune||Covid second wave: Task force urges govt to suspend routine work in hospitals that consume oxygen||As the demand for oxygen in the medical sector has gone up due to the surge in Covid cases, the state task force has recommended that the government should issue guidelines to suspend all routine work in hospitals that consume oxygen. They have also recommended introducing new treatment protocols to ensure that the liquid oxygen is optimally used.On April 1, when chief minister Uddhav Thackeray addressed the state to announce the 15 days curfew period, he mentioned the shortage of oxygen supply for medical purposes. He even requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to airlift oxygen with the help of the Indian Air Force from the neighbouring state to fulfil the needs of Maharashtra.While Pune division needs 385 metric tons of oxygen daily with Pune district demanding a majority of the chunk, 300 tonnes of liquid oxygen. Pune district has only four liquid oxygen manufacturers three of which are located in Pune and one in Kolhapur and supply 383 tons of liquid oxygen. In addition to this, the district also gets 85 tonnes of liquid oxygen from Thane. However, with the rising number of cases, the oxygen demand has also gone up.Dr Sanjay Patil, board chairperson, Indian Medical Association (IMA), said, “The routine procedures include major planned surgeries like hysterectomy and gynaecology surgeries which require oxygen for about two hours sometimes. However, currently, the routine planned surgeries are not happening anyways as there are no beds, and doctors are busy. So the question arises how effective would the guidelines be in today’s scenario.”“The target to maintain 95 per cent oxygen saturation is acceptable, but it is always better to leave it to the treating doctor’s discretion depending on the patient’s underlying condition or even to maintain his/her condition,” he said.Earlier too, during the September peak, additional secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, Arti Ahuja had written to the states that oxygen is a life-saving essential drug. The target oxygen saturation rate should be 94 per cent-95 per cent for the hospitalised Covid patient. Once this rate is achieved, the flow of oxygen may not be increased as it may not provide any additional benefit to the patient.In addition to this, the task force also recommended that patients who stay long in ICU are undergoing repeated RT-PCR tests which delay their transfer out of ICU (intensive care unit). Some patients stay for 14 or even 21 days in ICU and so the task force recommended that no RT-PCR should be taken between 14 to 21 days and that it should not be mandatory pre-transfer from ICU. If the patient is stable and afebrile 72 hours before the planned transfer from ICU, no such test would be required. However, individual discretion has been advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-second-wave-task-force-urges-govt-to-suspend-routine-work-in-hospitals-that-consume-oxygen-101618417251875.html
15-04-2021||Lucknow||Yogi Adityanath, Akhilesh Yadav test positive for Covid-19||Amid a sharp surge in coronavirus disease cases in Uttar Pradesh, chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday.Uttar Pradesh on Wednesday reported 67 new deaths and 20,439 fresh infections, its highest single-day numbers that pushed the state’s infection count to 744,021, according to HT’s dashboard.“After initial symptoms, I got myself tested. My report is positive. I am in self-isolation and following doctors advice. I am doing all the works virtually. All the activities of the government are running normally,” Adityanath tweeted.The Bharatiya Janata Party leader also urged the people who came in his contact recently to undergo testing. “Those who came in my contact should undergo testing and take precautions,” the CM tweeted. He was administered the first dose of Bharat Biotech’s Covaxin on April 5.The CM has a sore throat and a mild fever, deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma told mediapersons. “I have spoken to chief minister Yogi Adityanath on phone. He has a sore throat and a mild fever. The chief minister is active and in touch virtually and on telephone. He has asked all the ministers to monitor the situation with officers, public representatives... to ensure that facilities were provided to the people there,” Sharma said.The chief minister went into isolation on Tuesday after exposure to some officials who were infected. Officials, including the CM’s Officer on Special Duty (OSD) Abhishek Kaushik, earlier tested positive for Covid-19.Former CM, Yadav, meanwhile, said on Wednesday that he is in home isolation.“My reports for COVID-19 have come positive today. I have isolated myself and treatment has started at home. All the people who have come in contact with me in the last few days please get tested. They are also requested to remain in isolation for a few days,” Akhilesh Yadav tweeted.Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra wished both CM Adityanath and the SP chief a speedy recovery. “Received news about @myogiadityanath ji and @yadavakhilesh ji testing positive (for COVID-19). I pray to the god for your safety and speedy recovery,” said Priyanka Gandhi in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/yogi-adityanath-akhilesh-yadav-test-positive-for-covid19-101618389285176.html
15-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guard held with ₹4.03 crore he stole from Axis Bank in Chandigarh||The crime branch of Chandigarh Police on Wednesday arrested Axis Bank security guard Sunil Kumar and recovered most of the ₹4.04 crore that he stole from the bank’s currency chest in Sector 34 on Sunday. Police said his past activity on social media and his frequent visits to Raipur Rani in Panchkula helped them trace him. The accused had managed to spend ₹86,000 of the stolen amount on buying a mobile phone and clothes and paying for his stay at a hotel in Raipur Rani. While ₹3.14 lakh were found in Sunil’s backpack when he was arrested from Shastri Nagar in Manimajra, after being followed from Raipur Rani, ₹4 crore were recovered from a bag hidden in the jungle area near Hallomajra, upon his interrogation. The accused will be produced in court on Thursday. Police are also looking into the role of any other person in the theft. Social media history helped trace him Sunil had left the bank on his motorcycle with two bags containing the cash. He had thrown his mobile phone to cover his tracks. Though he was usually active on social media, he had not logged into any of his accounts after the theft. However, his past social media history gave vital clues, said Manoj Kumar Meena, superintendent of police (crime). “Sunil was very active on social media, especially on one matrimonial website. Tracking his social media history, we found about his vehicle, lifestyle in general and also that he was a frequent visitor to Raipur Rani,” he said.Police said Sunil is fond of a lavish lifestyle and is a “big show-off”. He was not only in touch with a large number of women on social media, but had even promised to gift them money, said police. Sunil had divorced his wife, and their daughter is staying with her. He had last visited his parents in Panchkula’s Morni about six months back. They, in fact, had disowned him. Police said Sunil was staying in a paying guest accommodation in Mohali’s Kumbra village, and a day prior to the theft, he had even thrown a party. He also has to repay a loan of ₹70,000. After the theft, Sunil had gone to the hotel in Raipur Rani after hiding one bag in the jungle area. Later, he had even returned to Chandigarh to check if the money was safe, said police.What had happened on SundaySunil was working as an unarmed guard with the currency chest for the past four years. It is the hub that supplies cash to all ATMs of the bank in the city. While the India Reserve Battalion (IRB) personnel were deputed on the outer security circle of the office, Sunil had free access to the chest. IRB personnel had alerted the officials after Sunil, who was on night duty, went missing and the door of the currency chest was found open around 3am on Sunday. The bank’s chest staff reached the spot and started checking CCTV footage that showed Sunil taking out something wrapped from the premises. On checking, one of the boxes was found damaged and opened. A sum of ₹4.04 crore — in two packets of 20 bundles each of currency notes in the denomination of ₹2,000 — were missing.Checking the CCTV footage further, the staff found that Sunil moved out of the office with two bags. He fled on his motorcycle on which he used to come to work daily. A case was registered under Sections 457 (lurking house-trespass or housebreaking by night to commit offence punishable with imprisonment) and 381 (theft by clerk or servant of property in possession of master) of the Indian Penal Code. Police had even issued a lookout notice for him on Tuesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guard-held-with-4-04-crore-he-stole-from-axis-bank-in-chandigarh-101618383645142.html
15-04-2021||World||'Low-to-medium risk' of Russia invading Ukraine in next few weeks: US general||There is a "low to medium" risk that Russia will invade Ukraine over the next few weeks, the top U.S. general in Europe said on Thursday, in the first such military assessment amid mounting concern about Russian troop movements toward Ukraine's borders.Air Force General Tod Wolters declined to explain the intelligence driving his assessment, which does not suggest the U.S. military expects a Russian invasion at this point, but is not ruling one out or playing down the risk.But Wolters later suggested his view about the risks in the coming weeks and months was at least partly based on the disposition of Russian forces.The Pentagon has declined to detail its assessment on the size and composition of those troops, referring reporters to Moscow. However, the White House disclosed that Russia has more troops on Ukraine's eastern border than at any time since 2014, when it annexed Crimea and backed separatist territory seizures.Asked by a lawmaker to estimate the chances of an invasion in the next few weeks, Wolters said: "Low to medium."Pressed by a different lawmaker to explain whether that risk would change after that period, Wolters kept his cards close, saying: "The answer is, it depends.""And I would have to take each and every second of the day from this point till tomorrow to give you a different answer," he said.If the current trajectory stayed the same, however, Wolters estimated the risk of an invasion could decrease."My sense is, with the trend that I see right now, that the likelihood of an occurrence will start to wane," he said.Ukraine and Russia have traded blame over a spike in violence in the conflict in eastern Ukraine, where Ukrainian troops have battled Russian-backed forces in a conflict that Kyiv says has killed 14,000 people since 2014.Tensions over a buildup of Russian troops on Ukraine's eastern border have pushed up the cost of raising domestic debt and prompted the government to accelerate efforts to secure more International Monetary Fund loans, a presidential adviser told Reuters on Thursday.(Reporting by Phil Stewart and Idrees Ali; Editing by Franklin Paul and Jonathan Oatis)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/lowtomedium-risk-of-russia-invading-ukraine-in-next-few-weeks-us-general-101618507789668.html
15-04-2021||World||Covid-19: France crosses 100,000 deaths, has third-highest fatalities in Europe||France on Thursday became the latest country to record more than 100,000 deaths due to Covid-19.The threshold was reached after 300 fatalities were registered over the past 24 hours, bringing the official toll to 100,077, a spokeswoman for the French public health authority said by phone.The country now has the eighth-highest total number of coronavirus deaths in the world, according to the Bloomberg coronavirus tracker, about a year after its first cases were recorded.It’s a humbling moment for President Emmanuel Macron, who refused to lock down the country for a third time in January despite calls to do so from the medical community and the government’s own scientific advisory committee. He argued that would be a last resort given the human and financial cost for the economy, and instead tightened curbs in Covid hot spots, like the Paris region of Ile-de-France and Provence in the south.Yet deaths continued to climb as variants spread, prompting the French leader to eventually implement additional restrictions in March that effectively amount to another lockdown.With Macron up for re-election in 12 months time, the speed with which he can get the pandemic under control and reopen the economy could play a critical role in shaping his political future.The pandemic has been “cruel,” especially to those “who sometimes were not able to accompany -- during the last moments and in death -- a father, a mother, a loved one, a friend,” the president told Le Parisien newspaper.He has been weighing how best to mark the grim milestone, and for the moment his office hasn’t released the details of any plans. Government spokesman Gabriel Attal said on Wednesday only that there will obviously be “a time of tribute, of mourning for the nation.”France is now ranked third in Europe for fatalities.The U.K. became the first European country to cross the 100,000 death mark at the end of January. Prime Minister Boris Johnson said he was deeply sorry for every life lost and that the government had done everything it could. Italy, the original epicenter of Europe’s outbreak, reached what Prime Minister Mario Draghi called the “terrible threshold” in early March.Like other countries, Macron’s government had been counting on vaccines to help bring the outbreak under control, but the rollout across the region has been plagued by delays. And despite an acceleration over the past few weeks, the inoculations have so far had a marginal impact, with most EU states experiencing a third wave.By April 14, France had administered a total of 15.75 million vaccine doses, of which 11.6 million were first doses, according to data disclosed by health authorities.About 300 people are dying each day in French hospitals with Covid-19, and some 5,900 patients are hospitalized in intensive care units across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-france-crosses-100-000-deaths-has-third-highest-fatalities-in-europe-101618506497792.html
15-04-2021||World||US far-right extremists engaged with 'like-minded' activists overseas: FBI chief||Racially motivated and far-right American extremists have engaged with like-minded activists overseas and traveled abroad to meet with them, the head of the Federal Bureau of Investigation told a Congressional hearing on Thursday.FBI director Christopher Wray told a House of Representatives Intelligence Committee hearing that his agency considered right-wing militants in the United States to be the domestic extremists with the most extensive international ties and that they had established social media connectivity across borders.Wray said some U.S. far-right extremists had traveled to Europe to meet and possibly train with activists. But he also noted that a lot of violent extremist threats "do not fit into nice ideological buckets."Wray's comments about far-right U.S. extremists traveling to Europe track the findings in a non-public version of a report on domestic extremists recently published by U.S spy agencies.Reuters reported that the non-public report said Americans had traveled to Ukraine to fight with pro-Russian forces against the country’s elected government.Wray did not specify who the racially-motivated extremists he mentioned were but the report said U.S. white supremacists are the "actors with the most persistent and concerning transnational connections."Wray told legislators that the FBI was engaged in an "ongoing effort" to look out for new threats to the U.S. Capitol -- which was attacked by supporters of President Donald Trump on Jan. 6 -- and state capitols. He said the agency was receiving "an avalanche of tips that come in."Intelligence officials also told the committee they viewed current Russian military movements near Ukraine as a "show of force."The directors of the Defense Intelligence Agency and Central Intelligence Agency told the House Intelligence Committee U.S. agencies were monitoring Russian movements. "We all have to take very seriously the buildup," CIA director William Burns said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-far-right-extremists-engaged-with-like-minded-activists-overseas-fbi-chief-101618506160629.html
15-04-2021||World||Princes William, Harry won't walk side-by-side at Philip's funeral||Prince William and Prince Harry won’t walk side-by-side Saturday as they follow their grandfather’s coffin into the church ahead of Prince Philip’s funeral, minimizing the chances of any awkward moments between the brothers who are grappling with strained relations since Harry’s decision to step away from royal duties last year.Buckingham Palace on Thursday released the broad outlines of the funeral program for Queen Elizabeth II's husband, who died April 9 at 99. The palace revealed that William and Harry’s cousin, Peter Phillips, will walk between the princes as they escort the coffin to St. George’s Chapel at Windsor Castle, west of London.Prince Charles, the heir to the throne and the father of the princes, together with his sister, Princess Anne, will lead the 15-member procession.The brothers had been closely watched as Saturday’s funeral will almost certainly remind the pair of their shared grief at another royal funeral more than two decades ago. As young boys, both walked behind their mother Princess Diana’s coffin in 1997 in London in a ceremony watched around the world.Palace officials refused to comment when asked whether the positioning of William and Harry was an effort to minimize family tensions, which have grown after Harry and his wife Meghan, the Duchess of Sussex, gave an explosive interview to Oprah Winfrey that suggested an unnamed member of the royal family had made a racist comment to Harry before the birth of their child Archie.Meghan, who is pregnant and living in California with Harry, is not coming to the funeral on the advice of her doctor.“We’re not going to be drawn into those perceptions of drama or anything like that,’’ a palace spokesman said while speaking on condition of anonymity in line with policy. “This is a funeral and the arrangements have been agreed and they represent Her Majesty’s wishes.”In another effort to preserve family unity, the palace said senior royals would wear civilian clothes to the funeral. The decision, signed off by the queen, means that Harry won’t risk being the only member of the royal family not in uniform during the funeral.Members of the royal family often wear uniforms to public events by virtue of their honorary roles with the British Army, Royal Navy and Royal Air Force, but Harry lost his honorary military titles when he decided to give up frontline royal duties last year. As a result, protocol suggests that Harry, an army veteran who served two tours of duty in Afghanistan, would only wear a suit with medals at royal functions.The decision also sidesteps another potential controversy after reports that Prince Andrew, the queen's second-oldest son, considered wearing an admiral’s uniform to his father’s funeral. Andrew retains his military titles even though he was forced to step away from royal duties after a disastrous interview with the BBC about his acquaintance with convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein.Attendance at the funeral will be limited to 30 people because of the coronavirus restrictions in England. The list will include several of Philip’s relatives from Germany, together with immediate members of the royal family. The children in the family will not attend.Guests will wear masks inside the chapel and observe social distancing. The queen, always the first to set an example, will also wear a mask.In other details released about the funeral, Royal Marine buglers will play “Action Stations,” an alarm that alerts sailors to prepare for battle.Philip, also known as the Duke of Edinburgh, served in the Royal Navy for 12 years and maintained close ties to the armed forces throughout his life. Military personnel will have a large role in honoring him Saturday despite the attendance limit.Members of the Royal Navy, the Royal Marines, the Royal Air Force and the British Army will take part in the funeral procession. Philip’s coffin will be carried to St. George’s Chapel on a specially adapted Land Rover that he designed himself.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/princes-william-harry-won-t-walk-side-by-side-at-philip-s-funeral-101618503461055.html
15-04-2021||World||Covid-19 Hug curtain image named World Press Photo of the Year||A photo symbolizing “love and compassion” of an 85-year-old Brazilian woman getting her first embrace in five months from a nurse through a transparent “hug curtain” was named the World Press Photo of the Year on Thursday.The choice of a winning photo portraying the global pandemic was almost inevitable for the contest covering a year in which news around the globe was dominated by the virus that has killed nearly 3 million people, including more than 360,000 in hard-hit Brazil.The image by Danish photographer Mads Nissen captured the moment Rosa Luzia Lunardi was hugged by nurse Adriana Silva da Costa Souza at the Viva Bem care home in Sao Paulo on Aug. 5.A curtain of clear plastic — its yellow edges folded into a shape resembling a pair of butterfly wings — offers protection, as does the nurse's face mask.“This iconic image of COVID-19 memorializes the most extraordinary moment of our lives, everywhere," said jury member Kevin WY Lee. "I read vulnerability, loved ones, loss and separation, demise, but, importantly, also survival — all rolled into one graphic image. If you look at the image long enough, you’ll see wings: a symbol of flight and hope.”The image taken by Nissen for the Panos Pictures agency and the Danish daily Politiken also won first prize in the prestigious contest's General News Singles category.“The main message of this image is empathy. It’s love and compassion," Nissen said in a comment released by contest organizers."It’s a really, really hard, grim situation and then in that horror, in that suffering, I think this picture also brings some light,” Nissen said at an online awards ceremony after being told he had won the award and the 5,000-euro ($6,000) prize that goes with it.Second place in the category was a far more grim COVID-19 image — the body of a suspected coronavirus victim tightly wrapped in plastic in a hospital in Indonesia on April 18 by Indonesian photographer Joshua Irwandi.The pandemic even reached the Environment Singles category, with U.S. photographer Ralph Pace winning for his image of a curious California sea lion swimming toward a face mask drifting underwater at the Breakwater dive site in Monterey.Judges looked at 74,470 photographs by 4,315 photographers before selecting winners in eight categories including general news, sports, the environment and portraits.The World Press Photo Story of the Year was awarded to Italian documentary photographer Antonio Faccilongo, working for Getty Reportage, for a series titled “Habibi" about Palestinian detainees in Israeli prisons who smuggle their semen out of detention facilities in the hopes of raising a family.Winner in the Spot News Singles category was an image embodying the debate on race in the United States. The photo by Evelyn Hockstein for The Washington Post shows a white man and a Black woman disagreeing about the removal of the Emancipation Memorial in Washington, D.C., which depicts a freed slave kneeling at Abraham Lincoln’s feet.The Black Lives Matter movement also featured, with Associated Press photographer John Minchillo's series about the aftermath of the killing of George Floyd taking third prize in the Spot News Stories category that was won by Italian Lorenzo Tugnoli working for Contrasto for a series of images documenting the devastating port blast in Beirut.The Contemporary Issues Story category was won by Russian photographer Alexey Vasilyev with a series about the film industry in the northeast Russian region of Sakha. Associated Press photographer Maya Alleruzzo took second place in the category with a story about the Islamic State group enslaving Yazidi women in Iraq.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-hug-curtain-image-named-world-press-photo-of-the-year-101618501727066.html
15-04-2021||World||Chauvin waives right to testify, rests case at murder trial for Floyd arrest||Former Minneapolis policeman Derek Chauvin on Thursday waived his right to testify to the jury at his murder trial for the deadly arrest last May of George Floyd."I will invoke my Fifth Amendment privilege today," Chauvin said after briefly removing his mask, referring to the constitutional right against self-incrimination, in his most extensive remarks since his trial began with jury selection on March 8.The defense told Hennepin County District Judge Peter Cahill it would call no more witnesses after two days of testimony and would rest its case, which has focused on raising doubts about the cause of Floyd's death.Prosecutors from the Minnesota attorney general's office said they would call at least one rebuttal witness, and Cahill has previously advised jurors he expects both sides to present their closing arguments on Monday. Jurors will then begin deliberating one of the most closely watched police misconduct cases ever seen in the United States.Chauvin, who is white, was seen in bystander video kneeling on the neck of Floyd, a 46-year-old Black man in handcuffs, for more than nine minutes after Floyd was accused of using a counterfeit $20 bill to buy cigarettes. The footage of his death sparked global protests against the disproportionate use of force by police against Black people.His lawyers called an expert on the use of force to tell the jury that Chauvin's use of force was appropriate, contradicting the Minneapolis police chief, who testified that it far exceeded an appropriate response.They also called a forensic pathologist, former Maryland chief medical examiner Dr. David Fowler, who said Floyd, whose death was ruled a homicide at the hands of the police, really died of heart disease, and that the exhaust fumes of the adjacent police car may have also poisoned him.Dr. Martin Tobin, a pulmonologist who testified as an expert witness for prosecutors, will return to the stand on Thursday as a rebuttal witness in an effort to undermine Fowler's testimony.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chauvin-waives-right-to-testify-rests-case-at-murder-trial-for-floyd-arrest-101618500161007.html
15-04-2021||World||Russia foreign ministry says response to US sanctions 'inevitable'||Russian foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said Thursday that a response to new US sanctions was "inevitable" and that the ministry had summoned US ambassador to Moscow John Sullivan."The United States is not ready to come to terms with the objective reality that there is a multipolar world that excludes American hegemony," she said in televised remarks. "A response to sanctions is inevitable."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-foreign-ministry-says-response-to-us-sanctions-inevitable-101618495430174.html
15-04-2021||World||Rare blood clot risk higher from Covid-19 than vaccine: UK study||The risk of rare blood clotting following the Covid-19 infection is around 100 times greater than normal, several times higher than it is post-vaccination or following influenza, according to a new University of Oxford study published on Thursday.The research found that the rare blood clotting known as Cerebral Venous Thrombosis (CVT) is more common after Covid-19 than in any of the comparison groups, with 30 per cent of these cases occurring in the under 30s.Compared to the current Covid-19 vaccines being administered, this risk is between 8-10 times higher, and compared to the baseline, approximately 100 times higher.The study follows reports of possible links between the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine and rare cases of CVT, which are undergoing deeper investigations by the medicines regulators even as the jabs have been ruled as safe and effective.“There are concerns about possible associations between vaccines and CVT, causing governments and regulators to restrict the use of certain vaccines. Yet, one key question remained unknown: ‘What is the risk of CVT following a diagnosis of Covid-19?’,” said Paul Harrison, one of study authors as Professor of Psychiatry and Head of the Translational Neurobiology Group at the University of Oxford.“We’ve reached two important conclusions. Firstly, Covid-19 markedly increases the risk of CVT, adding to the list of blood clotting problems this infection causes.“Secondly, the Covid-19 risk is higher than we see with the current vaccines, even for those under 30; something that should be taken into account when considering the balances between risks and benefits for vaccination,” he said.The study authors, led by Professor Harrison and Dr Maxime Taquet from Oxford University’s Department of Psychiatry and the NIHR Oxford Health Biomedical Research Centre, counted the number of CVT cases diagnosed in the two weeks following diagnosis of Covid-19, or after the first dose of a vaccine. They then compared these to calculated incidences of CVT following influenza, and the background level in the general population.“The signals that Covid-19 is linked to CVT, as well as portal vein thrombosis – a clotting disorder of the liver – is clear, and one we should take note of,” said Dr Maxime Taquet, also from the Translational Neurobiology Group.In the study of over 500,000 Covid-19 patients, CVT occurred in 39 in a million patients. In over 480,000 people receiving a Covid-19 mRNA vaccine, such as Pfizer/BioNTech or Moderna, CVT occurred in four in a million, and CVT has been reported to occur in about five in a million people after first dose of the Oxford/AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine.“Compared to the mRNA vaccines, the risk of a CVT from Covid-19 is about 10 times greater. Compared to the AZ-Oxford (Oxford/AstraZeneca) vaccine, the risk of a CVT from Covid-19 is about eight times greater,” the findings note.However, the researchers said that all comparisons must be interpreted cautiously since data is still accruing. An important factor that requires further research is whether Covid-19 and vaccines lead to CVT by the same or different mechanisms. There may also be under-reporting or mis-coding of CVT in medical records, and therefore uncertainty as to the precision of the results, the study authors note.The findings come as numerous countries have limited use of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine to certain age groups or paused its rollout. Denmark has dropped the jab from its vaccination programme permanently following reports of very rare cases of blood clots.Earlier this month, the UK’s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) said the vaccine is still safe and effective but said that people under-30 will be offered an alternative, where possible, as an additional precaution.The overall advice, including from the World Health Organisation (WHO), remains in favour of continued vaccinations as the experts concluded that the life-saving benefits of the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine continue to outweigh the risks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rare-blood-clot-risk-higher-from-covid-19-than-vaccine-uk-study-101618498309232.html
15-04-2021||World||UK PM Boris Johnson’s visit to boost bilateral partnership in tackling future pandemics||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s visit to India from April 25 will be an opportunity to consolidate the bilateral partnership in addressing future pandemics through health infrastructure development and joint investment in research on vaccines. This will be Johnson’s first major visit outside Europe after the re-election of the Conservative government in the UK election in December 2019. The last visit by a UK prime minister to India was by Theresa May in November 2016. The visit to India will be shorter than the originally planned trip of four to five days and won’t include stopovers in Mumbai and Pune because of the Covid-19 situation. The bulk of Johnson’s engagements, including his meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will be on April 26. India-UK collaboration in Covid-19 mitigation efforts over the past year emerged as the “silver lining in the bilateral relationship”, and Johnson’s visit will be an opportunity to consolidate the bilateral partnership in addressing future pandemics through health infrastructure development, joint investment in research and development of vaccines, swifter exchanges of healthcare professionals and strengthening existing institutional links and partnerships in the health sector, the Indian high commission in London said in a statement. Work in this field can build on the success in the joint development, manufacture and distribution of the Oxford-Astra Zeneca vaccine, it said. The visit is also expected to boost cooperation in areas ranging from defence and security to the Indo-Pacific and western Indian Ocean region, trade and investment and climate change. In the post-Brexit period, the UK has been working on securing an enhanced trade partnership with India as a step towards a possible bilateral free trade agreement, the statement said. Bilateral trade and investment flows have seen steady and sustained growth in recent years, and India and the UK are committed to contribute and lead global post-pandemic recovery efforts. “India and UK are set to agree on a Roadmap 2030 for future relations. The 2030 vision is for revitalised and dynamic connect between people, re-energised trade, investment and technological collaboration, enhanced defence and security cooperation and closer engagement on regional issues, including the Indian Ocean Region and the Indo-Pacific,” the statement said. In March, the UK published its once-in-a-generation integrated review of security, defence, development and foreign policy, which reflected a significant reorientation of relations to the Indo-Pacific. Johnson’s visit is expected to bring focus on dialogue and bilateral cooperation to realise the full potential of enhanced cooperation in this region, the statement said. The UK will be hosting the 26th UN Climate Change Conference of the Parties (COP26) in Glasgow in November, and it has been closely associated with India’s International Solar Alliance (ISA) and Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure (CDRI). Joint efforts by India and the UK in climate change mitigation will be a key priority of Johnson’s visit. Given the significant contributions of the Indian diaspora in the UK, Johnson’s visit is also expected to deliver on further streamlining and liberalising migration and mobility of nationals between the two countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-pm-boris-johnson-s-visit-to-boost-bilateral-partnership-in-tackling-future-pandemics-101618498029998.html
15-04-2021||World||Global Covid-19 vaccine supply "incredibly tight", COVAX needs funds: Gavi||The global supply of Covid-19 vaccine is "incredibly tight" and the COVAX dose-sharing facility is unlikely to procure much more supply in 2021 than doses already reserved, the Gavi vaccine alliance ceo Seth Berkley said on Thursday."We urgently need commitments of a further $2 billion from donors and $1 billion from countries supported by multilateral development banks. Included in the $2 billion we ask for is $150 million from the private sector," Berkley told an event, referring to a funding target for June.Stanley Erck, Novavax ceo, said that the U.S.-based company had vaccine production capabilities in more than 20 facilities and that it was "well on our way to securing regulatory authorisations around the world".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/global-covid-19-vaccine-supply-incredibly-tight-covax-needs-funds-gavi-101618494242937.html
15-04-2021||World||US jobless claims plunge to 576,000, lowest since pandemic||The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits tumbled last week to 576,000, a post-Covid low and a hopeful sign that layoffs are easing as the economy recovers from the pandemic recession.The Labor Department said Thursday that applications plummeted by 193,000 from a revised 769,000 a week earlier. Jobless claims are now down sharply from a peak of 900,000 in early January and well below the 700,000-plus level they had been stuck at for months.The decline in unemployment claims coincides with other evidence that the economy is strengthening as vaccinations accelerate, pandemic business restrictions are lifted in many states and Americans appear increasingly willing to travel, shop, eat out and otherwise spend again. In March, employers added a healthy 916,000 jobs, the most since August, and the unemployment rate fell to 6%, less than half the pandemic peak of 14.8%.For the week ending March 27, 16.9 million people were continuing to collect unemployment benefits, down from 18.2 million in the previous week. That decline suggests that some of the unemployed are being called back to jobs.Yet the still-high number of ongoing recipients shows that even as the economy has improved in recent weeks, millions are facing a loss of a job or income and have been struggling to pay bills or rent. The last time the jobless rate was this low, weekly claims were around 350,000, still well below their current level.Economists point to a range of potential explanations. Some states are still struggling to clear backlogs of applications from previous weeks. As a result, jobless claims being reported now may stem from layoffs that occurred weeks ago. Other states are also facing what they suspect is a sizable number of fraudulent claims for unemployment aid.Another possible factor is that under President Joe Biden’s $1.9 trillion rescue package, the federal government is now supplementing weekly jobless benefits by $300 a week — on top of the average state unemployment payment of about $340 — through September. That extra money may be encouraging more people to request unemployment aid.Still, not all unemployment applications are approved. The government reports each week on how many people have applied for aid — but not how many have actually received it. Claims are rejected if the applicants hadn’t earned enough money to qualify or had been fired or quit their jobs. Unemployment aid is intended for people who have been laid off through no fault of their own.Michael Feroli, an economist at JPMorgan Chase, has found that the proportion of unemployment claims that are approved plummeted in the winter months. In February, for example, fewer than 25% of applications were approved and paid, Feroli discovered, down from a long-run average of about 45%. That suggests that the current level of jobless claims has been artificially inflated as more Americans seek benefits, because of the higher payments, even though some don’t actually qualify.Most analysts have grown bullish about the economy’s prospects for the coming months. They include Federal Reserve Chair Jerome Powell, who expressed his belief in an appearance last Sunday on “60 Minutes” that the economy is at “an inflection point" and appears poised for a boom.“We feel like we’re at a place where the economy’s about to start growing much more quickly and job creation coming in much more quickly,” Powell said. “This growth that we’re expecting in the second half of this year is going to be very strong. And job creation, I would expect to be very strong.”Many economists, in fact, are concerned more about a potential burst of inflation stemming from the unleashing of pent-up consumer demand. Prices for lumber, copper, oil and other raw materials have already risen as demand for gas, homes and electronic equipment has jumped.Consumer prices rose 0.6% in March, the most since 2012, the government reported Tuesday, and are up 2.6% in the past year. Excluding the volatile food and energy categories, though, prices rose by a more benign 1.6% year over year.Powell has said that while inflation will likely pick up in the coming months, the price increases will probably ease as the pandemic-induced disruptions in many industries’ supply chains are worked out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-plunge-to-576-000-lowest-since-pandemic-101618492898270.html
15-04-2021||World||UK's Johnson says tackling health service waiting lists is a real priority||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said tackling waiting lists for operations in England's national health service (NHS) was a real priority after data showed 4.7 million people were waiting for routine procedures, the highest number since 2007."This is a real priority now for our country, 4.7 million people on waiting lists," he told broadcasters on Thursday."We will make sure we give the NHS all the funding that it needs, as we have done throughout the pandemic, to beat the backlog."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uks-johnson-says-tackling-health-service-waiting-lists-is-a-real-priority-101618492924273.html
15-04-2021||World||'War-like situation in Pakistan', protest continues over arrest of Islamist party leader||Violent protests continued in Pakistan on Tuesday for the second day against the arrest of radical Islamist party leader as demonstrators blocked roads in several major Pakistani cities, including the country's largest city of Karachi, Al Jazeera reported.Visuals were making rounds on the internet where scores of protestors were seen swarming the streets across all major cities, including Lahore and Rawalpindi."War-like situation in Pakistan. Situation is out of control in Pakistan as Lakhs of protestors gathered against Imran Khan Govt and Pak Army," said one of the users.On Wednesday, Pakistan Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed had announced that the government has decided to ban the radical Islamist Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), whose supporters and workers have been carrying out violent protests across the country for three days after the arrest of their chief.According to Dawn, he said the religiopolitical outfit would be banned under Rule 11(b) of the Anti-Terrorism Act (ATA), 1997.Rashid said the Punjab government had recommended a ban on the organisation, for which a summary was being sent to the federal cabinet. He said TLP leaders used to come to all rounds of talks with the government after issuing instructions to their workers regarding road closures."They were more prepared than us but today we've decided that [a] ban on TLP [will be placed] and this file is going to the cabinet for the approval from today," the minister said.The minister's statement came after law enforcement agencies and officials moved to clear TLP activists from roads in different cities of the country as protests entered the third day.Rashid said that the TLP workers through blocking roads had stopped ambulances from reaching their destinations and impeded the transport of oxygen cylinders for Covid-19 patients.He called upon TLP members "who are running the media" to surrender, saying they were mistaken in their belief that they could create problems for the government through social media."We want a document that exalts the flag of the Prophet (PBUH), but what you are demanding gives an impression of us being an extremist-minded state to the world," he told the TLP leadership.The TLP is protesting against the arrest of their leader Saad Hussain Rizvi, who was taken into custody earlier this week, and blasphemous caricatures published in France. They have demanded that the French ambassador be sent home and import of goods from that country banned, as reported by Dawn.According to media reports, the Imran Khan-led Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf government signed an agreement with the TLP in November last agreeing to expel the French Ambassador.The TLP launched a massive protest in November last year against the cartoons but dispersed after the agreement with the government to expel the Ambassador by February. The deal was extended until April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/warlike-situation-in-pakistan-protest-continues-over-arrest-of-islamist-party-leader-101618492738910.html
15-04-2021||World||'Terrorists may take advantage': China warns on US withdrawal from Afghanistan||China on Thursday voiced concern over America's decision to withdraw all its troops from Afghanistan by September, saying the US should accommodate the legitimate security concerns of the regional countries to prevent "terrorist forces" from taking advantage of the chaos in the war-torn country.Also Read | 'Time to end America's longest war': Biden on AfghanistanBeijing also slammed Washington for linking the withdrawal of the US troops from Afghanistan to focus more on the threats posed by China, saying the fight against terrorism is in the common interest of all parties, including the two countries."The current security situation in Afghanistan is still complex and grim and the problem of terrorism is far from being solved. Foreign troops stationed in Afghanistan should withdraw in a responsible and orderly manner to ensure a smooth transition in Afghanistan and to avoid terrorist forces from taking advantage of chaos," Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian told a media briefing here while responding to questions on US troops pullout plan.Also Read | Biden’s exit plan cements India’s place at Afghan table"The US is the biggest external factor affecting the issue of Afghanistan... It must take full responsibility for preserving the outcomes of Afghanistan’s peaceful construction and reconstruction and accommodate legitimate security concerns of the countries in the region," he said.To a question that the US is linking its troops withdrawal to focus on China, Zhao said, "the US side links its withdrawal from Afghanistan to China’s challenge.Also Read | Blinken visits Afghanistan as US set to withdraw troops"This reflects deep rooted zero-sum mind-set from the Cold War which is detrimental to mutual trust between the two countries and it is not conducive to cooperation and coordination on international and regional issues.""We have to emphasise that the political solution to Afghanistan and early realisation of peace and stability in the country and the fight against terrorism are in the common interest of all parties concerned, including China and the US and are also common aspiration of the international community," he said.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki has said that the US "will begin an orderly drawdown of the remaining forces before May 1 and plan to have all US troops out of the country before the 20th anniversary of 9/11."Later US President Joe Biden said, "It is time to end America's longest war. It is time for American troops to come home."Zhao also said China will attend the UN conference on Afghanistan scheduled to be held in Istanbul from Aril 20 to May 4 to find a peaceful solution to Afghanistan’s civil strife.Observers say that the US' latest plan to speed up the withdrawal of more troops from Afghanistan may have troubling consequences for China.China, whose volatile Xinjiang province shares border with the Afghanistan, has been expressing concern over the US troops withdrawal despite its current round of tensions with Washington on a host of issues including, the US allegation of genocide by China against Muslim Uygurs in Xinjiang.China has been refuting allegations of mass detention camps and other human rights violations against Uygurs.The previous Trump administration had lifted the ban on the separatist East Turkistan Islamic Movement (ETIM), a Uygur militant outfit.The ETIM was designated as a terrorist organisation by the UN’s 1267 counter-terrorism committee in 2002 for its alleged association with Al-Qaida, the then al-Qaeda chief Osama bin Laden and the Taliban.Despite its all-weather ties with Pakistan, which holds a strong control over the Taliban as it operates from the Pakistani territory, China’s concerns stem from the reports of regrouping of hundreds of Uygur militants who worked with Islamic State in Syria in Afghanistan to stage attacks in Xinjiang.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/terrorists-may-take-advantage-china-warns-on-us-withdrawal-from-afghanistan-101618491669642.html
15-04-2021||World||WHO expects decision on emergency listing for Chinese vaccines soon||The World Health Organization will decide late this month or in May on emergency use listings for Covid-19 vaccines from Sinopharm and Sinovac following an extended review, a WHO European region official said on Thursday."We are in touch with them to review the dossiers that have been submitted by both vaccine manufacturers," WHO-Europe vaccination expert Siddhartha Datta told a virtual press conference. "We will be hearing about a decision on the emergency use listing in April or early May, so please keep an eye on that."A WHO panel in final stages of review of the Chinese vaccines has said that a decision for at least one could come on April 26, while a second meeting has been planned for May 3, should more time be needed to make a decision on both shots.Such an emergency WHO listing is a prerequisite for purchase by the COVAX vaccine-sharing facility designed to get shots to poorer countries. It also helps guide countries with less developed regulatory systems about a vaccine's safety and efficacy.So far, the WHO has issued emergency listings for Pfizer and BioNTech's COVID-19 vaccine, as well as versions of AstraZeneca's vaccine made by the Serum Institute of India and South Korea's AstraZeneca-SKBio.CanSino's vaccine relies on a viral vector to deliver DNA to prompt an immune response, a technique similar to that used in both AstraZeneca's and Johnson & Johnson's vaccines now being investigated for their association with very rare blood clots combined with low platelet counts.CanSino has said there have been no reports of blood clots.Sinovac's vaccine, being used in places including Hong Kong and Brazil, relies on inactivated coronaviruses to generate an immune response, a technique used for decades including against polio.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-expects-decision-on-emergency-listing-for-chinese-vaccines-soon-101618491539266.html
15-04-2021||World||Myanmar envoy evicted by military attache appeals for UK govt's help||The ousted Myanmar ambassador to Britain has appealed to the British government to help him as he faced eviction from his London residence.Kyaw Zwar Minn had to spend a night in his car last week after his country’s military attache barred him from the embassy in central London.He told reporters from behind the padlocked gates of his residence in northwest London on Thursday that he is “not going to go today” and intends to stay despite orders from his former staff that he has to move out.The former diplomat had called for the release of former elected leader Aung San Suu Kyi, who was detained after the military took power in a coup on Feb. 1.Asked what he would do over the next few days, he replied: “Who can tell? The last time they seized the embassy without warning, so I need to be careful.”He did not elaborate on what kind of help he wanted from the British government.Britain Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said last week he condemned the “bullying actions of the Myanmar military regime in London.”More than 700 people in Myanmar have been killed in a brutal crackdown against pro-democracy protesters and others opposed to February’s coup.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-envoy-evicted-by-military-attache-appeals-for-uk-govt-s-help-101618490224826.html
15-04-2021||World||French lawmakers approve contentious bill to extend police powers||France's parliament passed a security bill Thursday to extend police powers despite criticism from civil rights activists who fear it threatens efforts to denounce police abuse.The bill was approved by 75 votes for and 33 against at the National Assembly, where French President Emmanuel Macron's party, which proposed the measure, has a large majority. The Senate has already adopted the bill.In an effort to quell criticism, lawmakers have redrafted the most controversial article of the text. It now says helping to identify on-duty police officers “with the obvious intent of harming'' will be punished by up to 5 years in prison and a 75,000 euro-fine (USD 89,800).Tens of thousands of protesters marched in Paris in November to denounced the initial provision that was making it illegal to publish images of police officers with intent to cause them harm.Opponents say the new draft still remains vague and subject to interpretation by police officers. They also fear it will intimidate people trying to fight police abuse and discrimination by taking and publishing pictures and videos.Macron's government said the law was needed to better protect police amid threats and attacks by a violent fringe and increasing harassment on social media.Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin on Thursday praised the “compromise” that lawmakers found on the text. The bill also gives more autonomy to local police and extends the use of surveillance drones, amid other measures.The French branch of Amnesty International warned on Twitter about the “dangers” the bill posed to civil liberties and denounced its “generalized surveillance practices.”The text has “vague provisions that could allow abusive and unfair legal proceedings," the rights group said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-lawmakers-approve-contentious-bill-to-extend-police-powers-101618489644603.html
15-04-2021||World||US imposes sanctions on Moscow, expels 10 Russian diplomats||The United States announced economic sanctions against Russia on Thursday and the expulsion of 10 diplomats in retaliation for what Washington says is the Kremlin's US election interference, a massive cyber attack and other hostile activity.President Joe Biden ordered a widening of restrictions on US banks trading in Russian government debt, expelled 10 diplomats who include alleged spies, and sanctioned 32 individuals alleged to have tried to meddle in the 2020 presidential election, the White House said.Biden's executive order "sends a signal that the United States will impose costs in a strategic and economically impactful manner on Russia if it continues or escalates its destabilizing international action," the White House said in a statement.The statement listed in first place Moscow's "efforts to undermine the conduct of free and fair democratic elections and democratic institutions in the United States and its allies and partners."This referred to allegations that Russian intelligence agencies mounted persistent disinformation and dirty tricks campaigns during the 2016 and 2020 presidential elections, in part to help Donald Trump's candidacy.The White House said the sanctions also respond to "malicious cyber activities against the United States and its allies and partners," referring to the massive so-called SolarWinds hack of US government computer systems last year.The statement also called out Russia's extraterritorial "targeting" of dissidents and journalists and undermining of security in countries important to US national security.In addition, the Department of Treasury, together with the European Union, Australia, Britain and Canada, sanctioned eight individuals and entities associated with Russia's occupation of Crimea in Ukraine.In Brussels, the NATO military alliance said US allies "support and stand in solidarity with the United States, following its 15 April announcement of actions to respond to Russia's destabilizing activities."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-announces-sanctions-against-moscow-expels-10-russian-diplomats-101618489758837.html
15-04-2021||World||Notre-Dame fire: Macron hails 'painstaking' efforts to rebuild iconic cathedral||President Emmanuel Macron on Thursday praised the painstaking efforts to rebuild Notre-Dame de Paris, two years after flames ripped through the cathedral's centuries-old attic and sent its spire crashing through the vaults below.In the hours after the blaze, Macron told a distraught nation that the cathedral, which dates back to the 12th century, would be restored and later promised it would be reopened to worshippers by 2024.More than 700 days after workers scrambled to shore-up Notre-Dame's flying buttresses, save its 13th-century stained-glass rose windows and install movement sensors, the effort to make the site secure ahead of restoration is almost complete.From a rooftop platform, the president, dressed in overalls and a safety helmet, peered down into the cathedral's damaged transept and thanked workers on the site."Everyone remembers where they were two years ago, the emotion of all Catholics, of all Parisians and all French people," Macron told a group of workers with the Paris skyline behind him."We're all impressed with what we see, with the work that has been achieved in two years. Bravo and thank you."The first phase of the salvage operation was complicated by the need to cut up a 200-tonne mass of twisted metal left after the fire consumed scaffolding that had been erected around the wood-and-lead spire at the time of the blaze.Work was also temporarily halted because of worries over lead contamination and slowed at times by the coronavirus pandemic.Technicians still have to reinforce some of the vaults closest to those destroyed with wooden arch-shaped frames that are lifted into place by crane, and extend a tarpaulin roof over the transept to protect the restoration work once it begins."HOLDING UP"The cathedral will only be declared out of danger once the phase to secure the site is complete, but all the indications were positive, said Jeremie Patrier-Leitus, a spokesman for the public body overseeing the restoration."The cathedral hasn't moved since the fire, it's holding up."The cathedral will be restored to its original design, including the 96-metre (315-feet) spire designed by architect Eugene Viollet-le-Duc and added in the mid-1800s. The felling of oaks for the new spire's frame has begun.Financing for the restoration was not a concern yet, said General Jean-Louis Georgelin, the former army chief of staff named by Macron to head the renovation. Some 834 million euros in donations flooded in from billionaire tycoons and households in France and abroad in the fire's aftermath."We will need all these donations to complete the necessary work. We need people to keep giving money," Georgelin told France Inter radio.Tearful Parisians and stunned tourists gazed in disbelief while the inferno raged at the cathedral, which marks the very centre of Paris. Some sang liturgical music in harmonies late into the night as they stood vigil, while others prayed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/notredame-fire-macron-hails-painstaking-efforts-to-rebuild-iconic-cathedral-101618489652615.html
15-04-2021||World||Chauvin's defense testifies George Floyd died from heart trouble, not restraint||George Floyd died of a sudden heart rhythm disturbance as a result of his heart disease, a forensic pathologist testified for the defense at former Officer Derek Chauvin's murder trial, contradicting prosecution experts who said Floyd succumbed to a lack of oxygen from the way he was pinned down.Dr. David Fowler, a former Maryland chief medical examiner who is now with a consulting firm, said Wednesday the fentanyl and methamphetamine in Floyd's system, and possibly carbon monoxide poisoning from auto exhaust, were contributing factors in the 46-year-old Black man's death last May.“All of those combined to cause Mr. Floyd’s death,” he said on the second day of the defense case.Fowler also testified that he would classify the manner of death “undetermined,” rather than homicide, as the county's chief medical examiner ruled. He said Floyd's death had too many conflicting factors, some of which could be ruled homicide and some that could be considered accidental.Chauvin attorney Eric Nelson is trying to prove that the 19-year Minneapolis police veteran did what he was trained to do and that Floyd died because of his illegal drug use and underlying health problems.Prosecutors say Floyd died because the white officer's knee was pressed against Floyd’s neck or neck area for 9 1/2 minutes as he lay on the pavement on his stomach, his hands cuffed behind him and his face jammed against the ground.Fowler listed a multitude of factors or potential ones: Floyd’s narrowed arteries, his enlarged heart, his high blood pressure, his drug use, the stress of his restraint, the vehicle exhaust, and a tumor or growth in his lower abdomen that can sometimes play a role in high blood pressure by releasing “fight-or-flight” hormones.Fowler said all of those factors could have acted together to cause Floyd’s heart to work harder, suffer an arrhythmia, or abnormal rhythm, and suddenly stop.Prosecutor Jerry Blackwell launched an aggressive cross-examination, attacking Fowler's findings down the line. He got Fowler to acknowledge that even someone who dies from being deprived of oxygen ultimately dies of an arrhythmia.He also got Fowler to admit that he didn’t take the weight of Chauvin’s gear into account when he analyzed the pressure on Floyd’s body. Blackwell further accused Fowler of jumping to conclusions and suggesting to the jury that Floyd had a white pill in his mouth in the video of his arrest. Fowler denied saying that.Blackwell also attacked Fowler's testimony about carbon monoxide, which displaces oxygen in the bloodstream.In his original testimony, Fowler said carbon monoxide could have contributed to oxygen depletion in Floyd, noting that he was facing the tailpipe end of a squad car. But Floyd's blood was never tested for carbon monoxide.“You haven’t seen any data or test results that showed Mr. Floyd had a single injury from carbon monoxide. Is that true?” Blackwell asked.“That is correct, because it was never sent,” Fowler said.Blackwell also noted that the squad car was a gas-electric hybrid and that Fowler had no data on how much carbon monoxide was actually released. And he suggested that the witness assumed the engine was running at the time. Fowler said he believed it was.The prosecutor also got Fowler to agree that it would take four minutes to cause irreversible brain damage if the brain is starved of oxygen, and that insufficient oxygen can cause the heart to stop."And if a person dies as a result of low oxygen, that person is also going to die ultimately of a fatal arrhythmia, right?” Blackwell asked.Fowler responded: “Correct. Every one of us in this room will have a fatal arrhythmia at some point.”Fowler further agreed that Floyd should have been given immediate attention when he went into cardiac arrest because there still was a chance to save him at that point.A number of medical experts called by prosecutors have said Floyd died from a lack of oxygen because his breathing was constricted by the way he was held down. A cardiology expert rejected the notion that Floyd died of heart problems, saying all indications were that he had "an exceptionally strong heart.”But Fowler said that Chauvin’s knee on Floyd was “nowhere close to his airway” and that Floyd’s speaking and groaning showed that his airway was still open. He also testified that Chauvin’s knee was not applied with enough pressure to cause any bruises or scrapes on Floyd’s neck or back.And he said that Floyd did not complain of vision changes or other symptoms consistent with hypoxia, or insufficient oxygen to the brain, and that he was coherent until shortly before he suddenly stopped moving.“The bottom line is, moving air in and out, and speaking and making noise is very good evidence that the airway was not closed,” Fowler said.Blackwell ended his cross-examination by getting two questions before the jury: Whether Chauvin's actions played a role in Floyd's death, or whether Floyd's death was coincidental and unrelated. But the defense objected, and Fowler was not permitted to answer.Chauvin, 45, is charged with murder and manslaughter in Floyd’s death after his arrest on suspicion of passing a counterfeit $20 at a neighborhood market. The video of Floyd gasping that he couldn't breathe as bystanders yelled at Chauvin to get off him triggered worldwide protests, violence and a furious examination of racism and policing in the U.S.The defense hasn’t said whether Chauvin will take the stand.___Find AP’s full coverage of the death of George Floyd at: https://apnews.com/hub/death-of-george-floyd___Webber reported from Fenton, Michigan. Associated Press video journalist Angie Wang contributed from Atlanta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chauvins-defense-testifies-george-floyd-died-from-heart-trouble-not-restraint-101618488001084.html
15-04-2021||World||Blinken visits Afghanistan as US set to withdraw troops||U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken made a visit to Afghanistan on Thursday to brief the country’s leaders on U.S. plans to withdraw its remaining troops by Sept. 11 and to press for a peace agreement with the Taliban.Blinken made the stop, which wasn’t announced beforehand in keeping with the strict security measures required for such visits, after President Joe Biden announced Wednesday that the U.S. was pulling the more than 2,500 remaining troops from the country by the 20th anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attacks. An additional 7,000 allied forces are also expected to withdraw.“The reason I’m here, so quickly after the president’s speech last night, is to demonstrate literally, by our presence, that we have an enduring an ongoing commitment to Afghanistan,” Blinken told a crowd at the U.S Embassy in Kabul. He then met with President Ashraf Ghani and chief executive Abdullah Abdullah, saying the two countries’ “partnership is changing, but the partnership is enduring.”“We respect the decision and are adjusting our priorities,” Ghani told him.The trip comes after Blinken visited NATO allies in Brussels to coordinate plans for the withdrawal. The decision pushes back a May 1 deadline that the Trump administration agreed to with Taliban leaders last year, and the move risks retaliation against Afghan and U.S. forces.Military and diplomatic leaders had said a rushed withdrawal could destabilize the country. Officials had also argued that the Pentagon’s previous “conditions-based” approach for withdrawal was a recipe for leaving U.S. forces in the country forever.Although some members of Congress have endorsed Biden’s withdrawal plans, lawmakers from both parties have said it would set the stage for the Taliban to return to power and for terrorists from al-Qaeda and Islamic State to re-establish operations in the country.Blinken told reporters in Brussels on April 14 that the U.S. will work closely with allies on a “safe, deliberate and coordinated withdrawal of our forces from Afghanistan.”U.S. officials hope the impending troop withdrawal will create a new sense of urgency for Ghani’s government to agree to a peace deal with the Taliban. At the same time, it’s complicated a U.S.-backed peace conference in Istanbul that representatives of the Afghan government and the Taliban were due to attend from April 24. The Taliban said in a tweet late Tuesday that it wouldn’t participate.A report on worldwide threats issued by U.S. intelligence agencies on April 13 forecast that the Taliban “is likely to make gains on the battlefield, and the Afghan government will struggle to hold the Taliban at bay if the coalition withdraws support.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/blinken-visits-afghanistan-as-us-set-to-withdraw-troops-101618486671981.html
15-04-2021||World||WHO asks researchers to use Covid-19 lessons to battle deadly superbugs||Lessons learned during the Covid-19 pandemic should be used to fight the spread of drug-resistant bacteria, which kill tens of thousands of people each year, the World Health Organization said Thursday.The UN health agency warned that the world was running out of options for fighting so-called superbugs, with few new effective antibiotics in the pipeline.But it said that the coronavirus crisis, which had dramatically deepened the global understanding of the health and economic implications of an uncontrolled pandemic, could spur progress.The worldwide push to rein in the pandemic had proven that rapid progress can be made when there is enough political will, the WHO pointed out."Antibiotics present the Achilles heel for universal health coverage and our global health security," Haileyesus Getahun, who heads the WHO's antimicrobial resistance division, warned in a statement."Opportunities emerging from the Covid-19 pandemic must be seized to bring to the forefront the needs for sustainable investments in (research and development) of new and effective antibiotics."Among other things, he said, there should be a global mechanism to pool funding to battle the scourge of antimicrobial resistance, along the same lines as the mechanisms created to fund the development of Covid-19 vaccines.Antibiotic resistance happens when bugs become immune to existing drugs, like antibiotics, antivirals or antifungals, rendering minor injuries and common infections potentially deadly.Resistance has grown in recent years due to overuse of such drugs in humans and also in farm animals.'Insufficient'Discovered in the 1920s, antibiotics have saved tens of millions of lives by defeating bacterial diseases such as pneumonia, tuberculosis and meningitis.But over the decades, bacteria have learned to fight back, building resistance to the same drugs that once reliably vanquished them -- turning into so-called "superbugs".To counter bacteria's ability to become resistant to known drugs, a steady stream of new antibiotics is needed, but for pharmaceutical companies, developing competitive new products in this field is complicated, costly, and not seen as very profitable.Almost all new antibiotics that have been brought to market in recent decades are variations of antibiotic drugs discovered before the 1980s, the WHO pointed out.Since 2017, the UN agency has published an annual report on what antibacterials are in the pipeline, evaluating their potential for stemming the crisis.In the report published Thursday, it concluded that none of the 43 new antibiotics currently being developed sufficiently address the problem of drug resistance in the world's most dangerous bacteria.It also pointed out that a full 82 percent of recently approved antibiotics were derivatives of existing antibiotic classes with well-established drug-resistance, warning that "rapid emergence of drug-resistance to these new agents is expected."The report highlighted the urgent need to develop new antibacterial treatments, saying those currently in the pipeline were "insufficient" to tackle the challenge."While there are some innovative products in the pipeline, it is likely that only a fraction of these will ever come to market due to the high failure rates in the drug development process," the report warned.Faced with a dire lack of effective antibiotics, this year's report for the first time also listed an overview of "non-traditional antibacterial medicines" that could help fill the gap.It highlighted 27 such drugs in the pipeline, including monoclonal antibodies like the treatments being used for Covid-19.Other non-traditional drugs being looked at as weapons in the fight against superbugs are antimicrobial peptides, antibacterial enhancers and bacteriophages -- tiny viruses that infect bacteria, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-asks-researchers-to-use-covid-19-lessons-to-battle-deadly-superbugs-101618486538143.html
15-04-2021||World||Unusually high Covid-19 deaths among babies, young children in Brazil. Here’s why||Brazil has been one of the worst-hit nations by the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic but the unusual high deaths among babies have caused immense concerns. Despite overwhelming evidence based on data that Covid-19 rarely turns fatal for children, around 1,300 babies have died from coronavirus, according to a BBC report.BBC did a feature on a Brazilian woman’s one-year-old son who died two months after he first displayed symptoms of Covid-19 in May last year. Jessika Ricarte took her son, Lucas, to a hospital after he developed a fever, then fatigue and slightly laboured breathing. The oxygen level was at a low 86 per cent but the doctor assured Jessika that Covid-19 was rare in children and sent her home with some antibiotics, reported BBC.Jessika, a resident of Tamboril in Ceará, northeast Brazil, said that although some of the symptoms disappeared at the end of his 10-day antibiotics course, the tiredness remained, as per the report. On June 3, Lucas vomited repeatedly after having lunch, prompting Jessika to take him to a local hospital. He tested positive for Covid-19 and was transferred to a paediatric intensive care unit in Sobral, a municipality that was over two hours away.Lucas was diagnosed there with a condition called multisystem inflammatory syndrome (MIS). A recent study, published in The Lancet, suggests that multisystem inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) is a newly identified and serious health condition associated with Covid-19. It is a rare but severe hyperinflammatory condition in children and adolescents that typically occurs 2–6 weeks after they are infected with the coronavirus.MIS-C is an extreme immune response to the virus and can affect multiple organ systems, including cardiac, gastrointestinal, haematological, dermatological, neurological, respiratory, and renal systems. For the study, the researchers analysed 1,080 patients who met the MIS-C case definition and had sufficient clinical data for analysis of pre-existing factors.Out of 1,080 patients, 431 were admitted to ICU on the same day as hospitalisation and 217 were admitted to ICU at least after a day of hospitalisation. The clinical signs and symptoms of MIS-C include cough, shortness of breath, vomiting, diarrhoea, rash, and abdominal pain, among others. Around 28 per cent of patients had decreased cardiac function, 36 per cent suffered shock, and around 2 per cent cases resulted in deaths.Lucas was intubated after being diagnosed with MIS-C and suffered cardiac arrest while he was in the ICU, reported BBC. The doctor who was treating the kid said she was surprised at the seriousness of his condition since he did not have any risk factors in terms of comorbidities or overweight. A CT scan discovered that Lucas had had a stroke and later died after a sudden drop in heart rate and oxygen level, as per the report.According to experts quoted by BBC, Brazil’s sheer number of Covid-19 cases have led to an increase in infection among babies and young children. While Brazil’s official data suggest that Covid-19 killed at least 852 children up to the age of nine, Dr Fatima Marinho, a leading epidemiologist from the University of São Paolo, did research that estimated the virus killed 2,060 children under nine years old, including 1,302 babies. Marinho told BBC that she is seeing more cases of MIS-C than ever before, highlighting that there is a misconception that children are at a zero risk for Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unusually-high-covid-deaths-among-babies-young-children-in-brazil-here-s-why-101618484497625.html
15-04-2021||World||Europe has surpassed 1 million Covid-19 deaths: WHO||A top official from the World Health Organization says Europe has surpassed 1 million deaths from Covid-19 and the situation remains “serious,” with about 1.6 million new cases reported each week in the region.Addressing recent concerns about vaccines, Dr. Hans Kluge also said the risk of people suffering blood clots is far higher for people with Covid-19 than people who receive AstraZeneca’s coronavirus vaccine.Speaking to reporters during a visit to Greece, Kluge did point to “early signs that transmission may be slowing across several countries” and cited “declining incidence” among the oldest people.He said the proportion of Covid-19 deaths among people over 80, who have been prioritized for vaccines, had dropped to nearly 30% — the lowest level in the pandemic.“For now, the risk of suffering blood clots is much higher for someone with Covid-19 than for someone who has taken the AstraZeneca vaccine,” he said.“Let there be no doubt about it, the AstraZeneca vaccine is effective in reducing Covid-19 hospitalization and preventing deaths,” he added, saying WHO recommends its use for all eligible adults.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/europe-has-surpassed-1-million-covid-19-deaths-who-101618484312288.html
15-04-2021||World||Japan's radioactive Fukushima mascot Tritium prompts backlash and apology||Amid criticism at home and abroad over plans to release treated water from the wrecked Fukushima nuclear power plant into the ocean, Japan’s officials turned to a familiar playbook: use a cute character to explain the safety of the move.Within just a day, the big-nosed, tadpole-like character called Tritium -- which looks a bit like a Pokemon and is named after the radioactive element that the government plans to dilute and release into the ocean -- was scrapped and an apology issued.As part of promotional material released after Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga announced Japan would begin releasing more than a million cubic meters of water into the ocean in two years, the character was intended to explain to locals that the water isn’t hazardous. But after a wave of criticism on social media and in parliament, the Reconstruction Agency said it would temporarily retire and redesign the character on Wednesday.The episode highlights the struggles Tokyo faces in convincing not just its neighbors but also the public that it can safely release the tritium-tainted water into the ocean. Some 57% of Fukushima prefecture residents oppose the release, according to a poll from February.The move has also been loudly criticized by China, South Korea and Taiwan. “Since some politicians in Japan are so desperate to prove that nuclear-waste water is safe, then they can as well use it to drink, cook, wash clothes and for irrigation,” said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a regular briefing Thursday in Beijing.The materials were created by advertising giant Dentsu Inc., an official told parliament on Wednesday, as part of a nearly $3 million budget for educating the public about radiation.These kinds of comic characters, known as “yuru-chara,” are used all across Japan as mascots for everything from regional sports teams to the police force. Tepco, the utility at the center of the Fukushima disaster, starting using a chubby bunny as its mascot in 2018 to help rehabilitate its image.Tritium is a form of hydrogen that has two extra neutrons, making it weakly radioactive. It is naturally produced in the upper atmosphere and is also a common byproduct of nuclear power generation. It is a common and safe practice for the world’s nuclear power plants to discharge small amounts of tritium and other radioactive material into rivers and oceans, according to the International Atomic Energy Agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japans-radioactive-fukushima-mascot-tritium-prompts-backlash-and-apology-101618478146904.html
15-04-2021||World||China's tech giants facing antitrust probe pledge to end unfair competition||More than 20 Chinese tech giants have made a public pact to abide by anti-monopoly guidelines, after regulators told them to note "the warning" of a record fine against e-commerce giant Alibaba.Beijing is taking China's tech firms to task to curtail the reach of private companies into the daily finances of the Chinese public -- and, analysts say, to rein in their runaway expansion.In a series of individual statements published by China's market regulator on Wednesday and Thursday, some of the country's biggest brands -- including ByteDance, Baidu and CTrip -- promised to "ensure fair competition", "not abuse market dominance", and "not implement unfair price behaviour".The oaths come after regulators summoned 34 tech companies on Tuesday and warned them to "rectify" any anti-competitive measures and "heed the warning of Alibaba's case".The firms were given one month to undergo complete rectification after conducting internal checks, and to correct practices that harmed competition.Ride-hailing service Didi, video platforms Kuaishou and Bilibili, as well as e-commerce firm JD.com are also among those who have since published commitments.JD.com said it would not force the practice of "choosing one of two" on its retailers -- where merchants are compelled to work only with one platform and not its rivals -- a move which Alibaba had come under fire for.Meanwhile, in its statement, Didi pledged: "Except where necessary for regular business activities, we will not illegally collect or misuse personal information."The next front in Beijing's assault on big tech could be the huge volumes of data they scoop up from China's consumers.On Saturday, regulators hit Alibaba with a $2.78 billion penalty, after a months-long investigation found it had been abusing its dominant market position.Alibaba and JD.com, along with messaging and gaming giant Tencent, have become hugely profitable on the back of growing Chinese digital lifestyles and government restrictions on major US competitors in the domestic market.But as the platforms amassed hundreds of millions of regular users, concern has risen over their influence in China, where they are used for a huge array of daily tasks.bys/apj/reb||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-tech-giants-facing-antitrust-probe-pledge-to-end-unfair-competition-101618478258186.html
15-04-2021||World||French embassy asks it citizens to leave Pakistan||The French embassy in Pakistan on Thursday advised all French nationals and companies to temporarily leave the country, after violent anti-France protests paralysed large parts of the country this week."Due to the serious threats to French interests in Pakistan, French nationals and French companies are advised to temporarily leave the country," the embassy said in an email to French citizens."The departures will be carried out by existing commercial airlines."Anti-French sentiment has been simmering for months in Pakistan since the government of President Emmanuel Macron expressed support for a magazine's right to republish cartoons depicting Prophet Mohammed -- deemed blasphemous by many Muslims.On Wednesday, the Pakistani government moved to ban an extremist political party whose leader had called for the expulsion of the French ambassador.Saad Rizvi, leader of Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP), was detained hours after making his demands, bringing thousands of his supporters to the streets in cities across Pakistan.Two police officers died in the clashes, which saw water cannon, tear gas and rubber bullets used to hold back crowds.The TLP are notorious for holding days-long, violent road protests over blasphemy issues, causing major disruption to the country.But successive governments have a long history of avoiding confrontation with hardline Islamist groups, fearing any crackdown on religious parties could spark wider violence in the deeply conservative Islamic republic."We are in favour of protecting the Prophet's honour, but the demand which they are seeking could have portrayed Pakistan as a radical nation worldwide," Interior Minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed told a news conference on Wednesday.Macron's comments in September triggered anger across the Muslim world, with tens of thousands in Pakistan, neighboring Iran and other Muslim countries flooding the streets and organizing anti-French boycotts.TLP supporters brought the capital Islamabad to a standstill at the time.Blasphemy is a hugely sensitive issue in conservative Pakistan, where laws allow for the death penalty to be used on anyone deemed to have insulted Islam or Islamic figures.On Twitter, the hashtag "#FrenchLeavePakistan" was trending with 42,000 tweets as of Thursday afternoon.Weeks after satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo republished the cartoons, its former offices in Paris were attacked by a Pakistani man who stabbed two people.At the time, Prime Minister Imran Khan accused the French president of attacking the Muslim faith and urged Islamic countries to work together to counter what he called growing repression in Europe.In an address to the United Nations, Khan, a populist leader who has been known to play to Pakistan's hardline religious base, blasted Charlie Hebdo for re-publishing the cartoons, saying "wilful provocations" should be "universally outlawed".cyb/ecl/ds/oho||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-embassy-asks-it-citizens-to-leave-pakistan-101618478055030.html
15-04-2021||World||Explained: What are the Iran nuclear talks all about?||Negotiations to bring the United States back into a landmark nuclear deal with Iran are set to resume Thursday in Vienna amid signs of progress — but also under the shadow of an attack this week on Iran's main nuclear facility.What is the deal they're talking about?In 2015, Iran signed an agreement with the US, Russia, China, Germany, France and Britain that was intended to set limits on Tehran's nuclear program in order to block it from building a nuclear weapon — something it insists it doesn't want to do.In exchange, Iran received relief from sanctions that those powers had imposed, including on its exports of oil and access to the global banking system. Iran was allowed to continue to pursue its nuclear program for civilian purposes, with strict limits on how much uranium it could enrich, the purity it could enrich it to and other measures.Before the deal, conservative estimates were that Iran was within five to six months of being able to produce a bomb, while some feared it was within two to three months. With the deal safeguards in place, that “breakout time” was estimated to be more than a year.But in 2018, then-President Donald Trump pulled the US unilaterally out of the deal, criticizing clauses that ease restrictions on Iran in stages — and also the fact that eventually the deal would expire and Iran would be allowed to do whatever it wanted with its nuclear technology. He also said it needed to be renegotiated to address Iran’s ballistic missile program and regional influence such as backing militant groups.The crippling American sanctions that followed took their toll on Iran’s economy — but failed to bring Tehran back to the table to broaden the deal as Trump wanted. Instead, Tehran steadily exceeded the limitations set by the deal to pressure the remaining members for economic relief.In February, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said of Iran's estimated breakout time that “we’re down to three or four months and heading in the wrong direction.”___So what's being discussed now?US President Joe Biden has said that he wants to rejoin the deal, but that Iran must reverse its violations.The European Union called the talks in the hopes of doing just that. Though an American delegation is present in Vienna, they are not meeting directly with Iran. Instead, diplomats from the other countries shuttle back and forth between the two sides.Heading into the talks as they started last week, Iran said it was willing to return to full compliance with the deal, but that the U.S. would first have to drop all of the sanctions imposed under Trump.That is complicated, however. The Trump administration also added sanctions on Iran outside those related to its nuclear program, including over allegations of terrorism, human rights violations and for the country's ballistic missile program.Still, there are signs of hope. The talks quickly moved past that “who goes first” debate and have already started addressing specifics, said Aniseh Bassiri Tabrizi, an Iran scholar at Britain’s Royal United Services Institute.“It’s a very good development that there are these working groups actually talking and looking at the nitty gritty,” she told The Associated Press.For Iran to return to the deal, it must revert to enriching uranium to no more than 3.67% purity, stop using advanced centrifuges and drastically reduce how much uranium it enriches, among other things.Despite the challenges, Tabrizi said the task ahead is not as complicated as the one that faced the group in 2015 since they already have a deal to refer to.___How long will the talks take?There is no specified timeframe. Diplomats involved say the issues cannot be solved overnight, but are hoping for a resolution in weeks rather than months — for several reasons.The original deal was agreed after Iranian President Hassan Rouhani, widely seen as a moderate, first took office. Rouhani can't run again in upcoming June elections due to term limits, and he hopes to be able to leave office with Iran again able to sell oil abroad and access international financial markets.Meanwhile, the U.S. could face a much tougher negotiation if it doesn't get a deal before Rouhani leaves. Hard-liners in Iran reject the nuclear deal, saying it hasn’t delivered enough economic relief and is a slippery slope to more pressure on Iran. That doesn’t necessarily mean they would end talks if elected, though it would complicate things, said Sanam Vakil, deputy director of the Chatham House policy institute’s Middle East and North Africa program.There is another reason to move quickly: Iran in February began restricting International Atomic Energy Agency inspections of its nuclear facilities. Instead, it said that it would preserve surveillance footage of the facilities for three months and hand them over to the IAEA if it is granted sanctions relief. Otherwise, Iran said it would erase the recordings.___What obstacles could get in the way?Lots, as recent events have shown. Over the weekend, Iran's Natanz nuclear facility was sabotaged. It's not clear what exactly happened, but a blackout damaged centrifuges there.The attack was widely suspected of being carried out by Israel, which opposes the nuclear deal, though authorities there have not commented.Iran says Israel explicitly hopes to derail the talks with the sabotage. Rouhani said he still hoped the talks would yield a result — but the attack has complicated matters. For one, Iran responded by announcing it would increase uranium enrichment to 60% purity — far higher than ever before — and install more advanced centrifuges at the Natanz facility.And in the wake of the developments, both sides have ramped up the rhetoric.On Wednesday, Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, who has final say on all matters of state in the Islamic Republic, dismissed all offers seen so far in Vienna as “not worth looking at." Still, he said he had confidence in his negotiators.Blinken, meanwhile, said Washington had shown its seriousness by participating in the indirect talks in Vienna, but with Tehran's recent announcements, “it remains to be seen whether Iran shares that seriousness of purpose.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-what-are-the-iran-nuclear-talks-all-about-101618477309909.html
15-04-2021||World||Explosives-laden drone targets US forces at Iraq's Erbil airport||A drone dropped explosives near US forces stationed at Erbil airport in northern Iraq late on Wednesday, Kurdish officials said, with no immediate reports of casualties.A separate rocket attack killed a Turkish soldier at a military base nearby, the Turkish defence ministry said.It was the first known attack carried out by an unmanned aerial drone against US forces in Erbil, amid a steady stream of rocket attacks on bases hosting US forces and the embassy in Baghdad that Washington blames on Iran-backed militias.The interior ministry of the autonomous Kurdistan regional government, based in Erbil, said in a statement the drone was carrying TNT which it used to target the US forces. It said no one was hurt in the attack.A group that Western and some Iraqi officials say is aligned with Iran praised the attack, but did not explicitly claim it.A barrage of rockets hit the same US-led military base in the Erbil International Airport vicinity in February, killing a non-American contractor working with the US military.Shortly before Wednesday's attack in Erbil, at least two rockets landed on and near a base to the west of the city that hosts Turkish forces, Iraqi security officials said. That attack killed a Turkish soldier, Ankara said.A rocket hit a base belonging to an Iraqi Shi'ite Muslim militia group near that Turkish base a few hours later, a security official said, wounding at least one fighter. It was not immediately clear who had fired the rocket.Turkey also has troops in Iraq both as part of a NATO contingent and a force that has attacked Kurdish separatist militants in the north.The Iran-backed militias oppose both the presence of the United States and Turkey and demand a full withdrawal of all foreign troops.The United States has sometimes responded with air strikes against Iran-aligned militias including on the Iraqi-Syrian border.An air strike ordered by former president Donald Trump that killed Iran's top commander Qassem Soleimani in January 2020 sent the region to the brink of a full-scale conflict.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explosivesladen-drone-targets-us-forces-at-iraq-s-erbil-airport-101618477005894.html
15-04-2021||World||Hong Kong widens Covid-19 vaccine access to residents ages 16 and up||Hong Kong expanded eligibility for Covid-19 vaccines to all residents aged 16 and older, in the government’s latest attempt to boost a low inoculation rate by making the shots widely accessible.Residents aged 16 and above will be allowed to receive BioNTech SE vaccines, while those older than 18 will also be able to opt for shots made by China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd., Secretary for Civil Service Patrick Nip said at a briefing on Thursday. Bookings for the expanded group will start on April 23, Nip said, and 16 and 17-year-olds will need parental consent forms to be vaccinated.BioNTech vaccinations will only last until the end of September due to supply, Nip said, and appointments for the first dose must be made by August. He urged citizens to get inoculated as soon as possible.No third vaccine is expected in the city this year, said Food and Health Secretary Sophia Chan.The expansion means that Hong Kong’s entire adult population will now be eligible to receive vaccines, making it one of the first places globally to offer eligibility to its full adult population.“We have the capacity to expand the coverage of the vaccination scheme,” Nip said. “It’s the appropriate time to introduce this arrangement.”Widening RolloutWhile the Asian financial hub has largely managed to contain the virus, its rollout has been hampered by public distrust in both the Beijing-backed government and questions about the safety and efficacy of Chinese-made vaccines, slowing efforts to reach the herd immunity crucial for a full economic reopening.About 951,000 total vaccine doses had been administered to the Hong Kong public as of Wednesday, according to Bloomberg’s Covid-19 Vaccine Tracker -- with at least one dose given to just 8.4% of the population, compared to 19.8% in neighboring finance capital Singapore.More Than 832 Million Shots Given: Covid-19 Vaccine TrackerThe expansion comes days after the city outlined “vaccine bubbles” that would impose fewer social curbs on vaccinated people. Chief Executive Carrie Lam has also said the government was planning to only allow those who’ve had Covid-19 shots to fly from the city to Singapore once both governments finalize a travel bubble.Hong Kong has been expanding vaccine access rapidly since its rollout started in late February, as few among priority groups came forward in earlier stages of the campaign. Healthy adults aged 30 and up, domestic helpers and students aged 16 and above who study at overseas institutions were made eligible in March.The city is currently administering vaccines made by Sinovac and Mainz, Germany-based BioNTech, after the latter was temporarily halted last month following packaging defects found in some vials. The BioNTech program was resumed after authorities concluded that the defects didn’t pose a safety risk.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/hong-kong-widens-covid-19-vaccine-access-to-residents-ages-16-and-up-101618476546578.html
15-04-2021||World||US to announce sanctions against Russia over poll interference, hacking: Report||The United States will announce sanctions against Russia on Thursday in retaliation for alleged election interference and hacking, American media reported.Tensions have escalated between the two countries in recent months over a raft of issues, most recently over Russia amassing troops on its border with Ukraine.The sanctions will affect more than 30 Russian entities and will include expelling more than 10 Russians from the United States, including diplomats, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing sources.The diplomats will be targeted as punishment over allegations, denied by Russia, that it offered to pay militants in Afghanistan to kill American military personnel, the newspaper said.The executive order will also expand an existing ban on US banks trading in Russian government debt.Washington is also set to formally accuse Russian intelligence of carrying out the SolarWinds hack that targeted more than 100 US companies and 18,000 government and private computer networks.The president of Microsoft, one of the companies targeted, has said the sophistication and scale of the SolarWinds attack was on a level not previously seen.Russia has denied carrying out the attack.Together with Britain, Australia, Canada and the European Union, the United States will also sanction eight individuals and entities over the occupation of Crimea, the Journal reported.The sanctions come at a difficult time for US-Russia relations.US President Joe Biden and Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin held a phone call Tuesday in which they agreed to "continue dialogue", after Biden last month described Putin as a "killer" who would "pay a price" for election meddling.US intelligence has previously said Putin and other senior officials "were aware of and probably directed" Russia's influence operation to sway the vote in the 2020 election in favor of Donald Trump.More recently a Russian troop build-up on the border with Ukraine -- where Kiev's forces have been battling pro-Russian separatists since 2014 -- has sparked widespread alarm and warnings from NATO.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-to-announce-sanctions-against-russia-over-poll-interference-hacking-report-101618476326811.html
15-04-2021||World||'Running out of sperm': Sweden looks for donors as pandemic keep them away from clinics||Sweden is facing an acute shortage of sperm for assisted pregnancy as would-be donors avoid hospitals during the coronavirus pandemic, halting inseminations in large parts of the healthcare system and driving up waiting times by years."We're running out of sperm. We've never had so few donors as during the last year," said Ann Thurin Kjellberg, head of the reproduction unit at Gothenburg's University Hospital.The shortage has meant waiting times for assisted pregnancy have shot up from around six months to an estimated 30 months in the past year, possibly longer, doctors familiar with the matter told Reuters."It's stressful that we can't get a clear time or date for treatment," said Elin Bergsten, a 28-year-old maths teacher from southern Sweden.Two years ago, Bergsten and her husband learned he was unable to produce semen, and the pair immediately applied for assisted pregnancy. She was due to have her second cycle of insemination before her treatment was indefinitely delayed due to the shortage."It's a national phenomenon," Thurin Kjellberg said. "We've run out in Gothenburg and Malmo, they will soon run out in Stockholm," she added, naming the three most populous areas of the country.Beyond public healthcare providers, there are also private clinics in Sweden which are able to circumvent shortages by buying sperm from abroad.But assisted pregnancy treatment there often costs as much as 100,000 Swedish crowns ($11,785), making it unaffordable for many. Assisted pregnancy is free within Sweden's national health service.The Nordic countries and Belgium have the highest assisted conception rates in the world, in terms of availability of cycles per million of population, according to the European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology.Under Swedish law, a sperm sample can only be used by a maximum of 6 women. Most donated sperm in Sweden has reached this legal capacity, meaning that in many areas, assisted pregnancy is only available for women who have used a specific sperm sample before.Margareta Kitlinski, who runs the reproduction unit at Skane University Hospital, the largest such clinic in Sweden, said it takes around 8 months to process a donor due to the many tests involved, and that many samples fail to become viable donations due to common problems in freezing."If you have 50 men contact you, at best only half of them could be donors," Kitlinski said.Some Swedish regions have taken to social media to encourage potential male donors, but with varying results. In the meantime, the shortage lingers."We need to go on TV and tell Swedish men to come forward," Thurin Kjellberg said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/running-out-of-sperm-sweden-look-for-donors-as-pandemic-keep-them-away-101618475443835.html
15-04-2021||World||China increasingly a near-peer competitor, posing multiple challenges: Top US intel officer||China is increasingly becoming a near-peer competitor of the US, posing challenges in multiple domains, while pushing to revise global norms in ways that favour the authoritarian Chinese system, a top American intelligence officer has told lawmakers.Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines on Wednesday briefed members of the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence on the worldwide threat assessment of the US."China increasingly is a near-peer competitor, challenging the United States in multiple areas while pushing to revise global norms in ways that favour the authoritarian Chinese system," Haines said.China, she said, is employing a comprehensive approach to demonstrate its growing strength and compel regional neighbours to acquiesce to Beijing's preferences, including its claims over disputed territory and assertions of sovereignty over Taiwan.“It also has substantial cyber capabilities that, if deployed at a minimum, can cause localised temporary disruptions to critical infrastructure inside the United States,” Haines said.Russia, Iran and North Korea are the other three countries that pose threats to the United States, she said.At the same time regional conflicts continue to fuel humanitarian crises, undermine stability and threaten US persons and interests.“The fighting in Afghanistan, Iraq and Syria has a direct implication for U.S. forces, while tensions between nuclear-armed India and Pakistan remain a concern for the world. The iterate of violence between Israel and Iran, the activity of foreign powers in Libya and conflicts in other areas, including Africa and the Middle East, have the potential to escalate or spread,” Haines said.“Asia has periodic upheavals, such as the Burmese military seizure of power in February. Latin America has contested elections. Violent popular protests are likely to continue to produce volatility. And Africa will continue to see ongoing marginalisation of some communities, ethnic conflict, and contentious elections,” she said.Senator Mark Warner, Chairman of the Senate Committee, described the rise of China as a major challenge for the United States.“As we grapple with the challenges posed by a rising China, our problem is with the Chinese Communist Party, not with the Chinese people or the Chinese diaspora globally. And certainly not with Asian Americans here in the United States," he said.As China grows in power and stature, the CCP has sought to undercut the United States as the world's leading technological power, he said.“We see this in the reliance on both strategic investments and traditional espionage to acquire intellectual property, their use and export of surveillance technology to authoritarian regimes, and their modernization of traditional and asymmetric military capabilities, including in the space and cyber domains,” Warner said.“When we look at development, for example, of 5G technology, we've seen the CCP act aggressively to influence international standard-setting bodies and invest in a national champion, Huawei, that threatens to dominate the worldwide telecommunications market,” Warner said.“I fear that the CCP will develop a similar strategy to dominate the development of other emerging technologies, including AI, quantum computing, and BAU technology. In many ways, the IC is the only part of our overall enterprise that sees across all domains in this field, and I think we must be clear-eyed in assessing the threats posed by the CCP,” he added.Senator Marco Rubio said that the United States made a mistake to not focus on both China's capabilities and on its growing and intensifying efforts to involve and engage itself in the political environment in the United States."Different aims, perhaps, different tactics in some ways. But certainly, they have every capability that the Russians do, and more, in many cases. And they are certainly interested in molding public discourse and creating political pressure among creating pressure on political figures who they don't like here in the United States," he said.FBI Director Christopher Wray told Senators that the investigating agency now has over 2,000 investigations that tie back to the Chinese government."And on the economic espionage investigation side alone, it's about a 1,300 percent increase over the last several years. We're opening a new investigation into China every 10 hours. And I can assure the committee, that's not because our folks don't have anything to do with their time,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-increasingly-a-near-peer-competitor-top-us-intelligence-officer-101618475588940.html
15-04-2021||World||Ex-world leaders, Nobel laureates ask Joe Biden to waive Covid-19 vaccine patents||More than 170 former world leaders and Nobel laureates are calling on United States President Joe Biden to make Covid-19 vaccines more readily available by waiving US intellectual property rules.In an open letter shared by Oxfam on Wednesday, the signatories also urged Biden to support a proposal spearheaded by South Africa and India demanding the World Trade Organization (WTO) temporarily waive Covid-19 vaccine patents.The signatories include former UK Prime Minister Gordon Brown, ex-French President Francois Hollande and Muhammad Yunus, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize among many more.According to Al Jazeera, the measure would allow vaccine manufacturing to ramp up globally, the letter reads, as public health experts have raised concerns that low-income countries are left behind without access to critical coronavirus jabs."The world saw unprecedented development of safe and effective vaccines, in major part thanks to US public investment. We all welcome that vaccination rollout in the US and many wealthier countries is bringing hope to their citizens. Yet for the majority of the world that same hope is yet to be seen. New waves of suffering are now rising across the globe. Our global economy cannot rebuild if it remains vulnerable to this virus," the readers wrote in a letter, seen by ANI.The leaders also expressed encouragement on the fact that the Biden administration is considering a temporary waiver of World Trade Organization (WTO) intellectual property rules during the Covid-19 pandemic, as proposed by South Africa and India, and supported by more than 100 WTO member states and numerous health experts worldwide."A WTO waiver is a vital and necessary step to bringing an end to this pandemic. It must be combined with ensuring vaccine know-how and technology is shared openly. This can be achieved through the World Health Organization Covid-19 Technology Access Pool, as your Chief Medical Advisor, Dr. Anthony Fauci, has called for. This will save lives and advance us towards global herd immunity," they wrote.The leaders stated that supporting the emergency waiver of Covid-19 related intellectual property rules will give people around the globe a chance to wake up to a world free from the virus.Al Jazeera further reported that Biden, who made tackling the pandemic a central goal of his presidency, has said the US would share any surplus of vaccines with other countries once all US citizens are vaccinated. But he has provided few details about how the US intends to eventually allocate those doses."We will not end today's global pandemic until rich countries - most especially the US - stop blocking the ability of countries around the world to mass produce safe and effective vaccines," Francoise Barre-Sinoussi, a Nobel laureate in medicine, said in an Oxfam statement accompanying Wednesday's open letter."That the Biden administration is considering waiving barriers related to intellectual property rules offers hope for the international community. If the United States supports the lifting of patents, Europe will have to take its responsibilities," Hollande, the former French president, also said as quoted by Al Jazeera.Leaders of the US, India, Japan and Australia - the so-called "Quad" countries - last month also announced plans to work with the World Health Organization to develop and distribute Covid-19 vaccines to one billion people in the Indo-Pacific region.In February, hundreds of civil society groups in the US, along with several progressive lawmakers, are keeping up the pressure on the Biden administration to support India's TRIPS waiver on Covid-19 vaccines.India along with South Africa is at the forefront in a proposal introduced in October 2020, before the World Trade Organization (WTO) in the TRIPS council, for a waiver during Covid-19 to allow more countries to get equitable access to medicines.Members of the European Parliament have backed a joint proposal by India and South Africa for waiver on intellectual property rights for Covid-19 vaccine patents.In a letter addressed to the European Union leadership dated February, 14 members of the European Parliament (MEPs) have called for a moratorium on the suspension of Covid-19 vaccine patents.The World Health Organization declared the Covid-19 outbreak a pandemic on March 11, 2020. To date, more than 138.05 million people have been infected with the coronavirus worldwide, with over 2.91 million fatalities, according to Johns Hopkins University.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/exworld-leaders-nobel-laureates-ask-biden-to-waive-covid-19-vaccine-patents-101618473976923.html
15-04-2021||World||US Capitol Police watchdog to testify on Jan 6 failures for the first time||The top watchdog for the US Capitol Police will testify for the first time on Thursday about the department's broad failures before and during the Jan 6 insurrection, including missed intelligence predicting a “war” and weapons that were so old that officers didn't feel comfortable using them.Capitol Police Inspector General Michael A. Bolton has investigated the force's missteps since the siege, when hundreds of President Donald Trump's supporters broke into the building and sent lawmakers fleeing for their lives. In a report obtained by The Associated Press, he paints a dire picture of his agency's ability to respond to future threats and casts serious doubt on whether the force would be able to respond to another large-scale attack.The Capitol Police have so far refused to publicly release the report — prepared in March and marked as “law enforcement sensitive” — despite congressional pressure. Democratic Re. Zoe Lofgren of California, who heads the House Administration Committee, said last month that she found the report, along with another the department had circulated internally, “detailed and disturbing.” Lofgren's committee is holding Thursday's hearing.Bolton found that the department's deficiencies were — and remain — widespread: Equipment was old and stored badly; officers didn't complete required training; and there was a lack of direction at the Civil Disturbance Unit, which exists to ensure that legislative functions of Congress are not disrupted by civil unrest or protest activity.That was exactly what happened on Jan 6 when Trump supporters violently pushed past police and broke into the Capitol as Congress counted the Electoral College votes that certified Joe Biden's victory.The report also focuses on several pieces of missed intelligence, including an FBI memo sent the day before the insurrection that then-Capitol Police Chief Steven Sund told lawmakers he never saw. The memo warned of threatening online postings by Trump backers, including one comment that Congress “needs to hear glass breaking, doors being kicked in” and blood being spilled.“Get violent ... Stop calling this a march, or rally, or a protest," read one post recounted in the memo. "Go there ready for war. We get our President or we die. NOTHING else will achieve this goal.”A separate report prepared by the Department of Homeland Security in December alerted the police to messages on a blog where people appeared to be planning for Jan. 6. One online post included a map of tunnels under the Capitol used by lawmakers and staff. “Take note,” the message said.The Capitol Police said in a statement Wednesday that officials had already made some of the improvements recommended in the report, and that the siege was “a pivotal moment” in history that showed the need for “major changes” in how the department operates. Still, they said that they would need more money and staff to make improvements.“It is important to note that nearly all of the recommendations require significant resources the department does not have,” the statement said. (AP) NSA||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-capitol-police-watchdog-to-testify-on-jan-6-failures-for-the-first-time-101618468309505.html
15-04-2021||World||Biden’s exit plan cements India’s place at Afghan table||US President Joe Biden appears to be going much further than his predecessors to involve India in Afghanistan.The exit plan that President Biden unveiled on Wednesday to “end America’s longest war” and bring all US-led coalition forces back home completely and unconditionally by September 11 includes a larger role for India along with other regional players in shaping the war-ravaged country’s future.“We’ll ask other countries - other countries in the region - to do more to support Afghanistan, especially Pakistan, as well as Russia, China, India, and Turkey,” Biden said. “They all have a significant stake in the stable future for Afghanistan.”In March, Secretary of State Antony Blinken had in a letter to Afghan President Ashraf Ghani proposed a UN-convened conference of foreign ministers of India, Russia, Pakistan, China, and the United States to find a “unified approach” to support the Afghan peace process. Turkey is hosting, as also proposed by Blinken, that meeting starting April 24.People familiar with India-US ties, especially in the area of Afghanistan, said Biden has indeed been pulling India closer on Afghanistan but wanted to watch the process longer to see it was indeed a sustained move. Thus far, at least, he appears to have been more enthusiastic about Indian involvement than his predecessors.President George W Bush, who launched the war in Afghanistan, was content to let India focus on non-security reconstruction efforts, which have continued since, worth an estimated $3 billion so far - on roads, power plants, schools, hospitals and rebooting the banking system.President Barack Obama had been in a hurry to leave but got persuaded by his general to order a massive surge at the start of his term and then spent the rest of his time cutting it down.President Donald Trump had asked India to step up and do more in the area of economic assistance and development as part of his South Asia strategy. But India was not at the table for the 2019-20 Afghan peace talks, though the US special envoy Zalmay Khalilzad travelled to New Delhi often to keep them abreast with the talks.“The Biden administration is clearly looking for a greater role for India in Afghanistan’s future than previous administrations,” said Husain Haqqani, former Pakistani ambassador to the US, who is now director for South and Central Asia at the Hudson Institute.“Question is, how will they (the Biden administration) persuade Pakistan and India to accept each other’s or even America’s vision?” he added.India has wanted to play a larger role in Afghanistan, going beyond its financial and training assistance. But it has struggled to find a place at the table in the constantly changing constellation of countries jostling for primacy and relevance. The Trump administration had kept India out of the peace talks and so did Russia, by not inviting it to peace talks it hosted in March - only China, Pakistan, Iran and the United States were invited. Pakistan is mostly blamed for India’s exclusion from the process, as it leverages its shared border and history with Afghanistan to get its way. Growing Indian influence there through a long list of assistance and cooperation has made Islamabad more insecure and nervous.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bidens-exit-plan-cements-india-s-place-at-afghan-table-101618472878954.html
15-04-2021||World||At US-Japan summit, Joe Biden, Yoshihide Suga to counter assertive China||Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and US President Joe Biden will highlight Tokyo's central role in Washington's strategy to counter the challenge of an increasingly assertive China at a summit on Friday.While that emphasis of Japan's key status will be welcome in Tokyo, where some politicians are pushing for a tougher stance towards Beijing, it also raises questions about how far Tokyo can go to meet demands on regional defence and human rights."This will be the precursor to a series of meetings among like-minded countries to send the right signal to Beijing," Kunihiko Miyake, an adviser to Suga, told Reuters.Suga took over as premier last September, inheriting a China policy that sought to balance security concerns with deep economic ties.But striking that balance has become harder as China increases maritime activities including in the East and South China Seas and near Taiwan, which Beijing considers a wayward province.Human rights concerns have deepened over mass detentions of Muslim Uighurs in the Xinjiang region. China denies abuses, but the United States has said Beijing is perpetrating a genocide.Suga will be the first foreign leader to meet Biden in person since the president took office, something that could give Suga a boost ahead of a general election this year."Asking Suga to meet the president first means a lot - that China competition is critical and who is the best partner? Japan," said Toshihiro Nakayama, a political science professor at Keio University."That also means that Japan has to do more."The two are also expected to discuss climate change, supply chain resilience, a global semiconductor shortage and Covid-19.Japan is grappling with rising coronavirus infections with fewer than 100 days from the planned start of the Summer Olympics in the capital of Tokyo.PEACE AND STABILITYIn a statement after a March meeting of US-Japan defence and foreign ministers, the two sides "underscored the importance of peace and stability in the Taiwan Strait" and shared "serious concerns" about human rights in Hong Kong and Xinjiang.The United States, the European Union, Britain and Canada have imposed sanctions on Chinese officials for human rights abuses in Xinjiang and some Japanese lawmakers think Tokyo should adopt its own law allowing it to do the same - although Japanese executives worry about a backlash.Japanese officials were divided over whether Suga should endorse a statement on Taiwan, despite the United States urging, or human rights in Xinjiang, two Japanese ruling party lawmakers familiar with the discussions said.A Japanese foreign ministry official said it wasn't decided whether there would be a joint statement after the summit.Asked to comment, a senior US official said: "We would not want Japan to make any statements that they do not fully support."Any comments by Suga on either Taiwan or human rights will be closely watched by China, which has warned Tokyo against "being misled" by countries biased against Beijing.Taiwan is China's most sensitive territorial issue and a source of major friction with Washington, which is required by US law to provide the island with the means to defend itself.While Tokyo has no official diplomatic relations with Taipei, non-governmental engagement has flourished. Some Japanese lawmakers want even closer ties.The last time the countries' leaders referred to Taiwan in a joint statement was in 1969, when Japan's prime minister said that the maintenance of peace and security in the "Taiwan area" was important for its own security. That was before Tokyo normalised ties with Beijing.Japan hosts more than 50,000 US military personnel and, experts say, would be unlikely to stand idly by in any Taiwan crisis, although many ordinary citizens would probably be wary of entanglement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/at-us-japan-summit-joe-biden-yoshihide-suga-to-counter-assertive-china-101618466745450.html
15-04-2021||World||Myanmar security forces open fire on protesting medical workers: Report||(Reuters) - Myanmar security forces opened fire on Thursday on a pro-democracy protest by medical workers in the city of Mandalay, causing some casualties, media said.Opponents of a Feb. 1 coup that ousted an elected government led by Nobel peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi have kept up their campaign against the military this traditional New Year week with a series of actions and marches.Medical workers, some of whom have been at the forefront of the campaign against the coup, gathered in the second city of Mandalay early but troops soon arrived to disperse them, opening fire and detained some people, the Mizzima news agency said.The agency said it did not have details of casualties or arrests. The BBC's Burmese-language service also reported the crackdown on the protest by medical workers.A spokesman for the junta could not be reached for comment.The coup has plunged Myanmar into crisis after 10 years of tentative steps toward democracy, with daily protests and campaigns of defiance, including strikes by workers in many sectors that have brought the economy to a standstill.The five-day New Year holiday, known as Thingyan, began on Tuesday but pro-democracy activists cancelled the usual festivities to focus on their opposition to the generals who seized power.The military says the protests are dwindling.An activist group, the Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, says the security forces have killed 715 protesters since the ousting of Suu Kyi's government.The United Nations human rights office said on Tuesday it feared the military clampdown on the protests risked escalating into a civil conflict, such as that in Syria.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/myanmar-security-forces-open-fire-on-protesting-medical-workers-report-101618460586750.html
15-04-2021||World||India, Pakistan, China, Russia have stake in Afghanistan's stable future: joe Biden||US President Joe Biden has said India, Pakistan, Russia, China, and Turkey have a significant stake in the stable future of Afghanistan and these regional stakeholders should do more to bring peace in this war-torn country, from where he will withdraw all American troops by September 11."We will ask other countries in the region to do more to support Afghanistan, especially Pakistan, as well as Russia, China, India, and Turkey. They all have a significant stake in the stable future of Afghanistan," Biden said in a nationally televised speech from the White House on Wednesday.In less than 100 days after taking over as the president of the US on January 20, Biden announced to begin to withdraw all American troops from Afghanistan by September 11.The US currently has a little over 2,500 troops, which is far less than the 100,000-plus during the Barack Obama administration.White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki told reporters that there is no military solution to the current situation Afghanistan, rather a diplomatic solution is required.“Even as we are withdrawing our troops, we will continue to support diplomatic and humanitarian work. We will ask other countries to step up, whether that's Pakistan, Russia, China, India, Turkey -- countries in the region that certainly have a stake in stability. We will continue to provide significant humanitarian resources,” Psaki said in response to a question.“We will continue to be engaged. This is the president's assessment about whether having troops on the ground, a military presence in the same way -- in a version of the same way it has been over the last two decades -- is in our national interest. And he has made the decision it is not,” she said.Biden said the war in Afghanistan was never meant to be a multi-generational undertaking. "We were attacked. We went to war with clear goals. We achieved those objectives. (Osama) Bin Laden is dead, and al Qaeda is degraded in Iraq, in Afghanistan. And it's time to end the forever war,” he asserted.The Biden administration on Wednesday did not give details of its expectations from India on the latter's role in Afghanistan after the complete withdrawal of troops from Afghanistan.In the past, successive US administrations have praised India’s role in peace and development in Afghanistan.“India has been the largest regional contributor to Afghan reconstruction, but New Delhi has not shown an inclination to pursue a deeper defense relationship with Kabul,” said a recent report on Afghanistan by the independent Congressional Research Service.“Pakistan’s security establishment, fearful of strategic encirclement by India, apparently continues to view the Afghan Taliban as a relatively friendly and reliably anti-India element in Afghanistan. India's diplomatic and commercial presence in Afghanistan and US rhetorical support for it exacerbates Pakistani fears of encirclement,” said the CRS report.The US and the Taliban signed a landmark deal in Doha on February 29, 2020 to bring lasting peace in war-torn Afghanistan and allow US troops to return home from America's longest war.Under the US-Taliban pact signed in Doha, the US agreed to withdraw all its soldiers from Afghanistan in 14 months.Since the US-led invasion that ousted the Taliban after the September 11, 2001 attacks, America has spent more than USD 1 trillion in fighting and rebuilding in Afghanistan.About 2,400 US soldiers have been killed, along with tens of thousands of Afghan troops, Taliban insurgents and Afghan civilians.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-pakistan-china-russia-have-stake-in-afghanistan-s-stable-future-joe-biden-101618462688472.html
15-04-2021||World||As festivals continue in India, how the world suffered due to crowded gatherings||In Uttarakhand’s Haridwar, thousands of devotees gathered to take a dip in the Ganges on the thirteenth day of the Mahakumbh on Wednesday, even as India continues to battle an intense second wave of Covid-19 infections.Whether it’s a religious event or a conference or a rally, super-spreading events that can infect dozens, hundreds, even thousands, of people have illustrated the potential for the coronavirus to infect in dramatic bursts. Such events have grabbed headlines, looming large in the narrative of the unfolding pandemic.Experts say these large clusters are more than just extreme outliers, but rather the pandemic’s likely main engine of transmission. This corresponds to the 80/20 rule of epidemiology, where 80% of cases come from only 20% of those infected. Benjamin Althouse, research scientist at the University of Washington’s Institute for Disease Modeling, said that coronavirus may be even more extreme, with 90% of cases coming from potentially just 10% of carriers.Here are some of the biggest super-spreader events globally.1. Mulhouse, FranceBeginning February 18, 2020, Christian Open Door church in Mulhouse, a city of 100,000 on France’s borders with Germany and Switzerland, hosted a week-long annual celebration. Thousands flocked to the event from across the globe. At the time, France had 12 confirmed cases, according to World Health Organization (WHO) data.There were none in the Mulhouse area. The prayer meeting kicked off the biggest cluster of Covid-19 in France to date, local government said. Around 2,500 confirmed cases have been linked to it. Worshippers at the church unwittingly took the disease caused by the virus home — to the West African state of Burkina Faso, the Mediterranean island of Corsica, to Guyana in Latin America, to Switzerland, and even to a French nuclear nuclear power plant.Also Read | Number Theory: Are more people dying in India’s second wave?Antoinette, one of the attendees, on March 4, became one of the first cases of Covid-19 on the French island of Corsica. By March 20, France had more than 10,000 cases of Covid-19. Around a quarter were in Grand-Est, the region that includes Mulhouse. “The very great majority” of these could be traced to the church, said Michel Vernay, the local public health official.2. San Siro, ItalyIt was the biggest soccer game in Atalanta’s history and a third of Bergamo’s population made the short trip to Milan’s famed San Siro Stadium. Nearly 2,500 fans of visiting Spanish club Valencia also traveled to that Champions League match. In total, 44,236 people were present at the stadium.More than a month later, experts began pointing to the February 19 game as one of the biggest reasons why Bergamo has become one of the epicentres of the coronavirus pandemic — a “biological bomb” was the way one respiratory specialist put it — and why 35% of Valencia’s team became infected.The match, which local media have dubbed “Game Zero”, was held two days before the first case of locally transmitted Covid-19 was confirmed in Italy. Nearly 7,000 people in the province of Bergamo had tested positive for Covid-19 and more than 1,000 people had died from the virus — making Bergamo the most deadly province in all of Italy for the pandemic. The Valencia region reported more than 2,600 people infected.3. Kuala Lampur, MalaysiaAn Islamic missionary movement Tablighi Jama’at gathering held between February 27-March 1 last year at a sprawling mosque complex on the outskirts of Malaysia’s capital Kuala Lumpur emerged as a source of hundreds of new coronavirus infections spanning Southeast Asia.It was attended by 16,000 people, including 1,500 foreigners. Out of Malaysia’s 673 confirmed coronavirus cases, nearly two-thirds are linked to the four-day meeting, Malaysia’s minister of health Adham Baba said. It is not clear who brought the virus there in the first place.The packed gathering, where guests had to take shuttle buses to sleep at other venues, was attended by nationals from dozens of countries, including Canada, Nigeria, China, South Korea, India and Australia, according to an attendee list posted on social media. Brunei has confirmed at least 50 cases linked to the mosque gathering. Singapore announced five linked to the event, Cambodia 13 and Thailand at least two.4. Daegu, South KoreaOther religious gatherings have been linked to the spread of the virus: A large church in South Korea triggered the largest cluster of cases outside of Wuhan, China, where the virus was first discovered in February last year.In early February, South Korea’s coronavirus outbreak appeared to be contained as the number of confirmed infections stabilised at 30. Then, on February 17, a 31st case surfaced at a health clinic in Daegu, a city about 150 miles south of the capital where the vast majority of known infections were located. An unidentified 61-year-old woman, who lived there and occasionally commuted to Seoul, tested positive for the virus.It seemed like a standard case until public health authorities started tracing the patient’s tracks. What they learned shocked them — the woman had, during the previous 10 days, attended two worship services with at least 1,000 other members of her secretive religious sect.Within 24 hours, the nation’s number of confirmed cases started multiplying exponentially. The tally rose by 20 during that period, doubled the following day and then doubled again on the third day.By February 26, the count skyrocketed past 1,000 — a more than 30-fold increase in a week that prompted the government to raise its health alert to the highest level. At least half of the new cases are linked to the sect called the Shincheonji — which translates to “new heaven and land” and whose members worship side-by-side in cramped spaces. More than 5,000 cases have now been attributed this religious ceremony.5. Washington DC, USAs the world looked on shocked by the events of January 6, when hundreds of unmasked supporters of former US president Donald Trump stormed the Capitol building in order to stop the certification of Joe Biden as the winner of the 2020 elections, a super-spreader event may have been in the making.In the days after the deadly riot, the former director of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Dr Robert Redfield called it a “surge event”.“These (unmasked) individuals all are going in cars and trains and planes going home all across the country right now. So, I do think this is an event that will probably lead to a significant spreading event,” Redfield told McClatchy in an interview.In a working paper, yet to be peer-reviewed, economists at San Diego State and Bentley universities suggest that the riot “may have led to non-localized community-level Covid-19 spread”, meaning that the protesters, who came from all over the country, returned to their homes states after the even, resulting in the spread in their own communities instead of in their direct vicinity as usually the case in such super spreader events.Having said that, 150 National Guard troops, 38 US Capitol Police officers and at least four members of Congress tested positive after the siege in Washington DC.“All the cases to likely derive from this event will likely be lost in the huge number of cases we have in the country right now,” Eric Toner, senior scholar at the John Hopkins Center for Health Security, had told the Washington Post in its aftermath.This was not the only event linked to Trump, and his coronavirus denial and mismanagement. Stanford University economists estimate that Trump’s campaign rallies ahead of the November 3 elections resulted in 30,000 additional confirmed cases of Covid-19, and likely led to more than 700 deaths overall.The research, led by B. Douglas Bernheim, chair of economics at Stanford University, analysed data following 18 Trump rallies held between June 20 and September 22, three of which were indoors. Bernheim said in an email the work relies on statistical methods to infer causation after an event has occurred.6. Boston, USAn international conference hosted by the Biogen, an American biotechnology company, in Boston’s Marriott Long Wharf hotel resulted in over 300,000 cases, according to a study published in the journal Science.At least 99 Covid-19 cases were reported from the event that occurred between February 26 and 27 of last year in March. Sequencing the genomes of the virus obtained in March revealed two mutations that had not been reported before in the US prior to the conference.The first variant of the virus infected around 245,000 people the US, while the second infected 88,000 cases. The conference was responsible for around 20,000 cases in the Boston area alone. A “highly similar viruses within a narrow time window,” indicating a super-spreader event, the researchers wrote in the Science article.7. Sturgis, US In early September, several US Midwestern states experienced rising numbers of Covid-19 cases, many seemingly linked to an annual motorcycle rally in Sturgis, South Dakota.The rally, held from August 7 to 16, drew an estimated 460,000 motorcycle enthusiasts. Bikers crowded into bars and rock shows, mostly ignoring social distancing recommendations. Few wore masks. As a result, the rally was linked to hundreds of coronavirus cases across more than 10 US states.A study published by the IZA Institute of Labor Economics that used cell phone data to track movements claims that 266,796 cases between August 2 and September 2 can be linked to the Sturgis rally — 19% of the 1.4 million national coronavirus cases during that time period.However, this number is heavily disputed: South Dakota state epidemiologist Josh Clayton criticised the study for not accounting for the fact that cases had already been on the rise, which could partially be attributed to school reopenings. Johns Hopkins university said “data analyses used to obtain nationwide estimates were relatively weak”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/as-festivals-continue-in-india-how-the-world-suffered-due-to-crowded-gatherings-101618460336897.html
15-04-2021||World||FBI opens investigation into China every 10 hrs, says director Christopher Wray||Federal Bureau of Investigation Director Christopher Wray told US Senate Intelligence Committee members on Wednesday (local time) that the agency is opening an investigation into various Chinese government actions every 10 hours."We're opening a new investigation into China every 10 hours, and I can assure the committee that's not because our folks don't have anything to do with their time," Wray said at the committee's annual worldwide threats hearing, as reported by The Hill."We have now over 2,000 investigations that tie back to the Chinese government," he added.Wray's comments came in response to a question from Republican Senator Marco Rubio from the US State of Florida on Chinese and Russian influence efforts."I don't think there is any country that presents a more severe threat to our innovation, our economic security and our democratic ideas. And the tools in their toolbox to influence our businesses, our academic institutions, our governments at all levels are deep and wide and persistent," Wray said, referring to China.The Hill reported that the Department of Justice late last year charged multiple individuals for their attempts to threaten, coerce or harass certain residents of the US to repatriate to China, following an FBI investigation.Eight individuals were charged with conspiring to act in the US as illegal agents of the People's Republic of China, with six of the defendants also facing charges for conspiring to commit interstate and international stalking.Wednesday's hearing is the first worldwide threats hearing in two years, after some Trump administration officials refused to participate in 2020, with lawmakers on Wednesday asking a number of questions about threats from China.The hearing comes as in a recent report released warning that Beijing is one of the largest threats to Washington."Beijing, Moscow, Tehran, and Pyongyang have demonstrated the capability and intent to advance their interests at the expense of the United States and its allies, despite the pandemic. China increasingly is a near-peer competitor, challenging the United States in multiple arenas--especially economically, militarily, and technologically--and is pushing to change global norms," the report said.As per the report, China's strategy is to drive wedges between the United States and its allies. Beijing has also used its success in combating the coronavirus pandemic to promote the "superiority of its system."The report also predicts more tensions in the South China Sea, as Beijing continues to intimidate rivals in the region.Under the former President Donald Trump's administration, ties between Washington and Beijing had deteriorated over issues such as human rights violations in Xinjiang, encroachment on the special status of Hong Kong, accusations of unfair trade practices by Beijing, lack of transparency concerning the pandemic and China's military aggression around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/fbi-opens-investigation-into-china-every-10-hrs-says-director-christopher-wray-101618458473834.html
15-04-2021||World||Will give lesson to foreign forces which use Hong Kong as pawn: Beijing official||Beijing's top representative in Hong Kong said on Thursday that any foreign powers that try to use the global financial centre as a pawn will face counter measures, amid escalating tensions between the city and Western governments.Luo Huining, the director at China's Hong Kong Liaison Office, was speaking at a ceremony to mark National Security Education Day, which authorities have organised to promote the sweeping legislation China imposed last year."We will give a lesson to all foreign forces which intend to use Hong Kong as a pawn," Luo said.The new law drew criticism from the West for curbing rights and freedoms in the former British colony, which was promised a high degree of autonomy upon its 1997 return to Chinese rule. Its supporters say it has restored order following mass anti-government and anti-China protests in 2019.China, the United States, Britain and the European Union have traded sanctions over the past year as the security law and measures taken to reduce democratic representation in the city's institutions exacerbated tensions.Earlier this week, a letter signed by more than 100 British politicians asked Boris Johnson's government to expand a list of Chinese officials accused of "gross human rights abuses".National Security Education Day will be marked with school activities, games and shows, and a parade by police and other services performing the Chinese military's "goose step" march.In line with Beijing's increased assertiveness, the Chinese routine, in which troops keep their legs rigidly straight when lifting them off the ground and arms swing at a 90-degree angle in front of the chest, will replace British-style foot drills at a parade of police and other forces.Elsewhere, in schools and cultural centres, Hong Kongers were invited to build national security "mosaic walls" to instil, according to a government website, the idea that people should work together to protect their homeland.Stickers and bookmarks reading "Uphold National Security, Safeguard our Home" have been delivered to schools and kindergartens.In February, Hong Kong unveiled national security education guidelines that include teaching students as young as six about colluding with foreign forces, terrorism, secession and subversion - the four main crimes in the new law.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/will-give-lesson-to-foreign-forces-which-use-hong-kong-as-pawn-beijing-official-101618457391480.html
15-04-2021||World||Indian-American Meera Joshi, Radhika Fox nominated by Joe Biden for key admin posts||US President Joe Biden on Wednesday announced his intent to nominate a top attorney and an executive, both Indian-American women, to key administration positions.The nominations are being seen as a promotion for Meera Joshi and Radhika Fox who joined the administration on the very first day of the Biden presidency on January 20.Joshi has been nominated for Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration in the Department of Transportation while Fox was nominated for Assistant Administrator for Water, Environmental Protection Agency, the White House said in a statement.Joshi was appointed as the Deputy Administrator and senior official of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration on January 20, 2021. The same day, Biden appointed Fox to the position of Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator for Water at the Environmental Protection Agency.Biden also announced his intent to nominate Faisal Amin for Chief Financial Officer of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Amin currently serves as Deputy Director of Office of Administration in the Executive Office of the President.The three nominations were part of Biden’s announcement of his intent to nominate 12 members of his administration to lead on climate and transportation matters across key agencies, including the Department of Energy, Department of the Interior, Environmental Protection Agency, and Department of Transportation.Joshi, an attorney with over 16 years of experience leading government oversight agencies, was Chair and CEO of the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission, the nation’s largest for-hire transportation regulator where she spearheaded novel Vision Zero campaigns using data tools to keep high risk drivers and unsafe vehicles off the road.She also led landmark policy, including establishing robust open transportation data standards for app-based providers; enacting the nation’s first for-hire driver pay protection programme and providing broad access to for-hire transportation for passengers who use wheelchairs.Prior to transportation regulation, Joshi was the Inspector General for New York City’s Department of Corrections, responsible for investigation of corruption and criminality at all levels of New York City’s jail operations and the First Deputy Executive Director of New York City’s Civilian Complaint Review Board, leading investigations of police misconduct.In addition to her government positions, Joshi served as General Manager for the New York Office of Sam Schwartz Transportation Consultants, and was a visiting scholar at New York University’s Rudin Center for Transportation Policy.Joshi, who was born and raised in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, holds a BA and a JD from the University of Pennsylvania.Fox currently serves as the Acting Assistant Administer for Water. The EPA’s Office of Water works to ensure that drinking water is safe, wastewater is safely returned to the environment, and surface waters are properly managed and protected.Prior to joining EPA, Fox served as Chief Executive Officer for the US Water Alliance, where she established herself as a widely recognised national thought leader on complex water issues, from equitable water management to investing in our nation’s water infrastructure.Her work has helped address the most salient water issues facing the nation, including climate change, affordability, equity, governance, innovative finance, and the evolution of the One Water movement.Fox previously directed the policy and government affairs agenda for the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission, which is responsible for providing 24/7 water, wastewater, and municipal power services to 2.6 million Bay Area residents.She also served as the Federal Policy Director at PolicyLink, where she coordinated the organization’s policy agenda on a wide range of issues, including infrastructure investment, transportation, sustainable communities, economic inclusion, and workforce development.Fox holds a BA from Columbia University and a Masters in City and Regional Planning from the University of California at Berkeley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianamerican-meera-joshi-radhika-fox-nominated-by-joe-biden-for-key-admin-posts-101618455880773.html
15-04-2021||World||China's military activities threaten regional stability: Taiwan President||Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen told a visiting delegation of former senior US officials on Thursday the Chinese military's activities have threatened regional peace and stability.Tsai also told the delegation that Taiwan looks forward to resuming trade talks with the United States as soon as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-military-activities-threaten-regional-stability-taiwan-president-101618456465126.html
15-04-2021||World||Johnson & Johnson vaccine issue: Understanding blood clot concerns||The US paused the roll-out of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine this week "out of abundant caution" after six people developed unusual blood clots from among the 6.8 million given the dose. This follows similar concerns with the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine.Johnson & Johnson also announced on Wednesday that it was pausing deliveries of its single-dose vaccines to the European Union that had started on Monday. A delivery of 200 million doses to the EU has been scheduled for the second quarter of this year.Meanwhile, the European Medicines Agency said that the benefits of the vaccine made by Johnson & Johnson in preventing Covid-19 outweigh the risks of side effects. The regulator also said that it is still assessing the "very rare cases of unusual blood clots" which are being associated with the vaccine.A look at what happened, and what we know so farBlood clots seen till now6 cases in 6.8 million doses of Johnson & Johnson vaccineHow they compare to other clot risksWhat signs to look out forWhat we know so far||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/johnson-johnson-vaccine-issue-understanding-vaccine-blood-clot-concerns-101618451255524.html
15-04-2021||World||Standing among US graves, Joe Biden explains Afghanistan decision in personal terms||As President Joe Biden stood in the rain on Wednesday among the tombstones of US soldiers killed in Afghanistan, thoughts of his late son Beau were not far from his mind as he explained his decision to begin America's exit from its longest war.The president's elder son earned the Bronze Star while serving in Iraq from 2008-09. His death in 2015 from a brain tumor still haunts his father."I have trouble these days ever showing up at a cemetery not thinking of my son Beau, who proudly insisted on putting on that uniform and going with his unit to Iraq and giving up his spot as attorney general in the state of Delaware because he thought it was the right thing to do," Biden told reporters at Arlington National Cemetery outside Washington."Look at them all," Biden said, gesturing to the rows of white gravestones stretching behind him.Beau Biden's military experience was among the reasons the president gave for deciding to withdraw all 2,500 US troops remaining in Afghanistan by Sept. 11 in a televised speech before the cemetery visit."I’m the first president in 40 years who knows what it means to have a child serving in a war zone,” Biden said, speaking from the Treaty Room at the White House, where President George W. Bush declared the beginning of the war in 2001."Throughout this process, my North Star has been remembering what it was like when my late son Beau was deployed to Iraq,” Biden said, and the impact it had on Beau and his family.Biden said that since he became vice president in 2009, he had carried a card of the exact number of US troops and personnel killed and wounded in Iraq and Afghanistan – 2,488 dead in Afghanistan and 20,722 wounded as of Wednesday."Every one of those dead are sacred human beings who left behind entire families," he said.The war in Afghanistan began as a search for al Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden after he masterminded the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks on the United States that turned Bush into a war president.US troop numbers in Afghanistan reached a peak of more than 100,000 in 2011. Afghan security forces are fighting an insurgency by the Islamist Taliban.A full withdrawal by Sept. 11 made sense, Biden said on Wednesday, because the original mission - getting bin Laden - had been achieved, and Afghanistan was no longer a safe haven for Islamist militants like him. Bin Laden was killed in Pakistan by American forces in 2011."We already have service members doing their duty in Afghanistan today whose parents served in the same war. We have service members who were not yet born when our nation was attacked in 9/11," Biden said in his speech, adding the war was never meant to be a multi-generational affair.Was it a hard decision? Biden was asked in Arlington.“No, it wasn’t. To me, it was absolutely clear. Absolutely clear. ... From the very beginning, you may recall, I never thought we were there to somehow unify ... Afghanistan. It’s never been done. It’s never been done," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/standing-among-us-graves-joe-biden-explains-afghanistan-decision-in-personal-terms-101618447974449.html
15-04-2021||World||Forensic expert blames George Floyd's death on heart trouble||George Floyd died of a sudden heart rhythm disturbance as a result of his heart disease, a forensic pathologist testified for the defense Wednesday at former Officer Derek Chauvin's murder trial, contradicting prosecution experts who said Floyd succumbed to a lack of oxygen from the way he was pinned down.Dr. David Fowler, a former Maryland chief medical examiner who is now with a consulting firm, said the fentanyl and methamphetamine in Floyd's system, and possibly carbon monoxide poisoning from auto exhaust, were contributing factors in the 46-year-old Black man's death last May.“All of those combined to cause Mr. Floyd’s death,” he said on the second day of the defense case.Fowler also testified that he would classify the manner of death “undetermined,” rather than homicide, as the county's chief medical examiner ruled. He said Floyd's death had too many conflicting factors, some of which could be ruled homicide and some that could be considered accidental.Chauvin attorney Eric Nelson is trying to prove that the 19-year Minneapolis police veteran did what he was trained to do and that Floyd died because of his illegal drug use and underlying health problems.Prosecutors say Floyd died because the white officer's knee was pressed against Floyd’s neck or neck area for 9 1/2 minutes as he lay on the pavement on his stomach, his hands cuffed behind him and his face jammed against the ground.Fowler listed a multitude of factors or potential ones: Floyd’s narrowed arteries, his enlarged heart, his high blood pressure, his drug use, the stress of his restraint, the vehicle exhaust, and a tumor or growth in his lower abdomen that can sometimes play a role in high blood pressure by releasing “fight-or-flight” hormones.Fowler said all of those factors could have acted together to cause Floyd’s heart to work harder, suffer an arrhythmia, or abnormal rhythm, and suddenly stop.Prosecutor Jerry Blackwell launched an aggressive cross-examination, attacking Fowler's findings down the line. He got Fowler to acknowledge that even someone who dies from being deprived of oxygen ultimately dies of an arrhythmia.He also got Fowler to admit that he didn’t take the weight of Chauvin’s gear into account when he analyzed the pressure on Floyd’s body. Blackwell further accused Fowler of jumping to conclusions and suggesting to the jury that Floyd had a white pill in his mouth in the video of his arrest. Fowler denied saying that.Blackwell also attacked Fowler's testimony about carbon monoxide, which displaces oxygen in the bloodstream.In his original testimony, Fowler said carbon monoxide could have contributed to oxygen depletion in Floyd, noting that he was facing the tailpipe end of a squad car. But Floyd's blood was never tested for carbon monoxide.“You haven’t seen any data or test results that showed Mr. Floyd had a single injury from carbon monoxide. Is that true?” Blackwell asked.“That is correct, because it was never sent,” Fowler said.Blackwell also noted that the squad car was a gas-electric hybrid and that Fowler had no data on how much carbon monoxide was actually released. And he suggested that the witness assumed the engine was running at the time. Fowler said he believed it was.The prosecutor also got Fowler to agree that it would take four minutes to cause irreversible brain damage if the brain is starved of oxygen, and that insufficient oxygen can cause the heart to stop."And if a person dies as a result of low oxygen, that person is also going to die ultimately of a fatal arrhythmia, right?” Blackwell asked.Fowler responded: “Correct. Every one of us in this room will have a fatal arrhythmia at some point.”Fowler further agreed that Floyd should have been given immediate attention when he went into cardiac arrest because there still was a chance to save him at that point.A number of medical experts called by prosecutors have said Floyd died from a lack of oxygen because his breathing was constricted by the way he was held down. A cardiology expert rejected the notion that Floyd died of heart problems, saying all indications were that he had "an exceptionally strong heart.”But Fowler said that Chauvin’s knee on Floyd was “nowhere close to his airway” and that Floyd’s speaking and groaning showed that his airway was still open. He also testified that Chauvin’s knee was not applied with enough pressure to cause any bruises or scrapes on Floyd’s neck or back.And he said that Floyd did not complain of vision changes or other symptoms consistent with hypoxia, or insufficient oxygen to the brain, and that he was coherent until shortly before he suddenly stopped moving.“The bottom line is, moving air in and out, and speaking and making noise is very good evidence that the airway was not closed,” Fowler said.Blackwell ended his cross-examination by getting two questions before the jury: Whether Chauvin's actions played a role in Floyd's death, or whether Floyd's death was coincidental and unrelated. But the defense objected, and Fowler was not permitted to answer.Chauvin, 45, is charged with murder and manslaughter in Floyd’s death after his arrest on suspicion of passing a counterfeit $20 at a neighborhood market. The video of Floyd gasping that he couldn't breathe as bystanders yelled at Chauvin to get off him triggered worldwide protests, violence and a furious examination of racism and policing in the US. The defense hasn’t said whether Chauvin will take the stand.Earlier Wednesday, Judge Peter Cahill turned down a defense request to acquit Chauvin, rejecting claims that prosecutors failed to prove Chauvin’s actions killed Floyd. Requests for an acquittal are routinely made midway through a trial and are usually denied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/forensic-expert-blames-george-floyd-s-death-on-heart-trouble-101618445736757.html
15-04-2021||World||Brazil's Supreme Court allows probe of Prez Bolsonaro's Covid-19 response||Brazil’s Supreme Court on Wednesday allowed a Senate investigation of President Jair Bolsonaro’s handling of the pandemic to go forward, one of two cases it tackled that could affect the leader’s bid for reelection next year.The full court started weighing the political future of former President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva, a potential powerful rival to Bolsonaro. One of the judges earlier ruled he had been unjustly convicted in a corruption case, a decision that effectively reinstated his right to run for the presidency again.The court voted 10-1 Wednesday to uphold Justice Luís Roberto Barroso's order that the Senate should start an investigation of into Bolsonaro's management of the crisis because a required number of senators had sponsored such a call. The Senate president had tried to delay the probe, citing pandemic health restrictions.Critics, including those calling for or leading the investigation, say Bolsonaro has bungled Brazil's response to the pandemic by resisting health-driven restrictions on activity, failing to marshal resources for vaccines and stimulating the use of drugs that don't work against the virus.Bolsonaro and his allies say he’s being unfairly blamed for Brazil's surge in Covid-19 deaths, a toll that trails only that of the United States. Brazil’s seven-day average death toll hit a new record on Monday.The Senate probe “is an attempted political coup against the president," said Sen. Márcio Bittar, a Bolsonaro ally. in a Twitter post Wednesday.He's also cried foul as the Supreme Court has issued rulings that go against him, prompting outrage from his conservative base that claims the court is overstepping constitutional bounds.Carlos Melo, a political science professor at Insper University in Sao Paulo, said the investigation poses the risks for Bolsonaro“The desperation with the pandemic tends to increase as deaths continue to grow. Economic issues are also far from being solved. And at the same time his administration is fighting with its base in congress over next year’s budget,” Melo said. “The surroundings of the inquiry don’t favor Bolsonaro."The top court last year knocked down Bolsonaro's attempt to overturn local restrictions meant to slow the advance of Covid-19, ruling that governors and mayors are free to determine their own Covid-19 protocols.On Tuesday, a justice also suspended parts of four Bolsonaro decrees aimed at loosening gun controls.The Brazilian leader, who has long downplayed the risks of the disease and still denounces lockdowns, has argued lawmakers should also investigate the actions of governors and mayors to whom the federal government provided funds. He and his allies scored a partial win at the Senate on Tuesday when the use of such funds was made part of the investigation.Bolsonaro on Wednesday complained that Justice Barroso's April 8 ruling that the Senate probe should go forward had created “an atmosphere of animosity.”“That justice is interfering with the Senate in order to go after me," he said.More than the required 27 senators had signed a request for the investigation, but the president of the Senate, Rodrigo Pacheco, had refrained from greenlighting the probe, citing health concerns amid the pandemic.The court on Wednesday also began assessing the decision by Justice Luiz Edson Fachin on March 8 to annul da Silva’s two corruption convictions, which were related to the massive “Car Wash” scandal focused on the state oil company. The hearing will continue Thursday after the justices agreed by 9 votes to 2 that the case should indeed be heard in a full court session.Early polling for the 2022 election shows the 75-year-old leftist, who governed Brazil between 2003 and 2010, neck-and-neck with Bolsonaro.Da Silva was leading polls in 2018 when he was knocked out of the race by a conviction involving a beachfront apartment that prosecutors alleged — and he denied — belonged to him.Bolsonaro won the election and the judge who oversaw da Silva’s conviction, Sergio Moro, became his justice minister. One of the top court’s two panels of justices already ruled Moro was biased against da Silva.The question now before the full court was whether Moro’s court even had jurisdiction to hear the case, and the justices may also evaluate the panel’s finding regarding bias.“The Supreme Court has the opportunity to make history today, maintaining the annulment of the sentences and the bias of Moro against him,” said Gleisi Hoffmann, chairwoman of da Silva's Workers’ Party, on Twitter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/brazils-supreme-court-allows-probe-of-prez-bolsonaro-s-covid-19-response-101618444905041.html
15-04-2021||World||US house resolution urges Prez Biden to refer China's Uyghur 'genocide' to UN||A bipartisan resolution was introduced in the US House of Representatives on Wednesday, condemning China's "genocide" of Uyghurs and other minorities while urging US President Joe Biden to refer the crackdown to the United Nations."The resolution calls upon President Biden to refer these atrocities to the United Nations for investigation under the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide," the US House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Gregory Meeks and another member Michael McCaul said in a joint press release.The resolution seeks multilateral sanctions against the Chinese government in the UN Security Council and other unspecified actions "to bring the genocide to an end.""China's human rights violations against the Uyghur community in Xinjiang are beyond the pale. The international community needs to stand together and condemn the horrific treatment of China's ethnic minorities, who have undergone mass detention and seen their way of life threatened," Meeks said.This comes a day after US Senators Marco Rubio and Chris Coons introduced bipartisan legislation wherein people of China's Uyghur minority community facing government repression would become eligible for prioritised US refugee status."The Uyghur Human Rights Protection Act would make it easier for Uyghurs and members of other Turkic or Muslim minority groups to apply for resettlement in the United States, and it encourages our allies and partners to implement similar policies," Coons, a Democrat, and his Republican colleague Rubio said in a release on Tuesday.The lawmakers introduced the legislation after leading a bipartisan group urging US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to take additional measures to aid Uyghur and other Muslim minorities in China's Xinjiang Province.China has been rebuked globally for cracking down on Uyghurs. Beijing has been accused of sending its Muslim minority to mass detention camps to undergo forcible re-education or indoctrination.Beijing, on the other hand, has denied that it is engaged in human rights abuses against the Uyghurs in Xinjiang while reports from journalists, NGOs and former detainees have surfaced, highlighting the Chinese Communist Party's brutal crackdown on the ethnic community, according to a report.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-house-resolution-urges-prez-biden-to-refer-china-s-uyghur-genocide-to-un-101618444343875.html
15-04-2021||World||It’s time to end America’s longest war: Joe Biden||US President Joe Biden announced Wednesday that the remaining US troops will leave Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks that took them there in the hunt for Al Qaeda. He said American forces cannot stay on in the hope of creating the ideal withdrawal conditions and “it’s time to end America’s longest war”.The drawdown is not based on conditions and will start before May 1, the earlier deadline negotiated by the Trump administration with the Taliban. After September 11, US military presence in Afghanistan will be confided to providing protections to diplomats, according to officials.“We cannot continue the cycle of extending or expanding our military presence in Afghanistan hoping to create the ideal conditions for our withdrawal, expecting a different result,” Biden said, adding, “I am now the fourth American president to preside over an American troop presence in Afghanistan. Two Republicans. Two Democrats. I will not pass this responsibility to a fifth.”There are an estimated 2,500-3,500 US troops in Afghanistan, in addition to 8,500 deployed by coalition allies.“We went to Afghanistan because of a horrific attack that happened 20 years ago,” Biden said referring to the terrorist attacks carried out by Al Qaeda on September 11, 2001. “It is time to end America’s longest war. It is time for American troops to come home.”The US president also sought to reassure Afghans and the world that the withdrawal of troops will not end US engagement in that country. The US will continue to support the Afghan government and the peace process and will also keep providing assistance to Afghan security forces.A senior Biden administration official had told reporters earlier while previewing the plan announced by the president, the US will begin an “orderly drawdown of the remaining forces before May 1st and plan to have all US troops out of the country before the 20th anniversary of 9/11”. And it will not be be linked to conditions because the president “judged that a conditions-based approach, which has been the approach of the past two decades, is a recipe for staying in Afghanistan forever”.“Remaining military presence in Afghanistan will be the force required to protect our diplomatic presence”, the official said.As a candidate for the White House, Biden had backed a drawdown plan that left behind a residual force for counterinsurgency measures and training Afghan troops. And there had been speculation, after he took office, he still would do that, so as to not squander the gains of the last 20 years of fighting, as many had argued including India. But he was clearly not convinced.The American president is facing criticism already for the drawdown. “After a brief and seemingly halfhearted effort at diplomacy, Mr. Biden has decided on unconditional withdrawal, step that may spare the United States further costs and lives but will almost certainly be a disaster for the country’s 39 million people — and, in particular, its women,” The Washington Post wrote in a scathing editorial. The president, it added, “has chosen the easy way out of Afghanistan, but the consequences are likely to be ugly.”Senator Jeanne Shaheen, a Democrat, said, “I’m very disappointed in the President’s decision to set a September deadline to walk away from Afghanistan. Although this decision was made in coordination with our allies, the US has sacrificed too much to bring stability to Afghanistan to leave without verifiable assurances of a secure future.”The Biden administration official had said, perhaps anticipating the criticism, that it has long been known that “there is no military solution to the problems plaguing Afghanistan, and we will focus our efforts on supporting the ongoing peace process”.The official had added: “But what we will not do is use our troops as bargaining chips in that process.”Hours after the announcement of the Biden timeline, the Taliban said they will not attend a 10-day UN-led and US-backed peace initiative in Istanbul, Turkey till all foreign troops had left Afghanistan.“Until all foreign forces completely withdraw from our homeland, (we) will not participate in any conference that shall make decisions about Afghanistan,” tweeted Mohammad Naeem, spokesman for the Taliban office in Qatar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/its-time-to-end-america-s-longest-war-joe-biden-101618440970751.html
15-04-2021||World||Officer in Daunte Wright's killing: from leader to defendant||In a matter of days, the white police officer who fatally shot a Black man in a Minneapolis suburb went from being a respected professional who trained less experienced colleagues and led the department's union, to a criminal defendant held up by community activists as a symbol of police aggression toward Black people.Former Brooklyn Center police officer Kim Potter shot 20-year-old Daunte Wright in the chest during a Sunday traffic stop while she was training another officer. She offered her resignation Tuesday as outrage grew over Wright's death and Brooklyn Center Mayor Mike Elliott moved to fire her. The 26-year veteran was arrested Wednesday and charged with second-degree manslaughter.Tim Gannon, the Brooklyn Center Police chief who also resigned Tuesday, has said Potter meant to fire her Taser at Wright. He called the shooting “an accidental discharge.” But activists said that was no excuse; that with her years of experience, Potter should not have made that mistake. And now they want more than her resignation: They want to make sure she can never work as a police officer again.Potter said in a resignation letter that she had “loved every minute of being a police officer and serving this community,” but felt resigning was “in the best interest of the community, the department and my fellow officers.”For the 48-year-old Potter, being an officer extended far beyond going out on patrol. She also rose to become the local union president and traveled across the state with the Minnesota Law Enforcement Memorial Association’s honor guard, which marches at funerals and memorials for officers killed in the line of duty.But some Brooklyn Center residents say her decision to pull Wright over on Sunday represented something that was far from honorable: law enforcement's longstanding pattern of targeting Black men for traffic violations. Marquita Butler, a member of the city council, said numerous Black men, including her own brother, complained to her that police had racially profiled them.Gannon and the city manager met with her brother, she said. Butler credited Gannon for taking the time to explain why people are pulled over. But, she added, “My brother expressed to him the fear of being shot and potentially killed, and the police dismissed that.”Butler said as the city works to recover from Wright’s death, she wants to make it easier to file complaints with the police department and to “reimagine” what policing looks like.Elliott, the city's first Black mayor, has said he wants to establish a closer connection between the community and police. He pointed out that among the city's roughly 50 police officers, “very few” are people of color and none live in Brooklyn Center.Jonathan Mason, who mentored Wright while he was in high school, said he and other community activists are seeking the release of Potter’s service record, including potential complaints about her previous interactions with residents of color. The city has so far not responded to any such records requests, including from The Associated Press. Potter's attorney, Earl Gray, did not return a request for comment.Minnesota public records show Potter obtained her license to become a police officer in February 1995. She had graduated the previous year from Saint Mary's University of Minnesota with a major in criminal justice.In 2019, the year she came union president, she guided several other officers through the aftermath of a police shooting of a man with autism, according to a report from the Hennepin County Attorney’s office. She arrived at the scene soon after officers fatally shot the man, who had allegedly tried to stab an officer with a knife, the report said.After medics arrived, Potter instructed the two officers who shot the man to get into separate squad cars, turn off their body cameras, and not to speak to each other. Later, acting as union president, she accompanied two other officers who were at the scene during the shooting when they were interviewed by investigators.Through the years, the police department recognized Potter for actions in several dangerous situations, according to the Sun Post, a local newspaper. In 2014, she responded to a house fire and was credited with helping save nine people inside. In 2016, she was part of a group of officers who responded to several violent crimes, including one in which officers tried to save the victim’s life while also gathering testimony.Potter's husband, Jeff Potter, was a police officer and instructor in the nearby Minneapolis suburb of Fridley for 28 years. When he left the department in 2017, a police captain praised him for his dedication and lauded his work training officers in the use of force, firearms and Tasers.Kim Potter was training another officer on Sunday when they stopped the car Wright was driving. Bodycam video released by Brooklyn Center shows the other officer begins to arrest Wright, who had been issued a warrant for his arrest on a weapons charge.In the video from Potter's bodycam, she tries to assist the officer in arresting Wright, placing her hand on Wright's arm. But then he makes a break for his car and gets behind the wheel.Meanwhile, Potter pulls out her handgun and yells, “I’ll Tase you! I’ll Tase you! Taser! Taser! Taser!”After Potter fires a single shot, the car speeds away, and Potter is heard saying, “Holy (expletive)! I shot him.”On Wednesday, Potter was booked into the Hennepin County Jail. Concrete barriers and chain-link fencing surrounded the green lawn of her home in Champlin, a suburb that sits along the Mississippi River north of Minneapolis. Two police vehicles sat in the driveway._||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/officer-in-daunte-wright-s-killing-from-leader-to-defendant-101618440520414.html
15-04-2021||World||Canada reports first instance of rare blood clot caused by AZ’s Covid-19 vaccine||Canada has reported the first instance of a rare blood clot caused by AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccine, and it could mark the first instance of adverse reaction caused by the version manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) under the brand Covishield.Several cases of blood clots from the AZ jab had been reported across Europe, leading Canadian health authorities to earlier pause administration of the vaccine for those below the age of 55 years.The first instance of this kind was reported in the province of Quebec and the person affected was recovering at home, according to Canadian health authorities. The person was not identified.Health Canada said it “has received a report of an individual in Canada who has experienced a rare blood clot with low platelets following immunisation with Covishield, the SII version of the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine. This is the first reported case in Canada”.It added that the episode will be “considered as part of the department’s ongoing safety review of the AstraZeneca and Covishield vaccines and the risk of rare blood clots with low platelets”.Canada received 500,000 doses of Covishield on March 3, and the entire consignment has already been distributed throughout the country. It was the first tranche of a two-million-dose deal between SII and the Canadian company Verity Pharmaceuticals, with the remaining doses expected to arrive by mid-May. Canada It has also received another 1.5 million doses from the United States.The earlier decision to pause vaccination for those below 55 with the AZ jab had been taken on March 29 following a recommendation from the National Advisory Committee on Immunisation.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau, meanwhile, said health authorities were “closely monitoring” reports from the US of possible side-effects of the single-jab Johnson & Johnson vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-reports-first-instance-of-rare-blood-clot-caused-by-az-s-covid-19-vaccine-101618427513556.html
15-04-2021||World||China holds drills as US delegation arrives in Taiwan||hina on Wednesday described the People’s Liberation Army’s (PLA) exercises near self-ruled Taiwan as “combat drills”, on a day former US officials arrived in Taipei symbolising Washington’s commitment to the island that Beijing considers a breakaway region.Former US senator Chris Dodd and former deputy secretaries of state Richard Armitage and James Steinberg reportedly arrived in Taiwan on Wednesday in an unmarked private jet in what a White House official called a “personal signal” of US President Joe Biden’s commitment to Taiwan.The former US officials will meet Taiwan President Tsai Ing-wen on Thursday.In Beijing, China’s Taiwan affairs office said Taiwan’s government and separatists were colluding with “external forces”.“The PLA’s organising of actual combat exercises in the Taiwan Strait is a necessary action to address the current security situation in the Taiwan Strait and to safeguard national sovereignty,” said Ma Xiaoguang, a spokesperson of the office.“It is a solemn response to external forces’ interference and provocations by Taiwan independence” forces, he added.Kerry’s Shanghai visitUS climate envoy John Kerry was set to arrive in Shanghai on Wednesday on a four-day trip, as the two countries seek cooperation over the environment. It is the first trip to China by a Biden administration official.His trip comes in preparation for Biden’s virtual climate summit next week, to which the US leader has invited Chinese President Xi Jinping.With inputs from agencies||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-says-it-s-holding-combat-drills-as-us-envoys-visit-taiwan-101618406991754.html
15-04-2021||World||Passage of naval warship through India’s economic zone routine: US||The US on Tuesday said it values the regional security partnership in the Indo-Pacific region as it sought to allay outrage over the April 7 intrusion in India’s Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ).The USS John Paul Jones, a warship of the 7th Fleet, “conducted a routine Freedom of Navigation Operation in the Indian Ocean”, a department of defense spokesperson said in a statement on Tuesday.“We value our partnership with India on a wide range of issues, including regional security across the Indo-Pacific,” the spokesperson said.The USS John Paul Jones, a Navy destroyer, sailed past Lakshadweep Island deep inside India’s EEZ of 200 nautical miles on April 7 without requesting India’s prior consent.“This operation demonstrates longstanding US support for international law and freedom of the seas worldwide,” the spokesperson said. The “operational assertion”, as the US calls such naval maneuvers, are conducted under a 1979 Freedom of Navigation Programme intended to challenge and defy maritime protocols required by coastal nations that the United States believes are “excessive maritime claims”.The statement from the department of defense appeared to direct attention towards a threat from China and the first-ever summit of the leaders of the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or the Quad.On Friday, the ministry of external affairs said, “We have conveyed our concerns regarding this passage through our EEZ to the Government of USA...”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-strikes-conciliatory-tone-on-intrusion-into-india-s-eez-but-unrepentant-101618376264914.html
15-04-2021||India||Rajnath hails ‘timely response’ of IAF during Ladakh standoff||NEW DELHI: Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday asked the Indian Air Force’s top brass to draw long-term plans and strategies for capability enhancement to counter future threats. Addressing top officials at the biannual IAF Commanders’ Conference, Singh congratulated the air force for its “timely and befitting response” to the developments in eastern Ladakh, an official statement said. He appreciated the IAF’s focus on reorienting for the future. “Changing dimensions of war would now include advanced technologies, asymmetric capabilities and info-dominance, and it was very important that the IAF’s preparations for the future must include these aspects,” the statement quoted Singh as saying. The minister stressed on the need to work towards the integration of the armed forces and to enhance synergy in areas of joint planning and operations. The conference comes at a time India is planning to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May. The conference is focusing on strategies to scale up the IAF’s capabilities to have an edge over its adversaries, as previously reported by Hindustan Times. It comes at a time when the IAF is gearing up to raise its second squadron of Rafale fighter jets at the Hasimara airbase in West Bengal. As India and China negotiate a complex disengagement process in the Ladakh sector, the air forces of both countries are deployed in the theatre as they were when the border row was at its peak last year. India and China have held 11 rounds of military talks so far to resolve border tensions that began last May. At the latest 11th round of military talks with China on April 9, the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points was must for de-escalation of the border conflict. Apart from deploying fighter jets at bases in the Ladakh-Tibet theatre, PLA Air Force has positioned a large number of radars and missiles in the sector. IAF has projected its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers deployed there. It also deployed its new Rafale fighter jets in the sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-hails-timely-response-of-iaf-during-ladakh-standoff-101618509550717.html
15-04-2021||India||US’s Afghanistan pullout will leave a vacuum: CDS||India’s senior-most military commander on Thursday flagged concerns about disruptors stepping in to fill the vacuum that will be created in Afghanistan with the withdrawal of American and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) troops, possibly resulting in violence continuing in that country. US President Joe Biden announced on Wednesday that the remaining US troops will leave Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks that took them there in the hunt for Al Qaeda. “We have concerns about Afghanistan. If the US feels that their withdrawal and a similar withdrawal by its NATO allies that we are hearing about is ultimately going to lead to peace and tranquility, we would be happy to see such a situation emerging. But our concern is that the vacuum should not create space for other disruptors to step in,” chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said during a discussion at the Raisina Dialogue. Biden said on April 14 that American forces cannot stay on in the hope of creating the ideal withdrawal conditions and “it’s time to end America’s longest war.” There are 2,500-3,500 US troops in Afghanistan, in addition to 8,500 deployed by coalition allies. Asked if Pakistan and Iran were the other disruptors he was referring to, the CDS said that he would not like to name any nation, but many countries were looking at the opportunity to walk into the vacuum. “Afghanistan is a nation which is rich in resources and there are nations we know who tend to exploit resources (of other countries) for their own benefit without the benefit going to the community of that nation. So, if that is going to happen, it should be prevented and the international community must step in to ensure that Afghanistan is for the Afghans,” Rawat said. The CDS’s comments came on a day US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Kabul to brief Afghan leaders on the forthcoming US troop withdrawal. Rawat said India would be happy to provide whatever support it can for the development of Afghanistan and to make sure that peace returns to that country. The CDS also spoke about China’s assertiveness in the region at the Raisina Dialogue. He said while China believed it could compel nations to give in to its demands with “a little bit of push and shove,” it was not able to do that in the Ladakh sector where the two countries have been locked in a border row more than 11 months. “India stood firm on its northern borders and we have proven that we will not get pushed (around),” Rawat said during a discussion on the future of conflict. His counterparts from Australia and Japan --- Generals Angus Campbell and Koji Yamakazi --- were also on the panel. India, the US, Japan and Australia constitute the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad. China has been wary of the grouping that was revived in late 2017, and Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Asked to comment on China’s aggression in the region despite its behaviour bringing the Quad closer, Rawat said the Chinese feel that they have arrived and have a better armed force because of the technological advances they have made. The CDS linked China’s assertiveness to its developing disruptive technologies that can paralyse systems of its adversaries, causing breakdowns in critical areas such as banking, power grids, transportation and communication. “In whatever we have been able to achieve in standing firm, in preventing change of status quo; we have been able to gather world support. The international community has come to our support to say that yes there is an international rules-based order which every nation must follow,” Rawat said. Experts said China miscalculated India’s response in the Ladakh sector while making its forward deployments to alter status quo in the sensitive area. “China went wrong in its assessment of India’s response and resilience to the People’s Liberation Army’s forward deployment and aggressive behaviour along the LAC. This resulted in the first ever withdrawal of China’s forward deployment from a neighbouring country including the maritime domain,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The CDS said China tried to show it can change status quo by the use of disruptive technologies without using force. “As of now, they have not used force and they thought India as a nation will succumb to the pressures they are putting on us because of the technological advantage that they have,” he said. He said nations that have developed disruptive technologies feel they will be able to impose their will on other nations by saying that “if you don’t come to my terms, I have other means of bringing you into conflict through unconventional means.” “So, nations are trying to become assertive and this is what China attempted to do and say that ‘it is my way or no other way.’ Such nature of undeclared wars will place dilemma in the minds of decision makers whether or not to resort to kinetic force and thus be labeled an aggressor. It is trying to draw you into a conflict without you starting the conflict but (by it) resorting to disruptive technologies,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uss-afghanistan-pullout-will-leave-a-vacuum-cds-101618509372246.html
15-04-2021||India||CDS Gen Rawat flags concerns about US troop exit from Afghanistan||India’s senior-most military commander on Thursday flagged concerns about disruptors stepping in to fill the vacuum that will be created in Afghanistan with the withdrawal of American and North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) troops, possibly resulting in violence continuing in that country. US President Joe Biden announced on Wednesday that the remaining US troops will leave Afghanistan by September 11, the 20th anniversary of the 9/11 attacks that took them there in the hunt for Al Qaeda.“We have concerns about Afghanistan. If the US feels that their withdrawal and a similar withdrawal by its NATO allies that we are hearing about is ultimately going to lead to peace and tranquillity, we would be happy to see such a situation emerging. But our concern is that the vacuum should not create space for other disruptors to step in,” Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said during a discussion at the Raisina Dialogue. Biden said on April 14 that American forces cannot stay on in the hope of creating the ideal withdrawal conditions and “it’s time to end America’s longest war.” There are 2,500-3,500 US troops in Afghanistan, in addition to 8,500 deployed by coalition allies. Asked if Pakistan and Iran were the other disruptors he was referring to, the CDS said that he would not like to name any nation, but many countries were looking at the opportunity to walk into the vacuum. “Afghanistan is a nation which is rich in resources and there are nations we know who tend to exploit resources (of other countries) for their own benefit without the benefit going to the community of that nation. So, if that is going to happen, it should be prevented and the international community must step in to ensure that Afghanistan is for the Afghans,” Rawat said. The CDS’s comments came on a day US Secretary of State Antony Blinken visited Kabul to brief Afghan leaders on the forthcoming US troop withdrawal. Rawat said India would be happy to provide whatever support it can for the development of Afghanistan and to make sure that peace returns to that country. The CDS also spoke about China’s assertiveness in the region at the Raisina Dialogue. He said while China believed it could compel nations to give in to its demands with “a little bit of push and shove,” it was not able to do that in the Ladakh sector where the two countries have been locked in a border row more than 11 months. “India stood firm on its northern borders and we have proven that we will not get pushed (around),” Rawat said during a discussion on the future of conflict. His counterparts from Australia and Japan --- Generals Angus Campbell and Koji Yamakazi --- were also on the panel. India, the US, Japan and Australia constitute the Quadrilateral security dialogue or Quad. China has been wary of the grouping that was revived in late 2017, and Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. Asked to comment on China’s aggression in the region despite its behaviour bringing the Quad closer, Rawat said the Chinese feel that they have arrived and have a better armed force because of the technological advances they have made. The CDS linked China’s assertiveness to its developing disruptive technologies that can paralyse systems of its adversaries, causing breakdowns in critical areas such as banking, power grids, transportation and communication. “In whatever we have been able to achieve in standing firm, in preventing change of status quo; we have been able to gather world support. The international community has come to our support to say that yes there is an international rules-based order which every nation must follow,” Rawat said. Experts said China miscalculated India’s response in the Ladakh sector while making its forward deployments to alter status quo in the sensitive area. “China went wrong in its assessment of India’s response and resilience to the People’s Liberation Army’s forward deployment and aggressive behaviour along the LAC. This resulted in the first ever withdrawal of China’s forward deployment from a neighbouring country including the maritime domain,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The CDS said China tried to show it can change status quo by the use of disruptive technologies without using force. “As of now, they have not used force and they thought India as a nation will succumb to the pressures they are putting on us because of the technological advantage that they have,” he said. He said nations that have developed disruptive technologies feel they will be able to impose their will on other nations by saying that “if you don’t come to my terms, I have other means of bringing you into conflict through unconventional means.” “So, nations are trying to become assertive and this is what China attempted to do and say that ‘it is my way or no other way.’ Such nature of undeclared wars will place dilemma in the minds of decision makers whether or not to resort to kinetic force and thus be labelled an aggressor. It is trying to draw you into a conflict without you starting the conflict but (by it) resorting to disruptive technologies,” Rawat said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cds-gen-rawat-flags-concerns-about-us-troop-exit-from-afghanistan-101618508411306.html
15-04-2021||India||Mumbai's Haffkine Bio Pharma to manufacture Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, Centre gives nod||The Centre on Thursday allowed Mumbai-based Haffkine Bio Pharma to manufacture Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, which will be a shot in the arm of India's vaccine production. Haffkine Institute, the biomedical company owned by the Maharashtra government, has sought permission from the Centre for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech, which in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research, developed Covaxin.In a video conference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi held in March, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray raised the issue and requested PM Modi to allow the state-owned pharma company to manufacture the vaccine.In January, Haffkine sought the nod from the ICMR for technology transfer. In March, it again sought permission and said that in case it is not granted the permission to manufacture the vaccine, it can 'fill and finish' operations of the Covid vaccine, where it will only fill vaccines in bottles and make them ready for dispatch.What this nod meansThe Department of Biotechnology has informed the Maharashtra government that permission has been granted to Haffkine to produce Covaxin with a year. This is the first time that another pharma company, which was not part of the vaccine development process, is being given the technology.The decision will boost India's vaccine production at a time the country is seeing a resurgence of the infection and the vaccination drive against Covid is being expanded.Haffkine is one of the country's oldest and premier biomedical research facilities. It has all the required facilities to produce the vaccine, Maharashtra ministers said. "Bharat Biotech produces Covaxin. If we get the formula from the company, the Maharashtra government is ready to manufacture it in Haffkine Institute, which has all the required facilities. It will help get more people vaccinated against COVID-19 in a short period," Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mumbais-haffkine-bio-pharma-to-manufacture-covaxin-centre-gives-nod-101618508212902.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid-19: 1,100 buildings sealed in Mumbai, over 8k containment zones in Delhi||Delhi has surpassed Mumbai in the number of single-day rise of Covid-19 infections after it recorded over 17,000 fresh cases on Wednesday, a mark that Mumbai is quite far from reaching. Mumbai's highest peak was recorded on April 4, when the city registered 11,163 fresh cases. As the civic bodies are tightening curbs and imposing local containments, figures reveal that posh areas in both the cities are contributing the highest number of new infections.8,661 containment zones in DelhiAccording to data till April 14, Delhi has 8,661 containment zones, including 7,706 active containment zones. With 2,2173, South Delhi has the highest number of containment zones in Delhi. Several buildings in Saket, Hauz Khas, Mehrauli have been declared as containment zones in the city.1,100 buildings sealed in MumbaiAccording to data till April 14, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has sealed 1,100 buildings in the municipal area while there are 95 active containment zones (slums and chawls) in the civic area. The KW ward comprising areas like Char Bungalow, Lokhandwala Circle, Jogeshwari (W), Behram baugh, Kevani pada, Irla, Vile Parle (W), Gilbert Hill, Saat Bungalow, Sakhar Nagar, Juhu Road, Lallubhai Park, Versova, Andheri (W), Juhu, has 263 building sealed, followed by the D ward that has 253 sealed buildings.Is Delhi's Covid-19 condition worse than Mumbai?Though the national Capital has surpassed Mumbai in the number of daily rises in, Mumbai has more active Covid-19 cases than Delhi. According to data, Mumbai has 85,494 active Covid-19 cases, while Delhi's active caseload stands at 54,309. Mumbai's total Covid-19 toll is 12,189, while Delhi has seen 11,652 total deaths, though Delhi's daily toll has been higher than Mumbai in the past few days.While Mumbai has been under night curfew and weekend lockdown, the Delhi government on Thursday took a step forward to bringing back restrictions as it announced weekend lockdown for this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-1-100-buildings-sealed-in-mumbai-over-8k-containment-zones-in-delhi-101618505871282.html
15-04-2021||India||Oxygen plants under PM-Cares to be installed in hospitals as Covid cases surge||With daily new cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) seeing a record high every day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) on Thursday said a meeting of Empowered Group 2 (EG2) ministers was held earlier in the day to review the availability of essential medical equipment and oxygen during the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic. During the meeting, the health ministry said, three key decisions were taken.Also Read | Maharashtra records over 60,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, 349 deaths in 24 hoursThe first decision, it said, was on the mapping of medical oxygen sources for 12 “high burden states.” These are Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. To give clarity and assurance to the states on oxygen supply over the next few weeks of rise in cases, a joint mapping exercise was held, it further said. The exercise, as per the health ministry, included, officials from the ministry, the Union steel ministry the critically affected states, among others.Accordingly, 4,880 metric tonnes (MT), 5,619 MT and 6,593 MT of medical oxygen have been indicated to the 12 states to meet their projected demands as on April 20, 25 and 30, it was further noted.Also Read | Delhi reports 16,699 new Covid-19 cases, 112 deaths in last 24 hours, active caseload tops 54,000The second decision was on Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants, the MoHFW said, adding that these manufacture oxygen and help hospitals become self-sufficient in their requirement of medical oxygen. It said that 162 such plants, which were sanctioned under PM-Cares, have been identified for the early completion of 100% of plants to enhance self-generation of oxygen in hospitals in remote areas. Total 100 more hospitals will also be identified for the consideration of sanction for the installation of PSA plants.Also Read | Billionaire Mukesh Ambani sends oxygen from his refineries to aid India’s Covid-19 fightA tender for import of 50,000 MT of medical oxygen will be floated in the view of increasing demand, the ministry said on the third and final decision.India is currently gripped by a deadly second wave of the pandemic, recording more daily cases than during even the first wave last year. While there have been more than 100,000 fresh infections per day in the last few days, more than 200,000 cases were detected in the last 24 hours, making it the country’s highest single-day rise since the beginning of the pandemic. Also, for a second straight day, more than 1,000 related deaths were also recorded.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-plants-under-pm-cares-to-be-installed-in-hospitals-as-covid-cases-surge-101618503831039.html
15-04-2021||India||MHA orders 50% attendance in work, staggered timing at its offices||In view of the "unprecedented rise" in number of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, the Union Home Ministry Thursday said its officers up to the level of Under Secretary can work from home and only 50 per cent staff need to attend office.In an office memorandum, the home ministry said all officers who attend the office can stagger timings with entry into the office spread between 9 AM to 10 AM with corresponding office exit timings and those living in containment zones be exempted from attending office."In view of the unprecedented rise in the numbers of Covid-19 cases in Delhi, it has been decided to take measures to prevent its spread," the home ministry said.The home ministry said officers of the level of Under Secretary or equivalent and below be allowed to work from home and their physical attendance in office be restricted to 50 per cent of the actual overall strength.Rosters for their attendance will be prepared by concerned divisional or wing heads. Individual wing heads can, however, call for more than 50 per cent physical attendance of any of the categories of officials in their wings, if required on administrative grounds.All officers of the level of Deputy Secretary, equivalent and above are to attend office on regular basis."All officers who attend office can stagger timings with entry into the office spread between 9 AM to 10 AM with corresponding office exit timings. This will also avoid rush in commuting, as also in lifts and corridors. Roster system by divisional or wing heads to take care of this aspect," the home ministry said.All officials who do not attend office on a particular day are to make themselves available on telephone and other electronics means of communication at all times from their residence and work from home.All officials residing in containment zones shall continue to be exempted from coming to office till the containment zone is denotified, it said.All officials who attend office shall strictly follow Covid appropriate behaviour including wearing of mask, physical distancing, use of sanitizer and frequent hand washing with soap and water.Crowding in lifts, staircases, corridors, common areas including refreshment kiosk and parking areas is to be strictly avoided and meetings, as far as possible, to be conducted through videoconferencing, the home ministry said.Entry of outsiders or visitors to be curtailed appropriately and all employees of the age of 45 years and above are advised to get themselves vaccinated, the ministry said."The above instructions or guidelines shall come into effect immediately and will remain in force until April 30,2021 or further orders, whichever is earlier," it said. Delhi recorded 16,699 fresh Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities due to the disease on Thursday, according to data shared by the health department here.This comes a day after the national capital registered 17,282 new infections, its highest single-day spike till date. The number of cases has been on an upward spiral in the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mha-orders-50-attendance-in-work-staggered-timing-at-its-offices-101618504629238.html
15-04-2021||India||Over 2 lakh new cases, weekend lockdown in Delhi | Covid-19 in top 10 headlines||India continues to reel under the massive Covid-19 surge as the nation reported a record single-day surge on Wednesday with over 2 lakh new cases. Restrictions have been imposed on several cities to curb the spread of Covid-19, exams have also been cancelled across several states and several regions are also reporting issues with hospitalisations and shortage of medical oxygen, hospital beds and medicines like remdesivir.Here are the top 10 developments related to Covid-19 in India:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-2-lakh-new-cases-weekend-lockdown-in-delhi-covid-19-in-top-10-headlines-101618502562681.html
15-04-2021||India||Defence minister Rajnath Singh asks IAF to make plans to counter future threats||Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday asked the Indian Air Force’s top brass to draw long-term plans and strategies for capability enhancement to counter future threats. Addressing top officials at the biannual IAF Commanders’ Conference, Singh congratulated the air force for its “timely and befitting response” to the developments in eastern Ladakh, an official statement said.He appreciated the IAF’s focus on reorienting for the future.“Changing dimensions of war would now include advanced technologies, asymmetric capabilities and info-dominance, and it was very important that the IAF’s preparations for the future must include these aspects,” the statement quoted Singh as saying.The minister stressed on the need to work towards the integration of the armed forces and to enhance synergy in areas of joint planning and operations.The conference comes at a time India is planning to begin a formal roll-out of its long-awaited theaterisation plan to best utilise its military’s resources amid growing security threats, with the Air Defence Command and the Maritime Theatre Command set to be launched by May.The conference is focusing on strategies to scale up the IAF’s capabilities to have an edge over its adversaries, as previously reported by Hindustan Times.It comes at a time when the IAF is gearing up to raise its second squadron of Rafale fighter jets at the Hasimara airbase in West Bengal.As India and China negotiate a complex disengagement process in the Ladakh sector, the air forces of both countries are deployed in the theatre as they were when the border row was at its peak last year. India and China have held 11 rounds of military talks so far to resolve border tensions that began last May.At the latest 11th round of military talks with China on April 9, the Indian Army told the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) that completion of disengagement at all friction points was a must for de-escalation of the border conflict.Apart from deploying fighter jets at bases in the Ladakh-Tibet theatre, PLA Air Force has positioned a large number of radars and missiles in the sector.IAF has projected its capability to carry out day-and-night, all-weather combat missions in the Ladakh sector, with front-line fighter jets, attack helicopters and multi-mission choppers deployed there. It also deployed its new Rafale fighter jets in the sector as part of India’s overarching plan to strengthen its military posture in the region.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/defence-minister-rajnath-singh-asks-iaf-to-make-plans-to-counter-future-threats-101618501571083.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Mamata Banerjee urges EC to club remaining phases of WB assembly polls and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Mamata urges EC to club remaining phases of Bengal polls amid Covid-19 spikeAmid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the country, West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee on Thursday requested the ECI to consider holding the remaining phases of state assembly elections in a single go.Mulani joins DC as short-term COVID-19 replacement for Axar Patel; Anirudha Joshi in for Shreyas IyerDelhi Capitals have brought in Shams Mulani as a short-term COVID-19 replacement for Axar Patel for the ongoing Indian Premier League (IPL) 2021 season. Kiara Advani responds to fan who requested 10-minute meeting: 'Dreams do come true'A fan of actor Kiara Advani's on Thursday expressed her desire to meet her, saying that it would be her 'dream come true moment'. Kiara responded to the fan. Read moreAsus ZenBook Duo 14 UX482 review: More than just two screensWe got our hands on this dual-screen laptop made for a really niche audience. With so much power under-the-hood, ZenBook Duo 14 does deliver a lot more than what meets the eye. Here's the review. Recipe: Try Oat Stuffed Apple Delight and you’ll never eat apple normally againAs a symbol of health, love and fertility, apples are a fruit that can be eaten in more ways than one including drying, sousing, fermenting and many more creative cooking ways. Read moreMan spots eerie ‘face’ inside washing machine. Turns out to be thisIt was a normal day for comedian Alex Boardman as he loaded his washing machine with his pet dog’s blanket and pillow for a wash. Violence in Pakistan as security forces clash with TLP supporters, fire tear gasViolent anti-France protests in Pakistan have paralysed large parts of the country. Supporters of Tehreek-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) clashed with Pakistani security forces.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mamata-banerjee-urges-ec-to-club-remaining-phases-of-wb-assembly-polls-and-all-the-latest-news-101618500208288.html
15-04-2021||India||Maharashtra records over 60,000 fresh Covid-19 cases, 349 deaths in 24 hours||Maharashtra on Thursday recorded 61,695 new Covid-19 infections and 349 deaths as the state has been put under a strict curfew till May 1. Mumbai in the last 24 hours reported 8,209 new infections and 50 deaths.While both the 24-hour rise — Maharashtra' and Mumbai — are not their highest rises, the curve is still going up, the Covid-19 bulletin published on Thursday confirmed. On April 11, Maharashtra recorded the highest single-day spike of over 63,000 cases, making Thursday's spike the second-highest since the beginning of the pandemic. In the last 24 hours, the state conducted 2,34,452 tests and the positivity rate jumped to 26.3 per cent. With 53,335 recoveries reported in the last 24 hours, the gap between daily infections and daily recoveries narrowed, taking the state's active Covid-19 caseload to 6,20,060.However, the number of active cases are projected to be double in the state, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The state’s active caseload will reach 11.9 lakh by April 30, it has been projected.From 8pm on April 14, Section 144 has been imposed in entire Maharashtra barring the gathering of more than four people. All shops, apart from those dealing with essential services, have been closed, for which the government has promised financial package. As far as the divisions are concerned, the 24-hour rise in the number of fresh infections has been in four digits. The Nashik division reported 9,582 cases, including 3,235 in Nashik city. The Pune division saw 12,169 fresh infections, including 5,469 in Pune city. The Kolhapur division added 2,019 new cases; the Aurangabad division 3,334; the Latur division 4,561 and the Akola division 2,093. The Nagpur division registered 11,031 cases, including 4,282 in Nagpur city||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-over-60-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-349-deaths-in-24-hours-101618499566785.html
15-04-2021||India||Ensure there is no panic buying, Centre tells states as Covid-19 curbs come back||The Centre has asked all states and Union territories to ensure that there is no hike in the price of essential items as people may panic buy things apprehending lockdowns to contain the spread of the Covid-19 infection.As India is surpassing a grim milestone in Covid-19 tally every day, states and UTs are bringing back stricter curbs. But grocery stores, chemists, pharmacists etc., should not be restricted, the ministry of consumer affairs, food and public distribution has said.Unless the prices of the raw materials go up, which may result in price hike, prices of all essential supplies should remain fair and there will be no hike, the ministry said adding that the state and UT authorities will have to sensitise people against panic buying.In a letter written to state governments, additional secretary in Union consumer affairs ministry Nidhi Khare said due to sudden spike in Covid-19 cases, concerns have been raised about "availability of essential commodities to the common man at fair prices"."It should also be ensured that the prices of all essential supplies are not increased and they are at fair prices, unless necessitated by cost enhancement due to raw material costs and exchange rates fluctuations," she said.एक #Morphed तस्वीर में दावा किया जा रहा है कि भारत सरकार द्वारा 15 से 30 अप्रैल तक देश भर में लॉकडाउन लगाया जाएगा। #PIBFactCheck: यह दावा #फर्जी है। भारत सरकार द्वारा #लॉकडाउन के संबंध में ऐसी कोई घोषणा नहीं की गई है। कृपया ऐसी भ्रामक तस्वीरों या संदेशों को साझा न करें। pic.twitter.com/gnRpyDcMRfAs several states and Union territories, including Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, are imposing specific restrictions, apprehension of a national-level lockdown is being reported. The Centre has already busted fake news doing the rounds claiming that a 15-day lockdown will be imposed in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-there-is-no-panic-buying-centre-tells-states-as-covid-19-curbs-come-back-101618498260212.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid-19: All centrally protected monuments, museums closed for visitors till May 15||All centrally protected monuments, museums and sites under the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) have been closed with immediate effect till May 15 due to the surge in coronavirus cases in the country, the Union culture ministry said on Thursday.An order to this effect was issued by the ASI and it was tweeted by Culture Minister Prahlad Patel this evening."Due to the prevailing COVID situation, it has been decided to close all centrally protected monuments, sites and museums under the ASI with immediate effect and till May 15 or until further orders," the ASI said.Last year, too, all monuments and sites maintained by the ASI were closed due to the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-all-centrally-protected-monuments-museums-closed-for-visitors-till-may-15-101618497661314.html
15-04-2021||India||India simplifies process for re-issue of OCI cards. Here's all you need to know||The ministry of home affairs on Thursday announced the decision to simplify the process for re-issue of Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cards. The Central government has so far issued at least 37.72 lakh OCI cards to foreigners of Indian origin, foreign spouses of Indian nationals, or foreign spouses of OCI cardholders. OCI card is popular among them as it helps in hassle-free entry and unlimited stay in India with a number of other major benefits attached to it that are not available to other foreigners.Currently, OCI cardholders are required to get it re-issued every time a new passport is issued for individuals up to the completion of 20 years of age and once on completing 50 years of age. Reissuance of OCI card is not required between 21-50 years of age. The requirement was in view of biological changes in the face of the applicant.What are the changes?In order to ease the process, the government has decided to dispense with these requirements. OCI cardholders will now have to get the card re-issued only once when a new passport is issued after reaching 20 years of age. “If a person has obtained registration as OCI cardholder after attaining the age of 20 years, there will be no requirement of re-issue of OCI card,” the ministry said in a statement.The OCI cardholders have to upload a copy of the new passport containing their photograph and the latest photo on the online OCI portal each time a new passport is issued prior to attaining the age of 20 years and once after completing 50 years of age. They may upload the documents within three months of receipt of the new passport.Also Read | Foreigners married to Indians cannot enjoy OCI status after divorce, Centre tells HCHowever, those registered as OCI cardholder as foreign spouses of Indian nationals, or foreign spouses of OCI cardholders have to upload a copy of the new passport, the latest photograph along with a declaration that their marriage is still subsisting each time a new passport is issued. The details will be updated on the system and an auto acknowledgement through e-mail will be sent to the OCI cardholder informing that the updated details have been taken on record.“There will be no restriction on the OCI cardholder to travel to/ from India during the period from the date of issue of new passport till the date of final acknowledgement of his/ her documents in the web-based system,” the ministry added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-simplifies-process-for-re-issue-of-oci-cards-here-s-all-you-need-to-know-101618497285638.html
15-04-2021||India||Showed in Ladakh that China can’t push India around: CDS Gen Rawat||India’s senior-most military commander on Thursday said while China believed it could compel nations to give in to its demands with “a little bit of push and shove,” it was not able to do that in the Ladakh sector where the two countries have been locked in a border row for more than 11 months. “India stood firm on its northern borders and we have proven that we will not get pushed (around),” chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin Rawat said during a discussion on the future of conflict at the Raisina Dialogue. His counterparts from Australia and Japan --- Generals Angus Campbell and Koji Yamakazi --- were also on the panel. India, the United States, Japan and Australia constitute the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue or Quad. China has been wary of the grouping that was revived in late 2017, and Beijing’s suspicions have increased since the four countries upgraded the forum to the ministerial level in 2019. India and China are currently negotiating a withdrawal of troops and weapons from friction points on the contested Line of Actual Control (LAC). Asked to comment on China’s aggression in the region despite its behaviour bringing the Quad closer, Rawat said the Chinese feel that they have arrived and have a better armed force because of the technological advances they have made. The CDS linked China’s assertiveness to its developing disruptive technologies that can paralyse systems of its adversaries, causing breakdowns in critical areas such as banking, power grids, transportation and communication.“In whatever we have been able to achieve in standing firm, in preventing change of status quo; we have been able to gather world support. The international community has come to our support to say that yes there is an international rules-based order which every nation must follow,” Rawat said. Experts said China miscalculated India’s response in the Ladakh sector while making its forward deployments to alter status quo in the sensitive area. “China went wrong in its assessment of India’s response and resilience to the People’s Liberation Army’s forward deployment and aggressive behaviour along the LAC. This resulted in the first ever withdrawal of China’s forward deployment from a neighbouring country including the maritime domain,” said Lieutenant General Vinod Bhatia (retd), a former director general of military operations. The CDS said China tried to show it can change status quo by the use of disruptive technologies without using force. “As of now, they have not used force and they thought India as a nation will succumb to the pressures they are putting on us because of the technological advantage that they have,” he said. On April 7, Rawat said China was way ahead of India in technology, and it was capable of launching cyber-attacks and disrupting a large number of Indian systems. He said the biggest gap between the two countries was in the cyber domain and India was looking at collaborating with western nations to overcome deficiencies in the critical area. A few weeks ago, Recorded Future, a US-based security consultancy, reported that Chinese groups had intruded into the networks of at least a dozen Indian state-run organisations since mid-2020 in an attempt to insert malware that could cause widespread disruptions. To be sure, India denied any data breach in the attempts made by Chinese hackers to target the country’s power grid. At the Raisina Dialogue, the CDS said while some nations follow the international rule-based order, there are others who make their own rules and regulations and attempt to change status quo. “Such things do lead to conflicts (like the one) that we are witnessing on our northern borders. The world is now becoming fragile on account of threats from hybridisation of warfare. Some nations feel they have arrived with better technology and, therefore, threaten other nations which probably don’t have that kind of technology,” the CDS said. He said nations that have developed disruptive technologies feel they will be able to impose their will on other nations by saying that “if you don’t come to my terms, I have other means of bringing you into conflict through unconventional means.” “So nations are trying to become assertive and this is what China attempted to do and say that ‘it is my way or no other way.’ Such nature of undeclared wars will place dilemma in the minds of decision makers whether or not to resort to kinetic force and thus be labelled as an aggressor. It is trying to draw you into a conflict without you starting the conflict but (by it) resorting to disruptive technologies,” Rawat said. On the scheduled withdrawal of US troops from Afghanistan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) forces following suit, the CDS said the vacuum created there should not create space for other disruptors to step in.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/showed-in-ladakh-that-china-can-t-push-india-around-cds-gen-rawat-101618495089904.html
15-04-2021||India||NEET PG 2021 postponed amid Covid-19 spike, new date will be announced later||The National Eligibility cum Entrance test for post graduate students, scheduled to be held on April 18, has been postponed for the time being, in view of the rising Covid-19 cases, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan said on Thursday."Decision has been taken keeping wellbeing of our young medical students in mind," the minister tweeted. The next date will be decided later, the minister addeIn light of the surge in #COVID19 cases,GoI has decided to postpone #NEETPG2021 exam which was earlier scheduled to be held on Apr 18Next date to be decided later Decision has been taken keeping wellbeing of our young medical students in mind.@PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA #NEETPGNEET PG examination is for doctors seeking admission in MS, MD courses. The examination was earlier scheduled to be held in January but was postponed because of the pandemic.A group of doctors of Thursday moved the Supreme Court seeking the postponement of the examination, before the Centre announced its decision. In their plea, the doctors said that the candidates who would be appearing in the exam are doctors treating Covid-19 patients daily. the petition also mentioned that when the exam in January got cancelled, the pandemic situation of the country was not this perilous. At a time where there is a sudden surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the country and an acute shortage of doctors, the notification for the examination on April 18 was against public interest, the plea said referring to the deferment of CBSE class 12 exams, a decision taken on Wednesday.The exam is conducted by the National Board of Examination, which also released admit cards for the exam.The demand to postpone NEET PG 2021 was raised by several political leaders, with DMK chief MK Stalin voicing his concerns on Thursday. "CBSE exams have now got cancelled due to the second wave of #COVID19. With increasing cases and fatalities, when our doctors are fighting hard against all odds, is this the right time to hold National Eligibility Cum Entrance Test (NEET) for PG courses," Stalin tweeted.As India recorded over 2 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases on Thursday, the highest ever since the beginning of the pandemic in 2020, several states decided to postpone Board examination as holding exams at the times does not appear judicious.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/neet-2021-postponed-amid-covid-19-spike-101618493400430.html
15-04-2021||India||Umar Khalid granted bail in connection with Northeast Delhi riots case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to former Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) student leader Umar Khalid in connection with one of the northeast Delhi Riots cases concerning Khajuri Khas FIR.The court noted that Khalid cannot be made to incarcerate in jail for infinity merely on account of the fact that other persons who were part of the riotous mob have to be identified and arrested in the matter, reported Live Law, citing the court's observation.The former JNU student leader was arrested in October last year in the case of violence in Khajuri Khas area. Suspended AAP Councillor Tahir Hussain is also an accused in the case.He was also arrested in September, 2020, under the stringent Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in another case related to a conspiracy in the riots.Communal violence had broken out in northeast Delhi on February 24 last year leaving at least 53 people dead and around 200 injured. More than 750 cases were registered in the northeast Delhi violence, in which at least 53 people were killed and several others injured. So far, over 250 charge sheets have been filed in the riots-related cases in which 1,153 accused have been charge-sheeted.Khalid had moved an application last month seeking directions towards safeguarding his security during his physical production in the court for the remand proceedings.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/umar-khalid-granted-bail-in-connection-with-northeast-delhi-riots-case-101618492081461.html
15-04-2021||India||Woman drowns self after husband dies of Covid-19; 3-year-old son follows suit||A 33-year-old woman allegedly died by suicide by drowning herself in a lake, following her husband's death due to Covid-19 in Maharashtra's Nanded district, police said on Thursday. The woman's three-year-old son also followed her into Sunegaon lake in Loha and drowned as a result on Wednesday night, an official said. According to the police, a 40-year-old labourer from Telangana had come to Loha, located 40 km from Nanded city, in search of work and had gotten infected with the disease. The man died in a government hospital on April 13, following which his wife allegedly died by suicide by drowning herself in the lake, the official said. The couple had three children, and one of them, a three-year-old boy, followed his mother into the lake and drowned in the process, he said, adding that the matter came to light on Thursday morning.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/woman-drowns-self-after-husband-dies-of-covid-19-3-year-old-son-follows-suit-101618491349855.html
15-04-2021||India||Kashmir YouTube channel puts out enactment video of anti-terror ops, warned||A YouTube channel being operated from Jammu & Kashmir’s Baramulla district was ordered to take down a video enacting a recent terror encounter, police said in a statement.The statement added the army and police counselled the channel’s administrators, but no action was taken considering their young age. It added “misguided youth and social media influencers” of the channel uploaded the video “replicating/enacting” the gun battle and circulated it on WhatsApp. A senior police officer confirmed that the administrators were asked to delete the video and the incident was also reported to YouTube.“The incident received quick attention of Baramulla Police and 46 Rashtriya Rifles [of the Army]... the youth involved were identified and caught within no time. The video was deleted immediately from YouTube handle ensuring timely containment of radical thoughts,” the statement said.It cited an investigation and added it came to the light that the YouTube channel has been uploading videos on problems such as drug menace. “The subscribers of their channel were on [the] rise, and in the mad race for more subscription, they uploaded the inappropriate content that could provoke radical ideas.”The statement said the parents and guardians of the administrators were also called and Baramulla’s senior police superintendent Rayees Mohammad Bhat counselled them too. Bhat advised them to keep a check on the activities of their children so that they do not fall prey to false propaganda, it added.“The police have released the individuals considering it as inadvertent act not amounting to sedition… such acts will not be tolerated and will be dealt in accordance with the law,” the statement said. It added as a part of its efforts to bring “misguided youth back into the mainstream” the security forces “are transforming hearts and minds by bringing them close to the local masses with various efforts to include regular counselling of misguided youth to prevent them from falling prey to anti-national propaganda”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kashmir-youtube-channel-puts-out-enactment-video-of-anti-terror-ops-warned-101618490949189.html
15-04-2021||India||Coronavirus variants inciting India's second surge, epidemiologists say||The second surge of Covid-19 cases in India has swamped hospitals much faster than the first because mutations in the virus mean each patient is infecting many more people than before, epidemiologists and doctors say.India's daily infections skyrocketed more than 20-fold to more than 200,000 on Thursday since a multi-month-low in early February, though the government has played down the role of mutants in the latest rise, the worst anywhere this month.The world's hardest-hit country after the United States has reported about 950 cases of people contracting the variants first detected in the United Kingdom, South Africa and Brazil."The point is that these variants of concern are still not on top of the discourse," said epidemiologist Rajib Dasgupta of New Delhi's Jawaharlal Nehru University."Even if it is a new variant, you need to do the same things" to control it and treat patients "but it requires a different urgency to recognise that", he said.Doctors at New Delhi's All India Institute of Medical Sciences have found that one patient is now infecting up to nine in 10 contacts, compared with up to four last year.Scientists in Britain say the B.1.1.7 variant, widely known as the British mutant, is 70% more transmissible than previous variants, and much deadlier.The northern Indian state of Punjab, which has reported one of the highest recent fatality rates in the country, said late last month 81% of 401 Covid-19 samples it sent for genome sequencing were found to be the British variant."This virus is more infectious and virulent," said Dhiren Gupta, a senior consultant at New Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital."More children are reporting high-grade fever compared to last year. We have 35-year olds with pneumonia in intensive care, which was not happening last year."India has recorded 14.1 million infections and 173,123 deaths in total.Mass gatheringsThe government has mainly attributed the big rise in cases to a reluctance to wear marks and crowding.Still, it has refused to call off a mass gathering of Hindu devotees for a festival and its ministers are addressing tens of thousands of largely mask-less people in election rallies.A scientist at the National Institute of Epidemiology said more evidence was needed to directly link the rise in cases to the variants, but that anecdotally that seemed to be the case."There are in-vitro experiments which can also tell us about the infectivity, the severity, how lethal it is, etc, but those are not completed yet, they are ongoing," said Tarun Bhatnagar."We haven’t had a virus that has spread so rapidly, and we haven’t had the time to study it. Everything is on the go. We are dealing with it, being affected by it and studying it. The pace of every thing is too fast."But with crowding still common in many regions of India, "we are about to find out just how dangerous this strain is", said Om Srivastava, head of infectious diseases at Mumbai's Jaslok Hospital who also advises India's worst-hit Maharashtra state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-variants-inciting-india-s-second-surge-epidemiologists-say-101618490334501.html
15-04-2021||India||Kerala to test 2.5 lakh people for Covid-19 in two days between April 16, 17||Kerala government on Thursday decided to test 2.5 lakh people in the state for Covid-19 between April 16 and 17.The decision was taken in a high-level Covid-19 review meeting called by Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the wake of the rising number of Covid cases in the state.The Chief Minister said the government intends to curb the spread of Coronavirus infection through three levels--extensive testing, strict control and intensive vaccination."Facilities for extensive testing have been provided in all the districts. The district authorities have to complete the target set for them. All those who actively participated in the election process will be tested," he said.Others in the priority group for testing include front line workers, who live in areas where Covid is spreading rapidly, those who work in the public transport sector, hospitality, tourism sector, shops, hotels, markets and service centres where they interact with many people, and delivery executives."Mobile RT-PCR testing units will be used in areas where cases are high and markets," he said.The Kerala government also announced that prior permission must be obtained to hold public functions, including weddings and housewarmings. The number of people who could attend indoor events was limited to 75 people and 150 at outdoor events."The district administration has asked to make sure people keep social distance everywhere. Tuition centres will be monitored," Vijayan said.Health Minister KK Shailaja, Chief Secretary VP Joy, state police chief Lokanath Behera, department secretaries, senior police officials, district collectors, district police chiefs and district medical officers attended the meeting.Vijayan, who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8, has been discharged from the Government Medical College at Kozhikode on Wednesday.Kerala reported 8778 new Covid-19 cases, 2642 recoveries and 26 deaths on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-test-2-5-lakh-people-for-covid-19-in-two-days-between-april-16-17-101618487718052.html
15-04-2021||India||Polls for 2 municipal corporations, 5 Telangana municipalities slated for April 30||Telangana is all set to go in for yet another round of elections to two municipal corporations and five municipalities on April 30, even as the campaigning for the by-election to the Nagarjunsagar assembly seat in Nalgonda district scheduled to be held on Saturday, ends by Thursday evening. The Telangana state election commission on Thursday issued orders for polls to Khammam and Warangal municipal corporations, besides five other municipalities – Siddipet, Nagarkurnool, Mahabubnagar, Ranga Reddy and Nalgonda. State election commissioner K Parthasarathy told the media that the nominations for these seven urban local bodies would begin at 10.30 am on Friday (April 16). The last date of accepting nominations would be April 18 (Sunday) and the scrutiny of nominations would take place on April 19. “If any candidate wants to appeal against the rejection of his or her nomination, he can do so on April 20 and the disposal of such appeals would be done on the following day. The last date of withdrawal is April 22. The polling will be held on April 30 and re-poll, if any, will be held on May 2. The counting of votes will take place on May 3,” Parthasarathy said. In all, 66 wards in the Warangal municipal corporation and 60 wards in Khammam will go to polls. Similarly, polling will be held for 43 wards in Siddipet, 20 each in Nagarkurnool and Nalgonda, 27 in Mahabubnagar and 12 in Ranga Reddy. “The model code of conduct in these two municipal corporations and five municipalities will come into effect immediately,” the SEC said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/polls-for-2-municipal-corporations-5-telangana-municipalities-slated-for-april-30-101618486810583.html
15-04-2021||India||UAE played key role in bringing together india, pak for talks on Kashmir: Envoy||The United Arab Emirates (UAE) played a role in bringing together India and Pakistan for talks aimed at calming tensions over the Kashmir issue and getting bilateral relations “back to a healthy level”, the UAE envoy to the US has said. The remarks by ambassador Yousef Al Otaiba, who also played a key role in facilitating the September 2020 Abraham Accords between Israel and the UAE, mark the first time a senior official of the UAE has publicly acknowledged the country’s role in efforts to normalise relations between India and Pakistan. The comments, made during a virtual discussion between Al Otaiba and former US national security adviser HR McMaster that was organised by the Hoover Institution of Stanford University, came in the wake of media reports about the UAE facilitating talks between India and Pakistan. Al Otaiba brought up the issue by himself while replying to a question on whether the UAE can persuade Pakistan to play a more meaningful role in finding a settlement in Afghanistan. He referred to a news article that came out about three weeks ago which “highlighted the role the UAE played in bringing the Kashmir escalation down and sort of created a ceasefire, hopefully ultimately leading to restoring diplomats and getting the relationship back to a healthy level”. Al Otaiba was apparently referring to a report by Bloomberg that spoke of the UAE’s role in facilitating secret negotiations between India and Pakistan that led to the militaries of the two countries recommitting themselves to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control (LoC) from February 25. Asked by McMaster whether it would be worthwhile for the UAE to pursue such a course given the Pakistan Army’s role in such matters and the low prospects for a better relations between India and Pakistan, Al Otaiba replied: “Absolutely, they might not sort of become best friends but at least we want to get it to a level where it’s functional, it’s operational, where they are speaking to each other, where there’s lines of communication and that’s our goal. “You know, we don’t think they’re going to become, you know, most favoured nations with each other but I think it’s important for them to have a healthy functional relationship which is exactly our objective.” Al Otaiba said the UAE tries to be helpful “where we have influence with two different countries”. He added, “So, India and Pakistan was the most recent one but you remember about three years ago, we also brought the Ethiopians and the Eritreans together for a peace deal which seems to not be doing too well right now. “To the extent we can bring people together and create a win-win environment, whether it’s Ethiopia and Eritrea, Pakistan and India or UAE and Israel, we’ve been doing a lot of that I would say in the last two to three years.” Reuters cited unnamed people to report on Thursday that top officers from India’s Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) and Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) held secret talks in Dubai in January in a new effort to calm military tension over Kashmir. The meeting was facilitated by the UAE government, the report said. There was no immediate response by Indian officials to the remarks by Al Otaiba or the Reuters report. Al Otaiba described India as one of the “most important countries and relationships” for the UAE, “not just because there’s a little over two million Indians that live in the UAE but also because of the historical nature of the relationship where trade routes [and] cultural experiences between the two countries are incredibly strong”. He added, “India is one of the most important countries for us for economic reasons, social reasons, cultural reasons. We’ve been trying to enhance our relationship with them for several years now and I think it’s really important to look at it completely holistically – not just trade and economics, but also...on climate and energy security.” On Afghanistan, Al Otaiba said an abrupt withdrawal of US troops will serve “the interests of illiberal forces” and leave the Afghan government with a weaker hand. The biggest issue, he said, was whether the US, Afghan government and Taliban can “reach an agreement that they can all live with”. He also said it would be hard to stabilise Afghanistan “without Pakistan playing a helpful role”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-played-role-in-bringing-india-pak-together-for-talks-emirates-envoy-to-us-101618486808817.html
15-04-2021||India||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani sends oxygen from his refineries to aid India’s Covid-19 fight||Billionaire Mukesh Ambani is diverting oxygen produced at his refineries to help India battle a savage coronavirus outbreak that’s paralyzed the commercial capital as daily new infections spike by a record.Ambani’s Reliance Industries Ltd., which operates the world’s biggest refining complex in western India, has started supplying oxygen from Jamnagar to Maharashtra at no cost, according to a company official, who asked not to be identified due to internal policy. The western state will get 100 tons of the gas from Reliance, Eknath Shinde, urban development minister, said in a tweet.India is in the grip of a second wave of Covid-19 infections that has caught the federal and state governments unprepared, with local media reporting that patients are dying due to a shortage of oxygen and hospital beds. Maharashtra state is home to the financial hub of Mumbai where the fresh outbreak is most severe, and where Ambani officially resides and Reliance has its headquarters.Reliance is diverting some oxygen streams meant for its petroleum coke gasification units after making it suitable for medical use, the official said. A company spokesman couldn’t immediately comment.Separately, state-run Bharat Petroleum Corp. has built up a stockpile of 20 tons of medical-grade oxygen at its Kochi refinery in southern India that can be readily offered, the company said in an emailed statement. It previously supplied 25 tons of oxygen for medical use.Bharat Petroleum can further supply about 1.5 tons of oxygen daily from the Kochi plant, where it has a unit that can produce medical-grade oxygen, according to the statement.Refineries can produce limited volumes of industrial oxygen in air-separation plants meant for nitrogen production. Medical-use oxygen can be extracted by scrubbing out other gases, such as carbon dioxide, to make it 99.9% pure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mukesh-ambani-sends-oxygen-from-his-refineries-to-aid-india-s-covid-19-fight-101618485552882.html
15-04-2021||India||How will the second Covid wave affect India’s economy?||India is currently experiencing a massive second wave of Covid-19 infections. An HT analysis of seven-day average of cases shows that the current wave is nowhere near its peak. The weekly moving average of daily new cases has increased 14 times since February 11, when it started rising again after declining for five months. India’s first Covid-19 wave rose for 29 weeks (or 33 if the first case reported on January 30 is taken as the starting point) before it peaked. As has been pointed out in an HT analysis by Abhishek Jha, the second wave is far steeper in nature than the first wave.The curve of Covid-19 cases and mobility trends will have a direct bearing on the level of economic activity. India’s GDP went down by 24.4% in the quarter ending June 2020. According to the second advance estimates, 2020-21 is expected to suffer a GDP contraction of 7.96%. The 2021-22 Budget projected a nominal GDP growth of 14.4% for the year. In its latest meeting, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) of RBI, had the following to say about the growth outlook of the Indian economy, “the projection of real GDP growth for 2021-22 is retained at 10.5 per cent consisting of 26.2 per cent in Q1, 8.3 per cent in Q2, 5.4 per cent in Q3 and 6.2 per cent in Q4”.Also Read | Covid-19: Urban hot spots drive surge, in greater need of jab scale-upAssuming these growth rates hold, the 2021-22 GDP will have a distribution of 23%, 24.1%, 25.8%, and 27.2% in each quarter in terms of contribution to the whole. In comparison, the 2019-20 GDP had a distribution of 24.5%, 24.4%, 24.8%, and 26.3% and the 2020-21 GDP had a distribution of 20.1%, 24.6%, 27%, and 28.3%. This suggests that any adverse effect on economic activity in the first quarter of the current fiscal year will affect a significant portion of the year’s GDP.The effects of any significant economic disruption, if it were to happen, will not be limited to the first quarter itself. It can have a cascading effect through both demand and supply channels. If supply chains get hit and inflation starts rising — it has already been on an upward trajectory — purchasing power and therefore demand is bound to come under squeeze. Similarly, any cutback in economic activity, especially in sectors which are being forced to do so because of social distancing requirements, will adversely affect incomes and hence demand.It is to be expected that the worst affected quarter in fiscal year 2021-22 because of the second wave will be the one ending in June 2021. Because, unlike the first wave, we have vaccines this time, it is reasonable to expect that the pace of new infections will slow down as vaccinations pick up. An HT analysis by Jamie Mullick showed that if India administers vaccines at the current pace of 4 million doses a day, it will take until the end of May for it to vaccinate 100 million people or 10.6% of the population over the age of 18, according to 2021 population projections by the National Commission on Population. Given the fact that the government has granted emergency use authorisation to many more vaccines which are being used in other countries, the pace of vaccination can be expected to be faster.Still, it is unlikely that the ongoing quarter will be able to escape the adverse economic effect of the sharp spike in Covid-19 infections. This will have a bearing on GDP levels, and therefore tax revenues, in the current fiscal year. While the official revenue figures for 2020-21 will only be available by April end, media reports have said that both direct and indirect tax collections have exceeded the Revised Estimate (RE) targets for 2020-21. To be sure, the 2020-21 RE targets were scaled down significantly from the Budget Estimates (BE) which were presented before the pandemic erupted. What is more important is the fact that even the 2021-22 BE targets assume lower tax buoyancy compared to previous numbers. When GDP declined in 2020-21, the government expected the fall in tax revenue to be 1.28 times the fall in GDP, but it has estimated tax revenue to grow only 1.16 times the GDP growth in 2021-22. Indirect taxes, which were expected to grow 3.6% in the RE despite a contraction in GDP, are expected to grow less than the GDP growth in 2021-22. One reasons for this could be the dominance of petroleum taxes in the indirect tax basket, which is more a function of increased tax rates rather than a sharp rise in consumption of petroleum products. In fact, consumption of petrol and diesel is likely to be lower than 2019-20 in 2020-21.Whether or not India’s favourable GDP revisions undergo a downgrade will depend on how fast vaccinations pick up, which will determine the time it will take to flatten the second wave.Experts believe that the second wave will extract a significant economic cost. A research note by Pranjul Bhandari, Chief Economist, India HSBC Securities and Capital Markets (India) Private Limited, said the following.“It is likely that reported year-on-year GDP growth in the quarter ending March will dip into negative. Even before the second wave struck, the Statistics Office was forecasting GDP growth at -1.1% year-on-year for the quarter. And now with GVA likely to be weaker, GDP growth for the quarter ending March could come in even more negative. Furthermore, the q-o-q sequential momentum in the quarter ending June will likely come in negative. Led by favourable base effects, the year-on-year growth number will be a large positive (over 20% y-o-y versus –24.4% in the June quarter last year). But what matters more is the seasonally adjusted q-o-q momentum. That we think will dip into negative after consecutive positive prints over the last three quarters, led by weaker momentum in high-touch services like trade and tourism, as well as construction”.“To be fair, once the second wave subsides and a larger proportion of the population are vaccinated, pent-up services demand could push GDP growth back up. But that is likely to be delayed to 2HFY22,” the note added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-will-the-second-covid-wave-affect-india-s-economy-101618486569202.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Uddhav asks PM Modi to declare Covid-19 natural calamity in Maharashtra and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Uddhav writes to PM Modi for financial aid, asks Centre to declare Covid-19 ‘natural calamity’ in MaharashtraThackeray asked PM Modi to release the first installment of the central share of the SDRF and also asked him to urge banks to defer due instalments in the first quarter of the current financial year without interest. Read more here.IPL 2021: 'Enjoying working with him,' Prithvi Shaw reveals discussions he has with DC coach Ricky PontingOn being asked about the discussions he has had with coach Ricky Ponting, DC's Prithvi Shaw said that he is enjoying working under him. Read more here. Step inside Sidharth Malhotra's fuss-free Mumbai bachelor pad, designed by Gauri Khan. See picsSidharth Malhotra's Mumbai home is a typical bachelor pad where 'less is more'. Check out the pictures here.Jacqueline Fernandez shares post-cupping picture, here’s why you must try it tooJacqueline Fernandez breaks the Internet with her topless picture, sporting a reddish-purplish heart shape and no, it’s not a tattoo. It’s the mark after cupping therapy or Hijama and here are some of its health benefits with precautions. Read more here. Indian teen with world’s longest hair cuts them after 12 years for special cause. WatchThe recording by Guinness World Record shows Nilanshi Patel displaying her long hair and then sitting down for a haircut. Watch here. ‘Pinarayi Vijayan is a Covidiot’: BJP’s V Muraleedharan slams Kerala CM﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-uddhav-asks-pm-modi-to-declare-covid-19-natural-calamity-101618485456265.html
15-04-2021||India||Centre asks MP to stock up on oxygen and ICU beds as Covid-19 cases rise||The Centre on Thursday advised the Madhya Pradesh government to strengthen and enhance oxygen beds and ICU beds in the face of the rising Covid-19 infection cases in the state. This came after Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla chaired a high-level meeting to review coronavirus status and public health measures taken by the state. Bhalla also focused on a five-fold strategy of “test, track, treat, vaccinate”.Meanwhile, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said private hospitals have been asked to procure Remdesivir injections from their sources. "Yesterday, 10,000 injections had arrived which are being distributed. We have ordered the supply of 50,000 more injections," he added.In the wake of rising cases of Covid-19, Remdesivir is in high demand as it is used especially in adult patients with severe complications.The Madhya Pradesh government has roped in its aircraft to rush Remdesivir injections from Indore to various other districts in the state for the treatment of Covid-19 patients, an official said.Congress MLAs on Wednesday staged a silent sit-in protest at the Mahatma Gandhi statue in Bhopal with empty oxygen cylinders protested against the alleged poor state of health services in Madhya Pradesh.On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh recorded 9,720 fresh coronavirus cases, the biggest single-day spike so far, pushing the infection tally to 3,63,352. The death tally rose to 4,312 with 51 more fatalities, also the highest one-day count so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-madhya-pradesh-to-stock-up-on-oxygen-and-icu-beds-as-covid-19-cases-101618483164726.html
15-04-2021||India||Lok Sabha Speaker to chair virtual meet on Apr 19 to discuss Covid-19 situation||Lok Sabha speaker Om Birla has called a virtual meeting of presiding officers of state assemblies on April 19 to discuss the Covid-19 situation in the country and the role of the public representatives, according to circular issued in this regard.The meeting will be held amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country and is the first such gathering of presiding officers to discuss the role of legislative assemblies during a pandemic.The meetings of speakers have been regularly held over the issues such as governance and legislative policy. A two-day all-India presiding officer’s conference was held last year in October in Gujarat to discuss the harmonious coordination between the legislature, executive, and judiciary.Also Read | Over 1,700 test positive for Covid-19 in Kumbh Mela over 5-day periodThe pandemic has come as a huge challenge for the elected representatives in terms of their work in their constituencies and keeping in contact with their voters.The government has also stopped the release of funds under the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme for two years. This has further affected the scope of the work of lawmakers.In 2020, the Indian Parliament had to scrap its Winter Session and curtail the two remaining sessions due to Covid-19. This year too, the Budget Session was curtailed.Parliament normally holds three sessions in a calendar year–Budget (end of January to early April), Monsoon (July to August), and Winter (November to December). The Budget Session last year was cut short by eight days, and an already shortened Monsoon Session was also reduced by the same duration due to the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/lsspeaker-to-hold-meeting-of-presiding-officers-to-discuss-pandemic-101618485798590.html
15-04-2021||India||10 states, including Maharashtra, UP, show steep rise in daily Covid-19 cases||Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan have shown a steep rise in COVID-19 daily cases, accounting for 80.76 per cent of the new infections reported in a day, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.India's daily new cases continue to rise and, according to the ministry's data updated at 8 am, a record 2,00,739 cases were registered in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra reported the highest number of daily cases at 58,952 and it is followed by Uttar Pradesh with 20,439 cases and Delhi with 17,282 new cases, it said.India's total active cases reached 14,71,877 and now comprises 10.46 per cent of the country's total infections.A net increase of 1,06,173 cases has been recorded in the total active cases in a span of 24 hours.Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala cumulatively account for 67.16 per cent of India's total active cases, the ministry said.It said that Maharashtra alone accounts for 43.54 per cent of the country's total active cases.India's cumulative recoveries have surged to 1,24,29,564 with 93,528 recoveries being registered in a span of 24 hours.The ministry said 1,038 deaths were reported in a day and 10 states account for 82.27 per cent of the new fatalities.Maharashtra saw the highest number of deaths (278). Chhattisgarh follows with 120 daily deaths, it said.The cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 11.44 crore.The total vaccination figure during the Tika Utsav, which was observed from April 11 to April 14, saw a jump of 1,28,98,314 doses being administered to people of the eligible population groups across the country, the ministry said, adding that the Tika Utsav aimed to give boost inolculation across the country by covering the public and private sectors. .Cumulatively, 11,44,93,238 vaccine doses have been administered through 16,98,138 sessions, as per the provisional report till 7 am.These include 90,64,527 healthcare workers (HCWs) who have taken the first dose and 56,04,197 HCWs who have taken the second dose, and 1,02,13,563 frontline workers (FLWs) who have received the first dose and 50,64,862 FLWs who have taken the second dose.Besides, 4,34,71,031 and 27,47,019 beneficiaries over 60 years of age have been administered the first dose and the second dose, while 3,74,30,078 and 8,97,961 beneficiaries aged 45 to 60 years have taken the first dose and the second dose respectively. Over 33 lakh vaccination doses were administered in a span of 24 hours. As on Day-89 of the vaccination drive, 33,13,848 vaccine doses were given. Out of which, 28,77,473 beneficiaries were vaccinated across 44,864 sessions for the first dose and 4,36,375 beneficiaries received the second dose of a vaccine, the ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/10-states-including-maharashtra-up-show-steep-rise-in-daily-covid-19-cases-101618485605908.html
15-04-2021||India||Man who strayed from Pak occupied Kashmir, repatriated by Indian Army||The Indian Army on Thursday repatriated a man from Pakistan Occupied Kashmir (PoK), who had strayed into Indian territory on Sunday. “On humanitarian grounds we repatriated a civilian from PoK. He had strayed into Indian territory on April 11, said Defence spokesman Lt Col Devender Anand.“On Thursday, at about 11.55 am, Ghulam Qadir, son of Mohammad Din, a resident of village Ghim in Nikial in Pakistan Occupied Jammu & Kashmir was repatriated to PoJK. We handed him to the counterparts via Chakan da Bagh crossing point on the LoC (Line of Control) in Poonch district,” he added. The individual was a woodcutter who strayed into the Indian territory in BG sector in Jammu division’s Poonch district on April 11. Nothing incriminating was recovered from him, said the spokesperson.There has been peace along the 744 km long LoC and 200 km long international border since India and Pakistan renewed their ceasefire agreement of November 2003 on February 25 this year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-who-strayed-from-pak-occupied-kashmir-repatriated-by-indian-army-101618483681005.html
15-04-2021||India||A look at what different states have decided about board exams||Close on the heels of the Centre announcing the cancellation of CBSE class 10 exams and the deferring the class 12 board exams, several states followed suit and took a similar decision in view of the rising Covid-19 infection cases in the country.This is the first time that the CBSE cancelled the board exams. The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), however, said it will soon take a decision on class 10 and 12 board examinations.Meanwhile, West Bengal education minister Partha Chatterjee said a decision will be taken giving priority to the health of the students. The exams of the state board are scheduled to begin in June.Karnataka state primary and secondary education minister S Suresh Kumar said the government has not taken any decision on cancelling the class 10 board exams. The education department in Meghalaya said it is ready to hold the state board exams for class 12 and will take a decision on class 10 exams after a review of the Covid-19 situation.Here's a list of states that have so far cancelled/postponed their class 10 and class 12 board exams:· Uttar Pradesh -- The Yogi Adityanath-led Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday postponed the board examinations till May 20 and decided that all schools in the state will remain shut till May 15. The new examination schedule will be decided in the first week of May after reviewing the coronavirus situation.· Haryana -- State education minister Kanwar Pal informed Haryana cancelled class 10 board exams and deferred the exams for class 12. Matriculation students will be promoted on the basis of internal assessment.· Gujarat — The Gujarat government has decided to postpone class 10 and 12 board examinations, scheduled to be held between May 10 and 25, and has decided to promote the students of class 1 to 9 and 11 en masse. The new dates will be announced after a review of the coronavirus situation on May 15, the chief minister’s office informed.· Himachal Pradesh-- The Himachal Pradesh government has postponed the ongoing state board exams for classes 10 and 12 in the wake of the rising Covid-19 cases, state education secretary Rajeev Sharma said. The situation will be reviewed at a government-level meeting on May 1 and directions will be issued accordingly, he said.· Maharashtra--The Maharashtra government has postponed the state board exams of classes 10 and 12 which were scheduled to be held later this month. The state government would study and discuss the CBSE's move of cancelling its class 10 exam before taking any such decision for the state education board exams, minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Wednesday.· Madhya Pradesh-- The Madhya Pradesh Board of Secondary Education announced the postponement of the examinations of classes 10 and 12. The exams of the high school, higher secondary and diploma in pre-school education were scheduled to begin from April 30 and May 1. The exams are likely to be conducted from the first week of June and the education board will soon issue an amended schedule, a spokesperson of the state board said.· Rajasthan-- The Rajasthan government has decided to postpone the state education board examinations for classes 10 and 12 at a meeting of chief minister Ashok Gehlot and education minister Govind Singh Dotasra.· Chhattisgarh--The Chhattisgarh government had earlier put off class 10 exams which were scheduled to begin from April 15.· Tamil Nadu--The state government had in February cancelled class 10 board exams.· Odisha-- Chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday ordered suspension of board exams of classes 10 and 12 in the state. All students of classes 9 and 11 in academic year 2020-21 will be promoted to classes 10 and 12 respectively. They do not have to take any tests for this, said Odisha CMO.· Punjab--The Punjab government said that students of classes 5, 8 and 10 will be promoted to the next standard without examinations. According to a statement, a decision on class 12 exams will be taken later.·Jammu and Kashmir--The ongoing class 10 exams for remaining subjects have been cancelled and students would be promoted to class 11 based on internal assessments. Ongoing class 12 exams have been postponed, said Office of Lieuteanant General of Jammu and Kashmir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/a-look-at-what-different-states-have-decided-about-board-exams-101618479277857.html
15-04-2021||India||'If all other religious places are open': Delhi high court allows 50 people to offer namaz at Nizamuddin Markaz building||Delhi high court on Thursday allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at the first floor of the Markaz building during Ramzan saying if other places of worship are open in Delhi, this should not be closed. Noting that the overall Covid-19 situation in the country is grim, the bench said the Delhi Disaster Management Authority has restricted all religious gatherings and congregations but it has not ordered the closure of the places of worship, considering the spurt in the number of infections.However, only 50 people will be allowed at the first floor of the building, the bench ruled, turning down the request of the Delhi Waqf Board to allow 50 people each on three more floors of the Markaz building, apart from the first floor.The Markaz comprises Masjid Bangley Wali, Madarsa Kashif-ul-uloom and an attached hostel.Also Read: Delhi HC pulls up AAP MLA, says hearing to reopen Markaz is still in progressGiving the order, Justice Pratibha M Singh directed the Station House Officer of the Nizamuddin police station to permit the entry of 50 people accordingly.The Markaz building has remained shut since March 2020 after the gathering of the Tablighi Jamaat held during the outbreak of the pandemic was termed as a superspreader. On March 24, this year, the Delhi high court allowed conditional reopening of the Markaz during Shab-e-Barat.In connection with last year's gathering, which became the centre of several controversies, an FIR has been registered under the Epidemic Diseases Act, the Disaster Management Act, Foreigners Act and various provisions of the penal code. The Delhi Police charged 952 foreigners from 36 countries who took part in that gathering and stayed when lockdown was imposed in the country.Markaz was one of the first hotspots of Covid-19 in Delhi from where Police evacuated 2,458 people after a 36-hour drive on April 1, 2020.During the hearing this time for allowing namaz at Markaz during Ramzan, the Waqf Board, in its plea, contended that even when other religious places were opened in the Capital following the unlock guidelines, the Markaz building remained shut.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/delhi-high-court-allows-50-people-to-offer-namaz-at-nizamuddin-markaz-101618482867075.html
15-04-2021||India||Over 1,700 test positive for Covid-19 in Kumbh Mela over 5-day period||Over 1,700 people have tested positive for Covid-19 in the Haridwar Kumbh Mela area from April 10 to 14 confirming fears that one of the world's largest religious gatherings may contribute further to the rapid rise in coronavirus cases.Medical workers conducted 2,36,751 tests over the five-day period in the mela site. Out of these, 1,701 came out positive for coronavirus.The numbers include both RT-PCR and Rapid Antigen Test reports of devotees and seers of different akharas (ascetic groups) over the five-day period in the entire mela site extending from Haridwar to Devprayag, Haridwar's Chief Medical Officer Shambhu Kumar Jha said on Thursday.More RT-PCR test reports are awaited and the trend shows that the number of infected persons in the Kumbh Mela site is likely to climb to 2,000, he said.The Kumbh Mela area is spread over 670 hectares covering parts of Haridwar, Tehri and Dehradun districts, including Rishikesh.A majority of the 48.51 lakh people who took part in the last two 'royal baths' (shahi snan) held on the occasion of Somwati Amavasya on April 12 and Mesh Sankranti on April 14 were seen openly violating Covidnorms like wearing face masks and maintaining social distancing.Despite their best efforts, the police could not impose the standard operating procedures (SOPs) on the seers of akharas and the ash-smeared ascetics thronging Har Ki Pairi ghat on the two major bathing days due to severe time constraints.As the 13 akharas had to take their holy dip at Har ki Pairi in accordance with their allotted time slots before sunset, the police and paramilitary personnel were hard-pressed to ensure each of them vacated the ghat before the arrival of the next akhara in line to prevent chaos.As seers were averse to undergoing RT-PCR tests till the Mesh Sankranti Shahi Snan of April 14, both testing and inoculation in the Kumbh Kshetra including the areas allocated to the akharas are likely to be stepped up in the coming days, Jha said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-1-700-test-positive-for-covid-19-in-kumbh-mela-over-5-day-period-101618482657238.html
15-04-2021||India||Take concrete steps to prevent Covid-19 spread: Priyanka to UP government||Congress leader Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Thursday asked the Uttar Pradesh government to take concrete steps to prevent the spread of coronavirus and asserted that it is "futile" to invest time and resources in "hiding" this tragedy.Taking to Twitter, the Congress general secretary also tagged a video purportedly showing Baikunth Dham crematorium in Lucknow being covered by opaque screens."There is a request to the government of Uttar Pradesh: It is futile to invest time, resources and energy into hiding, suppressing this tragedy," Gandhi said in a tweet in Hindi."Take concrete steps to stop the pandemic, save lives, and prevent the spread of infection. This is the need of the hour," she said.The Congress leader had on Wednesday accused the Uttar Pradesh government of hiding coronavirus numbers and said had they been cautious from day one, people would not have witnessed such times.She had made the remarks while speaking to state party leaders during a virtual meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/take-concrete-steps-to-prevent-covid-19-spread-priyanka-to-up-government-101618482292079.html
15-04-2021||India||India natural ally in shaping Indo-Pacific: Oz PM||Australia perceives India as a natural partner in shaping the future of the Indo-Pacific and the elevation of bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership has boosted cooperation in areas ranging from trade and critical minerals to defence, Australian Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Thursday.The first Quad Leaders’ Summit last month reflected the momentum being built by Australia, India, Japan and the US to forge a positive and inclusive agenda for the Indo-Pacific, Morrison said in his keynote address at Raisina Dialogue, the flagship conference of the external affairs ministry.Morrison, who has established a close working relationship with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, was effusive in his praise of India’s role in the Covid-19 vaccine distribution and the Vaccine Maitri initiative that has so far supplied 65.5 million doses to 91 countries.“Australia sees India as such a natural partner in shaping the future of our region,” he said, adding this was due to a combination of geography, values, growing economic security and people-to-people ties.“In India, I know we have a friend who will help build our region, where all nations can prosper,” he said.Welcoming India’s “increasingly active role” in the Indian Ocean and the wider Indo-Pacific and its leadership in manufacturing and distribution of vaccines, Morrison noted that New Delhi is building economic capability, promoting maritime security and advocating regional cooperation.“We welcome your leadership, Prime Minister Modi, and welcome India’s leadership and engagement, whether it’s on the outstanding vaccines that are necessary and the Maitri campaign that you’ve engaged in,” he said.The elevation of bilateral ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership last June was a “declaration of our shared values and interests, our capabilities and the deep trust we have for each other”, and this has led to new ways of cooperation in commerce, critical minerals, science, technology, defence, maritime security and critical technology issues, Morrison said.It also led to Australia joining the navies of India, Japan and the US in the Malabar exercise last November, and this reflects the “deep trust, shared ambition and the united commitment to keeping our region safe and secure”, he added.At the same time, Morrison said he had told the Quad Leaders’ Summit that other nations can rely on Australia at a time when the region faces challenges that no country can take on alone. The summit was a mark of the momentum being built among like-minded countries in the region to forge a positive and inclusive agenda for the Indo-Pacific, he added.Without naming China, Morrison cited many issues linked to Beijing’s aggressive and assertive actions as the foremost challenges confronting the Indo-Pacific. Though full of promise, the Indo-Pacific is the “epicentre of strategic competition” and there are tensions over territorial claims and unprecedented military modernisation, he said.Democratic nations were being threatened and coerced by foreign interference, and cyber-attacks are becoming more sophisticated, including from state-sponsored actors, while “economic coercion is being employed as a tool of statecraft” and liberal norms are under assault, he added.“Our region confronts some formidable challenges, and the pandemic has sparked a renewed appreciation among like-minded nations for each other and what all of us can contribute to our partnerships and to our region,” Morrison said.Sameer Patil, fellow for international security studies at Gateway House, said India’s relations with US allies such as Japan and Australia have flourished on the back of the vibrant India-US security ties. “Australia’s inclusion in the last Malabar naval exercise underlined the expanding defence partnership with India. Both the countries have similar concerns about China’s growing aggressiveness – in India’s case, it’s the border standoff, and Australia is grappling with China’s growing influence both domestically and in the South Pacific. On the back of this, India-Australia ties are set to thrive,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/raisina-dialogue-india-a-natural-partner-in-shaping-region-s-future-says-australian-pm-101618482300535.html
15-04-2021||India||Kerala CM violated Covid protocols, allege Cong, BJP, seek action||A day after Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan was discharged from hospital after testing negative for Covid-19, Opposition parties, Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), sought action against him for allegedly flouting Covid-19 protocols. They allege Vijayan, who tested positive for coronavirus on April 8, concealed his health condition to participate in a road show two days before the assembly polls and also voted on April 6, the polling day. They have also raised questions if the CM was discharged early in violation of the quarantine protocols for patients.“Hospital records show he was infected much early. On the polling day, his daughter Veena Vjayan, who was staying with him, wore a PPE suit to cast her vote. He must have gone on quarantine immediately. But on polling day, he came in a large group to the polling booth in Pinarayi village,” said Union minister of state for external affairs V Muraleedharan in Delhi on Thursday. Asking the police to register a case against the CM, he added, “Two days before the polling, the CM held a mega road show in his constituency in Dharmadam in north Kerala.”The CM was admitted to the medical college hospital in Kozhikode on April 8 and discharged six days later on Wednesday, April 14. Hospital authorities said he might have contracted the infection days before he got admitted. They also said he had severe infection at the time of hospitalisation but was asymptomatic. According to the Covid-19 protocol, patients must stay in quarantine for a week even after testing negative; a minimum two weeks of quarantine is prescribed for patients after testing positive. When asked if the rules were followed in CM’s case, medical college hospital authorities said he will be quarantined in his house for a week.“He gives big lessons to all on quarantine and post-quarantine norms. But it seems he is beyond these restrictions. He flouted all norms brazenly. During his admission and discharge some family members accompanied him. Usually such patients are moved in ambulances and relatives are not allowed to travel with them,” said Muraleedharan.The Youth Congress said it will petition Governor Arif Mohamad Khan against the CM. “If I had violated Covid norms like this and stood in the queue to vote, my house would have been destroyed the same day,” young Congress leader Veena Nair, a candidate from Vattiyoorkavu, said on social media.State governments impose fines and jail term under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 for violations related to Covid-19 norms. Kerala government has announced a fine of ₹500 for those not wearing masks and ₹2000 for those violating quarantine rules.State health minister KK Shailaja said the whole controversy was unwarranted and uncalled for. She said the CM was discharged after testing negative and he was in quarantine in his house for a week in line with the norms.“How can you say he was infected two days before the election? His daughter was infected on the polling day (April 6) and isolated herself in her house. There is no room for any controversy,” she said. But Opposition parties said Shailaja was forced to defend the CM.Vijayan, the CPI(M) candidate from Dharmadam in Kannur, had travelled throughout the state during the campaign for the polls.As Covid-19 cases rise alarmingly in the state, the CM has convened a virtual meeting later on Thursday to assess the situation. The state logged 8,778 new Covid-19 cases and 22 related fatalities on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 11.89 lakh and the death toll to 4,836, according to state government data.As many as 2,642 people were cured of the infection in the same period, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,25,775. Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of 1,226 cases, followed by Kozhikode with 1,098 and Malappuram with 888.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-cm-violated-covid-protocols-allege-cong-bjp-seek-action-against-vijayan-101618481640613.html
15-04-2021||India||'Chaotic' monsoons threaten India's farmers without climate action||Indian monsoons are likely to become stronger and more erratic if global warming continues unchecked, threatening farming and incomes across the region, researchers said on Wednesday.Monsoon rains will likely increase by about 5% for every degree Celsius of warming, found the study of more than 30 state-of-the-art climate models from around the world, published in the journal Earth System Dynamics."What is really on the line is the socio-economic well-being of the Indian subcontinent," said co-author Anders Levermann, a climate scientist at Germany's Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research and New York's Columbia University."A more chaotic monsoon season poses a threat to the agriculture and economy in the region and should be a wake-up call for policy makers to drastically cut greenhouse gas emissions worldwide."Governments are lagging behind in implementing the 2015 Paris Agreement, which aims to hold the rise in average global temperatures to "well below" 2 degrees Celsius above preindustrial levels, and preferably 1.5C.Temperatures have already risen by more than 1C since pre-industrial times, and scientists warn further increases risk triggering tipping points that could render swathes of the globe uninhabitable, devastate farming and drown coastal cities.About 80% of the annual rainfall over India occurs between June and September, with an average of 88 centimetres of rain over the four-month period determining yields for crops, such as rice, wheat and sugarcane, and replenishing dams.Too much rainfall can harm plants, including rice, on which the majority of India's population depends, as well as causing flooding and soil erosion.Monsoon rains are critical for farm output and economic growth as about 55% of India's arable land is rain-fed and the sector employs more than half of its 1.3 billion population, boosting rural spending.India's monsoon rains are expected to be 103% of the long-term average in 2021, according to the private forecasting agency Skymet, following two consecutive years of above average rains in 2020 and 2019, for the first time in six decades.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chaotic-monsoons-threaten-india-s-farmers-without-climate-action-101618478272908.html
15-04-2021||India||Tirupati LS bypoll: Ruling YSR Congress in high stakes battle with BJP, TDP||'Jagan Seva versus Jana Seva' (service to Jagan versus service to people) has been the war cry in the campaign for the by-election to Tirupati Lok Sabha constituency in Andhra Pradesh, where the stakes have become high for all the main parties.What triggered this was the choice, of the ruling YSR Congress, of a political novice M Gurumurthy as its candidate, whose only credentials were that he accompanied the party chief Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy in his 3,600-km-long padayatra (foot march) in 2017-19 and tended to the latter as a physiotherapist."If you elect Gurumurthy, he will be only in the service of Jagan and not raise voice in Parliament for you," the opposition BJP and TDP have been telling people in the run-up to the April 17 by-election, referring to his role as Jagan Mohan Reddy's personal physio.The YSRC hit back at the opposition parties saying the latter were seeking to make everything an issue as they had nothing else to speak about.Tirupati, an SC reserved constituency, is going to the bypoll due to the death of sitting YSRC member Balli Durga Prasad Rao in September last year.Spread over seven Assembly segments in Chittoor and SPS Nellore districts, Tirupati is witnessing a triangular contest with the BJP, in particular, making a desperate bid to win the seat it last bagged way back in 1999.The BJP fielded K Ratna Prabha, a former IAS officer who retired from service as Chief Secretary of Karnataka, who is fighting her first electoral battle.The Jana Sena of Pawan Kalyan is supporting Ratna Prabha's candidature as an ally and the actor himself campaigned for her.Former Union Minister of State Panabaka Lakshmi is the Telugu Desam nominee while another former Union Minister of State Chinta Mohan is the Congress candidate.Buoyant after the landslide victories in the recent elections to the local bodies, the ruling YSRC is confident of victory in Tirupati and is eyeing a big margin.The YSRC has set a victory margin of five lakh votes as its target as, barring the Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy, almost the entire Council of Ministers has taken it upon itself to make it happen.In 2019, the YSRC won Tirupati by a record margin of 2.28 lakh votes.It captured this Lok Sabha seat in 2014 also, but with a much lesser margin.But, it may after all not be a cakewalk for the ruling party given the antagonism being faced by some of the legislators in the Assembly segments under Tirupati Lok Sabha.Realising this, Jagan Mohan Reddy himself wanted to campaign in Tirupati to turn the tide but he cancelled it citing the "coronavirus wave."The chief minister limited himself to writing a letter (pamphlet) to every household in the constituency, listing out the various freebie schemes launched by the government in his and his late father Y S Rajasekhara Reddy's names.Though it did not overtly announce it, the BJP sought to convey to Tirupati voters that they may be electing a "prospective Union Minister" in Ratna Prabha by ensuring victory of the party.AP does not have a representative in the Union Cabinet now.The TDP, on the other hand, wants the YSRC defeated to showcase that the people are vexed with the "draconian, vengeful, despotic rule" of Jagan Mohan Reddy.In equal measure, both the TDP and the BJP sought to rake up religious sentiments, questioning the faith of the YSRC candidate among other things.Being unsuccessful in the contest may not affect the opposition parties much but an adverse outcome, even a reduced margin, could be ominous for the ruling party, political observers feel.The outcome will become clear on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tirupati-ls-bypoll-ruling-ysr-congress-in-high-stakes-battle-with-bjp-tdp-101618477570308.html
15-04-2021||India||How Kejriwal govt plans to tackle Covid-19: Delhi curbs explained in 10 points||Overwhelmed by the coronavirus disease outbreak, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday imposed a weekend curfew in the national capital and shut public places to bring the number of infections down. Delhi is witnessing the fourth wave of infections which is far more severe than the last three waves.The move comes shortly after a high-level meeting with Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal. "To control the spread of Covid-19, it has been decided to impose weekend curfew in Delhi," the chief minister said.With 17,282 fresh infections, Delhi on Wednesday recorded the highest-ever coronavirus diseases (Covid-19) cases, breaking its own previous daily spikes and pushing the cumulative tally to 767,438 cases, officials said. Pushing the national capital in the red zone, the positivity rate—the proportion of samples that test positive— spiked and was logged at 15.92 %, a sharp rise from 13.14 % a day earlier.Also read: Delhi to witness weekend curfew, gyms, malls to be shut, announces CM Arvind Kejriwal as Covid-19 cases spikeHere is how the Delhi government plans to tackle Covid-19:L-G Baijal is likely to review the enforcement with Delhi Police, division commissioners and MCD commissioners on Friday.The Delhi government on Wednesday revised its decision to allow certain beds to be used for non-Covid patients as well. These included Indraprastha Apollo Hospital in Sarita Vihar, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, Holy Family Hospital, Max SS Hospital and Fortis Hospital in Shalimar Bagh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-kejriwal-govt-plans-to-tackle-covid-19-delhi-curbs-explained-in-10-points-101618473326532.html
15-04-2021||India||Variant found in India may be of concern: Vijay Raghavan on the Covid crisis||The Johnson & Johnson vaccine is the present front-runner as the next foreign vaccine to possibly be available in India, according to the country’s principal scientific adviser K Vijay Raghavan. In an interview with Rhythma Kaul, he also said that the so-called double mutant variant that has arisen locally may now be a variant of concern. Edited excerpts:Now that the path is opened for more vaccines to come in, do you think we should open up Covid-19 vaccination for all adults?The dilemmas are the following: there are people who are older, who are more vulnerable if they get the disease, and people who are younger, who are vaccinated and can go into the workforce, mingle, and not bring back disease to their homes. Ideally, you’d like to vaccinate both groups, but there’s obviously a supply and demand challenge. As manufacturing increases exponentially, and we have the pipeline to vaccinate, there will be more and more flexible vaccination happening. Now with the emergency-use authorisation flexibility, which has just come in, globally authorised vaccines can become available here; we are going to see potential for many vaccines to come in. In practice, given global suppliers’ commitment, we are going to see the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, and the Novavax when it gets approval elsewhere, coming in to India. As that scales up, all these solutions will be at hand. J&J will certainly, likely, be a good candidate for entry into India soon because they have been authorised elsewhere. There have been points raised about J&J in a manner similar to another vaccine about potential clotting, but so far it looks very rare, and there’s no reason to not use the vaccine. Let’s see what the global regulators say in a day or two. Then it shouldn’t be a problem.Also Read | India’s single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysWhat about Moderna and Pfizer vaccines?It is a bit of a hypothetical situation there, because their supply commitments are rather strong as it is, the manufacturing commitments already are in place, and they are rather stretched. So, should that situation change very rapidly then certainly they are also eligible to come in, should they apply.How long do you see this second wave lasting? What are the projections?Projections, of course, are difficult, but they are very useful, both best case and worst case, because they tell you how you should be prepared. The reasonable ground for pandemics of this sort is to look at the shape of the curve in terms of what’s happening; the rate of change, and not just the absolute level. And the rate of change now all over the country is, of course, a matter of concern. Therefore, right now, I would not focus on when the peak would come down but what one should do to prevent the peak from going further up. As for when we will reach the peak, we will know when they (the trends) start coming down. There are some positive trends which will start showing up in a week or two because that’s the typical gap between [containment] measures and their effect. The teams of central government have gone to 50 locations; more teams will go, and we will start seeing those impacts in a couple of weeks from now. How fast or how slow that downward trend will be remains to be seen. Intense efforts started a couple of weeks ago, so we should start seeing the beginnings of change very soon, and as those efforts continue you’ll start seeing the impact further and further.What, according to you, has led to the sudden surge that we are seeing now?We know that many factors have contributed; it’s not one single factor. As the peaks descended early this year, there was perhaps the feeling that we were over the worst, and we could relax. Fatigue also set in, particularly in young people; humans are social animals, after all; and it is difficult to curtail our interactions constantly. So, in theory, if you all stayed far away from each other, then nothing would happen. It’s tough to do that both in terms of livelihood and social behaviour. The other factor related to this is the way disease spread takes place. There are pockets where there is high infection, and there are other pockets that are less infected, so it is a network effect. And the result of that is there are many areas which were not open to infection earlier, which, because of changes in behaviour and so on, have now become open. Finally, there is, of course, the important contribution of variants that can have greater speed of infection, and also other consequences.What role are mutants playing in driving the current surge?It is good to understand how one characterises changes in the virus. A virus goes from place to place as it infects people; and mutations in the virus are, by and large, just indicative of where it has been. There are, however, other mutations that expand in a population for two kinds of reasons: one is something called the founder effect -- that those mutations just happen to be there in a population early on, and therefore, when the spread occurs, these are also seen at a greater level. Now there are other mutations which have a physiological effect, an advantage, over other viruses. When all these mutations accumulate in a virus then these are called variants of interest, first, and then variants of concern. We know globally that there are some mutations that are variants of concern (some of them are seen even in India) – some are famously called the UK variant, or the South African variant or the Brazil variant. These have either come here, or could have independently arisen over here. There is another variant which has been found in India, and now it’s reasonable to say that the variant is of concern because it’s been found in a significant number of people and has physiological effects. Our scientists have isolated these strains in our national labs of ICMR, CSIR and DBT, and they are studying them. They will know for sure, in our context, soon what are their biological impacts. Also Read | India may begin Sputnik vaccine import by May; start production around JulyWill the vaccines that are currently in use in India work against these variants of concern?It’s important to see how this conclusion is reached. There are multiple kinds of tests. People have already been vaccinated, and they are on the field -- you can ask whether these variants infect them despite being vaccinated, and do they show symptoms of disease, and if so, what are the levels of symptoms they show. Even if anyone is vaccinated no matter what the strain, vaccines don’t protect against the infection; they protect against progression of illness. Therefore, what people are finding now for the variants of concern, which are being studied, the vaccines at hand sometimes reduce protection to mild and moderate disease but they still afford protection to severe disease. These are the kinds of concerns that will come up, and we need to see how they work out in our population, but right now it looks very reassuring that the vaccines are protective; they don’t cause big escape, and those who still get disease, despite being vaccinated, are likely protected against severity. Speedy vaccination reduces the prevalence of viruses in the population, and therefore, reduces the impact of current variants and potential of new variants.Are we going to ramp up our genome sequencing efforts?We should look at the percentage from the time when we started ramping up genome sequencing; there’s no point in looking at it as a percentage of all the cases so far. The genome sequencing capacity is ramping up; it hasn’t yet reached 5%, but it’s ramping up quite well. Importantly, it has to be combined with epidemiology on one side and laboratory tests on the other. That linkage is also a work in progress, and is going pretty well, and we will have a dynamic analysis at hand soon. Right now the good news is that the variants have been isolated in the national laboratories of ICMR, CSIR and DBT; they are being studied now and results should come in a matter of week or 10 days. As new data are studied in different patients, and in different contexts, we will keep getting that information. It’s a dynamic situation.What additional measures are being taken this time around as Covid-19 situation clearly is worse than before?We actually have now multiple elements in our kit to deal with the virus which we didn’t have during the first wave. We are better ramped up on personal protection equipment (PPEs), oxygen, hospital facilities, ventilators and so on. So, even though those are being stretched now, the response time, and dealing with any crisis in any locality will be better. The second change is the potential of the impact of people’s behaviour; we know a lot now which we didn’t earlier. We know now how the virus is transmitted -- through droplets, through aerosols -- and it gets transmitted in closed rooms, for example. So, there are measures like masks and distancing that we know will be very effective. Therefore, depending on whether one is inside or outside, in crowded spaces or open spaces, we really need to take calibrated measures that are feasible and can reduce transmission. In terms of treatment, hospital practices have improved a lot, and we know treatments like dexamethasone and steroids have an impact in lowering the disease intensity. And very amazingly, within a year’s time, we have vaccines at hand. We have two vaccines in India, and the permission now to deploy more, so the vaccination is getting scaled up. All the positive aspects need to be balanced with how we deal with situations such as variants of concern of Sars-CoV-2 in circulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/variant-found-in-india-may-be-of-concern-vijay-raghavan-on-the-covid-crisis-101618476899489.html
15-04-2021||India||No board exam till May 20 in Uttar Pradesh, announces UP Board after 17 officials test covid positive||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday postponed board examinations till May 20 and all schools in the state will remain closed till May 15. The new exam schedule will be decided in the first week of May after reviewing the pandemic situation of the state. The decision comes at a time when the Central Board of Secondary Education has cancelled class 10 and postponed class 12 exams, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 cases across the country. Uttar Pradesh, specifically, has emerged a hotspot of infections in last week.However, the exams have not been cancelled.The exams were scheduled to start from May 8. Class 10 exams were supposed to continue till May 25, while class 12 exams were scheduled till May 28. But a review meeting was held after many staff associated with the exam process tested positive. According to reports, at least 17 staff of the Board out of 19 who are directly engaged in exam work, have recently detected with the infection.The decision brings temporary relief to about 56 lakh students in the state who are to appear in the class 10 and 12 exams. But this is also the second time the exams are being postponed. The exams, originally scheduled to be held in April, were earlier postponed for panchayat elections.Colleges in Uttar Pradesh will also remain closed till May 15. Earlier, all education institutions of the states were asked to remain closed till April 30. The government earlier decided to promote students of classes 1 to 8 without any examination.The Covid-19 situation of Uttar Pradesh became precarious with Varanasi, Kanpur reporting a sharp spike in rthe number of cases amid shortage of beds and Remdesivir.On Wednesday, the state reported 20,510 new Covid-19 infections in the state's highest-ever single day rise. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has also tested positive.A night curfew from 8pm till 7am has been imposed in 10 districts with more than 2,000 active Covid-19 cases, including Lucknow, Allahabad, Varanasi, Kanpur, Gautam Budh Nagar, Ghaziabad, Meerut and Gorakhpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/up-board-10th-12th-exam-2021-no-board-exam-till-may-20-announces-government-101618476509570.html
15-04-2021||India||Just a sham: Rahul Gandhi criticises Centre over handling of Covid crisis||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi slammed the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led government over the handling of the Covid-19 crisis in India on Thursday, and alleged that the “tika ustav” was just another sham by the government. He also alleged that there are no beds, ventilators or vaccines available.Through his official Twitter handle, he tweeted, “There are no tests, no beds in hospitals. There are no ventilators, no oxygen. There are no vaccines also. The utsav is a pretence”. The Wayanad MP also took a dig at the Prime Minister asking what PM-CARES is doing, as huge donations were allocated to the fund for managing the Covid-19 situation.Gandhi’s attack comes in the wake of India reporting an unprecedented increase in Covid-19 cases with over 200,000 cases being reported on Thursday, the biggest single-day hike since the beginning of the pandemic. According to the health ministry data, the overall tally of infections in India is currently at 14,075,564.Also Read | India’s single-day spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysThe former Congress president has been critical of the government’s way of handling the Covid-19 crisis since the pandemic spread. Last week, Gandhi raised questions over conducting the tika ustav when the country is facing a vaccine shortage and vaccination centres are being shut down.On Wednesday, the Congress leader also took a dig at the Centre over its decision to fast-track approval for foreign vaccines. Gandhi, who had been earlier criticised by BJP for his demand to fast-track more vaccines, tweeted, “First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, then you win.”On Monday, he had endorsed the vaccine against coronavirus disease (Covid-19) for all and said that “everyone has the right to a safe life”. From his official Twitter account, Gandhi also shared a video as part of the Congress’ #SpeakUpForVaccinesForAll campaign on social media and urged citizens to protect themselves from the virus by making themselves and everyone else aware of the appropriate vaccine. The Congress leader has been actively using Twitter to criticise the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/just-a-sham-rahul-gandhi-criticises-centre-over-handling-of-covid-crisis-101618475579831.html
15-04-2021||India||No heatwave conditions over country on April 15: IMD||A day after several parts of the country recorded temperatures over 40 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said there will be no heatwave conditions on Thursday.It said heatwave conditions were observed in isolated pockets over Gujarat and Haryana on April 14."There will be no heatwave conditions over the country on April 15," the IMD said.It said maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius were recorded in parts of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi, West Bengal, among other places."Maximum temperatures of more than 40 degrees Celsius were recorded at most places over East Uttar Pradesh; at many places over Haryana, Chandigarh & Delhi, Gangetic West Bengal and West Rajasthan; at a few places over Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat state and West Uttar Pradesh and at isolated places over Chhattisgarh, Vidarbha, Odisha, Jharkhand and Marathwada," the IMD said.The highest maximum temperature of 42.8 degrees Celsius was reported at Nowgong (East Uttar Pradesh) over the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-heatwave-conditions-over-country-on-april-15-imd-101618475373080.html
15-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi criticises Centre’s vaccine festival, calls it a ‘sham’||Congress MP Rahul Gandhi on Thursday criticised the Tika Utsav organised by the Centre by calling it a ‘sham’. The former Congress president said in a tweet the Centre’s shortcoming is exposed as it does not have adequate beds, medical oxygen as well as vaccines but the government is celebrating a ‘sham’ in the name of a ‘vaccine festival.’“No tests, no hospital beds, no ventilators or medical oxygen in hospitals. There is no adequate vaccine either, if there is anything then there is a government busy celebrating a sham of a vaccine festival. PM Cares?”, Rahul tweeted.ना टेस्ट हैं, ना हॉस्पिटल में बेड,ना वेंटिलेटर हैं, ना ऑक्सीजन,वैक्सीन भी नहीं है, बस एक उत्सव का ढोंग है।PMCares?The Lok Sabha MP from Wayanad has been critical of the Centre’s handling of the pandemic as India continues to report high single-day surges in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccinations. Over the past week, Rahul has targeted the Centre over its pace of inoculations and vaccine strategy.In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 9, Rahul demanded that Covid-19 vaccine exports are halted immediately and vaccination be opened before people of wider age groups. He also demanded that the vaccination be made available for anyone who needs it and urged the government to fast-track the approvals of other vaccines by adhering to norms and guidelines.Gandhi’s demand was met with sharp criticism from the government when Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad called the Congress leader a ‘lobbyist’ for the big pharmaceutical companies and asked him to tell chief ministers of states where Congress is in power to strongly commit to providing basic universal healthcare to the people.Maharashtra, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Jharkhand, Uttarakhand and Assam said that they were facing a shortage of vaccines owing to a lack of adequate numbers of doses. The vaccine shortage in the financial hub Mumbai was so severe that last week the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation had to stop vaccinations at private centres on April 11 and 12 due to lack of doses.Rahul again took a dig at the Centre on April 12 and said the government should accept that the Opposition’s suggestions were appropriate. His tweet aimed at the government came hours after the expert panel granted emergency use approval to Covid-19 vaccine Sputnik-V, developed by Russia.Rahul attacked the government once more on Wednesday evening when he quoted Mahatma Gandhi and tweeted a news clip that reported that the government is fast-tracking emergency approval for foreign-produced vaccines.India recorded a record daily-high on Thursday with over 2,00,739 new Covid-19 cases taking the tally to 14,074,564. The death toll rose to 173,123 with 1,038 fresh fatalities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-criticises-centre-s-vaccine-festival-calls-it-a-sham-101618474199041.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: MP minister shocker on Covid-19 deaths and all latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.'People get old, they have to die': MP minister shocker on Covid-19 deathsMadhya Pradesh minister Prem Singh Patel on Thursday delivered a shocker on deaths from coronavirus in the country and said that while nobody can stop the virus deaths from occurring, "people get old and have to die".Read more.Centre releases list of top 20 states with highest Covid-19 casesThe central government on Thursday ranked states/union territories in India on the basis of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases that have been reported. The list was released by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting via its #IndiaFightsCoronahandle on Twitter.Read more. PLA reluctant to restore April 2020 status at Gogra, post-US Kabul a new theatreThe 11th round of India-China military talks on disengagement and de-escalation from Gogra-Hot Springs area of East Ladakh did not yield the required result with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) reluctant to restore April 2020 status quo along the 1597-km Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the western sector.Read more. SC orders CBI probe in 1994 espionage case against Nambi NarayananThe Supreme Court on Thursday ordered an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 1994 espionage case against former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan.Read more. David Warner fumes as Harshal Patel continues to bowl despite 2 beamers, SRH coach explains why umpires were rightSunrisers Hyderabad captain David Warner fumed after the umpires let Royal Challengers Bangalore bowler Harshal Patel continue to bowl despite bowling two no balls because of waist-high full tosses during an IPL 2021 match in Chennai on Wednesday. According to the rules – changed in 2017 – a bowler will be barred from bowling in the match after receiving two warnings from the umpires for bowling waist-high full tosses or beamers in the same match.Read more. Khushi Kapoor is the ultimate Gen Z fashionista, these sunkissed pics are proofKhushi Kapoor and cousin Shanaya Kapoor are the ultimate Gen Z fashion icons at the moments. The two sisters have drool-worthy on-trend wardrobes which are full of mini skirts, distressed jeans, statement outfits and beautiful tops. Every time the two share new images on social media, they end up making headlines and that is what Khushi’s latest post is doing.Read more.Shaan takes a dig at Yo Yo Honey Singh's songs, says they have no 'musicality'Singer Shaan said that the standard of music in the country has been lowered and seemed to take a dig at rapper Yo Yo Honey Singh. While Shaan did not directly name Honey, he cited the songs Chaar Botal Vodka, Sunny Sunny and Lungi Dance, saying that they had no ‘musicality’.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-mp-minister-shocker-on-covid-19-deaths-and-all-latest-news-101618469489649.html
15-04-2021||India||Video of Srinagar teacher slapping student goes viral, triggers outrage||A video purportedly showing a teacher repeatedly slapping a student at a coaching centre in Srinagar has gone viral, provoked outrage and prompted police to register a case.In the 44-second video, the teacher, Fayaz Ahmad Wagay, is seen slapping the student repeatedly at the centre. Wagay was apparently angry that the student had not asked for his permission though it was unclear for what.“We have registered a case,” said Raees Hussain, the in charge of Srinagar’s Saddar police station.The court of Srinagar’s additional district magistrate has also summoned the centre’s managing director to appear before it on Thursday and record a statement over the slapping.“This horrendous action has created a huge outcry among the local population and might have left [an] immense psychological impact on the student,” the court said in the summon. It cited the Right to Education Act and added it prescribes disciplinary action over corporal punishment.Also Read | Study reveals spanking may affect brain development of a childSrinagar’s chief education officer has recommended strict action against Wagay and the coaching centre.Wagay told a local newspaper that he wanted the good of the student but lost his control. “I am concerned about the studies of these students, but I lost my control and mistakenly slapped him.”The Coaching Centres Association of Kashmir has constituted a committee to look into the matter and recommend measures so that such incidents do not happen again. “We condemn the incident, but people should not read into it too much. Unfortunately, a witch hunt has been launched by people against the teacher and the coaching institute, both of whom are known for their reputation,” it said in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/video-of-srinagar-teacher-slapping-student-goes-viral-triggers-outrage-101618472400146.html
15-04-2021||India||Centre asks states to make rational use of medical oxygen, ensure no wastage||The Centre on Thursday asked states to make rational use of medical oxygen and ensure there is no wastage while stressing that there is sufficient stock of oxygen in the country.Medical oxygen is a critical component in the treatment of Covid-19 affected patients. An inter-ministerial Empowered Group (EG2) of officers was constituted during the Covid-19 pandemic in March 2020 to ensure the availability of essential medical equipment including medical oxygen to the affected states, the Union health ministry said.“Along with the ramped up production of the oxygen manufacturing units and the surplus stocks available, the present availability of oxygen is sufficient,” the ministry said.Besides, states have been asked to set up control rooms to ensure smooth supply of oxygen to the districts according to need and review requirement of cylinders, tankers etc. the ministry said in a statement.A detailed daily mapping of sources for supply of medical oxygen to the affected states is under preparation to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply, it said.The exercise will be carried out on the basis of detailed daily deliberations between officers of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade, health ministry, steel ministry, various critically affected states, Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation, along with key stakeholders including representatives from oxygen manufacturers, All India Industrial Gas Manufacturers Association according to the directions of the inter-ministerial Empowered Group (EG2), it added."It is pertinent to note that there is sufficient production capacity of around 7127 MTs for oxygen in the country, and as per need, the surplus oxygen available with the steel plants is also being utilised,” the ministry said."The country has a daily production capacity of 7127 MT of oxygen per day. Against this, the total production has been 100 per cent since past two days, as directed by the EG2, since supply to medical oxygen has gone up rapidly," the ministry added.On April 12, the medical oxygen consumption in the country was 3842 MTs, that is 54 per cent of the daily production capacity.The maximum consumption of medical oxygen is by Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, followed by Chhattisgarh, Punjab, Rajasthan, the ministry stated.With increasing cases, the medical oxygen consumption will need to keep pace with the requirements of the states. For this, the current oxygen stocks of the country, including the industrial oxygen stocks with the manufacturing plants, is more than 50,000 MTs, the ministry said.The EG2 has initiated several measures to ensure supply of medical oxygen to various affected states, it said. Some of the key measures include increasing oxygen production according to production capacity of each oxygen manufacturing plant which has resulted in 100 per cent production in the oxygen manufacturing units, ramping up availability of oxygen in the country, it said.The measures also include utilising surplus stocks available with steel plants and mapping requirements of top states with oxygen sources, including with sources across the state borders and those available at steel plants, for greater clarity and assurance for the states on the oxygen sourcing, the ministry said.Thus, Maharashtra has been able to utilise surplus medical oxygen on daily basis from steel plants like JSW in Dolvi (Maharashtra), SAIL in Bhilai (Chhattisgarh) and from JSW in Bellary (Karnataka). Similarly, Madhya Pradesh is able to supplement its oxygen supply from the Steel plant in Bhilai (Chhattisgarh), the ministry said.According to the ministry, the challenge at present is to move oxygen from states with less necessity to those with increased necessity. Mapping of surplus sources with states that have greater need for oxygen is being finalised in consultation with the manufacturers, states and other stakeholders, it said.This has been undertaken through coordinated planning between the Union and state governments to map their requirements up to April 30 with the available sources and stocks of oxygen in the country, the ministry said.A subgroup has been formed under the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways with Ministry of Railways and transport departments of states to facilitate the movement of tankers for Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). Moving of oxygen tankers by rail is also being actively worked out, it said.Some of the key decisions taken in the context of seamless movement of oxygen tankers include orders given by PESO (Petroleum and Safety Organisation) for conversion of argon and nitrogen tankers for use as oxygen tankers; thereby the fleet available for transportation of tankers has been enhanced, and free movement of oxygen tankers inter-state has been facilitated through MoRTH without registration in the other states, it said.Further, industrial cylinders have been permitted to be used for transporting medical oxygen after due purging and placing of orders for the purchase of another one lakh oxygen cylinders by the health ministry is also being undertaken, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-asks-states-to-make-rational-use-of-medical-oxygen-ensure-no-wastage-101618471915453.html
15-04-2021||India||Sharad Pawar discharged from hospital, days after gall bladder surgery||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was discharged from the Breach Candy Hospital in Mumbai on Thursday. On Monday, a laparoscopy surgery was conducted successfully on his gall bladder.Laparoscopy is a minimally invasive surgical procedure.Maharashtra minister and NCP leader Nawab Malik tweeted on Thursday to say that Pawar will be discharged later in the day and thanked people for "good wishes and support for Saheb".After the surgery, Pawar’s daughter and Baramati parliamentarian Supriya Sule posted a photo on her Facebook timeline, in which the NCP chief can be seen reading a newspaper while sitting on a chair. He was accompanied by wife Pratibha, Ajit Pawar and his wife Sunetra, Sule and her husband Sadanand.“Gudi Padwa, after a successful surgery of honourable Sharad Pawar. Baba is still at the hospital. Ajit Dada and Sunetra tai came to see him and we all could come together at the hospital. Cannot celebrate Gudi Padwa owing to the spread of Covid-19 but sharing moments with our family will give us strength to defeat the current circumstances. Celebrate Gudi Padwa but be careful. Be safe (sic),” stated her post.On March 30, the NCP president had undergone an emergency endoscopy for the removal of one of the gallstones that had slipped into his bile duct. This caused blockage to the flow leading to immense pain, mild jaundice and inflammation of pancreas (pancreatitis).Pawar's party shares power with the Shiv Sena and Congress in Maharashtra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sharad-pawar-discharged-from-hospital-days-after-gall-bladder-surgery-101618471723889.html
15-04-2021||India||2 charred to death in fire after collision of trucks outside Hyderabad||The driver of a container truck and its cleaner were charred to death in the fire caused when their vehicle rammed into another in Telangana’s Ranga Reddy district in the early hours of Thursday, the police said.The accident took place on the Outer Ring Road expressway near Himayatsagar village on the outskirts of Hyderabad at around 4.30 am. The deceased were identified as Surya Kumar (driver), resident of Uttar Pradesh and Mrutyunjaya (cleaner), resident of Thane, Maharashtra.“The exact age of the victims could not be ascertained immediately,” Rajendranagar inspector of police K Kanakaiah said.According to the inspector, the container truck belongs to one Rayi Uma Maheshwar, a shrimp exporter from Palakole, West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh.It was carrying a big consignment of shrimps to Mumbai.“As the truck was passing through the ORR at high speed, it rammed into another truck at Himayatsagar exit road. Due to the impact of the collision, the driver’s cabin of the container truck caught fire and soon it engulfed the entire truck,” Kanakaiah said.The driver and the cleaner were charred to death even before the police reached the spot with fire tenders, said the police officer.“While the truck, which was rammed into, suffered partial damage, the container truck loaded with shrimp products was burnt completely” the inspector said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-charred-to-death-in-fire-after-collision-of-trucks-outside-hyderabad-101618470178809.html
15-04-2021||India||Centre releases list of top 20 states with highest Covid-19 cases||The central government on Thursday ranked states/union territories in India on the basis of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases that have been reported. The list was released by the Union ministry of information and broadcasting via its #IndiaFightsCoronahandle on Twitter. It features Maharashtra, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, and several other prominent states and union territories in the top 20 states that have reported the highest number of confirmed coronavirus cases.Also Read: India's single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysAs per the central government, the 20 states and union territories with the highest number of Covid-19 cases, as of 8am on Thursday, are as follows:1 . Maharashtra2 . Kerala3 . Karnataka4 . Tamil Nadu5 . Andhra Pradesh6 . Delhi7 . Uttar Pradesh8 . West Bengal9 . Chhattisgarh10 . Rajasthan11 . Gujarat12 . Madhya Pradesh13 . Odisha14 . Telangana15 . Haryana16 . Bihar17 . Punjab18 . Assam19 . Jharkhand20 . Jammu and Kashmir#CoronaVirusUpdates:📍#COVID19 India Tracker(As on 15 April, 2021, 08:00 AM)➡️Confirmed cases: 1,40,74,564➡️Recovered: 1,24,29,564 (88.31%)👍 ➡️Active cases: 14,71,877 (10.46%)➡️Deaths: 1,73,123 (1.23%)#IndiaFightsCorona#Unite2FightCorona#StaySafe @MoHFW_INDIA pic.twitter.com/l7jXVuQSGEThe central government listed states/UTs in an order that ranks them as per the number of confirmed Covid-19 cases that have been reported. It was seen that there are eight states with more than five lakh confirmed Covid-19 cases. These, in descending order, are -- Maharashtra (35,78,160 cases), Kerala (11,89,175 cases), Karnataka (10,94,912 cases), Tamil Nadu (9,54,948 cases), Andhra Pradesh (9,37,049 cases), Delhi (7,67,438 cases), Uttar Pradesh (7,44,021 cases), and West Bengal (6,30,116 cases).Meanwhile, India reported over 2 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far since the pandemic broke out. With over 2,00,739 cases recorded in the last 24 hours, the health ministry data shows that India's single-day spike went from 1 lakh over to over 2 lakh in just 10 days. The record surge in cases in a little more than a week comes in the backdrop of the deadlier second wave of Covid-19 that the country is now struggling with.India's cumulative Covid-19 case tally has now crossed the 14 million mark. The death toll, too, rose to 173,123 with more than 1,000 new fatalities recorded for the second in a row. According to the central government, India's cumulative vaccine coverage has crossed 11.43 crores, with 11,43,18,455 vaccine doses administered nationwide till 8pm on Wednesday.Also Read: India’s vaccine status: Here's a break up of state-wise doses||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-releases-list-of-top-20-states-with-highest-covid-19-cases-101618456612876.html
15-04-2021||India||'People get old, they have to die': MP minister shocker on Covid-19 deaths||Madhya Pradesh minister Prem Singh Patel on Thursday delivered a shocker on deaths from coronavirus in the country and said that while nobody can stop the virus deaths from occurring, "people get old and have to die".The state minister was responding to a question on a surge in deaths caused by coronavirus disease. A video of his remark has been shared by news agency ANI."I agree that these deaths have occurred. No one can stop them (Covid-19 deaths). I am not the only one saying this. We have to cooperate (to fight the virus)," Patel said.Suggesting ways to fight the disease outbreak, Patel said that the issue has been discussed in the state assembly. People need to wear masks and maintain social distancing. "People should consult doctors. We have arranged for doctors as well," Patel told ANI.#WATCH: MP Minister Prem Singh Patel speaks on deaths due to #COVID19. He says, "Nobody can stop these deaths. Everyone is talking about cooperation for protection from Corona...You said that many people are dying every day. People get old and they have to die." (14.04.2021) pic.twitter.com/os3iILZGyM"You said that many people are dying every day. As far as deaths are concerned, with age people get old and they die," the minister said.Also read: India's single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysAccording to a Free Press Journal report, Patel was handed the charge to oversee corona-related arrangements in a district by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Tuesday.In a never-seen-before pandemic outbreak, India has been gripped by the second wave of coronavirus which experts term ‘worsening’ and ‘highly infectious’. India on Thursday broke all its previous single-day spike and recorded the highest-single day jump of 2,00,739 cases of the Covid-19, which took the country’s total infection tally past 14 million, according to the latest figures released by the Union ministry of health and family welfare.The latest wave that shows no sign of receding has begun to overwhelm hospitals and crematoriums as states have started running out of resources and space to cremate the people succumbing to the virus.A substantial rise in the fatality rate has led to a rush of bodies in crematoriums and burial grounds in states like Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh.In Bhopal, officials at the crematorium are struggling to dispose of bodies as these facilities have started facing several issues, including that of space crunch.The number of bodies being brought to the crematoriums or burial grounds has been witnessing a surge over the last few days, say the operators of these establishments."In the last four days, we have cremated 200 bodies, including those that needed to be disposed of as per Covid-19 protocols. Now, we have created a new such facility on two acres of land," said Mamtesh Sharma, secretary of the management committee of Bhadbhada Vishram Ghat, one of the biggest Hindu crematoriums in the state capital told PTI.Madhya Pradesh reported 51 deaths in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's data released on Thursday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/people-get-old-they-have-to-die-mp-minister-shocker-on-covid-19-deaths-101618466407042.html
15-04-2021||India||Migrants returning to Uttar Pradesh must follow these Covid-19 guidelines||As India is witnessing a massive surge of Covid-19 cases, many migrants, fearing a complete lockdown like last year, are returning to their home states. The Uttar Pradesh’s additional chief health secretary on Thursday issued directives for the migrant workers coming to the state, news agency ANI reported.According to the notice cited by the agency, workers will be screened by administration of respective districts where they are going and those showing Covid-19 symptoms, but are not infected, will have to quarantine at home for 14 days while the asymptomatic ones need to remain in home quarantine for seven days.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Here’s a look at the protocols that need be followed to prevent coronavirus from spreading*The state government has asked district administrators to prepare a list of all migrant workers which will have their addresses and mobile numbers. The district authorities have been asked to take the every worker's signature against the details.UP Addl Chief Secy (Health) issues directions on quarantine of migrant workers returning to the state. Wworkers to be screened by dist admn. Those showing symptoms, but are not infected, will be sent to 14-day home quarantine, 7-day home quarantine for the asymptomatic ones. pic.twitter.com/DQG9D94oAM*Those migrant workers coming from other states who cannot quarantine at home will be kept in institutional quarantine.*If there is no provision for quarantining in rural areas, primary school or other available school building will be used for the purpose.*People in quarantine must ensure that they remain indoors and must compulsorily wear a face mask to cover the nose and mouth, the government order said. They must wash their hands with soap and water at regular intervals.*Only one family member of the person in quarantine will be allowed to step out to buy things for the house, according to the government order.*Those above 60 years of age, those with heart problems, and pregnant women are advised to maintain distance from the person in quarantine.*If the family violates the rules, then the district administration will be informed by the neighbours or a monitoring committee, which will have residents of the village as members. However, if the family faces social stigma, they must also inform the monitoring committee for necessary action.Other state governments have also taken steps to assist migrant families who are fearing losing their livelihood due to the second wave of Covid-19. The Jharkhand government has set up a control room to cater to migrants’ requirements and according to officials, there has been a drastic increase in the number of phone calls received by them, ANI reported. "They are fear-stricken and not able to make decisions. Some migrants have reported they have returned. Most calls are being received from Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, and Delhi," head of control room, Shikha Pankaj told the agency.Soon after the Maharashtra government announced that Section 144 will be imposed in the state, several migrant workers were found to be heading home. "Now that curfew has been imposed, what would we do here? What would we eat? We are leaving the city because we do not want to go through the pain we endured during the lockdown," Shivam Pandey, who hails from Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi, told ANI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/migrants-returning-to-uttar-pradesh-must-follow-these-covid-19-guidelines-101618466989569.html
15-04-2021||India||Supreme Court orders CBI probe into 1994 espionage case against former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan||The Supreme Court on Thursday ordered an investigation by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in the 1994 espionage case against former Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientist Nambi Narayanan.Narayanan has welcomed the federal agency probe into the alleged police conspiracy to implicate him in the case. "I am happy. I sought a central agency probe that led to the conspiracy that delayed the country's cryogenic project" the former ISRO scientist said in Thiruvananthapuram.The Supreme Court was hearing Centre’s plea seeking consideration of the report filed by a high-level committee regarding the role of erring police officials in the 1994 espionage case relating to Nambi Narayanan, who had been acquitted and was eventually awarded ₹50 lakh compensation by the top court in in 2018.On April 5, the Centre moved the top court seeking urgent hearing and consideration of the panel's report terming it as a “national issue”.A bench headed by Justice A M Khanwilkar accepted the report by the committee it had appointed and asked the CBI to carry out further investigation in the case, which involves allegations of transfer of certain confidential documents on India's space programme to foreign countries by two scientists and four others, including two Maldivian women.The court had appointed the panel on September 14, 2018 and directed the Kerala government to cough up ₹50 lakh compensation for compelling former ISRO scientist Nambi Narayanan to undergo "immense humiliation".The committee was told to take appropriate steps against the culpable officials for causing "tremendous harassment" and "immeasurable anguish" to the scientist and had directed the Centre and state government to nominate one officer each in the panel, according to news agency PTI.The court had termed the police action against Nambi Narayanan a "psycho-pathological treatment" and said that his "liberty and dignity", basic to his human rights, were jeopardised as he was taken into custody and, eventually, was compelled to face "cynical abhorrence", according to the agency. The CBI, in its probe, had held that the then top police officials in Kerala were responsible for Narayanan's illegal arrest.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-orders-cbi-probe-into-1994-espionage-case-against-isro-scientist-nambi-narayanan-101618467694844.html
15-04-2021||India||Andamans Covid-19 tally climbs to 5,247; 38 fresh cases reported||Andaman and Nicobar Islands reported 38 new Covid-19 cases, pushing the coronavirus tally in the union territory to 5,247, an official said on Thursday.The Covid-19 death toll in the archipelago rose to 63 as one more person succumbed to the infection on Wednesday, the official said.All the new cases were detected in South Andaman district during contact tracing, he said.The union territory now has 106 active Covid-19 cases and all the patients are in South Andaman district. The other two districts North and Middle Andaman and Nicobar have no active Covid-19 cases, the official said.Twenty four more Covid-19 patients recovered from the disease on Wednesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 5,078, he said.The union territory administration has so far tested 3,43,431 samples for Covid-19 and the test positivity rate is 1.53 per cent.Information, Publicity and Tourism secretary of the union territory administration S K Singh said people not following the Covid-19 protocols is the major reason for the sudden surge in coronavirus cases in the archipelago.He said that there are no plans as of now to impose lockdown but Covid-19 protocols will be strictly enforced and action will be taken against violators.The secretary said more than 46,000 beneficiaries have been vaccinated in the union territory so far and test, track and treat is our focus. The administration is also observing strict Covid-19 protocols for tourists. The administration demands a negative RT-PCR test done 48 hours prior to arrival in Port Blair. Tourists are also required to produce the negative test report before entering ferries and prominent hotels in the UT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andamans-covid-19-tally-climbs-to-5-247-38-fresh-cases-reported-101618465920467.html
15-04-2021||India||Parliamentary panel’s Mumbai trip postponed amid rise in Covid cases||A six-day study trip of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Railways to Mumbai from April 24 has been postponed indefinitely due to rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Saroj Pandey, a member of the panel, has also tested positive for the disease, according to a Parliament official.Also Read | BMC allows two 5-star hotels to be used for admitting non-critical patientsChief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Tuesday announced strict restrictions in Maharashtra from Wednesday to check the surge in the Covid-19 cases. The state is the worst hit by the pandemic.Gatherings of over four people have been barred in the state until May 1, and no person will be allowed in a public place without a valid reason. Only shops with essentials will be allowed to remain open.Thackeray rolled out a one-time ₹5,476 crore financial package for over 70 million daily wage earners, construction workers, tribals, street vendors, families below the poverty line, widows, and senior citizens.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/parliamentary-panel-s-mumbai-trip-cancelled-amid-rise-in-covid-19-cases-101618466578280.html
15-04-2021||India||India’s vaccine status: Here's a break up of state-wise doses||India had administered over 114 million coronavirus vaccine doses across the country by Wednesday evening, the fourth day of the Tika Utsav. More than 3.1 million doses were administered till 8pm on the day, as per the Union health ministry data.Interacting with governors and lieutenant governors over the pandemic on Wednesday, PM Narendra Modi also assured of adequate availability of vaccines. Last week, several states had claimed vaccine shortage, alleging the Centre was biased against non-BJP ruled states. To be sure, individual centres may run out of stock on account of how the states manage their replenishment.Also Read | Fears of big Covid-19 surge in Kerala after assembly polls, CM faces heatAs per HT dashboard, a total of 127,673,790 doses of Covid-19 vaccine have been received by states and UTs by Wednesday morning. Of these, 113,900,814 doses have already been administered (this figure includes wastage of doses), while another 13,772,976 remain with states and UTs as on Wednesday morning, according to government data accessed by HT. Another 13,760,850 doses, meanwhile, are in the pipeline.Maharashtra, the worst-hit state,received 12,962,470 doses and it consumed 11,164,812 of those [including wastage], leaving it with 1,797,658 in stock.The national Capital of Delhi got 2,970,710 doses and used up 2,468,658 doses.Chhattisgarh, which has been reporting the second-highest active caseload in the country, got 4,916,550 vaccine doses and reported consumption of 4,718,591 doses.Uttar Pradesh received 11,796,780 doses, it consumed 10,261,718 of them, and has 2,211,000 in the pipeline.Karnataka was sent 7,057,900 doses, it used up 6,662,337, and there are another 1,577,560 doses in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-vaccine-status-making-doses-count-101618465799113.html
15-04-2021||India||'Shubho Nabo Barsho': PM Modi extends greetings on Bengali New Year||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday took to his official handle on Twitter to extend greetings on the Bengali New Year and wished his followers "Subho Nabo Barsho" (Happy New Year) on the occasion of Poyla Boishakh, the first day of the Bengali calendar. He also shared a set of two graphics -- in Bengali and in English -- as well as a campaign video of the BJP for the ongoing West Bengal assembly polls, saying, "A New Year and a resolve for new beginnings and progress for the great land of West Bengal!"A New Year and a resolve for new beginnings and progress for the great land of West Bengal! pic.twitter.com/JYpwx6SxAyThe day, also known as Pehala Baishakh or Poila Baishak, is celebrated either on 14th or 15th April (depending on the lunisolar Bengali calendar) every year with traditional processions in West Bengal Tripura, and Assam, as well as in Bangladesh by people of Bengali-origin heritage.Also Read: Shubho Nabo Barsho 2021: Date and history of Pohela Boishakh or Bengali New YearThe Bengali New Year's graphic, signed by the Prime Minister, reads, "The love of life and the fervour of celebration that one sees in the people of Bengal are truly heartening. My heartfelt wishes to Bengalis in India and across the world on Poyla Boishakh."Greetings on Poyla Boishakh. Shubho Nabo Barsho! pic.twitter.com/ctH3S5WcMbThe auspicious day is marked by various cultural and art performances. People visit their relatives and greet each other saying "Shubho Noboborsho" as a mark of respect for the shared Bengali heritage, both in India as well as in Bangladesh. To celebrate the new year, Bengalis clean their house and decorate their front door with alpana, which is a painting done with a mixture of rice and flour. A notable event in Bangladesh on this day is the 'Mangal Shobhajatra', organised by the students and teachers of the Faculty of Fine Arts of Dhaka University, which takes place at dawn. The festivity was declared as a cultural heritage of humanity by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) in 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shubho-nabo-barsho-pm-modi-extends-greetings-on-bengali-new-year-101618463692398.html
15-04-2021||India||Fears of big Covid-19 surge in Kerala after polls, central minister demands action against CM for flouting norms||The government in Kerala has taken strict measures to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the state. In capital Thiruvananthapuram, many areas have been declared containment zones.There are fears of big surge in the number of Covid-19 cases in the state after assembly elections where norms were flouted during campaigning. The positivity rate in the state has reached 13.45 per cent.The strict measures were put in place after chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan held a virtual review meeting on Thursday, a day after getting discharged from the hospital. Vijayan tested positive for Covid-19 on April 8 and was admitted to Government Medical College at Kozhikode.In a Facebook post after his discharge, Vijayan said the doctors and staff had provided the best possible care to him. Vijayan, the CPI(M) candidate from Dharmadam in Kannur, had travelled extensively throughout the state during the campaign for the April 6 assembly polls.Kerala health minister KK Shailaja denied reports that the chief minister flouted Covid-19 norms. The opposition has claimed that Vijayan developed Covid-19 symptoms two days before the assembly elections and suppressed the information."It is sad to whip up unnecessary controversies," said KK Shailaja. The minister also said it was not proper to blame assembly elections for the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.But the issue is far from over. Minister of state for external affairs and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader V Muraleedharan has sought action against Pinarayi Vijayan for flouting Covid-19 protocol."The blatant violation of #COVID19 protocols by @VijayanPinarayi & his daughter is a total disgrace. They let the entire state down and set a shameful example," Muraleedharan said on Twitter.The blatant violation of #COVID19 protocols by @VijayanPinarayi & his daughter is a total disgrace. They let the entire state down and set a shameful example. @narendramodi @AmitShah @JPNadda @surendranbjp @BJP4Keralam https://t.co/HDiS63m45sKerala logged 8,778 new Covid-19 cases and 22 related fatalities on Wednesday, taking the caseload to 11.89 lakh and the death toll to 4,836, according to state government bulletin. As many as 2,642 people were cured of the infection, taking the total number of recoveries to 11,25,775.Among the districts, Ernakulam reported the highest number of 1,226 cases, followed by Kozhikode with 1,098 and Malappuram with 888.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fears-of-big-covid-19-surge-in-kerala-after-assembly-polls-cm-faces-heat-101618463280451.html
15-04-2021||India||India's single-day Covid-19 spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 days||India reported over 2 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far since the pandemic broke out. The single-day spike of 2,00,739 cases comes a day after 1,84,372 Covid-19 cases were recorded on Wednesday in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data. The country had first clocked over 1 lakh Covid-19 cases in a single day on April 5, merely 10 days ago. The record surge in cases in a little more than a week comes in the backdrop of the deadlier second wave of Covid-19 that the country is now struggling with.Registering a steady increase for the 36th day in a row, the active cases have increased to 14,71,877 comprising 10.46 per cent of the total infections, while the national Covid-19 recovery rate has dropped to 88.31 per cent.India's cumulative Covid-19 case tally has now crossed the 14 million mark, with the Union health ministry dashboard showing 14,074,564 cases at 8am on Thursday. Casualties rose to 173,123 with more than 1,000 new fatalities recorded for the second in a row. When India first clocked over 1 lakh Covid-19 cases on April 5, the nationwide infection tally was at 12,589,067. This time, however, it took merely 10 days to breach its earlier single-day spike record.More than 114 million vaccine doses have been administered, according to latest data from India’s health ministry.After seeing new infections ebb at the beginning of this year, Covid-19 cases in India began spiking up in March. The latest wave that shows no sign of receding has begun to overwhelm hospitals and crematoriums, triggered a shortage of vaccines and forced many part of the country to impose lockdown-like restrictions this month to break the chain of viral transmission.The active caseload was at its lowest at 1,35,926 on February 12 and highest at 10,17,754 on September 18, 2020. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,24,29,564, while the case fatality rate has further dropped to 1.23 per cent, the data stated.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19.According to the ICMR, 26,20,03,415 samples have been tested up to April 14 with 13,84,549 samples being tested on Wednesday.Earlier this week, India fast-tracked approvals for Covid-19 vaccines already approved in some developed countries to have a wider pool of shots in a race to curb the outbreak. The move effectively opened the door to shots made by Pfizer Inc. and Moderna Inc., and came a day after the Narendra Modi-led government granted emergency use approval for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine - third shot that can be used in the nation’s inoculation program.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-single-day-spike-went-from-1-lakh-to-over-2-lakh-in-just-10-days-101618459463326.html
15-04-2021||India||India may begin Sputnik vaccine import by May; start production around July||Russian made Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Sputnik V, is likely to be imported to India by the next month, according to people aware of the matter. The local production, through various tie-ups, could start by the end of June or early July, according to Kirill Dmitriev, CEO, Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), Russia’s sovereign wealth fund that is marketing the vaccine globally. Dr Reddy’s Labs, that has the license to distribute the vaccine, on Tuesday received India’s drugs controller’s approval for import of the vaccine under restricted use in emergency situation, making it the third vaccine allowed for use in India against Covid-19. Also Read | Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal to hold Covid-19 review meet with L-G Anil BaijalApart from partnership with Dr Reddy’s Labs that is conducting Sputnik V clinical trials locally, and have the distribution rights for the Russian vaccine, RDIF has entered manufacturing partnership with five other local companies for production.The companies are: Stelis Biopharma, Gland Pharma, Hetero Biopharma, Panacea Biotec and Virchow Biotech.India will be producing at least 50 million doses of Sputnik V per month, over the next couple of months.“We are looking at producing 50 million doses or more a month of Sputnik V by this summer, or end of summer, in India. India has a significant production capacity; we have already announced tie-ups with five local companies for mass production of Sputnik V, and we intend to have several more tie-ups that will announce soon; likely in the next two weeks,” said Dmitriev.“The India trial of Sputnik V has shown a high level of immune response; also Sputnik has high-level of safety and efficacy profile in the real world, not only in Russia but also Argentina, Mexico and other countries where the vaccine is being used. Sputnik is one of the three vaccines with more than 90% efficacy,” he added. The vaccine’s efficacy is pegged at 91.6% based on the final assessment of clinical trials in Russia, where roughly 20,000 people were part of the phase 3 clinical trials. In India, the vaccine is being tested in 1,600 people in a phase 2/3 trial meant as a “bridging study” that all foreign-made pharmaceutical products need to undergo.He also said that the day approval was granted by the Indian government to Sputnik V (April 12) was significant as big space day for the Russians, for 16 years ago Russia’s Yuri Gagarin was the first cosmonaut to reach space.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-may-begin-sputnik-vaccine-import-by-may-start-production-around-july-101618461897427.html
15-04-2021||India||India has administered over 114 million Covid vaccine doses||India had administered over 114 million coronavirus vaccine doses across the country by Wednesday evening, with Maharashtra, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh giving over 10 million doses on the day.An alarming rise in cases -- many states registerd their highest single-day spike -- also saw the Centre announce scrapping of this year’s CBSE class 10 boards while it postponed those of class 12.In all, 114,318,455 vaccine doses have been given in the country till now. This includes 9,063,976 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,603,568 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 10,209,443 frontline workers have had their first dose while 5,061,571 have got their second dose too.Also Read | India records over 200,000 new Covid-19 cases, more than 1,000 deaths in 24 hoursIn the 45-59-year age group, 37,334,924 people have got their first dose and another 894,077 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 43,413,349 people have been administered their first dose while 2,737,547 have had their second dose as well.As many as 3,139,063 vaccine doses were given on Wednesday till 8pm, as per the provisional report, on the fourth day of the Tika Utsav. Of this, 2,719,964 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 419,099 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Notwithstanding the alarming surge in cases across the country, over a million people participated in the third shahi snan of Kumbh Mela in Haridwar while many senior politicians in neighbouring Uttar Pradesh tested positive for covid; the prominent ones being chief minister Yogi Adityanath and Samajwadi Party chief Akhilesh Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-114-million-covid-vaccine-doses-101618459856669.html
15-04-2021||India||India records over 2 lakh new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours, more than 1,000 deaths reported for second consecutive day||As India’s trajectory of the cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to witness an upward trend since the last month, the nation reported more than two lakh new cases of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry updated at 8am on Thursday. The toll from the disease remained above 1,000 for the second day in a row.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here With 200,739 fresh Covid-19 cases, the highest spike in a day, the total tally crossed the 14 million mark (14,074,564 to be exact), the ministry's update showed. The active cases too witnessed a massive jump of 106,173, taking the total caseload to 1471,877. As more grim figures are being reported each day, states have imposed restrictions on movement of people.“Ten States including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Delhi,Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthanhave shown a rise in the COVID daily new cases. 82.04% of the new cases are reported from these 10 states,” the health ministry said in a statment on Wednesday.While Delhi, Haryana, and Gujarat have imposed a night curfew, Maharashtra, which is contributing the maximum number of daily cases, is not only observing night curfew and weekend lockdown but Section 144, which prohibits the assembly of more than five people, has also been imposed across the state during the daytime.Against the backdrop of the Covid-19 surge, the government on Monday decided to cancel the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) examinations for class 10 and has postponed them for students of class 12. The announcement came after Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting with education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' and other top officials.As the second wave of Covid-19 intensifies, the government has urged citizens, who eligible to take the coronavirus vaccine, to get shot as soon as possible.PM Modi also held a meeting with governors of states to discuss the ways to intensify Covid-19 fight against the second wave of infections. He called for combined power of community groups, political parties and NGOs to collaborate seamlessly with the state governments towards micro-containment.“The Prime Minister emphasised the significance of increasing tracking, tracing and testing, and said that RT-PCR testing needs to be increased from 60% to 70%. He said that it is pertinent to ensure that more and more people get tested,” according to a government statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-records-over-2-lakh-new-covid-19-cases-in-24-hours-more-than-1-000-deaths-reported-for-second-consecutive-day-101618458877569.html
15-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Delhi in a Covid-19 spiral amid calls for tighter curbs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Delhi in a Covid-19 spiral as experts call for tighter curbsThe number of new Covid-19 infections in the Capital soared past previous records, with 17,282 cases recorded in the 24 hours till Wednesday and the test positivity rate – a crucial proxy for outbreak severity – was higher than it had been in the city’s last two waves, bringing yet more signs that the crisis has taken an unprecedented turn and may now require stringent curbs. Read moreIPL 2021 | SRH vs RCB: Royal Challengers defeat Sunrisers Hyderabad by 6 runsRoyal Challengers Bangalore beat Sunrisers Hyderabad by six runs in the match number 6 of the Indian Premier League on Wednesday in Chennai. Watch hereGovernment weighs stimulus as virus surgesThe government may announce a stimulus package to ensure that the resurgence of Covid-19 does not derail the economic recovery that was underway before a surge in cases prompted states to impose restrictions. Read moreUP panchayat polls begin today: All you need to know about first phase of votingElections for the 58,189 village panchayats in Uttar Pradesh have started with polling in the first phase today amid strict protocols to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read moreWhen Sharmila Tagore's father blamed her for Tiger Pataudi dropping a catch: 'You shouldn't have kept him up all night'Veteran actor Sharmila Tagore has spoken about how not just Anushka Sharma, but she, too, was blamed for her cricketer husband's bad performance on field. However, it wasn't angry fans who accused her of distracting Tiger, but her own father. Read moreHina Khan wears beautiful chanderi yellow suit to wish fans Ramadan MubarakHina Khan recently took to her Instagram to wish her followers Ramadan Mubarak. For her first Roza, the gorgeous actor donned a bright yellow suit and looked like a ray of sunshine. Read moreKey Team India questions IPL 2021 can answerVirat Kohli got off the mark in IPL 2021 in a rather awkward manner. Against Trent Boult’s length ball on the stumps, the RCB captain leaned to play on the on-side but got a leading edge as the ball raced to the straight boundary. No matter how they came, he would have taken those runs any day. The demand of the format is such. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-delhi-in-a-covid-19-spiral-amid-calls-for-tighter-curbs-101618454465362.html
15-04-2021||India||With over 58,000 new cases, Maharashtra Covid tally reaches 3,578,160||Maharashtra recorded 58,952 fresh Covid-19 infections and 278 deaths, pushing the tally to 3,578,160 and toll to 58,804, the ninth straight day of over 50,000 new cases, even as the state began its 15-day curfew from 8pm on Wednesday.India’s worst-hit state continues to reel under the unprecedented Covid-19 surge, with a total of 765,094 cases recorded in the past 14 days. The spike has led to a sharp rise in active cases at 612,070 — 17.10% of the total infections.With a rising number of active cases, occupancy of beds in hospitals and Covid-19 centres is also increasing rapidly, but the state government is more worried about the lack of oxygen.Responding to the request of the state government for providing oxygen from the neighbouring states, the Centre has allowed them to get it from places including Haldia and Durgapur in West Bengal, Bokaro (Jharkhand), Rourkela (Odisha), Bhilai in Chhattisgarh, Bellary in Karnataka, and Hyderabad in Telangana.Also Read | ‘India’s double mutant could be considered a variant of concern’The government has appointed a committee of three IAS officers for procuring oxygen, said a senior official. Maharashtra produces around 1,200 metric tonnes of oxygen daily and has started consuming the entire production for medical purposes, owing to the increased demand from hospitals.“We will prefer bringing oxygen by railways, but will choose to bring it by road in 30- tonne tankers each if there is no other option left. Since some locations are too far, we have planned for it. For instance, oxygen coming from eastern states will be supplied in districts such as Nagpur, Amravati, while that from southern states will be used in Kolhapur, Osmanabad, Beed, and Nanded etc. This will reduce the travel time,” said Sitaram Kunte, chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/with-over-58-000-new-cases-maharashtra-covid-tally-reaches-3578160-101618455716333.html
15-04-2021||India||Rajnath Singh to inaugurate 3-day IAF commanders’ conference today||Union defence minister Rajnath Singh will on Thursday inaugurate the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) commander’s conference at its headquarters (Vayu Bhawan) in Delhi. The conference, which will take place for three days, is aimed at addressing issues regarding IAF’s operational capabilities in the near future, according to a defence ministry statement.The conference will be attended by the air officers commanding-in-chief of all commands of IAF, all principal staff officers and all director generals posted at the air headquarters.During the course of these three days, several discussions will take place to address strategies and policies related to capabilities that would give the Air Force a significant edge over its adversaries, the defence ministry statement said, adding that talks will be held on multiple welfare and human resource measures to improve the administrative efficiency of the IAF.The conference will also see top commanders of the IAF conducting a comprehensive review of all the security challenges India is facing including the recent border standoff with China along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Eastern Ladakh, news agency PTI reported quoting officials on Monday.Also Read| Disengage from friction points, Army tells ChinaThe above mentioned officials stated that the conference will discuss the current situation in Eastern Ladakh, the site of the Sino-India border standoff apart from the IAF’s capabilities to deal with any situation along the LAC.India and China have been engaged in a border standoff for more than 11 months. Armies of both the countries are currently negotiating the withdrawal of troops from friction points at the disputed border.The eleventh round of talks were held on April 10 on the Indian side of the Chushul-Moldo meeting point and lasted for 13 hours. After the meeting got over, army spokesperson Colonel Aman Anand told Hindustan Times on April 11 that Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army saw a detailed exchange of views for the resolution of the remaining issues related to the disengagement along the LAC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajnath-singh-to-inaugurate-3-day-iaf-commanders-conference-today-101618455555589.html
15-04-2021||India||CBSE decision on board exams: What states are doing||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Wednesday announced its decision to cancel class 10 exams and deferring class 12 board examination. The decision was taken at a high-level meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi where Union education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal and other officials were present.The step was taken in view of a steep nationwide surge in Covid-19 cases. These exams were originally scheduled to be held in May and June.PM Modi said that the well-being of students was the top priority for the government.But before the CBSE order, many state governments had taken similar decisions. While Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra have postponed their state board exams, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh said they are monitoring the Covid-19 situation.Karnataka said it will conduct the exams as scheduled. Meghalaya too said it is ready to hold the state board exams for class 12 but will take a decision on class 10 exams after a review of the Covid-19 situation is completed.In Maharashtra, the state worst hit by the coronavirus disease pandemic, the state government on Monday announced the postponement of state board exams for classes 10 and 12, which were scheduled to be held later this month. State school education minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Wednesday that they will study and discuss the CBSE's move of cancelling its class 10 exam before taking any such decision.In Madhya Pradesh, the exams are likely to be conducted from the first week of June and the board will soon issue a new amended schedule, according to a spokesperson.Chhattisgarh government had earlier put off class 10 exams which were scheduled to begin on April 15.Tamil Nadu too had cancelled class 10 exams in February.The Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE), the other prominent national board besides the CBSE, said it will soon decide on conducting class 10 and 12 board exams."We are reviewing the situation and will soon take a decision in this regard," CICSE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon told news agency PT on Wednesday.This is the first time that the CBSE has completely cancelled the board exams and it will affect over 21 lakh students across the country.Last year, the board exams were partly cancelled because of the Covid-19 pandemic. Students were evaluated based on internal assessment.India is seeing a resurgence of Covid-19 positive cases in 16 states. The total number of active cases in India has increased to 13,65,704. Schools have been closed again in 11 states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbse-decision-on-board-exams-what-states-are-doing-101618453933381.html
15-04-2021||India||2nd ISJK operative arrested in Jammu within 10 days||Jammu and Kashmir Police have arrested an alleged operative of the Islamic State of Jammu and Kashmir (ISJK) from the outskirts of Jammu city late on Wednesday night. Aqib Bashir Parrey alias Assadullah, a resident of the Unisoo area of Handwara in Kashmir, is the second ISJK terrorist to have been arrested in the past few days. A senior police officer claimed that with his arrest, a major plan of the terror outfit in Jammu has been foiled. The arrests come ahead of the annual Amarnath Yatra, scheduled from June 28.“He was working as an ISJK operative in Kashmir on the direction of his ISJK commanders,” said the officer, who didn’t wish to be named. ISJK is inspired by the international terrorist organisation, the Islamic State, and is linked to Pakistan, as per the National Investigation Agency (NIA).Earlier on April 4, Jammu Police along with the Special Operation Group (SOG) arrested one ISJK terrorist with one pistol, eight rounds and cash worth ₹1,13,000.“On the basis of specific inputs, Special Operation Group (SOG) Jammu laid a Naka at Jhajjar Kotli area of Jammu on Jammu-Srinagar national highway and during the checking of vehicles at around 1900 hours (7pm) on Wednesday, one person tried to flee from the spot. He was chased upon and apprehended, from whom, huge cash, one pistol and eight rounds were recovered concealed in a bag he was carrying,” an official statement said.“During the enquiry, the accused has been identified as Malik Umaid alias Abdullah, son of Abdul Rashid Malik of Yaripora in Kulgam, who had received a delivery of weapon and cash to further carry out terror strikes in Jammu and Kashmir. In this regard, a case FIR No 53/2021 u/s 13,17,20 & 23 ULA(P) Act had been registered in Police Station Jhajjar Kotli and investigation was taken up, the police said then. EOM....||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2nd-isjk-operative-arrested-in-jammu-within-10-days-101618454156106.html
15-04-2021||India||UP panchayat polls begin today: All you need to know about first phase of voting||Elections for the 58,189 village panchayats in Uttar Pradesh have started with polling in the first phase today amid strict protocols to check the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The second, third and fourth phase will witness polling on April 19, April 26 and April 29 respectively. Counting of votes will be done on May 2.These panchayat elections are crucial ahead of the assembly polls in Uttar Pradesh next year.Here is all you need to know about the first phase of voting in the UP panchayat elections:1. Polling for the first phase will take place across 18 districts including Ayodhya, Agra, Kanpur, Ghaziabad, Gorakhpur, Jaunpur and Jhansi. Voters will exercise their franchise by the means of paper ballot. The timings of polling are from 7am to 6pm.2. More than 333,000 candidates are in the fray this time in over 221,000 seats for the posts of zila panchayat (district council) members, kshetra (block) panchayat members, village panchayat heads and wards.3. A total of 11,442 candidates from 779 wards are in the fray for the post of zila panchayat members. For kshetra panchayat, 81,747 candidates are contesting in 19,313 wards. There are 114,142 candidates for 14,789 posts of the gram panchayat and 126,613 candidates for 186,583 seats for the gram panchayat wards.4. At the time of casting votes, all voters will be required to wear face masks, sanitise their hands and ensure social distancing at all times, as per the Covid-19 guidelines issued by the state election commission (SEC) in late March. Polling booths will be sanitised and voters and polling staff will be thermally screened.5. The commission also said that not more than five people will be permitted to accompany a candidate during door-to-door campaigning.6. Additional election commissioner Ved Prakash Verma had earlier stated that all Covid-related protcols will be adhered to during the time of counting on May 2 and PPE kits will also be provided as per requirement.7. The top contenders in this year’s panchayat polls are the Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), the Samajwadi Party and the Bahujan Samajwadi Party (BSP). Three other parties - the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Asaduddin Owaisi’s All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) and Bhim Army chief Chandra Shekhar Aazad’s Azad Samaj Party - are making a debut in this year’s panchayat polls. The AIMIM has joined hands with the Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uppanchayat-polls-begin-today-all-you-need-to-know-about-first-phase-of-voting-101618453103143.html
15-04-2021||India||No in-flight meals in journeys less than 2 hours from today: All you need to know||The passengers taking flights which have a duration of less than two hours won't be getting any meal onboard from Thursday, as a government order comes into effect. The directive was issued by the ministry of civil aviation (MoCA) on Monday.The meals, however, will be made available in flights flying for more than two hours as long as the airlines use disposable cutlery and serve only pre-packed food, the ministry clarified.As domestic flights resumed on May 25 last year after the nationwide lockdown, the MoCA had allowed the airlines to serve in-flight meals under certain conditions. The ministry said it decided to review the on-board meal services in domestic flights due to the "the increasing threat of Covid-19 and its variants," news agency PTI reported. All three coronavirus variants of the UK, South Africa and Brazil demonstrated increased transmissibility, as reported by the World Health Organization, the ministry added.Here’s everything you need to know about the new rules:*To curb the spread of Covid-19, no meals will be served aboard domestic flights with a flight duration lesser than two hours.*In case of a flight with duration of more than two hours, tray set-up, plates and cutlery will be completely disposable with no re-use, or cleaned and disinfected rotables will be used.*Used disposable trays crockeries/cutleries shall not be re-used. Used rotables shall be thoroughly cleaned and disinfected before re-use.*In all classes, tea, coffee,alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverage services will be in disposable cans containers, bottles, or glasses. There will be no pouring service and beverages will be served in single-use disposable units.*All used disposable and reusable meal trays, plates, cutleries, beverages bottles, cans and glasses will be disposed of in the trash bags and carts by the crew, at the end of the meal service. The crew shall wear a fresh set of gloves for every meal beverage service.*The passengers would be informed of the practices for strict compliance before the start of catering services by way of passenger announcements.*The servicing of in-flight meals will be staggered among the adjacent seats as far as possible.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-in-flight-meals-in-journeys-less-than-2-hours-from-today-all-you-need-to-know-101618451908252.html
15-04-2021||NA||Covid-19 LIVE updates: Jharkhand logs 3,480 new cases, tally goes past 150,000||India's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) breached the 200,000-mark on Thursday with 200,739 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, the highest single day spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year. More than 1,000 deaths were reported for a second consecutive day, according to the data from the Union health ministry's dashboard. The country's caseload has now climbed to 14,074,564 including 1,471,877 active cases, 12,429,564 discharges and 173,123 deaths, the data showed.Uttar Pradesh and Delhi on Wednesday reported the highest number of Covid disease cases since the beginning of the pandemic last year.Uttar Pradesh saw 20,510 new cases which pushed the overall tally to 744,021. The active caseload of UP breached the 100,000-mark with 111,835 cases. The state government on Thursday extended night curfew timings from 8pm to 7am in Noida, Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur.Delhi recorded 17,282 new cases in the last 24 hours, taking the caseload to 767,438. Amid the sharp spike in the Capital's Covid-19 tally, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced a weekend curfew will be imposed in Delhi. Those employed in essential services will be issued passes, all gyms, malls and auditoriums will be closed, Kejriwal said while addressing an emergency press briefing. Dining is restaurants is not allowed and only home delivery of food will be available, the chief minister added.As infections and deaths have been spiking across states and Union Territories (UTs) under the second wave of the coronavirus disease, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday held a meeting with the governors and lieutenant governors (L-Gs) of all states and UTs where he suggested that governors "can actively engage to ensure that social institutions collaborate seamlessly with the state governments towards micro containment," according to a statement.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 3,480 new Covid-19 cases, 28 deathsJharkhand reports 3,480 new COVID19 cases and 28 deaths; case tally at 1,51,272, death toll at 1,320 pic.twitter.com/BIqaF8Ua2EWith 3,480 new Covid-19 cases and 28 deaths, Jharkhand's cases tally reached 151,272 and the death toll climbed to 1,320, reports ANI.Pune reports 9,956 new Covid-19 cases, 114 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Pune district reports 9,956 new cases, 8,175 recoveries, and 114 deaths in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 98,859Total cases: 6,85,970Total recoveries: 5,76,177Death toll: 11,103 pic.twitter.com/oP1v6pjUOPPune's Covid-19 tally and death toll reached 685,970 and 11,103 respectively, after the district reported 9,956 new cases and 114 deaths in last 24 hours, reports ANI.Over 2.6 million Covid-19 vaccine doses administered on Thursday, cumulative coverage over 117 million doses#IndiaFightsCoronaMore than 26.02 lakh #COVID19 #vaccine doses given till 8 pm push Cumulative #Vaccine Coverage to more than 11.70 Cr doses.#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe Details: https://t.co/bWKZfRlsUC pic.twitter.com/iOQK3dqVw3Under the Covid-19 vaccination drive more than 2.6 million doses of the vaccine have been administered on Thursday, the government said.'Only 200 people allowed in religious and social gatherings': Uttarakhand chief secretaryMovement of people restricted during night curfew from 10:30 pm to 5 am. Persons over 65 years of age and pregnant women and children below 10 years of age are advised not to leave the house: Om Prakash, Uttarakhand Chief SecretaryUttarakhand chief secretary Om Prakash said that only 200 people would be allowed in religious and social gatherings in the state while public transport, gyms would operate at 50 per cent capacity, reports ANI.Haryana reports 5,858 new Covid-19 cases, 18 deaths in last 24 hoursHaryana reports 5,858 new #COVID19 positive cases, 2,743 recoveries & 18 deaths in the last 24 hours. The total number of cases stands at 3,35,800 pic.twitter.com/ervEanskvtHaryana reported 5,858 new Covid-19 cases and 18 deaths in last 24 hours as the state's tally reached 335,800 and death toll reached 3,334, reports ANI.Maharashtra reports 61,695 new Covid-19 cases, 349 deathsWith 61,695 new Covid-19 cases and 349 deaths, Maharashtra's cases tally reached 3,639,855 and the death toll reached 59,153.Mumbai reported 8,209 new cases as the cases tally reached 553,404 and 50 new fatalities pushed the city's death toll to 12,197.West Bengal reports 6,769 new Covid-19 cases, 22 deaths in last 24 hoursWest Bengal reports 6,769 fresh #COVID19 cases, 2,387 recoveries and 22 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 6,36,885Active cases: 36,981Death toll: 10,480Total recoveries: 5,89,424 pic.twitter.com/M9CJefMNyRWest Bengal reported 6,769 new Covid-19 cases and 22 deaths in last 24 hours taking the state's tally to 636,885 and death toll to 10,480, reports ANI.Delhi reports 16,699 new Covid-19 cases, 112 deaths; active caseload moves close to 55,000-markDelhi reports 16,699 new #COVID19 cases, 112 deaths and 13,014 recoveries in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 54,309Total cases: 7,84,137Total recoveries: 7,18,176Death toll: 11,652 pic.twitter.com/8vcX4IUndqDelhi reported 16,699 new Covid-19 cases and 112 fatalities in last 24 hours, taking the city's tally to 784,137 and death toll to 11,652, reports ANI.Covid-19: 11-day lockdown to be imposed in Bijapur from April 16, essential services to be exemptedChhattisgarh | Due to upsurge in #COVID19 cases, an 11-day lockdown will be imposed in Bijapur district from April 16 to 26. Essential services exempted, their operations to be unrestricted: Collector Bijapur Ritesh AgarwalBijapur district collector said that a 11-day lockdown would be imposed in the district between April 16 and 26 due to rising Covid-19 cases. He also said that essential services would be exempted, reports ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 7,987 new Covid-19 cases, 29 deaths; tally goes past 960,000Tamil Nadu reports 7,987 new #COVID19 cases, 4,176 recoveries and 29 deaths. Total cases: 9,62,935Total recoveries: 8,91,839Active cases: 58,097Deaths: 12,999 pic.twitter.com/P6bpeOB4e2Tamil Nadu reported 7,987 new Covid-19 cases and 29 deaths, taking the state's tally to 962,935 and death toll to 12,999, reports ANI.Govt postpones NEET PG 2021 exams as Covid-19 cases surge, new dates to be decided laterIn light of the surge in #COVID19 cases,GoI has decided to postpone #NEETPG2021 exam which was earlier scheduled to be held on Apr 18Next date to be decided later Decision has been taken keeping wellbeing of our young medical students in mind.@PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA #NEETPGUnion health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan announced that the NEET PG 2021 exams have been postponed by the government due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. He also said that the next dates would be decided later.Nagpur reports 5,813 new Covid-19 cases, 74 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: 5,813 new #COVID19 cases, 74 deaths and 4,634 recoveries reported in Nagpur in the last 24 hours  Total cases: 2,99,849Total recoveries: 2,32,705Active cases: 61,110Death toll: 6034With 5,813 new Covid-19 cases and 74 deaths in last 24 hours, Nagpur's cases tally reached 299,849 and death toll climbed to 6,034, reports ANI.Karnataka reports another record single-day spike in Covid-19 infections with 14,738 casesKarnataka reports 14,738 new COVID19 positive cases, 3,591 discharges and 66 deaths.Total positive cases: 11,09,650Total discharges: 9,99,958Death toll: 13,112Active cases: 96,561 pic.twitter.com/5eYtM4C2zrWith 14,738 new Covid-19 infections, Karnataka reported its highest single-day spike. Cases tally reached 1,109,650 and death toll climbed to 13,112 with 66 new deaths, reports ANI.Andhra Pradesh reports 5,086 new Covid-19 cases, 14 deaths in last 24 hoursAndhra Pradesh reports 5,086 new #COVID19 cases, 1,745 recoveries and 14 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 9,42,135Death toll: 7,353Total recoveries: 9,03,072Active cases: 31,710 pic.twitter.com/hE0uaF34RlWith 5,086 new Covid-19 cases and 14 fatalities, Andhra Pradesh's cases tally reached 942,135 and death toll climbed to 7,353, reports ANI.Goa reports 757 new Covid-19 cases, tally moves close to 65,000-markCOVID19 | Goa reports 757 new COVID19 cases and 5 deaths today; case tally at 64,572 pic.twitter.com/uVF6AKsnRuWith 757 new Covid-19 cases and five deaths, cases tally in Goa reached 64,572, according to a bulletin from the state government.Uttar Pradesh reports yet another record single-day spike, logs 22,439 new Covid-19 casesUP reports 114 coronavirus deaths and 22,439 fresh cases, highest single-day spikes: OfficialsUttar Pradesh reported 22,439 new Covid-19 cases, its highest single-day spike and 114 fatalities, reports PTI.Kerala health minister denies allegations of Covid-19 protocol violation on CM VijayanDon't know on what basis did he make such allegations. Kerala CM hasn't violated any #COVID19 protocols. His daughter tested positive on Apr 6 on voting day, CM cast his vote prior to it. How could have anyone known that he'd test positive on Apr 8?: Kerala Health Min KK Shailaja pic.twitter.com/m8fpyX6ZyiKerala health minister KK Shailaja has denied allegations of Covid-19 protocol violations on chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, earlier made by BJP' V Muraleedharan, reports ANI.Delhi HC allows 50 people to offer Namaz at first floor of Nizamuddin Markaz, says other religious places also openDelhi high court allowed 50 people to offer namaz five times a day at the first floor of the Markaz building. It also pointed out that other religious places are open and this should not be closed.Kerala minister VS Sunil Kumar tests Covid-19 positive for second time in 7 monthsKerala Agriculture Minister V S Sunil Kumar says he has tested positive for COVID-19 for second time in seven monthsKerala agriculture minister VS Sunil Kumar has tested positive for Covid-19 for the second time in seven months, reports PTI.Odisha government suspends class 10, 12 board exams; all class 9, 11 students to be promotedCM Naveen Patnaik orders suspension of all 10th & 12th board exams in the state in view of COVID situation. All students of Class 9 & 11 in academic year 2020-21 will be prompted to the 10th and 12th standards respectively. They do not have to take any tests for this: Odisha CMOOdisha government has suspended the board exams for class 10 and 12 due to rising Covid-19 infections. Also, class 9 and 11 students to be promoted without any tests, reports ANI.Uddhav Thackeray write to PM Modi suggesting Covid-19 measures to undertakeMaharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray writes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi suggesting various measures to be undertaken in view of the #COVID19 pandemic. pic.twitter.com/maXtfDdlR6Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray write to prime minister Narendra Modi suggesting various Covid-19 related measures to be undertaken, reports ANI.Gujarat government postpones Class 10, 12 board exams, new dates to be announced after May 15In the wake of #COVID19 pandemic, Gujarat Govt decides to postpone Class 10 & 12 board examinations, scheduled to be held between May 10 to 25 & mass promotion for students of std 1 to 9 & 11. New dates to be announced after reviewing coronavirus situation on May 15: Gujarat CMOGujarat government postpones Class 10 and 12 board exams due to increasing Covid-19 cases and the new dates would be released after a review on May 15, reports ANI.Night curfew timings extended from 8pm to 7am in Noida, Lucknow, Varanasi and 5 UP districts as Covid cases soarThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday extended night curfew timings from 8pm to 7am in Noida, Lucknow, Varanasi, Prayagraj, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Kanpur Nagar and Gorakhpur.The extension comes in the backdrop of Uttar Pradesh adding 20,510 new Covid disease cases- the highest single day spike since beginning of pandemic last year.Madhya Pradesh to rush Remdesivir to many districts by airAs the cases and deaths of the coronavirus deaths are spiking in Madhya Pradesh, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led state government will quickly supply Remdesivir injections from Indore to various other districts, an official told news agency PTI. Two hundred boxes containing 9,264 injections arrived at the Indore airport of which 42 boxes will go to Bhopal, 39 to Jabalpur, 19 to Gwalior and 18 to Rewa, the official added.Theft of Covaxin doses from Rajasthan hospital serious situation: BJP's Satish PooniaRajasthan Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Dr Satish Poonia on Thursday sharpened his attack on the Congress-led state government over the theft of Covaxin doses from the cold storage of a hospital in the capital city Jaipur on Tuesday. Read moreCurfew passes to be issued for those in essential services: Delhi CM KejriwalKejriwal said that those employed in essential services will be issued passes during the weekend curfew.No shortage of beds in Delhi hospitals, says CM KejriwalDuring the emergency press briefing, CM Kejriwal also said there is no shortage of beds in all hospitals of the national capital adding more than 5,000 beds are available.As Covid cases spike, Kejriwal govt announces weekend curfew in DelhiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Thursday that a weekend curfew will be imposed in the national capital amid a spike in Covid disease cases. Addressing an emergency presser over the overall Covid situation, Kejriwal said all gyms, malls and auditoriums will be closed. Cinemas are allowed to function at 30 per cent capacity.The CM also added that dining is restaurants is not allowed and only home delivery of food will be available.Cancelling Tokyo Olympics due to Covid remains a possibility: Japanese politicianSecretary-General of Japanese Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga's first cabinet Toshihiro Nikai said on Thursday the cancellation of Tokyo Olympics due to the Covid-19 pandemic remains a possibility and it must be cancelled 'without hesitation' if the overall situation is severe, reports AFP.Thailand records highest ever-single day spike of 1,543 new Covid-19 casesThailand on Thursday registered the highest single-day spike of 1,543 new Covid-19 cases since the beginning of the pandemic last year, taking the caseload to 37,453. The country is currently witnessing a third wave of the disease. However, no fresh deaths were reported on Thursday and the death toll stands at 97.Telangana's Covid caseload nearing 340,000; 3,307 new cases addedTelangana reported 3307 new #COVID19 cases, 897 recoveries and 8 deaths on 14th April. Total cases 3,38,045Total recoveries 3,08,396Death toll 1788Active cases 27,861 pic.twitter.com/y4R5IlEnYDTelangana added 3,307 new Covid-19 disease cases, eight more deaths and 897 discharges, taking the caseload to 338,045, according to the state health department's bulletin. The active cases have climbed to 27,861 while nearly 309,000 people have recovered till now.India's single-day spike went from 1 lakh to over 2 lakh in just 10 daysIndia reported over 2 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases on Thursday, the highest single-day spike so far since the pandemic broke out. The single-day spike of 2,00,739 cases comes a day after 1,84,372 Covid-19 cases were recorded on Wednesday in the last 24 hours, according to Union health ministry data. Read moreMaharashtra's Thane logs 5,566 new Covid-19 cases, 33 more deathsThane recorded 5,566 new Covid-19 disease cases, taking the district's caseload to 395,690, an official told news agency PTI on Thursday. 33 more succumbed to the disease and the death toll has climbed to 6,794, the official said adding the mortality rate is at 1.71 per cent.India's daily Covid cases breach 200,000-mark; 1,038 more deaths recordedIndia's daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) breached the 200,000-mark on Thursday with 200,739 new cases reported in the last 24 hours, the highest single day spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year. More than 1,000 deaths were reported for a second consecutive day, according to the data from the Union health ministry's dashboard294 active Covid cases, 15 deaths reported in prisons across MaharashtraPrisons across the state of Maharashtra have reported 284 active cases of the Covid-19 disease till now of which 198 are inmates and remaining 86 are members of jail staff, according to news agency ANI. Seven inmates and eight jail staff have succumbed to the infection till now and 1,326 inmates and 3,112 jail staff have been administered vaccine doses. 29,426 fresh Covid-19 cases push Germany's caseload to over 3.07 millionGermany's tally of the coronavirus disease cases climbed to 3,073,442 on Thursday after 29,426 fresh cases were reported, according to data shared by the Robert Koch Institute (RKI) for infectious diseases. Nearly 300 people succumbed to the disease on Thursday taking the death toll to 79,381, the data showed. European Union to get 50 million doses of Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine earlier than expectedThe European Union (EU) said on Wednesday it is expected 50 million doses of the Pfizer Covid-19 vaccine earlier than expected. The doses were initially expected to arrive in the later part of this year. Brazil registers 73,513 new Covid-19 cases, 3,459 more deathsBrazil continued to register more than 3,000 deaths due to the coronavirus disease with 3,459 deaths added on Wednesday, according to data released by the country's health ministry. 73,513 fresh cases pushed the tally to 13,673,507, the data showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-15-2021-101618446839322.html
15-04-2021||India||Number Theory: Are more people dying in India’s second wave?||The most important target in dealing with any pandemic is to keep the number of people dying from the disease as low as possible. This has been repeatedly stressed by the government as the primary target of India’s handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.As the country’s second Covid-19 wave continues to push daily case numbers up to record levels, daily deaths have also started increasing, though currently they remain below peak levels seen in the first wave.What does this mean? Some say it shows that the second wave is not as dangerous as the first. But a deeper look at some crucial indicators for Covid-19 fatalities shows that India may be on the cusp of an alarming trend of deaths.First, a ‘base’ CFR that can serve as a comparison pointOverall, of the 13,686,024 people infected across the country till Monday night, 171,108 people lost their lives to Covid-19. This places the country’s overall case fatality rate (CFR) at just a shade under 1.3%. However, in the initial months of the outbreak, a larger proportion of people were dying as doctors across the world took time to narrow down on effective treatments, and the health infrastructure was in the process of being strengthened. As a result, India’s CFR has steadily been improving – it was 3% till the end of June; it improved to 1.6% by the end of September. In the six months before the start of the second wave (from September 2020 to January 2021), only around 1.1% of cases resulted in deaths (there were 70.8 million cases and nearly 76,000 deaths). This 1.1% is a good comparison point. It is recent, and it is from a time when cases were declining.So, are more people dying in the 2nd wave?The 1.1% base CFR can be used as a yardstick to compare the death rate during India’s second wave.In order to see if the second wave has had a lower death rate, HT plotted the seven-day average of deaths (with a 14-day lag) against the seven-day average of cases since October 1, 2020, at a ratio of 0.011:1 (as the CFR since October is 1.1%). Any deviation from the 1.1% CFR would be visible in such a chart – the target would be to keep the line representing daily deaths below the line for daily cases.To be sure, all death calculations and CFRs used in this analysis have assumed a 14-day lag between cases being reported and deaths occurring. This is because a February 2020 study showed that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid and their death is around 13.8 days.We see that the death trajectory is nearly identical to the case trajectory in the second wave for new cases occurring till the first week of March. But from there on, things take a turn for the worse: deaths are rising faster than cases. This gap, if anything, appears to be getting worse by the day.After a long gap, the CFR has again started risingFor a period that lasted over four months – from the start of December till the end of March – the CFR for any week remained at 1% or below. The 1%-mark, incidentally, is significant because officials from the Union government have repeatedly stressed that their eventual goal is to bring the country’s CFR for Covid-19 to 1% or below, a number that is impressive for a country this size.However, this trend did not last long. With the start of the second wave, CFR started to climb again. Accounting for the two-week lag in deaths, 1.1% of the people who got infected in the week ending March 8 ended up dying. In the two weeks that followed, the CFR was 1.2%. Then, 1.3% of the people who were infected in the week ending March 29 ended up dying.If this trend of a CFR of 1.3% continues , it would mean that India is set to touch a record number of daily deaths. In the two corresponding weeks, there have been 548,698 (for week ending April 5) and 937,428 (for week ending April 12) cases. This would mean that 1,019 people may die every day across India in the coming week, and 1,741, in the week after. India’s death toll has never been this high – at the peak of the first wave, the seven-day average of daily deaths touched 1,169 for the week ending September 16.Can any factor cause deaths to soar even further?Simply put, yes. The number of active cases – those Covid-19 patients who have tested positive and are under treatment at a given point of time – in a region is crucial in determining the load that a health care system is bearing. The higher this number, the more hospitals and doctors get burdened and the more resources such as ventilators and hospital beds get stretched.As of April 12, there are 1,264,430 active cases of Covid-19 in the country – the highest this number has ever been. This means that currently the health care system in the country is bearing a load of cases that it has never witnessed. An even more worrying trend is that this number is rising at the fastest rate ever recorded. On average, 67,951 active cases have been added to the national tally every day in the past week – the highest ever. This number has nearly doubled in a week (it was 35,214 a week ago).This means that the health care system in the country is stretched the most since the start of the outbreak, and conditions are getting worse by the day. If this trend continues, it may result in an increase to the already rising CFR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/are-more-people-dying-in-india-s-second-wave-101618432869598.html
15-04-2021||India||Telangana, Andhra log steep rise in Covid-19 cases in 2 weeks||Health department officials of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh have sounded a high alert with the rapid increase in the number of positive cases for Covid-19 in the last few days. According to an official bulletin from the Telangana state medical and health department on Wednesday, as many as 2,157 new positive cases and eight deaths were recorded by Tuesday night. The total number of active cases in the state, which was just 6,159 on April 1, went up to 25,459 by Tuesday night – a steep rise by 19,300 cases in less than two weeks. “The infection is spreading at an alarming rate and if this trend continues, Telangana may have to face a Maharashtra-like situation in a few weeks. At present, we are managing to accommodate the patients in both government and private hospitals but if we don’t take precautions, we may not be able to provide bed facilities in the coming days,” director of medical and health department G Srinivasa Rao said. He said the only way to prevent this spread of the disease is to strictly follow Covid-19 guidelines and avoid moving in public places. He suggested that people should wear face masks even when they were at home. State minister for health Eatala Rajender, who held a teleconference with the department officials and doctors, said there was no dearth of beds in the government hospitals and in private hospitals, there were nearly 14,000 beds available. He appealed to the private hospitals not to reject patients who were in need of beds. The highest number of 361 cases was reported in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, while 241 positive cases were reported from the neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri district and 206 positive cases from Rangareddy. In Andhra Pradesh, the situation is more alarming. For the last two days, the number of positive cases for Covid-19 has crossed the 4,000-mark. On Wednesday morning, as many as 4,157 people tested positive for the virus and 18 deaths were reported from different parts of the state. The total number of active cases in the state was 28,383 as on Wednesday, as against 8,142 on April 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-andhra-log-steep-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-2-weeks-101618431833852.html
15-04-2021||India||‘India’s double mutant could be considered a variant of concern’||The so-called “double mutation” coronavirus found in India can be considered a variant of concern (VOC) because of its significant spread and how some of the mutations are known to behave, India’s principal scientific adviser K VijayRaghavan said in an interview on Wednesday.VijayRaghavan’s remarks represent the first time a top government official has said that the variant, since designated the code B.1.617, is a cause for concern after government officials said last month that it was too early to believe the mutation was driving the surge or causing repeat infections.“It’s reasonable to say that the variant (the “double mutation” variant) is of concern because it has been found in a significant number of people. And it’s not just because it’s been found in a certain number of people but we know that these particular mutations have (also) got physiological effects on our context,” he said, while adding that Indian scientists are carrying out further tests to determine exact biological consequences.The double mutation refers to specific changes, among some others, that are denoted by E484Q (glutamate is replaced by glutamine at the 484th spot of the spike protein) and L452R (substitution of leucine with arginine at the 452nd position). Both these mutations are being investigated for giving the virus an ability to evade immunity from a past infection, even vaccines.On March 24, the Union health ministry said the variant was found in over 200 samples sent from Maharashtra, which became the first hot spot region during the second nationwide wave that began that month. Till about April 7, Maharashtra alone was accounting for more than half of the new cases being recorded in the country, prompting experts to suspect that the variant may be to blame.VijayRaghavan added that vaccines are likely to still offer protection from variants of concern. “The vaccines at hand sometimes offer reduced protection to mild and moderate disease but they still afford protection to severe disease,” he said.The official also spoke on the government’s recent decision to make it easier for vaccines developed outside to seek authorisation in India as long as they have been approved by certain western countries, Japan or the World Health Organization.VijayRaghavan said he expects the single dose vaccine by Johnson & Johnson to become available under this route first. “In practice, given global supplies and commitment, we are going to see in India pretty much very soon the Johnson and Johnson vaccine, and the Novavax, when it gets approval elsewhere, coming in,” he said, while adding that the mRNA vaccines by Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna may face difficulties since they are already stretched on supply commitments. J&J’s vaccine has already received approvals in several of these regions, although its use is currently under pause in the US while regulators look into blood clots forming in very few individuals who have been injected with the vaccine.Once any of these additional vaccines arrive, it will give the government more freedom to allow wider groups of people to seek doses, he added, describing as a dilemma the question whether younger people should now be given doses. “The dilemmas are the following: there are people who are older, who are more vulnerable if they get the disease, and people who are younger, who are vaccinated and can go into the workforce, mingle, and not bring back disease to their homes. Ideally, you’d like to vaccinate both groups, but there’s obviously, supply and demand challenge,” he said.The principal scientific adviser said he also believes the current wave of infections may begin to ebb in a week or two as benefits from stricter curbs become apparent. “The intense efforts started a couple of weeks ago, so we should start seeing the beginnings of change very soon, and as those efforts continue you’ll start seeing the impact further and further,” he said.VijayRaghavan, who headed the National Centre for Biological Sciences in the past, said the current outbreak in India is the result of multiple factors including Covid fatigue (where people tire of restrictions and break them) and economic compulsion for people to move about more freely.But health care professionals are better prepared to handle the disease now, he explained.He added that there is now more understanding related to how the virus behaves, what treatments work and what precautions in particular could help. “We actually have now multiple elements in our kit to deal with the virus which we didn’t have at the first wave. We are better ramped up on personal protection equipment (PPEs), oxygen, hospital facilities, ventilators and so on... The second change is the potential of the impact of people’s behaviour; we know a lot now which we didn’t know earlier. We know now how the virus is transmitted: through droplets, through aerosols, and it gets transmitted in closed rooms for example. So, there are measures like masks and distancing that we know will be very effective.”ions such as variants of concern of Sars-CoV-2 in circulation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-double-mutant-could-be-considered-a-variant-of-concern-101618428592954.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid spike: Telangana, Andhra on high alert||Hyderabad Andhra Pradesh and Telangana health department officials have sounded a high alert in view of the rapid surge in Covid-19 cases and urged all citizens to comply with virus-related guidelines. According to an official bulletin released by the Telangana state medical and health department on Wednesday, as many as 2,157 fresh cases and eight fatalities were reported on Tuesday. The overall caseload in the state which stood at 6,159 on April 1 rose to 25,459 by Tuesday night - a sharp increase by 19,300 cases in less than two weeks. The sudden spurt has prompted authorities to warn citizens against a “Maharashtra-like situation” where the government on Tuesday imposed a two-week curfew to curb the rising cases. “The infection is spreading at an alarming rate and if this trend continues, Telangana might have to face a Maharashtra-like situation in a few weeks. At present, we are managing to accommodate all patients in government and private hospitals but if we don’t take precautions, we may not be able to provide bed facilities in the coming days,” director of medical and health G Srinivasa Rao said. Rao reiterated the need to follow Covid-19 protocols and avoid visiting public places until absolutely necessary. He also suggested people wear masks even while at home. State minister for health Eatala Rajender, who held a teleconference with department officials and doctors, said nearly 14,000 beds were available in government and private hospitals. He appealed to private hospitals not to refuse beds to patients who were in need. The highest number of 361 Covid cases in the state was reported from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits while 241 cases were registered in the neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri district. Besides these, 206 cases were reported from Rangareddy. In Andhra Pradesh, the number of cases breached the 4,000 mark in the last two days, the highest daily tally in six months. On Wednesday, as many as 4,157 people tested positive for the virus while 18 deaths were reported from different parts of the state. The highest Covid fataliites reported since October 27 last year.The total number of active cases in the state stood at 28,383 on Wednesday as against 8,142 on April 1. “There has been no laxity in conducting testing, as there are strict instructions from chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy to step up testing, tracing and treatment. All the primary health centres and private hospitals are regularly conducting tests as per the protocol. There is no scarcity of beds in the hospitals also,” state health department spokesman M Ramana Murthy said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-spike-telangana-andhra-on-high-alert-101618427572786.html
15-04-2021||India||April 17 Bypolls: Vote for TRS, if you want development, says KCR||Hyderabad: Stating that voting for the opposition in a by-election would not fetch any benefits to the people, Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao on Wednesday called upon the voters of Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency in Nalgonda district to vote for the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi(TRS) for the comprehensive development of the constituency. “You cannot feed the donkeys and then milk the cow, expecting that it would give the milk. If you want the development of the constituency, you have to think wisely and vote for the TRS,” KCR said, addressing a big rally at Halia town, which is part of the Nagarjunasagar assembly constituency and is going for a by-poll on April 17. The by-election was necessitated after the death of sitting TRS legislator Nomula Narasimhaiah due to ill-health in January. He cautioned the people against getting carried away by the promises and false propaganda of the opposition parties. “You don’t have to vote going by even my promises. But I request you to judge the performance of the TRS government in the last six years,” he said. Recalling the struggle waged by the TRS to achieve the statehood for Telangana region, KCR said Telangana was like an orphan before the formation of TRS. “The Congress leaders from Telangana were responsible for the sorry state of affairs in Telangana while it was combined with Andhra Pradesh. Had they worked with commitment for the upliftment of the region, the TRS would not have been born,” he said. He lashed out at veteran Congress leader and former minister K Jana Reddy, who represented Nagarjuna sagar constituency in the past and was contesting the elections again. “In his three-decades of experience as a legislator, he could not bring even a degree college to this constituency,” he criticised. The chief minister vowed to complete all the pending lift irrigation schemes, particularly the Nellikal Lift Irrigation Scheme, that would create irrigation facility for major portion of Nagarjunasagar within next one and a half year. He also promised to provide Godavari River water to irrigate the ayacut under Nagarjunasagar. He declared that he would not seek votes in the next elections without completing the lift irrigation schemes.On Tuesday, Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) had sought immediate intervention of the Election Commission to stop the distribution of money, liquor allegedly by the ruling TRS leaders in Nagarjuna Sagar assembly constituency.In his letter addressed to Election Commissioner Rajiv Kumar, TPCC chief Uttam Kumar Reddy said that even in the recent MLC elections from Graduates’ Constituencies last month, the ruling TRS party had resorted to the huge distribution of cash and liquor. “It was so rampant that the TRS cadre was openly distributing approximately ₹1,000 to ₹2,000 per vote and liquor for several days before the election and also on polling day near the polling booths itself,” the Congress leader alleged.“Despite my written complaints (with evidence) to CEO of Telangana and district officials with videos of TRS leaders distributing money, no action was taken. It is widely perceived that the ruling TRS party may have spent more than ₹100 crores in each MLC constituency. The same situation is now continuing in the ongoing Nagarjuna Sagar Assembly by-election (polling on 17th April 2021) in Telangana,” the letter stated. He further alleged that Sarpanches and other elected representatives of the congress party are being purchased by TRS party leaders from outside. He further requested that Central forces must check posts and check all vehicles for cash and liquor.With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/april-17-bypolls-vote-for-trs-if-you-want-development-says-kcr-101618427514095.html
15-04-2021||India||Another subdued Vishu as coronavirus concerns loom||Amid the shadow of Covid-19 pandemic, Kerala observed yet another muted Vishu (New year) celebrations on Wednesday as the usual pomp, colour, lighting and crackers were missing for the second consecutive year. People mainly remained indoors and restricted the festivities to the confines of their homes. The state’s Covid-19 graph continues to rise alarmingly as it added 8,778 new cases to its tally on Wednesday clocking a positivity rate of 13.45%. The government is now mulling more restrictions, said a senior health ministry official on Wednesday. The state had announced a fresh set of restrictions on Monday. The state’s active case burden now stands at 58,245. It reported 22 new deaths taking the toll to 4,836. Among the infected are 41 health workers, according to the data released by the state health ministry on Wednesday. The active caseload is highest in Ernakulam (1226) followed by Kozhikode district in north Kerala 1098. “Out of those found infected today, 205 reached the state from outside, while 7,905 contracted the disease through their contacts. The sources of infection of 627 are yet to be traced. Forty one health workers are also among the infected,” health minister K K Shailaja said.The government has empowered district collectors to lockdown localities and streets with high positivity rate. The authorities can now impose a clampdown, if required, locally. The senior health official said the government would tighten restrictions if the infection curve did not show signs of flattening out. As Covid cases continues to rise; many government agencies are planning delivery of essential items at doorsteps. The government said a uniform platform will be ready soon. Online platforms were a big hit during the last year’s lockdown. With high connectivity, many mobile ATMs were deployed even in villages last year. Health ministry statistics shows a steady rise in new cases and test positivity rate (TPR) in last two weeks. On April 1; new cases recorded was 2,798 but on April 14 it shot up to 8,778. Similarly, TPR was below 5 % in April first week but it went up to 13.45 % on Wednesday. Medical professionals now blame the recently-concluded elections for the sudden spurt. Almost all political parties had flouted norms at the peak of campaigning and experts have warned a big surge in next two weeks. A close look at Kerala‘s case trajectory shows big ups and downs. During the year-end cases had peaked in the state and on October 10 the TPR had touched a record high of 17.46%. Later it came down but again it went up after local body elections in December clocking a TPR of 14% to 15 % in December but it came down after two months in March. In March; TPR was below five per cent while cases were around 3,000. Amid rise in cases the only silver lining is the fast pace of vaccination drive in the state with around 11 % of the total population have been vaccinated so far. Two thousand doses reached the state on Tuesday and five thousand are expected by this weekend. On Monday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan had written to the union health minister Harsh Vardhan seeking urgent delivery of vials. According to the union health ministry data; the state has almost zero wastage of vaccine in the country. Meanwhile, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan who was admitted to the medical college hospital was discharged after he tested negative. He will be in quarantine for another week in his house in Kannur, his office said. In a Facebook post after his discharge, Vijayan said the doctors and staff had provided the best possible care to him.“Have returned home as I have been discharged after being cured from COVID-19. The people of the state have given huge support,” the Chief Minister said and thanked everyone.With Agency inputs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-subdued-vishu-as-coronavirus-concerns-loom-101618427452779.html
15-04-2021||India||Almost all ICU beds occupied in Bengaluru’s govt hospitals, 60% in pvt hospitals||BengaluruNearly 100% of the around 400 intensive care units (ICU) beds and the ones with ventilators in government hospitals in Bengaluru are occupied, according to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) data, leaving little room for the growing number of Covid-19 patients who are in need of critical care.The occupancy for the same category of beds in government medical colleges stands at nearly 90%, data shows.The occupancy in private hospitals and private medical colleges is in the range of 60% with beds rapidly filling up, which could force the state government into announcing a lockdown as availability--or non-availability--of beds is one of the two main parameters considered for announcing strict restrictions, experts said. The other being high mortality rate, experts added.Officials from the state health department and BBMP are trying to get more beds from private medical institutions to increase the count to around 11,000-14,000 across Karnataka, which would make it on par with the preparations during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic around September last year.“We have around 3,750 beds in both government and private medical institutions and another 600 in Covid care centres (CCC). We are trying to get more beds from private hospitals and medical institutions and right now there is availability of around 30%,” said a senior BBMP official, requesting not to be named.Data shows that there are 3,819 beds in total across general and ICU categories in Bengaluru, of which 2,750 are occupied. There are 493 beds across government and private medical institutions, of which 461 are occupied, by Wednesday afternoon.More importantly, the availability of beds in private hospitals and colleges would entail a high cost of treatment, which many Covid-19 patients will find hard to afford despite capping of treatment tariffs by the BS Yediyurappa-led state government.Karnataka chief secretary P Ravi Kumar, in an order on April 7, said that treatment for persons referred by the government or BBMP to private hospitals will be capped between ₹5,200 and ₹10,000 per day. The cost dramatically jumps up for walk-in patients in private medical institutions as the tariffs per day ranges between ₹10,000 and ₹ 25,000 or higher depending on whether the patient requires general ward beds, ICU or ICU with ventilators.Officials said there were many people who would take up beds even though they may not require hospitalisation, fearing the spread or complications that come with contracting Covid-19, leading to an acute shortage.Bengaluru on Wednesday reported 8,155 new infections, taking the active caseload to 63,167. The city also reported 23 new deaths on Wednesday, taking the toll to 4,933.The surge in the city increased the tally of Karnataka, which reported 11,625 new cases on Wednesday, to 85,480. A total of 38 patients died of Covid-19 on Wednesday, taking the state toll to 13,046.The single-day spike is the highest in the state and Bengaluru since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The requirement of beds, even for asymptomatic persons, gains significance in respect of creating micro-containment zones in Bengaluru as suggested by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The strategy is to minimise the area taken up by a cluster of Covid-19 patients, leaving other parts of the city to remain open for economic impact, KV Trilok Chandra, the state’s health commissioner said. “If there are five or more people on the same floor who are infected, we will declare that floor as a containment zone. In smaller apartments, it will be the entire block. In crowded localities, since we cannot ensure isolation or social distancing, we will move patients to the CCCs,” Chandra said.Bengaluru has seen a sudden surge of cases and the government’s decision to rule out a lockdown completely but retain some restrictions like a night curfew has had little effect on the free--and often careless movement and mingling--of people in crowded places. The situation in other districts of the state has also deteriorated in recent weeks, leaving Karnataka firmly in the grip of the raging pandemic.“In smaller localities, we have to test a higher number of people and then encourage more to come in for vaccination as a measure to contain the rise of cases in areas where there are more people,” said another senior BBMP official, requesting anonymity.“We are trying to get as many hospital beds into the BBMP fold as possible at the earliest. We are also targeting hospitals with 25-50 beds. Different levels of patients have to go to different facilities, depending upon the seriousness of the particular patient,” the official added.Representatives of private hospitals said they are bound to give half of their existing capacities to the government but there were quite a few beds that were occupied by walk-in Covid-19 patients or those suffering from non-Covid ailments.“As and when they (patients) get discharged, we will give the beds to the government,” Dr Prasanna HM, the president-elect of the Private Hospitals & Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said.He added that though there were a higher number of infected persons now, those who require hospitalisation have reduced.Experts on the subject and at least one member of the Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) on Covid-19 in Karnataka said the government has to act at the earliest to secure hospital beds from the private sector.“Non-availability (of beds) is an artificial thing and should be resolved immediately. There should not be any delay in getting the allocation from the private sector. The more we delay from the government side, the more problematic it will become,” Giridhara R Babu, epidemiologist and professor at the Public Health Foundation of India (PHFI) said.Babu, who is also a member of TAC on Covid-19 in Karnataka, added that stricter restrictions are required to be imposed in places like Bengaluru.“Stricter regulations are definitely needed, especially to reduce the quantum of cases and its trajectory,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/almost-all-icu-beds-occupied-in-bengaluru-s-govt-hospitals-60-in-pvt-hospitals-101618427212788.html
15-04-2021||India||State records highest 1-day spike, most cases in B’luru||BengaluruBoth Karnataka and its capital city Bengaluru on Wednesday reported their highest single-day spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases since the outbreak of the pandemic, raising alarm bells over a rapidly deteriorating health crisis in the southern state.According to the state health department’s daily bulletin, Karnataka recorded its highest ever single-day total of 11,625 on Wednesday, beating its previous high of 10,913 recorded on October 9 last year, which was considered the peak of the pandemic in the state. With the new spike, the state’s active caseload jumped to 85,840. Bengaluru once again accounted for the maximum 8,155 Covid-19 cases, also the highest for the city, taking its active caseload to 63,167.While the state reported a total of 38 new deaths due to Covid-19 on Wednesday, Bengaluru accounted for 23 of them, the health bulletin added. More serious was the fact that the Covid-19 positivity rate inched closer to 10% across the state, the daily stated.While the chief minister BS Yediyurappa-led state government has ruled out a lockdown, it is firm on increasing restrictions “after the elections”, referring to the April 17 bypolls in Basavakalyan, Maski and Belagavi.Though Yediyurappa has imposed night restrictions in at least seven districts, including Bengaluru, and has cracked down on individual offenders for not wearing masks or maintaining social distancing, the government has given a free hand for the election campaigning to carry on unhindered, experts said.A large number of people have been taking part in election campaigns in the three constituencies, which, incidentally, have seen a spike after the bypolls were announced on March 17.Basavakalyan is in Bidar district, which reported 290 new infections on Wednesday, taking its active case count to 2,144. Belagavi reported 107 new infections and its active case count reached up to 661. Raichuru, under which Maski constituency falls, reported 65 new infections that took its active case count to 491.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/state-records-highest-1-day-spike-most-cases-in-bluru-101618427155502.html
15-04-2021||India||CBI quizzes Anil Deshmukh for 11 hours in corruption case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Wednesday questioned former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh for about 11 hours over allegations of corruption levelled against him by former Mumbai Police chief Param Bir Singh.Responding to summons issued by CBI, Deshmukh reached the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) guest house at Santacruz (East) shortly after 10am on Wednesday. CBI officers said Deshmukh was questioned about the allegations, and his statement was recorded. They declined to give details of the statement or the line of questioning.CBI issued the summons to the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader on April 12 as part of its preliminary enquiry registered on April 6, a day after the Bombay high court directed the central agency to probe “serious” allegations against Deshmukh. He stepped down from the post of home minister shortly after the court’s decision.Param Bir Singh, in a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray last month, alleged that Deshmukh told now suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, arrested in connection with Mukesh Ambani security threat case, to collect ₹100 crore a month from bars, restaurants, hotels, and other sources, in Mumbai.Deshmukh has consistently denied the charges.The letter came in the aftermath of an explosives-laden vehicle being found near Ambani’s house Antilia, the arrest of Vaze for allegedly planting the vehicle, the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran who was linked to the vehicle, and the removal of Singh as Mumbai’s police commissioner.The federal agency has so far questioned Deshmukh’s personal assistant Sanjeev Palande, his personal secretary Kundan Shinde, deputy commissioner of police (enforcement) Raju Bhujbal, assistant commissioner of police (social service branch) Sanjay Patil, Vaze, Param Bir Singh, and two police drivers attached to the criminal intelligence unit (CIU) of the Mumbai Police’s crime branch.CBI has also questioned some bar owners over the extortion charges||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cbiquizzes-deshmukh-for-11-hours-in-corruption-case-101618426852753.html
15-04-2021||India||Plea in Mathura for ASI survey of mosque||Agra A petition filed in a local court in Mathura on Wednesday sought an archaeological survey of Choti Masjid in the Agra Fort premises to determine if Mughal rulers buried idols of Hindu god Krishna at the spot after vandalising an ancient temple that stood in Mathura.The petition, filed by an activist Shailendra Singh, cited an April 8 order by a Varanasi court that ordered an archaeological survey of the Gyanvapi Masjid complex, which abuts the Kashi Vishwanath Temple, to determine if the mosque was built by Mughal emperors after razing a Hindu temple, to justify its own basis. That order is currently being challenged in the Allahabad high court by the Gyanvapi mosque committee and the Uttar Pradesh Sunni Central Waqf Board.Singh’s petition in the court of civil judge (senior division), Mathura, argued that a “magnificent temple” was built in Mathura by Bundela king Raja Bir Singh Dev at a cost of ₹33 lakh and it was demolished in January 1670 by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb.‘The idols of Lord Krishna were taken away and were buried under the stairs of the Choti Masjid in the Deewan-e-Khas of the Agra Fort; as such, the director of ASI [Archaeological Survey Of India] be directed to conduct scientific excavation and reinstate the idols moved,” stated the petition.The Mathura court accepted the petition and fixed May 10 as the date of hearing. ASI is also tasked with the survey at the Gyanvapi complex.Singh’s petition – as well as several pending petitions in courts across Mathura – seek the removal of the Shahi Eidgah adjacent to the Sri Krishna temple complex in Mathura, and transfer of the 13.37-acre land to the temple deity, Bhagwan Sri Krishna Virajman.On September 30, last year, a case was filed on behalf of the deity in the court of the civil judge in Mathura but was dismissed. The petitioner, Ranjana Agnihotri, filed an appeal in the court of Mathura district judge on October 12. The case is pending.Another petition was filed in the court of district judge, and three more in the court of civil judge. All petitions had common prayers.“A temple of Keshav Dev (Krishna) used to exist in a vast area of 13.37 acre in Mathura. Aurangzeb dismantled the temple and raised a structure at the same place, which is now known as Eidgah. Many of the stones having symbols of Hindu architecture were removed from the Janmabhoomi and placed in the Eidgah mosque,” said Mahendra Singh, who filed one of the petitions in the Mathura civil court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/plea-in-mathura-for-asi-survey-of-mosque-101618426793370.html
15-04-2021||India||UP migrant workers head home driven by local polls, Covid fears||While the lockdown last year drove scores of migrants and their families to bus and railway stations in the Capital in search of a way home last year, many passengers and transport officials attributed the current rush at Kaushambi ISBT for buses headed towards different district in Uttar Pradesh to the panchayat elections starting in the state on Thursday. A few passengers, however, said that their return was spurred by fears of another lockdown.For the past five days, the district has been reporting more than a 100 new cases daily, with 159 cases on April 10, 155 on April 11, 187 on April 12, 199 on April 13 and 277 on April 14.An HT team, which visited the ISBT on Wednesday, saw men, women and children coming to with bags, boxes and other utility items, through the foot overbridge connecting it with Anand Vihar on the other side of the Outer Ring Road in Delhi. While some said they were travelling due to “some work at home”, many said they were going “to cast votes in the panchayat elections”.E-rickshaw driver Mukesh Kumar, who usually works outside ISBT Kaushambi, said that most of the migrants were returning to vote in elections. “Many of my passengers claim to have been told that they will not be allowed to enter their villages if they do not cast votes. That’s why many of them are leaving. A few are, however, going due to rumours of another lockdown,” he said.The first of the four phase of panchayat elections in UP, which will see voting in 18 districts, is scheduled on April 15. The results of all phases will be announced on May 2.The districts going to polls on Thursday are Ghaziabad, Ayodhya, Gorakhpur, Jhansi, Allahabad, Raebareli, Jaunpur and Rampur, among others.However, some of the passengers said that the panchayat elections were a convenient way to get back home ahead of another possible lockdown.“Labourers or daily wage earners will not rush so easily and spend their hard-earned money to go to their home towns to cast votes. Their travel and tickets have been arranged. This way, we will cast votes, and will also get a chance to stay back home. There is fear among many people about the rise in Covid cases and many are going back because of that,” said Jai Chand, from Rae Bareli district, who lives in a rented room in Palam.“The government buses charge about ₹600 to Raebareli, but private operators are making a killing by demanding up to ₹1,400 for a seat now,” said Rajesh Bisht, also from Rae Bareli.UP State Road Transport Corporation (UPSRTC) officials said that the occupancy in their 52 seater buses was nearly 100%, especially for those headed to districts such as Gorakhpur, Bahraich, Lucknow, Sitapur, Gonda and Rae Bareli, among others.“There is huge rush of passengers for the past four days... During normal days, bus occupancy is about 65% which has now gone up to 100% for the past four days,” said Narendra Kumar, assistant regional manager of UPSRTC and in-charge of Kaushambi ISBT.“As per our interaction with passengers, most of them are headed home for elections or due to the start of the harvesting season of rabi crop. Rise in Covid cases and fear of any lockdown may have also impacted their travel to their hometowns,” said AK Singh, regional manager of UPSRTC.Meanwhile, a few passengers admitted that the sudden travel was prompted by rumours of yet another lockdown.Mohammad Arif (41), a driver from UP’s Bijnor, had already sent his wife and two daughters back home on Tuesday. “There are rumours that the lockdown will come into effect... Instead of getting stuck here, at least my family and I will have something to eat if we reach our home town,” said Arif, who boarded a bus on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/ghaziabad-hundreds-of-migrant-workers-head-home-driven-by-covid-fears-local-polls-101618426673460.html
15-04-2021||India||Flag follows trade: Navy chief on China||NEW DELHI: With China making efforts to strengthen its presence in the strategic Indian Ocean Region (IOR), Indian Navy chief Admiral Karambir Singh on Wednesday said it was hardly surprising that China’s navy was coming and operating in the IOR as Beijing’s energy sources, markets and resources are located to the west. “As they say, flag follows trade,” Singh said during a discussion on challenges in the Indo-Pacific region at the Raisina Dialogue. “China’s navy has the wherewithal and intent, and I envisage a continued focus on their growth in the near future. They want to replicate US Navy carrier battle groups but developing carrier air wing will take time,” Singh said, responding to a question on China deploying aircraft carriers. China currently operates two aircraft carriers — CV-16 Liaoning and CV-17 Shandong. It is building a third carrier. The US believes that the Chinese footprint in the IOR will grow in the coming years. China is building a third aircraft carrier with a flat deck and its navy will be operating in the Indian Ocean in the coming years, said Admiral Phil Davidson, commander of the US Indo-Pacific Command.India is keeping tabs on China’s aggressive moves in the South China Sea and taking steps to ensure that the Chinese navy doesn’t muscle its way into the Indian Ocean where combat-ready Indian warships are carrying out round-the-clock surveillance for any unusual activity.The Chinese are undoubtedly in the IOR already, said maritime affairs expert Rear Admiral Sudarshan Shrikhande (retd).“They have come here (IOR) to stay, play and have a say. Through sustained and overlapping deployments, potentially more bases and partners; China’s multi-dimensional military power with sea power in the lead is something to think about carefully,” Shrikhande said.Aggressive Chinese naval actions and asymmetric activities undermine the rules-based order and constitute a major challenge, Davidson said. “The Indo-Pacific region is in competition between a closed and authoritarian Beijing vision and the idea of a free and open Indo-Pacific,” the US commander said. Davidson said China sought to exploit the current pandemic with increased military aggression throughout the Indo-Pacific and its intent was to undermine international law and norms. From carrying out naval drills with like-minded countries to reaching out to states in the IOR, the Indian Navy is focusing on checking China’s rising ambitions in the region and sending out a strong message that Beijing’s power play in South China Sea cannot be replicated in the Indian Ocean.The navies of India and the US recently concluded multilateral drills in the eastern IOR. France along with the Quad navies of India, the US, Japan and Australia carried out complex maritime drills to enhance interoperability among their navies from April 5 to April 7.Singh said the Quad started as a consultative grouping and has evolved and grown organically. He said India has a high degree of engagement and interoperability with the navies of the Quad countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flag-follows-trade-navy-chief-on-china-101618426615642.html
15-04-2021||India||India won’t raise climate ambition under pressure: Prakash Javadekar||India will attempt to keep its climate commitments but will not act at the behest or under pressure from developed countries, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar said on Wednesday, underscoring the country’s prerogative to balance development goals with obligations on climate change.Javadekar was speaking at an event organised at the Embassy of France to mark French minister Jean-Yves Le Drian’s visit to India. He reiterated that India will “over achieve” its commitments, a government spokesperson later said in a clarification to his remarks.Le Drian, in his address, said countries must stop building new coal-based power plants and progressively move towards achieving carbon neutrality. Javadekar, who spoke after Le Drian’s address, offered some context. “Yes, we are suffering. We are seeing higher temperatures, unusual rain, hurricanes, frequency of such abnormal events has increased.”But, he added, it should not be forgotten that this is not a new phenomenon. “For 150 years, this has been happening because carbon emissions remain in the atmosphere for more than 150 years, so what we are suffering today was caused 150 years ago. The countries [of] EU [European Union], US and in the last 30 to 40 years China, they emitted and therefore the world is suffering, India is suffering,” he saidJavadekar underlined that historic responsibility is a very important aspect. “We cannot just forget, and we will not allow anybody to forget it. The historical emissions responsibility today of is China 28%, USA 40%; Europe 10% and India is only 3%. We are not responsible for the climate change that is happening.” He added India is a responsible nation and will do the right thing to deal with the climate crisis.Javadekar urged developed countries to deliver on finance commitments. “Where is the money? There is no money in sight. You have polluted, destroyed the world, and brought climate change. And now you are saying do not use coal. The alternative has to be cheaper than coal.”“They should make technology at an affordable cost. Climate change is not a business. Fighting climate change is our duty. The world has agreed to supply anti-AIDS drugs at a lower cost because AIDS is a disaster. We should not profit from a disaster…therefore, we will walk the talk, raise our ambition but not at the behest or [under] pressure from other countries,” the minister added.Gaurav Khare, the environment ministry spokesperson, later issued a clarification saying: “Mr Prakash Javadekar had only said that India will ‘Over Achieve’ its commitment made in Paris and not said that India will “raise its ambitions”.In his address, Le Drian referred to the objective of the 2016 Paris Agreement to limit global warming to 2°C or even 1.5°C compared to pre-industrial levels.“If we do not succeed in doing so, the consequences will be disastrous…That’s why it is absolutely indispensable that all countries increase their climate commitments by the time the COP26 [2021 United Nations Climate Change Conference] takes place in Glasgow, as required by the Paris Agreement,” Le Drian said.He said this increase in ambition must include setting new nationally determined contributions by 2030 and also long-term strategies to achieve carbon neutrality. “We must stop building new coal-based power plants and it is essential that we progressively stop this mode of electricity production at a global level.”John Kerry, the American Special Presidential Envoy for Climate, met Javadekar and Prime Minister Narendra Modi last week regarding increasing climate ambition ahead of COP26 in Glasgow this November. Kerry and Modi agreed that India and the US will work closely on the technology and finance for the deployment of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030 to make way for achieving net-zero emissions by 2050.France is co-chair of the International Solar Alliance—an alliance of 121 countries initiated by India to promote solar energy.Ulka Kelkar, director (climate), World Resources Institute, said India has the unique dilemma of not being responsible for past climate change but shouldering the burden of the expectations of future generations and their well-being. “While a low-carbon development pathway could usher significant environmental and socio-economic benefits, it could also mean very real costs for us -- upfront capital investments that need to be made now even though the benefits accrue over several decades, depleting fossil fuel tax revenues that might affect much-needed investments in health and education, and the need to ensure a just and fair transition for our workforce, especially women.”Kelkar said partnerships with countries like France can help accelerate the technological innovation that is needed to bring down the cost of climate solutions and give momentum to action by the Indian industry on climate change.“India has demonstrated leadership on climate commitments and climate action. In an important year like 2021, it must step up and frame the evolving debate around climate ambition. It must speak for the planet by demanding that developed countries achieve net-zero emissions before 2050. It must demonstrate its commitments by stating that its aggregate (not just per capita) emissions will not exceed that of China, the EU or the US,” said Arunabha Ghosh, CEO, Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW).“It must project its domestic policies on renewables, e-mobility and energy efficiency into international dialogues. And it must set a direction of travel, but declare contingent commitments so that it can revise its decisions as technologies develop and investment becomes available. The climate ambition conversation should not be about resisting international pressure. Instead it should be a narrative that prioritises the transformation of the Indian economy,” Ghosh added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-won-t-raise-climate-ambition-under-pressure-javadekar-101618426554549.html
15-04-2021||India||No country can have a veto on India’s ties: Jaishankar||New Delhi: The Indo-Pacific concept is a signal that India won’t be confined between the Malacca Strait and Gulf of Aden, and the country will work with partners such as France and Australia to ensure an open and inclusive region, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday. Participating in a virtual discussion with his Australian and French counterparts, Marise Payne and Jean-Yves Le Drian, at the Raisina Dialogue, Jaishankar said no country can have a veto on India’s participation in groupings such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad. Le Drian reiterated France’s legitimate role in the Indo-Pacific by pointing to the two million French inhabitants in the region, while Payne noted that the three countries have come together to work on issues such as pandemic response, vaccine distribution, and economic challenges triggered by the Covid-19 crisis. “Indo-Pacific is a clear message that India will not be constrained between the Malacca Straits and Gulf of Aden. Our interests, our influence, our activities today go way beyond,” Jaishankar said while concluding the discussion. “When we look at a larger canvas, we see Australia there, [and] France is very much a part of this canvas, historically, culturally, physically. There are a range of activities and projects on which we can all work together,” he said, adding that the three countries are comfortable working together. The coming together of India, Australia, Japan and the US as the Quad, or the creation of a trilateral by India, Australia and France, is not aimed at any country, Jaishankar said. Without naming anyone, he described the use of terms such as “Asian Nato” as a “mind game”. “The idea that somehow because we come together, there is some sort of threat or messaging to others – I think people need to get over this. Using words like Asian Nato etc, this is a sort of mind game which people are playing. I can’t have other people sort of have a veto about what I’m going to discuss, with whom I’m going to discuss,” he said. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov had used the term “Asian Nato” in the context of emerging alliances in Asia at a joint news conference with Jaishankar in New Delhi on April 6. Hours before the virtual discussion at the Raisina Dialogue, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev reiterated Moscow’s criticism of the Indo-Pacific strategy, saying it was aimed at reviving Cold War-era structures. Jaishankar told the discussion, based on the theme “Crimson tide, blue geometries: New partnerships for the Indo-Pacific”, that the Indo-Pacific concept is a reflection of contemporary realities at a time when groups of countries are looking to work together because multilateralism has fallen short. “Indo-Pacific is a return to history, it reflects a more contemporary world. It is actually overcoming the Cold War, not reinforcing it,” he said. Le Drian and Payne said their countries have adopted a pragmatic approach to work with other nations such as India to cope with challenges like maritime security, illegal fishing and terror financing. “Fundamentally, the value of three nations like ours, three such strong democracies like ours [is] having the capacity to share… our responses to the pressures that are on regional multilateral institutions,” Payne said. Le Drian added that France does not operate in a military format, though free movement and security of trade in the Indo-Pacific is very important to Paris. This is the reason for France’s joint patrols with India off the Reunion Island and intelligence-sharing and maritime surveillance missions with Australia, he said. Referring to the situation in Myanmar following the February 1 military coup, Payne said Australia is working with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (Asean) to identify solutions as the increase in violence is “deeply concerning”. Australia has made changes in its development assistance programmes and military-to-military engagement with Myanmar, she said. The 27 members of the European Union have imposed sanctions against Myanmar’s junta, a travel ban and an assets freeze, Le Drian said. Jaishankar added that India is in touch with Asean to reach a common solution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-country-can-have-a-veto-on-india-s-ties-jaishankar-101618426492719.html
15-04-2021||India||Production of Remdesivir to be ramped up: Govt||The Centre on Wednesday approved ramping up the production of antiviral drug remdesivir amid a sudden surge in Covid-19 cases across the country.According to the national treatment protocol, remdesivir is one of the investigational drugs approved for use in treating hospitalised Covid-19 patients. With the rising cases, the demand for the drug has also shot up.“The current total installed capacity of the seven manufacturers of Remdesivir is 38.80 lakh vials per month. Fast-track approval has been given for seven additional sites having the production capacity of 10 Lakh vials /month to six manufacturers. Another 30 lakh vials/month production is lined up. This would ramp up the production capacity for manufacturing to around 78 lakh vials/month,” said Union ministry of chemicals and fertilisers in a statement issued on Wednesday.Union minister of state for chemicals and fertilizer Mansukh Mandaviya reviewed the availability of the drug in the country with all existing manufacturers at several meetings held on Monday and Tuesday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/production-of-remdesivir-to-be-ramped-up-govt-101618426133732.html
15-04-2021||India||Rise in cases of double mutant variant in parts of Maharashtra, say Experts||MumbaiSeveral cities in Maharashtra are reporting a rising number of Covid-19 cases with the double mutant variant of Sars-Cov-2, the director of the National Centre for Disease Control said on Wednesday.“Different kinds of mutations have been found in Maharashtra, but there is definitely a rising trend of double mutant variants in several cities. This trend has not been noticed across the state,” Dr Sujeet Kumar Singh, NCDC director, said.The state, which has been reporting the highest number of cases across the country, recorded 58,952 new infections on Wednesday. A senior official from the central agency said that genome sequencing of samples collected in various cities in the state found that over 60% were infected with the double mutant variant.However, the number of samples that have been sent for genome sequencing is unclear. Genome sequencing is a process to identify the genetic makeup of the organism and study its changes.On March 24, the Union government confirmed the presence of mutations and said that a novel variant with a combination of two mutations E484Q and L452R -- now classified as B.1.617 lineage -- was found in 206 samples taken from Maharashtra since December. The majority of double mutant variants were found in the samples sent from Nagpur. Doctors across Maharashtra and other parts of the country have been noticing variation in the presentation of Covid in the second wave. “Last year, we saw the involvement of lung infections in over 70% of the cases, but this year we are seeing more and more involvement of the gut,” said Dr Om Shrivastav, infectious disease specialist and a member of Maharashtra’s Covid-19 task force. “Another alarming trend is patients getting better and then returning with more sickness. Such clinical evidence of possible mutations has been noted by many doctors,” he said. Experts have also pointed out that there is not enough data on variants and urged that states like Maharashtra send at least 5% to 10% of their samples for genome sequencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rise-in-cases-of-double-mutant-variant-in-parts-of-maharashtra-say-experts-101618426072638.html
15-04-2021||India||Covid-19 norms a far cry at third ‘Shani Snan’||Hundreds of thousands of people violated the government’s Covid-19 guidelines again as they gathered for the third “shahi snan” at the Mahakumbh in Haridwar on Wednesday, with officials saying 1.35 million devotees took a dip in the Ganga to mark the occasion, even as the country continues its alarming second wave of the infectious disease.The size of the gathering was smaller than the 3.12 million figure at the previous “shahi snan” (royal bath) and the 2.5 million expected by the mela administration, but flagrant violations of social distancing norms and mask protocol could be seen in the crowd.While some reports said earlier in the day that the Mahakumbh could be curtailed by two weeks to end after the “shahi snan” on Wednesday in view of the Covid-19 surge, officials denied that any such move was being considered, adding that the event would conclude on the planned date of April 30. “There are no such reports of ending the Mahakumbh before the designated period. We are preparing for the fourth shahi snan to be held on April 27,” mela officer Deepak Rawat said.Security personnel could be seen handing out challans to some people in the crowd over violations of the Covid-19 norms, but the majority of seers gathered to bathe in the Ganga were in violation of Covid-appropriate behaviour.Uttarakhand health secretary Amit Negi, meanwhile, pleaded before the Nainital high court to reduce the target of 50,000 RT-PCR tests in the Kumbh city every day during the Mahakumbh. Negi said the administration conducted “about 39,000 tests, both RT-PCR and rapid antigen, on the shahi snans”. He added that “it is difficult for the administration to conduct the targeted RT-PCR tests as majority of the devotees are part of floating population.”“We are generating awareness regarding wearing of masks and other Covid guidelines among all the devotees including seers. Proper arrangements were made with adequate stock of masks and hand sanitisers in the mela area,” said inspector general of the mela force, Sanjay Gunjyal. On the first day of the Mahakumbh, 149 cases were reported in the Haridwar district out the state total of 500, which rose to 594 on April 13 with a state total of 1,925.Anoop Nautiyal, a social activist who has been monitoring the pandemic situation in state, said: “The Nainital High Court has directed the administration to conduct 50,000 tests daily during the Mahakumbh. However, the average number of tests conducted in the 13 days of Mahakumbh so far is 19,195, way less than the target of 50,000.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-norms-a-far-cry-at-third-shani-snan-101618425893643.html
15-04-2021||India||High Courts to send names for 220 vacancies: Government||Admonished by the Supreme Court for delaying the appointment of judges, the central government has underscored that high courts were yet to send any names for 220 vacancies, with the oldest slot arising more than six years ago.A note, submitted in the top court by attorney general (A-G) KK Venugopal and reviewed by HT, sought to repel the blame on the government and highlighted how high courts had not made recommendations for around 53% of their total vacancies, 416.The note, which will be considered by a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, on Thursday, has highlighted that while 196 names for the 420 vacancies were pending either before the government or with the Supreme Court collegium, there were no proposals for 220 vacancies and some of the HCs had not made recommendations for over six years.Punjab and Haryana HC was yet to make recommendations for 32 vacancies whereas Allahabad HC had not sent names for 28 positions. Two other HCs which also lagged behind in sending proposals were Delhi (23) and Gujarat (21). The statistics were as on April 13.Citing the memorandum of procedure (MoP) that guides the appointment of judges in the SC and HCs, the Centre emphasised that high courts were expected to make recommendations six months prior to the occurrence of a vacancy but the high courts of Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Orissa, Gujarat, Meghalaya and Sikkim had not sent names from vacancies arising from the Bar (lawyers). The oldest among these was a position that fell vacant in the Jharkhand HC on July 1, 2014.Similarly, high courts of Manipur, and Punjab and Haryana, had not made recommendations for vacancies from service (judicial officers) that was existing for five years or more with the oldest slot falling vacant in Manipur HC on October 26, 2015. By specifying the time lapsed, the government seems to be responding to its criticism by the bench, which also included justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Surya Kant, about five names for appointments in the Calcutta HC that had not been cleared in the last 20 months.Similarly, one name for the Jammu and Kashmir HC has been pending for 17 months and four names for the Delhi HC, for seven months. These names were neither cleared for appointments nor sent back to the collegium for reconsideration or review, based on certain objections that the government may have, people familiar with the development said. In his note, the A-G, however, sought to turn the tables through statistics that showed that while 86 names were pending with the government at different stages, the Supreme Court collegium was still to decide on 94 names for appointments in the high courts.The government also pointed out that it was yet to receive any proposal for appointment in the Supreme Court that currently had five vacancies, with the oldest one arising in November 2019 after retirement of then CJI Ranjan Gogoi. As reported by HT on April 9, incumbent CJI Bobde’s final push for the collegium to make its first recommendation of a judge to be appointed to the Supreme Court during his 14-month tenure had fallen short, making him perhaps the first CJI in judicial history to earn this unsought for distinction. The meeting on April 8 had failed to finalise any name for appointment to the Supreme Court, in what was possibly the last such meet to be headed by Justice Bobde in his tenure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hcs-to-send-names-for-220-vacancies-govt-101618425652634.html
15-04-2021||India||Bihar seeks help from army doctors as Covid-19 cases spike||A two-member team from the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) was in Patna on Wednesday to assess the state’s preparedness to fully operationalise the Employees State Insurance (ESI) hospital at Bihta in the city for treatment of Covid-19 patients, as Bihar reported 21 deaths with 4,786 new cases — the highest in a single day so far. Patna accounted for 1,483 cases and four deaths. Among those infected were three senior IAS officers, including an officer in the rank of chief secretary, another of the home department and an IPS officer. A minister in the Nitish Kumar cabinet had also tested positive. Several senior officers in the home department, public health and engineering department, finance and the Information and Public Relations Department had also gone in for home isolation. A senior officer of the home department was admitted to the AIIMS-Patna on Wednesday. The DRDO team has agreed to extend help to the state government by providing 50 doctors to fully operationalise the 500-bed ESI hospital, said people familiar with the development in the state health department. The Bihar government had on Tuesday sought assistance from the army in providing doctors to fully operationalise the ESI hospital. In a letter to the defence secretary, Bihar’s principal secretary Pratyaya Amrit requested the defence secretary to send 50 doctors from the Armed Forces Medical Corps (AFMC) so that the ESI hospital could be utilised properly. “We will depute the requisite number of nurses and other para-medical staff and have requested the defence ministry to send 50 doctors from the armed forces so that the 500-bed hospital can be utilised properly like last year,” said Amrit. “Presently, the facilities exist but in the light of the surge in Covid-19 cases in Bihar, particularly in Patna, it is of urgent necessity to utilise the existing facilities of ESI hospital, Bihta. At present, we are using only 50 beds in this hospital with the services of a few doctors and other support from the state government,” Amrit added. Executive director, State Health Society, Manoj Kumar, said, “We will work on war-footing to operationalise the facility after a team from the DRDO visited Bihta on Wednesday and later held discussions with our principal secretary.” The 500-bed Covid Care facility at ESI Bihta was set up last year under the PM Cares Fund. The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) will operationalise 100 ICU beds for Covid-19 patients on Thursday, Kumar said. The Patna district administration had on Wednesday earmarked 14 more private hospitals in Patna city for treatment of Covid-19 patients, increasing the bed strength by 199, said Patna district magistrate Chandrashekhar Singh. With this altogether 47 private facilities, having cumulative 985 beds, have been identified in the district for treatment of Covid-19 cases, he added. The health department was also keeping tabs on oxygen generation plants in the state to ensure there was no hoarding or black-marketing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-seeks-help-from-army-doctors-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101618425353231.html
15-04-2021||India||No country can have a veto on India’s ties: S Jaishankar||The Indo-Pacific concept is a signal that India won’t be confined between the Malacca Strait and Gulf of Aden, and the country will work with partners such as France and Australia to ensure an open and inclusive region, external affairs minister S Jaishankar said on Wednesday.Participating in a virtual discussion with his Australian and French counterparts, Marise Payne and Jean-Yves Le Drian, at the Raisina Dialogue, Jaishankar said no country can have a veto on India’s participation in groupings such as the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad.Le Drian reiterated France’s legitimate role in the Indo-Pacific by pointing to the two million French inhabitants in the region, while Payne noted that the three countries have come together to work on issues such as pandemic response, vaccine distribution, and economic challenges triggered by the Covid-19 crisis.“Indo-Pacific is a clear message that India will not be constrained between the Malacca Strait and Gulf of Aden. Our interests, our influence, our activities today go way beyond,” Jaishankar said while concluding the discussion.“When we look at a larger canvas, we see Australia there, [and] France is very much a part of this canvas, historically, culturally, physically. There are a range of activities and projects on which we can all work together,” he said, adding that the three countries are comfortable working together.The coming together of India, Australia, Japan and the US as the Quad, or the creation of a trilateral by India, Australia and France, is not aimed at any country, Jaishankar said.Without naming anyone, he described the use of terms such as “Asian Nato” as a “mind game”.“The idea that somehow because we come together, there is some sort of threat or messaging to others – I think people need to get over this. Using words like Asian Nato etc, this is a sort of mind game which people are playing. I can’t have other people sort of have a veto about what I’m going to discuss, with whom I’m going to discuss,” he said.Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov had used the term “Asian Nato” in the context of emerging alliances in Asia at a joint news conference with Jaishankar in New Delhi on April 6. Hours before the virtual discussion at the Raisina Dialogue, Russian envoy Nikolay Kudashev reiterated Moscow’s criticism of the Indo-Pacific strategy, saying it was aimed at reviving Cold War-era structures.Jaishankar told the discussion, based on the theme “Crimson tide, blue geometries: New partnerships for the Indo-Pacific”, that the Indo-Pacific concept is a reflection of contemporary realities at a time when groups of countries are looking to work together because multilateralism has fallen short.“Indo-Pacific is a return to history, it reflects a more contemporary world. It is actually overcoming the Cold War, not reinforcing it,” he said.Le Drian and Payne said their countries have adopted a pragmatic approach to work with other nations such as India to cope with challenges like maritime security, illegal fishing and terror financing.“Fundamentally, the value of three nations like ours, three such strong democracies like ours [is] having the capacity to share… our responses to the pressures that are on regional multilateral institutions,” Payne said.Le Drian added that France does not operate in a military format, though free movement and security of trade in the Indo-Pacific is very important to Paris, he said||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-country-can-have-a-veto-on-india-joining-groupings-such-as-quad-jaishankar-101618412812070.html
15-04-2021||India||Russia shares independent ties with India, Pakistan: Diplomats||New Delhi: Russia has independent relations with India and Pakistan, and Moscow’s military cooperation with Islamabad is limited to the supply of equipment meant to bolster the fight against terrorism, the two top Russian diplomats in New Delhi said on Wednesday. Moscow is also committed to fulfilling all arms deals with India, including the contract for S-400 air defence systems, despite the threat of US sanctions, Russian ambassador Nikolay Kudashev and deputy chief of mission Roman Babushkin told a news briefing. The diplomats reiterated Russia’s concerns about the Indo-Pacific concept and the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, or Quad, with Kudashev saying the West’s Indo-Pacific strategy is aimed at reviving Cold War-era structures. The diplomats briefed the media in the aftermath of Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s recent visit to New Delhi to prepare the grounds for the annual India-Russia Summit to be held in the second half of the year. Unlike most visits by top Russian leaders, Lavrov did not meet the Indian Prime Minister, and he travelled to Pakistan from India. Babushkin said there is “no reason to think there are divergences or misunderstandings between Russia and India as far as Pakistan is concerned”. He added: “We have independent relations with India and Pakistan and other countries, while ties with both are based on their own merits.” All three countries are members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation (SCO), and cooperate in areas such as such regional security and the fight against terror, which envisages capacity building and exercises, he said. “Russia is following its commitments, and there is a limited cooperation with Pakistan as compared to India. However, the fight against terrorism is our common agenda. So we also help Pakistan [by] providing anti-terrorism equipment and holding dedicated exercises,” Babushkin said. Russia also respects the Simla Agreement of 1972 and Lahore Declaration of 1999 that leave no scope for third party mediation in India-Pakistan affairs and “has no intention to interfere or take sides”, he added. He described the decision by India and Pakistan to adhere to the 2003 ceasefire on the Line of Control as “a very important step in terms of ensuring regional stability”. During a media interaction in Islamabad, Lavrov had said that Russia was ready to provide special military equipment to Pakistan to bolster the fight against terror. India has for long opposed sales of Russian military hardware to its rival Pakistan. Kudashev described military cooperation as one of the most important tracks of the India-Russia relationship, and said all arms deals were on track despite the threat of US sanctions under the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (Caatsa). “Together with India, we don’t recognise bilateral sanctions as they are illegal tools of unlawful and unfair competition, pressure and even blackmail. It was clearly stated by the two foreign ministers in the course of their exchange,” Kudashev said. “With regard to the S-400 and other agreements, both sides are committed to the agreed timelines and other obligations. This contract is being successfully fulfilled,” he said, referring to the $5.4-billion deal for five S-400 systems. Kudashev said that while India is Russia’s “closest friend and trusted partner”, and both sides have convergence on a majority of global and regional issues including Afghanistan, Moscow continues to have concerns about the Indo-Pacific concept. “We just want to call the attention of our Indian partners and friends to the dangers emanating from the Western Indo-Pacific strategy aimed at revival of the Cold War-era thinking and structures,” he said. Both Kudashev and Babushkin described India as a key partner in efforts to ensure security and stability in Afghanistan, and said New Delhi will be part of discussions under the Moscow Format and eventually the “extended troika”. They said India can help in building regional consensus in efforts to find a solution in the war-torn country. In response to a question on India-China tensions linked to the standoff on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Babushkin said: “We are following the developments at the LAC, and we would encourage India and China to continue disengagement efforts in order to promote constructive and forward-looking dialogue. “This is a very important precondition for regional stability and certainly we would encourage both sides to take advantage of our common multilateral platforms. They are very much scheduled at the highest level in the course of the year, including the Brics Summit, SCO Summit and RIC Summit.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/russia-has-independent-ties-with-india-and-pakistan-say-top-russian-diplomats-101618390305310.html
15-04-2021||India||Are more people dying in India’s second Covid wave?||The most important target in dealing with any pandemic is to keep the number of people dying from the disease as low as possible. This has been repeatedly stressed by the government as the primary target of India’s handling of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) outbreak.As the country’s second Covid-19 wave continues to push daily case numbers up to record levels, daily deaths have also started increasing, though currently they remain below peak levels seen in the first wave.What does this mean? Some say it shows that the second wave is not as dangerous as the first. But a deeper look at some crucial indicators for Covid-19 fatalities shows that India may be on the cusp of an alarming trend of deaths.First, a ‘base’ CFR that can serve as a comparison point Overall, of the 13,686,024 people infected across the country till Monday night, 171,108 people lost their lives to Covid-19. This places the country’s overall case fatality rate (CFR) at just a shade under 1.3%. However, in the initial months of the outbreak, a larger proportion of people were dying as doctors across the world took time to narrow down on effective treatments, and the health infrastructure was in the process of being strengthened. As a result, India’s CFR has steadily been improving – it was 3% till the end of June; it improved to 1.6% by the end of September. In the six months before the start of the second wave (from September 2020 to January 2021), only around 1.1% of cases resulted in deaths (there were 70.8 million cases and nearly 76,000 deaths). This 1.1% is a good comparison point. It is recent, and it is from a time when cases were declining.So, are more people dying in the 2nd wave? The 1.1% base CFR can be used as a yardstick to compare the death rate during India’s second wave.In order to see if the second wave has had a lower death rate, HT plotted the seven-day average of deaths (with a 14-day lag) against the seven-day average of cases since October 1, 2020, at a ratio of 0.011:1 (as the CFR since October is 1.1%). Any deviation from the 1.1% CFR would be visible in such a chart – the target would be to keep the line representing daily deaths below the line for daily cases.Also Read | India records 184,372 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours; huge spike in active casesTo be sure, all death calculations and CFRs used in this analysis have assumed a 14-day lag between cases being reported and deaths occurring. This is because a February 2020 study showed that the median time between someone testing positive for Covid and their death is around 13.8 days.We see that the death trajectory is nearly identical to the case trajectory in the second wave for new cases occurring till the first week of March. But from there on, things take a turn for the worse: deaths are rising faster than cases. This gap, if anything, appears to be getting worse by the day.After a long gap, the CFR has again started rising For a period that lasted over four months – from the start of December till the end of March – the CFR for any week remained at 1% or below. The 1%-mark, incidentally, is significant because officials from the Union government have repeatedly stressed that their eventual goal is to bring the country’s CFR for Covid-19 to 1% or below, a number that is impressive for a country this size.However, this trend did not last long. With the start of the second wave, CFR started to climb again. Accounting for the two-week lag in deaths, 1.1% of the people who got infected in the week ending March 8 ended up dying. In the two weeks that followed, the CFR was 1.2%. Then, 1.3% of the people who were infected in the week ending March 29 ended up dying.If this trend of a CFR of 1.3% continues , it would mean that India is set to touch a record number of daily deaths. In the two corresponding weeks, there have been 548,698 (for week ending April 5) and 937,428 (for week ending April 12) cases. This would mean that 1,019 people may die every day across India in the coming week, and 1,741, in the week after. India’s death toll has never been this high – at the peak of the first wave, the seven-day average of daily deaths touched 1,169 for the week ending September 16.Can any factor cause deaths to soar even further? Simply put, yes. The number of active cases – those Covid-19 patients who have tested positive and are under treatment at a given point of time – in a region is crucial in determining the load that a health care system is bearing. The higher this number, the more hospitals and doctors get burdened and the more resources such as ventilators and hospital beds get stretched.As of April 12, there are 1,264,430 active cases of Covid-19 in the country – the highest this number has ever been. This means that currently the health care system in the country is bearing a load of cases that it has never witnessed. An even more worrying trend is that this number is rising at the fastest rate ever recorded. On average, 67,951 active cases have been added to the national tally every day in the past week – the highest ever. This number has nearly doubled in a week (it was 35,214 a week ago).This means that the health care system in the country is stretched the most since the start of the outbreak, and conditions are getting worse by the day. If this trend continues, it may result in an increase to the already rising CFR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/are-more-people-dying-in-india-s-second-covid-wave-101618379264882.html
15-04-2021||India||CWC to virtually meet on April 17, review Covid-19 situation||The Congress party has called a meeting of its working committee on April 17 to discuss the raging second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and the steps taken by the government to curb it. The party might also review at the meeting the economic fallout of this phase of the pandemic and the election process in the five assembly polls.The meeting of the Congress Working Committee (CWC), the party’s top executive body, has been scheduled against the backdrop of a surging second wave of the coronavirus disease — in the seven days to Tuesday, India has added over 1.07 million new Covid-19 cases, 22% of the total cases in the world in this period.KC Venugopal, party general secretary in charge of organisation, said in a letter on Wednesday: “A meeting of the CWC will be held on Saturday, April 17, via video conferencing to discuss matters related to the second wave of Covid-19 in the country.”According to a senior Congress leader, CWC is likely to ask the government to open vaccinations for everyone. “It may also ask for removal of the current age bracket as more young people are getting affected in the second wave,” added a second Congress leader. Both asked not to be identified.Two party strategists said that the meeting could also take into account the economic situation arising out the pandemic. Index of Industrial Production (IIP) contracted by 3.6% in February signalling a weakness in the sequential economic recovery even before the beginning of second wave of Covid-19. With the increase in cases, Maharashtra, one of India’s most industrialised states, announced a lockdown while many states have opted for night curfews — steps that might impact livelihoods and jobs of hundreds and thousands of people once again.With polling in Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry over, CWC may also choose to review the election process. Both Congress chief Sonia Gandhi and leader Rahul Gandhi have written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in recent days, suggesting measures to tackle the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-working-committee-to-meet-on-april-17-to-discuss-covid-situation-101618368764283.html
15-04-2021||Today's||In West Asia, where US and China’s interests intersect||Chinese foreign minister Wang Yi’s recent six-nation tour of West Asia has sparked discussions about Beijing’s taking a more active approach in the region. In part, this is driven by China’s expanding interests; in part, it is a product of the China-United States (US) competition and geopolitical churn underway after Joe Biden’s election. Wang’s visit came in the backdrop of American policy towards the region undergoing key changes. Under Donald Trump, the US withdrew from the nuclear deal with Iran and pursued a re-engineering of the region’s politics. This fructified in the form of the 2020 Abraham Accords and the end of the Gulf Cooperation Council crisis involving Qatar earlier this year. Beijing’s official response to these was lukewarm at best. Concerns about the impact on the Palestinian issue and the potential for an anti-Iran coalition dominated the discourse, as any consequent instability would not only hurt the progress of the Belt and Road Initiative but also China’s energy imports.Biden’s election victory, however, eased some of these concerns. Under Biden, the US has returned to engagement with Iran. The ongoing talks in Vienna, aimed at bringing both the US and Iran back in compliance with the nuclear deal, is an example of this. However, engineering a thaw with Tehran while balancing the interests of Tel Aviv will not be easy. At the same time, Biden has adopted a tougher position on Saudi Arabia compared to Trump. He ended US support for the war in Yemen and made public an intelligence report on the killing of journalist Jamal Khashoggi. Given the pressure from the liberal wing of the Democratic Party in Congress over US-Saudi ties, it appears that the Riyadh-Washington relationship will remain difficult.This resetting of the pieces creates new drivers for Beijing to play a greater role. After his visit, Wang Yi outlined five broad parameters of future engagement, while emphasising that China supports building a “new security framework” for the region that eschews major power competition. The five parameters include seeking deeper development and digital economy cooperation; ensuring oil infrastructure, energy and trade security; cooperation on fighting terrorism and de-radicalisation; building alignment on values such as non-interference in internal affairs and human rights; and pursuing nuclear non-proliferation.Based on these, it is clear that Beijing wants to do more but is not keen on replicating Washington’s political and military engagement in the region. In fact, China continues to remain wary of the ethnic and political fault lines inWest Asia. The challenge for Beijing will remain in deepening its stake while avoiding getting caught up in the region’s political disputes.China’s interests lie in, first, securing its energy supplies, given that it is heavily dependent on Saudi Arabia and Iraq and desires easier access to Iranian supplies. In contrast, West Asia is no longer critical to US energy security. Second, there is a desire to secure and expand Chinese infrastructure investments in the region. Third, while American, European and Russian exporters dominate the region’s arms market, Beijing has made inroads with drone sales and desires a bigger piece of the pie. Despite this, it is wary of the possibility of a nuclear-weapons race in the region, which can lead to tremendous instability. Fourth, China wants to engage regional players to build greater support for its approach to issues such as human rights, multilateralism and development and deployment of new technologies.Examining these, it is clear that there are areas where American and Chinese interests coincide. The American presence in the region allows a certain degree of free-riding for China, particularly with regard to security objectives related to terrorism, trade and energy. At the same time, Washington is unlikely to be opposed to Beijing committing more resources in this context. There’s also a chance for alignment on Iran and nuclear non-proliferation. US secretary of state Antony Blinken acknowledged this after the Anchorage dialogue with Chinese diplomats, identifying Iran and Afghanistan among two areas where the interests of both sides “intersect”. On values and emerging technologies, however, frictions are likely to persist and even deepen.Manoj Kewalramani is the chair of the Indo-Pacific Studies Programme at the Takshashila InstitutionThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/in-west-asia-where-us-and-china-s-interests-intersect-101618491969320.html
15-04-2021||Today's||Board exams cannot always work; find better ways to assess students||In the wake of the pandemic, the government has decided to cancel the Class 10 examination and postpone the Class 12 examination conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE). In the run-up to the decision, the questions most frequently asked included: Should we hold exams or not? Will colleges be comfortable accepting grades without the formal exam? But the question that needs to be asked is this: How can an externally-administered, end-of-year board exam be the only way to obtain an authentic and valid assessment of a child’s abilities?In my almost three-decade-long career, I have come across many students who did not make the 95%-above mark and were considered “unworthy”. Maybe they did not make it to the top colleges but are doing very well for themselves, despite scoring 80% or 60%. Board exams, clearly, end up categorising those who have great skills in pen-and-paper tests as successful and the others as not.It is sad and ironic that the assessment carried out by the school where the child has spent 12-14 years is less authentic/or of no consequence. Our internal assessment systems are not robust enough to give authentic and valid data on student achievements, which is why we cannot trust the grades we get in schools, and instead rely on the external exam.Also Read | CBSE decision on board exams: What states are doingThe answer also cannot lie in aping other international boards — they cater to either a tiny population, or a less varied social and cultural group.Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation (CCE) — a grade-based framework mandated by the right to education and then scrapped in 2017 — gave a glimmer of hope. A progressive idea, if did not stand the test of time perhaps because it focused more on reporting rather than assessing. More importantly, it continued to believe in a one-size-fits-all system.Only if we look at skills that are required in the workplace, and skills that make us more sensitive and participative global citizens, can we review and improve our assessment system, because only then will we give opportunities to develop these in the classroom. These include information literacy, digital and media literacy, collaboration, communication, research, data analysis, critical thinking, problem solving, among others. The traditional assessment system has not been able to develop these skills and cannot do so. Better teachers might still try and give opportunities in the classroom but constraints of time and of syllabus eventually lead them to encourage memorising and learning meaningless, outdated facts.Here, then, is what needs to change.First, recognise India is diverse. Every individual comes from a different set of cultural and social norms, has different abilities and talents, and cannot and should not be assessed in one way. Assessments will have to include elements of research, personal perspectives, and opportunities for displaying creativity/innovation. Children should also be allowed to show work that has been developed when given the opportunity to work at their own pace, with little constraints on time.Educating a child entails preparing the child for a life beyond school. Only when these skills are clearly listed and articulated will they become a part of the content and the pedagogical processes, and only then will schools give opportunities to develop these. Assessment will then have a clearly defined purpose, to evaluate whether the planned learning outcomes have been achieved, and to what extent.We will therefore have to develop assessments in school, often also called internal assessments. This will have to include student work through the year, be it a research piece in science, a critical appreciation of a book the child has read in languages, or an essay on contemporary issues in humanities, identified by the child. This will not only give an opportunity to the child to take time on a project but also allow her to form and express opinions. It will also allow for diversity – because contemporary issues vary from region to region, from floods in Bengal to cyclones in Odisha to pollution in Delhi to migration in the Northeast.Second, assessments will have to allow students flexibility in presenting their ideas via any medium, a movie or a monologue, in the written form or a painting. Languages will need to be assessed in not just all four skills — reading, writing, speaking and listening — but also in presenting ideas, comprehending what has been read or heard, discerning between real and fake facts, and in appreciating good forms of expressions, whether in the written form or spoken or in reel. We will also have to move from the idea of teaching a text to teaching the skill to appreciate and comprehend language in all its forms.Students will have to be given opportunities for collecting, processing and interpreting data and ideas. They will have to learn to wade through all sorts of information and choose the most appropriate resource. Each subject area will have to identify important attitudes and skills that need to be developed and provide opportunities within the classroom and subject area to develop and assess these skills. If we are able to achieve this, we will be armed with enough information about the student to be able to comment with confidence on skills and abilities. We will also give ample and diverse kinds of opportunities for every individual to demonstrate knowledge, understanding and abilities. Increasing the weightage of internal assessment grades in calculating the final grade is the way forward. The problem of standardisation can be easily met by using percentiles and not absolute scores.This might sound utopian and impractical. But we are already developing many skills and assessing these as we go along, informally. Both CBSE and NCERT have been progressively pointing in this direction. Every good teacher knows the value of a class discussion, of customised assessments and assessing varied skills. Every Holiday homework, which encourages research and interpretation, is assessing skills of data interpretation and information literacy. Every assessment of speaking and listening skills, which asks for personal ideas, and every book cover that children design, assesses creativity. We now need to formalise these, train teachers, create exemplar schools who walk the talk and support others. We also need to show honesty in our internal assessments and trust and belief in our systems.Richa Sharma Agnihotri is the Principal of Sanskriti School, New DelhiThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/board-exams-cannot-always-work-find-better-ways-to-assess-students-101618464177780.html
15-04-2021||Today's||Elections and violence do not make Bengal; its history and people do||“All because of Bengal…” is how it is put.“Were it not for the staggered elections in that state, the EVMs in Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu would have been opened by now and we would have had the results of the elections in those states…”“Were it not for Bengal, by now, there would have been curbs placed on the public to check the virus super-spreader and this spike might not have happened…”“All because of Bengal…”This hurts. It hurts Bengal, it hurts those who cherish Bengal. But more, it hurts the truth.And what is that truth? Let me put it in the form of five propositions.One, Bengal has known electoral violence for years now. Two, that violence has brought discredit to the state. Three, it needs to be addressed. Four, the Election Commission of India has to make note of it and factor it into its scheduling of elections in Bengal. Five, but — and here I might invoke the Bangla word that is also a Hindi word kintu — Bengal is bigger, much bigger, than this small tumour of violence in its life and its people are greater, infinitely greater than the unseemly, untypical and unwelcome “goons” who hide within the crevices of its society.Click here for complete coverage of West Bengal assembly electionThe word goon enjoys currency in the political discourse of the state. All parties use it to describe a category of men on the other side who would be ordinarily called thugs or toughs, generally strong-arming simple people by their aggressive and intimidating behaviour. The compliment is promptly reciprocated.The goon symbolises electoral violence in Bengal. The open secret about the goon is that he is not even remotely political. He is just what he is called — a goon. Looking up the word’s etymology I found the word comes from an American slang, though there is a view that the word goon is derived from the Hindi word goonda, which has the exact same meaning as how goon is used in English.The word thug is of established Hindi origin. But it cannot and does not describe the world from which have come Munshi Premchand, Acharya Narendra Deva, Subhadra Kumari Chauhan, Maitholisaran Gupt, Mahaprana Suryakant Tripathi Nirala or Mahiyasi Mahadevi Verma.A goon, likewise, as I said a little earlier, symbolises electoral violence in Bengal. But he cannot and does not symbolise Bengal. He does not have any title to Bengal or to being Bengali. Bengal is bigger far than any election that has been held in that state, greater than any event in its chequered life.Do I say this because it is the home of Thakur Sri Ramakrishnadeb and Srima Sarada? Of Swami Vivekananda and of Sri Aurobindo? Do I say this because it is the birthplace of Rabindranath Tagore, Bankimchandra and Saratchandra Chattopadhyay, Kazi Nazrul, Toru Dutt, Sarojini Naidu, Mahasveta Devi? Do I say this because from its soil have risen the great scientists JC Bose, PC Ray, Meghnad Saha? The great artists Jamini Roy, Nandalal Bose, Ram Kinkar, Somnath Hore? Great economists such as Amartya Sen, Sukhamoy Chakravarty, Ashok Mitra? Great statesmen such as Surendranath Banerjea, Chittaranjan Das, Subhas Chandra Bose, Ashutosh Mukherjee? And because it has inspired heroines in the freedom struggle such as Matangin Hazra and Pritilata Waddedar? Of course I do.Do I say this because by opening its heart to people from beyond its frontiers, it is Bengal that gave the greatest Muslim statesman of our times, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad, a home for years, gave non-Bengali teachers such as CV Raman and Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan their great renown, sent BR Ambedkar to the Constituent Assembly and in the very different field of cricket, as Ramachandra Guha tells me, gave Arun Lal, originally from Delhi, an opportunity to play for Bengal in the Ranji Trophy? Do I say this because some noble souls from outside our shores such as Ronald Ross, CF Andrews, WW Pearson, Tan Yun-shan and Elmhirst made Bengal their home and gave to it their skills and compassion, preceding Mother Teresa and her immortal example? Of course I do.But I say this primarily for another reason. A reason that has to do with another greatness, the greatness of its simple, ordinary people, farmers, mainly, mazdurs, professionals. In 2007, during the height of the Nandigram crisis, I stopped, without notice, at a hamlet near there called Muradpur. It consisted of not more than ten houses, around a pond. The occupants of each mud dwelling asked me to come in and spend some time with them. They asked for nothing, expected nothing. Some offered me food, some a little place to sit on. One homemaker welcomed me with an impromptu aarti. As she poured some drops of precious oil on the wick that she had hurriedly improvised, words lost all meaning. Only faith remained. Soundless.It is these simple people who make Bengal. They are Bengal. Let us be proud of them, be grateful for them. They deserve an aarti from the rest of India.Gopalkrishna Gandhi is a former administrator and diplomat who has also served as the governor of West BengalThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/elections-and-violence-do-not-make-bengal-its-history-and-people-do-101618401885782.html
15-04-2021||Editorials||On Covid, Delhi’s reactive strategy||One month ago, the early signs of a fourth Covid-19 wave began to appear in Delhi. The case trajectory had bottomed out on February 12 with 125 new cases, leading to complacency from the administration, laxity from the public, and premature vaccine jubilance from both. But it, then, slowly started to rise, with the average positivity rate jumping from 0.4% to 2.7% between March 1 and March 31. By then, Maharashtra was already in the grip of a raging outbreak, and reports of infections were growing across the country. The national daily case count went from 15,478 to 61,954 over the four weeks. It was clear that the question was not if, but when, the outbreak would reach Delhi. Delhi needed to act fast, and get ahead of the curve.But as the number of new Covid-19 infections have soared past previous peaks at an alarming rate over the last two weeks, it is clear the administration chose to be reactive rather than proactive. Some curbs were announced last week, when the daily case count was around 6,000. And on Thursday, after 17,282 new infections were reported the previous day, the government announced a weekend curfew. It has also shut gyms, spas and malls, allowed cinema halls to operate at 30% capacity, and shut dine-in facilities in restaurants. The curfew and the measures are steps in the right direction. But they have come when Covid-19 is taking a heavy toll again, and the Capital’s health facilities are in danger of being overwhelmed in days if trends continue. Delhi can still fight back with enforcement by the authorities and compliance by people, but things could have been prevented from coming to such a pass if the government and citizens had been more watchful. The next few days will be crucial.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/on-covid-delhi-s-reactive-strategy-101618493773147.html
15-04-2021||Editorials||A looming economic crisis||Exactly a year ago, when India was in the middle of a complete lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19 infections, most forecasters, institutional and private, had a bleak assessment of the Indian economy. A large number of them did not see the economy returning to 2019-20 levels of GDP even in 2021-22. These projections were revised favourably in late 2020, largely because of the fact that the easing of lockdown restrictions did not trigger a nation-wide second wave in India. That is not the case anymore. The second wave has come with a lag, but it is here — and it is more severe than the first. Daily new cases have broken past records, and many states — including economic hubs such as Maharashtra — have imposed lockdown-like restrictions. This is bound to have adverse consequences for the economy. The latest available economic indicator, which captures this, is the Nomura India Business Resumption Index (NIBRI), which fell to 90.4 in the week ending April 11, registering its biggest week-on-week fall. It will not be surprising if this downward trend continues. What is even more worrying is the fact that the sequential economic recovery was losing momentum even before the second wave hit India. This is best seen back-to-back, and growing, contraction in the Index of Industrial Production (IIP) in January and February. Indicators such as Purchasing Managers’ Index have been warning that employment levels have been going down even when production was increasing. The point is, if the choice between flattening the Covid-19 curve and economic hardship was difficult last year, it will be even more difficult this year, as businesses and workers are still nursing the wounds of the first lockdown. That the second wave has coincided with the beginning of the new fiscal year also means that even the conservative revenue targets in the Budget could be jeopardised. At a time when inflation is already on an upward trajectory, the petroleum tax route might not be an appropriate one to sustain government finances. The only difference between the first wave and the second wave is that India has vaccines now. The only effective way to safeguard the economy from another massive disruption is to relax both demand and supply for vaccines. The government has taken some steps towards both. It should do more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/bracing-for-economic-disruption-101618492329640.html
