18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh logs 625 Covid cases in record single-day spike||A record number of 1,684 people tested positive for Covid-19 across the tricity on Sunday, as both Mohali and Chandigarh hit an all-time high of 880 and 625 fresh cases, respectively.Though Panchkula district, which logged a record 349 cases on Saturday, saw a dip with only 179 on Sunday, it witnessed a steep spike in deaths, as four people succumbed to the virus. Meanwhile, Chandigarh and Mohali recorded three deaths each.The tricity and Mohali had reported the previous biggest single-day spike on Thursday, with 1,587 and 860 cases, respectively. In Chandigarh, it was recorded on Friday with 481 cases.As many as 6,211, 3,625 and 1,976 cases remain active in Mohali, Chandigarh and Panchkula, respectively, while the recovery rate has dropped to 81.4%, 88.1% and 87.2%, respectively.Mohali death toll goes past 500Worst-hit in the tricity, Mohali district has recorded 9,381 cases and 69 deaths in just 18 days this month, up from 6,315 cases and 48 deaths throughout March. Mohali city continues to report bulk of the cases, with 370 surfacing on Sunday, followed by 194 in Kharar, 136 in Dhakoli, 57 in Dera Bassi, 55 in Gharuan, 32 in Boothgarh, 20 in Lalru, 11 in Kurali and five in Banur.The tally has climbed to 36,073 cases, of which 29,360 people have recovered, including 448 discharged on Sunday, and 502 have died. 28-yr-old among 3 dead in UTA 28-year-old woman is among the three persons who died of Covid-19 in Chandigarh on Sunday. She was a resident of Mauli Jagran and was also suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome and acute kidney problem. The other two have been identified as a 52-year-old man from Sector 24 and 62-year-old woman from Sector 29, both with comorbid conditions. While the UT’s death toll has climbed to 413, 29,896 of the 33,934 people tested positive so far have recovered. In April alone, 6,935 cases and 34 deaths have been reported.P’kula records four fatalitiesFour patients died in Panchkula on Sunday, taking this month’s total to 14 and overall death toll to 168.In the first three months this year, only 12 deaths were reported — five each in January and March and two in February.Those who died include three women, aged 52, 66 and 86, from Hangola, Sector 20 and Sector 8, respectively, besides a 67-year-old man from Sector 15. All were suffering from other underlying conditions too.The district has reported 16,788 cases so far, of which 14,644 have been cured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-logs-625-covid-cases-in-record-single-day-spike-101618770088510.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||Mobile app to track growth of trees||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) will soon launch a mobile application to maintain a count of trees and monitor their growth, officials familiar with the matter said.Subhash Yadav, divisional forest officer and head of urban environment division, GMDA, said, “We are starting work on counting of trees in Gurugram. An application has been created for this purpose also and the numbering of the trees will be done through a tender process. This data of every tree will be uploaded on the application for further monitoring, helping us in the creation of a database. Once the application is functional, every citizen will be able to check the number of trees on a particular road.” An official said that the application has been developed by the geographic information system (GIS) division of the GMDA and is being tested at present. Sultan Singh, chief geospatial officer and head of the GIS division for GMDA, said that the application will be used to monitor the growth of trees in green belts and is being trialled at present. “We are testing the application and should be able to launch soon. Due to rising Covid-19 cases, all resources are being used for monitoring that, but the application for monitoring the growth of trees is ready. With this application, citizens can also upload details (related to growth or health) of any particular tree. The system will have details like name, species, the diameter of the trunk, photograph,” said Singh. He added that after all the details have been added to the database, an intervention to improve the green belts in the city will be done on a bi-yearly basis. The authority has invited tenders for the project, and proposals can be submitted by May 7. Once a company is selected, counting of trees will be done over a period of two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mobile-app-to-track-growth-of-trees-101618769970927.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||Property dealer held for frauds amounting to over ₹1 crore||The police on Friday night arrested a 41-year-old property from Sector 40 for allegedly duping over two dozen people of at least ₹1 crore on the pretext of selling them plots and apartments in prime locations.The suspect, identified as Naveen Chandela of Paudi Garhwal in Uttarakhand, fled the city last year and moved to Bengaluru in Karnataka but returned to Gurugram for some work, the police said. He was arrested by the crime investigation unit of Sector 40.Preet Pal Sangwan, assistant commissioner of police (crime), said the suspect posed as a developer and used an entourage of 14 others for the frauds, in which he made around ₹1.2 crore. “Chandela showed flats across the city to potential buyers and disappeared after taking the booking amount,” he said.Sangwan said they recovered two gold chains, three gold biscuits, two gold bangles and a Haryana developer’s licence from his possession. “We have taken him on seven-day police remand and will be questioning him to ascertain if he was involved in more frauds in Bengaluru and other cities,” he said.Sangwan said they came to know of the frauds after a contractor of the Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP), who was duped, approached the police. Mithelesh Kumar, who works as an HSVP contractor, told the police that he met Chandela, who identified himself as the managing director of AHI Housing, through a friend in February 2020.The police said that when Kumar expressed an interest in investing in properties, Chandela showed him a few flats in sectors 48, 49 and 72, following which Kumar made an advance payment of ₹16.8 lakh for three flats in March 2020.Kumar, in his complaint to the police, said that initially, Chandela kept delaying the process, attributing it to the Covid-19 pandemic. “He started ignoring my calls and later switched off his mobile phone. When I visited his office on Sohna Road, I found it closed,” he said.The police said that Kumar realised he was duped after learning about similar instances during enquiries at nearby offices. A case was registered under sections 406 (fraud), 420 (cheating) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 50 police station on March 30. Nearly two dozen people were duped in a similar manner, the police said.Sangwan said that many fraudsters were found to have a realtor’s licence in the past as well. “There have been multiple cases where suspects applied and availed of the licence to show their authenticity,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/property-dealer-held-for-frauds-amounting-to-over-1-crore-101618769969543.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||2,401 new Covid-19 cases take total tally past 80K||The total count of Covid-19 cases in the district crossed 80,000 on Sunday, with 2,401 new infections reported on the day, according to the health department data. Officials said that the positivity case spiked to 14% on the day, surging from around 10% reported over the last week, which is a cause for concern as it indicates a spread of the virus.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that they have ramped up testing and vaccine outreach has also been expanded. While 3,000 tests were conducted on average in the first two weeks of March, the department collected 11,278 samples on Sunday. “We have issued directions to private hospitals to admit only those patients who are serious and require hospitalisation. Also, they must upload the latest data on the availability of beds. Government teams also conducted surprise inspections at private hospitals to check the status of beds to ensure easy access to patients,” said Yadav. Due to the continuous surge in cases, the district administration directed officials of government departments to hold meeting through videoconference, instead of physical ones, and residents to fix appointments through the Saral video application to discuss their issues with officials concerned.The 2,401 new infections took the total number of cases to 81,725. As per the details shared by the health department, two Covid-related deaths were also reported on the day, taking the total number of deaths due to the virus to 378. The fatality rate in the city stands at 0.4%. On Saturday, Gurugram recorded 2,549 cases, the highest single-day spike reported in the city since the outbreak of the Covid-19 pandemic. Health officials said that one of the reasons for the high number of daily cases is that the latest Covid strain is infectious. On Sunday, the health department noted that 894 patients also recovered on the day, taking the total recoveries to 69,151. However, due to the rising number of cases, the rate of recovery has gone down from 90-99% and stands at 84% at present. The health department on Sunday also vaccinated 3,172 eligible beneficiaries at 60 session sites, including private and public hospitals. Till date, the department has vaccinated 310,000 people in the city. Dr Yadav said that while they working hard to expand vaccination among the eligible population, the low level of vaccination at private hospitals has remained a matter of concern. “To resolve this issue, the health department will ramp up vaccination outreach at sub-centres and also maximise the use of vaccine vans to hasten this effort,” said Yadav. Earlier in the day, the Gurugram district administration issued an order asking government employees and the general public to hold meetings through videoconferencing in view of the rising Covid-19.cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2401-new-covid-19-cases-take-total-tally-past-80k-101618769970311.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents fall ill, water contamination suspected||Members of at least 100 households of The View, a residential society in Sector 37 D’s Ramprastha City, fell ill over the last three days, citing contamination of drinking water.Residents said that the problems started surfacing on Friday, as members of a few families reported nausea and diarrhoea, and the situation worsened on Saturday as more residents reported health illnesses.Neeraj Chauhan, a resident of the condominium said that initially, residents thought that this problem was caused due to change of weather, but when over half of the residents fell ill, the alarm bells started ringing. “My children, wife and I suffered these symptoms and had to take leave from office. Most of the residents are suffering due to contamination of water inside the colony,” said Chauhan. Residents said that the instances of vomiting and other illnesses reduced on Sunday after the water was drained from the tank and fresh water filled in them. “We strongly suspect that water supplied in the last three days was contaminated and the samples must be tested. Such an incident should not get repeated,” said Chauhan. Officials of the maintenance agency of the condominium said that water was supplied by the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA), but that other societies in the area did not report any such issue.“We have got the tanks cleaned and checked the entire supply system but have not found any leakage which could have cause contamination. On Monday, these tanks will be cleaned again and the treated water supplied to flushing systems will also.be drained. For the next few days we will use only freshwater, to find out the problem,” said Sanjay Chaudhary, general manager of Aero Inframart Pvt Ltd, the maintenance agency. Officials of the GMDA ruled out any problem at their end. Pardeep Kumar, chief engineer of infrastructure-II division of GMDA, said, “It is an internal matter of the society, our supply is completely fine and disinfected. They have a sewage treatment plant installed inside the compound, from where water has been supplied for flushing and other purposes using dual pipe system. We do not know whether the society does regular maintenance or not, but our water supply is as per standards.”Members of the residents’ welfare association said that they strongly suspect that there was contamination of water either due to leakage in the pipelines. “The water in the tanks had too much chlorine and this is beyond the amount that is used by the supplying agency. We have asked the maintenance agency to get water samples tested,” said a senior member of the RWA, wishing anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/residents-fall-ill-water-contamination-suspected-101618769968843.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||Injured hyena dies during treatment||A hyena that was found injured in the Aravalli forests of Faridabad on Sunday was rescued by the wildlife department but despite their efforts, the animal died during treatment due to serious injuries, said officials familiar with the matter.Ravi Dubey, of the People for Animals Trust, Faridabad, where the hyena was sent for treatment, said that the animal suffered serious injuries to its right leg, most probably from an accident. “The animal was undergoing treatment at Devashrya Animal Hospital but succumbed to injuries. The actual cause of death will be confirmed on Monday after the post-mortem examination report is made available. Prima facie, it seems like the animal must have been injured due to an accident that led to the injury to its right leg. The hyena is also blind, so it might not have been able to find food in the past two days,” said Dubey. Charan Singh, the wildlife inspector for Faridabad, said, “On Sunday morning, we got a call from a resident named Sandeep Yadav, who had spotted the hyena near Badkhal forest area. We rushed our team to the spot and rescued the animal, who was then sent for treatment.” Sunil Harsana, a wildlife researcher and resident of Faridabad, said, “It is unfortunate that the hyena has died, but this indicates a good presence of the animal in the region. The area where it was found has a lot of fragmentation of forests, with different roads leading to Gurugram, Faridabad and Delhi. Given that a hyena is being found here, despite such fragmentation, indicates the presence of the animal in good numbers.” A recent study conducted by the non-profit Centre for Ecology Development and Research (CEDAR), showed a good presence of hyenas in the corridor connecting Gurugram Aravallis, Faridabad Aravallis and the Asola Wildlife Sanctuary in Delhi. Being shy and nocturnal, hyenas are difficult to spot, but their presence was recorded through signs like pugmarks, dung pellets, scat, kills and scratch marks. After 2017, hyenas from the landscape have also been camera-trapped by wildlife researchers multiple times. As scavengers and mid-level predators, hyenas play an important role in the ecosystem.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/injured-hyena-dies-during-treatment-101618769968232.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||GMDA to take measures to curb waterlogging at Iffco Chowk underpass||The Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority will start work on correcting the alignment of the Iffco Chowk underpass and fix the underground drains next month to check waterlogging at the spot, officials said.During the construction of the underpass, a small section of the existing drain was inadvertently left behind, which is causing waterlogging since it was opened in March 2019, said officials of the GMDA.Officials said that the existing drain is located on an incline, which has caused a bottleneck at the spot and severely limited the capacity of the existing drainage outlet. Only a fraction of the water flows to the master drains, while the rest causes flooding of the underpass due to backflow, said officials.“During construction of the underpass, one section of the drainage line was inadvertently left behind. It is hampering the drainage capacity of the new line and only a fraction of water is passing through and eventually, flowing towards GMDA’s master leg 2. The rest of it flows back and causes the underpass to flood every time there is heavy rain,” said a senior GMDA official with its infrastructure division.The official cited above said that the GMDA will fix the problems by widening the 350-metre affected section and introducing a pipeline parallel to it, to ensure rainwater flows to the other end at “optimum capacity.”“Iffco Chowk is one of the 19 most critical waterlogging points in the city and its reasons for flooding were examined earlier this year. We are looking to start work by next month and finish it before the monsoon season,” said the official. Waterlogging has been a major problem at the underpass. In August 2019, following heavy rains, the underpass was inundated and closed for 26 hours. “We have identified around 20 (19) critical most waterlogging points in the city. Work has been executed on various fronts to ensure minimal amount of rainwater accumulates at each of these points,” said Sudhir Rajpal, chief executive officer (CEO), GMDA.The senior official of the GMDA cited above said the authority has completed de-silting the master drains on Mehrauli-Gurgaon (MG) Road. In addition, the GMDA is also planning on building a culvert near the underpass for ensuring more rainwater can be drained out of the junction.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-take-measures-to-curb-waterlogging-at-iffco-chowk-underpass-101618769967453.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||DTCP pulls up landowner for constructing farmhouses without licence||The Department of Town and Country Planning (DTCP) on Saturday issued a notice to a landowner for illegally developing farmhouses on a large plot in Sohna without seeking requisite permissions from the authorities. The violation was flagged by the director of TCP. RS Bhath, district town planner said that enforcement team on Friday visited the site in Bhogpur village and found that farmhouses were being constructed on 20 acres without a licence. “We found that several plinths were laid and boundary walls were under construction. A notice has been issued to the landowner and we will soon take action,” he said. A large number of illegal farmhouses in the Aravallis in Sohna are already under the scanner and notices have been issued for demolishing the same. DTCP officials said that buyers should refrain from purchasing such properties. Last month, the DTCP carried out a demolition drive against a similar farmhouse colony that was being developed on Pataudi Road. Ashish Sharma, assistant town planner, said that landowner should apply for permissions to develop farmhouses as per the government’s policy. “Illegal carving of farmhouses won’t be allowed,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/dtcp-pulls-up-landowner-for-constructing-farmhouses-without-licence-101618769908654.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||Man arrested for murdering live-in partner||Four days after a woman’s body was recovered from a room in Chakkarpur, the police arrested her live-in-partner from Gurugram on Sunday after an autopsy of the body revealed that she was smothered to death, the police said. He was produced in court and send on police remand. The police said they received a call about the body on April 14, around 11.30am.Preet Pal Sangwan, the assistant commissioner of police (crime), said, “The room was rented by the couple who used to work in the city. They had claimed to be married to the house owner. It was found during investigation that they were not married and had met two years ago through a common friend.”The police said that after the woman’s body was found, they tried reaching out to her partner, but could not trace him. However, after finding out that it was a case of murder, the police intensified their search and arrested the suspect, identified as Aakash, while he was trying to flee to the New Delhi Railway station. An FIR was registered against him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code at Sector 29 police station on Sunday. The police said that the suspect was planning to return to his wife in his home town, which triggered a fight. “They used to often fight and on April 13 night, they fought after drinking liquor. The woman threatened him that she would publically release a private video if he left for his village. We are yet to find any such video,” said Sangwan. Sangwan said that the neighbours suspected she died due to overconsumption of liquor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/man-arrested-for-murdering-live-in-partner-101618769907876.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||MCG removes unipoles from Sohna Road, Southern Peripheral Road||Amid an ongoing inquiry on the lack of action taken by the Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) against illegal unipoles, the civic body removed such structures from Sohna Road and Southern Peripheral Road (SPR). Last month, during the MCG House meeting, following allegations of inaction against illegal unipoles and complaints raised by councillors, mayor Madhu Azad had initiated an inquiry in the matter.On Saturday evening, MCG officials removed at least a dozen such illegal structures from the two stretches. “By not taking action against illegal unipoles, MCG is losing out on several ends — one, its land is being illegally encroached and the other is that the MCG is losing out potential revenue it can gather from advertisers. Hence, the matter is under inquiry,” said Azad.There are around 90 authorised unipoles for advertising, said MCG officials.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/mcg-removes-unipoles-from-sohna-road-southern-peripheral-road-101618769907317.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Oxygen shortage forces BMC to shift 168 Covid-19 patients from 6 hospitals||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had to shift 168 Covid-19 patients from six civic-run hospitals as these facilities ran out of oxygen, a top official said on Sunday.These patients had to be moved to other hospitals early on Saturday, he said."Between 1 am and 5 am on 17 April, the civic authorities shifted 168 patients from Mumbai's six hospitals, including 30 from the ICUs, to jumbo field hospitals of the BMC, saving the life of each one of them," Mumbai civic chief Iqbal Singh Chahal said.It had to be done because these six hospitals ran out of oxygen owing to the problem of limited oxygen being supplied to the BMC, he said.However, BJP leader Kirit Somaiya demanded an apology from the Mumbai mayor over the oxygen shortage that led to the incident."Shame on the Uddhav Thackeray-led state government and the Shiv Sena. The BMC was compelled to shift 168 Covid patients, including those in the ICU, as there was no oxygen in six civic-run hospitals," Somaiya said.The Shiv Sena currently rules the Mumbai civic body.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/oxygen-shortage-forces-bmc-to-shift-168-covid-19-patients-from-6-hospitals-101618766338181.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Chandni Chowk market to remain closed till April 25 due to Covid surge||Delhi's Chandni Chowk market will remain shut till April 25 in view of the exponential rise in Covid-19 cases, the traders association announced on Sunday.The Delhi Kirana Committee of Khari Baoli Market and the Chemical Merchant Association of Tilak Bazaar also announced closure of markets till April 21."Today Chandni Chowk Sarv Vyapar Mandal in an emergency meeting with its members has decided to request its members to keep their establishment closed till April 25 in light of very serious condition of the virus spreading at a very large volumes. We will take a decision after assessing the condition on next Sunday," Chandni Chowk traders body president Sanjay Bhargava said in a statement."The most alarming aspect is the galloping positivity rate and shortages of hospital beds, oxygen, ventilators and medicines and other medical facilities in use of the epidemic," he added.Several market associations had on Friday called for strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols and expressed that lockdown is not a solution.Keeping in view of the current scenario of Covid-19, a meeting was held amongst all major retail markets and suggested that that there should be more strict enforcement of Covid-19 protocols during the day as well rather than just depending on measures like night curfew/weekend curfew and lockdown.In a joint statement issued by over 12 market associations, they had expressed a common view that implementing lockdown is definitely not a solution to take charge of the current pandemic.The weekend curfew, aimed at breaking the chain of spiralling coronavirus infections, was clamped at 10 pm on Friday and will continue till 5 am on Monday.Delhi on Sunday reported 25,462 Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in the national capital till date, according to data shared by the Health Department.The city also reported 161 deaths, while the positivity rate shot up to 29.74 per cent, also the highest so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-chandni-chowk-market-to-remain-closed-till-april-25-due-to-covid-surge-101618766228688.html
18-04-2021||Indore||To break chain of rising cases, MP CM asks people to stay indoors till April 30||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Sunday asked people to stay indoors till April 30 to break the chain of rising coronavirus infection.The CM's appeal triggered speculation that the ongoing "corona curfew", which is in force in many parts of Madhya Pradesh till April 23, maybe extended till April 30."It is very necessary to break the chain of the coronavirus infection in view of the rise in the cases...No one should come out of house unnecessarily till April 30," Chouhan said in a statement.The CM also said the people should observe a "Janata curfew" in villages, localities, colonies and buildings etc during which only two to four persons should bring necessary items for others.Chouhan appealed to people to wear a face mask and follow social distancing norms.He said Madhya Pradesh has received about one lakh Remdesivir injections since April 8."A government supply of 12,000 injections is received on Sunday. The state will start receiving about 20,000 injections from April 20," he stated.Currently, "corona curfew" is in place in several districts of Madhya Pradesh, including Bhopal and Indore, till April 23.Besides, there is the weekend "corona curfew" in the state on Saturday and Sunday.Meanwhile, the corona curfew will come into effect in Damoh, where the Assembly byelection was held on April 17, from 10 pm on April 19 till 6 am on April 26.With 12,248 fresh cases on Sunday, the highest single-day spike, Madhya Pradesh's case tally went up to 4,08,080. The death toll stood at 4,557, as per the state health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/to-break-chain-of-rising-cases-mp-cm-asks-people-to-stay-indoors-till-april-30-101618765263809.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab sees another single-day spike of 4,957 new Covid cases; tally at 300,038||Sixty-eight more people died from coronavirus in Punjab on Sunday as the health authorities reported another record daily spike of 4,957 cases, pushing the state’s infection tally to 300,038.On Saturday, the state had witnessed its highest daily increase of 4,498 cases.With 68 more fatalities in the past 24 hours, the death toll climbed to 7,902 in the state, according to a medical bulletin.Eleven deaths were reported in Amritsar, nine in Gurdaspur, seven in Patiala and six in Rupnagar.Mohali reported 880 cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 742 in Amritsar, 686 in Ludhiana, 445 in Jalandhar and 379 in Patiala. The number of active cases stands at 34,190.A total of 3,141 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 2,57,946, the bulletin said.There are 48 critical patients who are on ventilator while 429 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said.A total of 6,607,723 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said.Meanwhile, the Ludhiana district administration on Sunday declared Dugri’s Urban Estate, Phase 1 and 2, as containment zones in the wake of a surge in Covid-19 cases.Deputy Commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma said the two areas will be sealed with effect from 9 pm on Sunday till further orders.Meanwhile, Chandigarh recorded its highest-single day spike of 625 cases, taking the infection tally to 33,934.On April 16, the city had reported 481 infections. Three more fatalities took the death toll to 413 in the joint capital of Punjab and Haryana, according to a medical bulletin. The number of active cases was 3,625, it said.A total of 411 patients were discharged after they recovered from the infection, taking the number of cured people to 29,896, the bulletin added.A total of 3,62,406 samples have been taken for testing so far, of which 327,401 tested negative while reports of 123 samples are awaited, it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-sees-another-single-day-spike-of-4-957-new-covid-cases-tally-at-300038-101618762122586.html
18-04-2021||Ranchi||Govt orders closure of edu institutions; wedding attendees cut to 50||Chief minister Hemant Soren on Sunday announced that all schools, colleges, coaching, training and aanganwadi centres will remain closed for one month in wake of surge in coronavirus cases in the state.The chief minister (CM) also announced that all school and college-level examinations and entrance tests will stand cancelled till further orders.“The government will review the situation after a month. In the meanwhile, it may resort to further restrictions if situation doesn’t improve,” Soren said.The number of attendees at weddings was also limited to 50 from the existing 200 in the state.The CM said the government was working on to increase the number of oxygen-supported beds at all medical colleges and hospitals, besides focusing on procuring life-saving drugs.“While the government is doing everything to increase the number of oxygen-supported beds, it has been noticed that occupancy of beds is also very high. This indicates that infection is spreading very fast. We can’t say how long it will go on ,” the CM said, while also urging citizens to not take the pandemic’s second wave lightly.“The second wave is more destructive than the earlier one. It has gripped people of every age, including children and youngsters. I will urge young people not to step out of their homes unless necessary. Stop going out and wandering, otherwise things will go beyond control,” he cautioned.Earlier on Saturday last, Soren wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi to allow use of doctors and paramedical association with high number of central paramilitary forces stationed in the state to support the state in the ongoing battle against the virus. He also convened a meeting of all political parties and discussed ways to ameliorate the situation.Besides advocating for a lockdown, party leaders demanded to increase availability of beds, oxygen cylinders, medicines and testing. They also highlighted alleged reports of patients’ harassment and exploitation by some private hospitals. Jharkhand on April 17 reported 3,838 positive cases and 30 deaths, while active cases climbed to 25,619.The state has so far reported 158,953 cases, including 131,928 recoveries, 25,619 active cases and 1,406 deaths. It has, so far this month, discovered as many as 34,752 positive cases with daily average of over 2,044 cases and reported 292 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/govt-orders-closure-of-edu-institutions-wedding-attendees-cut-to-50-101618764447011.html
18-04-2021||Other||Fearing lockdown, migrants start returning home, no jobs in hand||PATNA/MuzaffarpurAfter a gap of several months, migrant labourers returning to their native villages from states like Maharashtra, Punjab and New Delhi amid fears of another nationwide lockdown and job losses has once again become a common sight at railway stations across Bihar. Nripendra Kumar (50), living in Mumbai for over two decades, returned to his native village Jaffarpur in Purnea district on Friday after the sudden alarming spread of coronavirus in Mumbai. “I was left unemployed, with nothing to sustain there.” “I, my wife and a 20-year-old son returned by special train. At Katihar junction, we underwent rapid antigen tests and were negative luckily,” Kumar said.Similar is the scene in Muzaffarpur.Rohit Kumar (35), who managed to get a job in Mumbai after a lot of difficulties in January this year, too returned by a special train on Saturday evening. “I had lost my job at Mumbai last year due to the lockdown. I again managed to get one this year, but announcement of night curfew by the Maharashtra government reminded me of the problems last year, when I and my family members had virtually reached the stage of starvation. I didn’t want this happen again. So, I have decided to return well in time,” Kumar says, adding that he would now look for a job at his native place.Md Shamim, who had planned to join work as a foreman at an industrial unit Devas in Madhya Pradesh, has got his train ticket cancelled. “I have now discarded the idea and would like to stay here,” he said.Raju Kumar, who used to sell Pav Bhaji at a roadside stall in Ludhiana, says he doesn’t want to walk back home on foot like the last year. “So I caught a Jainagar-bound train to reach Muzaffarpur on Friday. I am happy to be here,” he says.No registration this timeUnlike last year, when there was a heavy inflow of migrant returnees, the state government this time has not issued any guidelines for the registration of migrants returning to their villages for alternative employment.Muzaffarpur’s district magistrate Pranav Kumar said any registration for returnees would only be started after getting directions from the state headquarter. Katihar DM Udyan Mishra said though there was no registration camp this time, the administration kept details of returnees since they were being tested for Covid-19. “Those testing positive are either sent to isolation centres or they are home quarantined with medicines and they are under constant medical observation,” he said.Food security“We have not started any special drive for providing foodgrains to migrant returnees so far. Last year, foodgrains were given free under Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana from April to November,” said Vinay Kumar, secretary, food and consumer protection department.He said the state government had already added 23.89 lakh ration cards last year, including of migrant returnees, giving coverage to one crore people under the national food security programme. “We have enough foodgrains for providing subsidized ration to all 8.50 crore people covered under the act,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fearing-lockdown-migrants-start-returning-home-no-jobs-in-hand-101618764387055.html
18-04-2021||Other||NMCH boss offers to quit, cites oxygen shortage||PATNAIn a blow to the state health department’s claim about handling Covid-19 patients, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) medical superintendent Vinod Kumar Singh has urged the government to relieve him from the charge owing to difficulties in treating those in serious condition for lack of oxygen.Singh’s letter asking the department to relieve him from the charge surfaced on Saturday night. In the letter addressed to the principal secretary of the department, he has said he did not wish to own the accountability of patients’ miseries for want of oxygen.Singh alleged that oxygen cylinders was being taken away from the hospital, even through the flow of patients suffering from Covid infections kept pouring in. Hospital officials said they required 400-500 cylinders per day against the current supply of 150-200 units.Principal secretary (health) Pratyay Amrit could not be contacted for his comment.With 8690 fresh cases of Covid being detected in the last 24 hours, the number of active cases have crossed 50,000 mark in Bihar. The situation, particularly in Patna, has turned alarming with none of the hospitals, including private ones, are ready to take fresh cases, citing non-availability of beds.Meanwhile, as many as 11 persons infected with Covid died in the past 24 hours while undergoing treatment at Gaya-based ANMMCH. So far, the district has witnessed 25 Covid deaths. Reports said eight Covid patients died in course of treatment at NMCH during the past one day.The Patna high court has also taken serious exception to the report of non-availability of medical care to the patients and directed the government to make sure that none should die for want of oxygen and medicines. Hearing a public interest litigation (PIL), the division bench of Patna high court comprising Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Mohit Kumar Sah on Saturday scrutinised the steps being taken by the health department to combat the pandemic and asked it to file fresh and incisive report about the preparations by Monday, which is the next date of hearing in the case.Meanwhile, union minister of state for health Ashwini Choubey took stock of preparations at the railway hospitals for treating Covid patients and directed the Drug Controller of India to ensure adequate supply of Remdesvir, a critical anti-viral in Covid treatment, in all railway hospitals at the earliest.The recovery rate in Bihar, which was over 95% during the first phase of the pandemic, has come down to 89.70%.The health department has so far conducted tests on more than 2.50 crore people for Covid, in which more than three lakh were found to be infected with the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nmch-boss-offers-to-quit-cites-oxygen-shortage-101618764327732.html
18-04-2021||Other||No lockdown for now; Bihar clamps night curfew, Sec 144 to fight virus||PATNABihar will not go in for lockdown but will impose night curfew from 9 pm to 5 am and close all government and private educational institutions and postpone exams till May 15 to break the chain of Covid-19 pandemic, which has witnessed unprecedented spurt in the state in the last one month, with addition of 8,690 cases in the last 24 hours that took the tally of active cases to 50,000. Announcing this after marathon meetings with the district magistrates and later with the crisis management group during the day, chief minister Nitish Kumar said Sunday that section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC) will be imposed as per requirement in town areas and block level during the day to prohibit assemblies of four or more individuals and avoid any crowding. “The district magistrates will ensure that vegetable mandis and roadside vending are staggered and not crowded. All public places like malls, cinema halls, gyms and parks as well as religious places will remain closed and restaurants and dhabas will only provide home delivery or takeaway facility. There will be a cap of 100 people for marriage and ‘shradh’ functions. The government and private offices, already running with one-third attendance, will close by 5 pm while shops will close by 6 pm. Earlier, it was 7 pm. However, it will not apply to essential services,” he said. The announcement was on expected lines after Saturday’s all-party meeting, which was not unanimous on complete statewide lockdown in the state that has a large number of people working in other states. The CM, however, appealed to all the people living outside to return as early as possible, as delay will cause problems to them, hinting that the government might review the situation in the days to come to decide on sterner measures. “The government will make all arrangements. Those in home isolation will be monitored on a daily basis, while those returning will be provided with quarantine facilities like last year at the subdivisional level. A lot of deliberations have been done on every aspect,” the CM said, adding that it was decided to wait for some time before deciding on the possibility of lockdown. Kumar said the government has also taken a decision to develop containment zones like last year to contain the spread of pandemic and increase number of beds in dedicated Covid hospitals and care centres, besides boosting awareness campaign for Covid-appropriate behaviour. The CM said that during the meeting, all aspects were discussed, including reports of oxygen shortage, medicine requirement, especially Remdesivir, and delay in RTPCR reports. “The emphasis will be on fast-tracking testing and vaccination. Early start of treatment is important and for that timely availability of RTPCR reports will be ensured,” he said. The CM said that like the last year, the panchayati raj department will start supply of masks in the rural and urban areas in larger numbers. “Like last year, the government has also decided to give one-month additional salary to doctors and health workers in view of the enormous work they are doing to meet the huge pandemic challenge,” he said. Health minister Mangal Pandey said that the government was ensuring smooth supply of oxygen and Remdesivir injection as also other medicines. “We are in touch with the suppliers and smooth supply will be ensured,” he said. After getting detailed feedback from all the political parties on the prevailing Covid-19 pandemic situation in Bihar at a meeting called by Governor Phagu Chouhan on Saturday, the CM had said that the government would announce further measures to contain the spread of virus on Sunday after seeking reports from all the district magistrates. Covid curbsNight curfew from 9 pm to 5 am, no assembly of 4 or more persons All educational institutions shut and exams put off till May 15 Malls, cinema halls, gyms, parks, religious places to stay shutContainment zones like last year to check spread of pandemic||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-lockdown-for-now-bihar-clamps-night-curfew-sec-144-to-fight-virus-101618764327014.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||7,177 Covid-19 cases recorded in Haryana, highest in Gurugram||Twenty-nine more people died from coronavirus in Haryana on Sunday as it reported another big spike of 7,177 cases, taking the state's infection count to 3,56,971, a Health Department bulletin said.So far, the infection has claimed 3,415 lives in the state.On Saturday, the state had recorded its biggest single-day jump of 7,717 infections.Among the districts that reported a big spike in cases were Gurgaon (2,401), Faridabad (998), Sonipat (573), Hisar (521) and Karnal (501).Four people died in Kaithal and three each in Jind, Yamunanagar, Hisar and Faridabad.With Haryana witnessing a surge in cases in the past one week, the number of active cases in the state now stands at 42,217.So far, 3,11,339 people have recovered from the disease with the recovery rate hovering around 87.22 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/7177-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-haryana-highest-in-gurugram-101618763887201.html
18-04-2021||Pune||12,675 fresh Covid-19 cases and 46 deaths in Pune district on Sunday||Pune district reported 12,675 fresh Covid-19 cases and 46 deaths in 24 hours, as reported by the state health department.Pune district has reported 0.625 million progressive cases, of which 0.594 million have recovered. The death toll stands at 8,873 and 1,22,486 is the active number of cases.As per the state health department, Pune rural reported 3,402 new cases taking the total of 1,69,541. With nine deaths on Sunday, the death toll went up to 2,339.Pune city reported 6,541 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the final count to 3,77,347. Thirty-six deaths were reported on Sunday which puts the death toll at 5,040. PCMC reported 2,732 new Covid-19 cases. With one death reported on Sunday, the toll went up to 1,439.Pune district also saw less than 25,000 beneficiaries receive the vaccine on Sunday. Pune city saw 8,412 beneficiaries, Pune rural saw 9,560 beneficiaries, and PCMC saw 6,521 beneficiaries get the jab.Of the 24,493 beneficiaries, 22,558 are Covisheild and 1,934 are Covaxin doses. Also, vaccinations took place at 312 sites.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/12675-fresh-covid-19-cases-and-46-deaths-in-pune-district-on-sunday-101618762346954.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||'BJP pressurising cops': Maharashtra minister on pharma firm Remdesivir stock||Maharashtra home minister Dilip Walse Patil on Sunday accused the BJP of trying to pressurise the Mumbai police and interefere in their work, and warned that such attempts will not be tolerated.Talking to reporters, he said the city police had received a specific input that 50,000 vials of Remdesivir were being brought to the city, and added that the director of Bruck Pharma was called for questioning on Saturday in that connection.But Leaders of Opposition in the state legislature, Devendra Fadnavis and Pravin Darekar, along with their colleagues, went to the police station and asked the officials as to why the company director was called and for what, Walse Patil said."Police can call anybody for questioning and the BJP leaders' actions amounts to pressuring the officials and interfering in the official work. Such action is not right and will not be tolerated in future," he said.To a question on whether the police will take action against the BJP leaders, Walse Patil said he would discuss the issue with his colleagues and take appropriate decision.The Remdesivir stock was not seized, but we feel the stock was more than 50,000, he added.The company director showed the permission letter from the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) for selling the stock to the Maharashtra government, the minister said.Earlier, when the FDA gave permission to the company director Rajesh Dokania to supply stock to Maharashtra, he had expressed inability to honour the commitment, Walse Patil said."A probe is on whether the stock was to be sold to private parties or to the government. The stock is at present with the company. It was not going to the government. Investigation is being carried out to find out to whom it was being given," he said.The stock cannot be sold to political parties, he said.Meanwhile, Maharashtra Congress president Nana Patole demanded action against Fadnavis and Darekar for "pressurising police to let off" the pharma company direction, who is suspected of hoarding Remdesivir injection stock.In a letter to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, Patole claimed that Fadnavis had told the police that the Remdesivir stock was brought with the permission of union ministers."When Remedisivir cannot be sold to private parties, how did Fadnavis get permission? Has the central government given its nod to the BJP and Fadnavis to hoard Remdesivir?'' he asked.According to police, they had got information that the Remdesivir stock was going to be flown abroad by air cargo, despite a ban on the export of the drug.Police questioned Dokania on Saturday night. On learning about it, Fadnavis and Darekar had rushed to the police station. Their appearance at the police station has now triggered a political slugfest between the Shiv Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government and the opposition party over the paucity of healthcare supplies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-pressurising-cops-maharashtra-minister-on-pharma-firm-remdesivir-stock-101618761072678.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Marathe suicide abetment case: One accused sent to police custody||One of the two people arrested for abetment to suicide of Pune-based jeweller Milind Marathe (60) was remanded to police custody, while the other was admitted to Sassoon hospital over health complications on Sunday.Furthermore, the police have also invoked the Maharashtra Money Lenders Act against the two.The one in police custody was identified as Nilesh Umesh Shelar, a resident of Sangam Chowk in Kothrud while the one in hospital was identified as Dipti Saroj Kale who is currently recovering at the Sassoon general hospital.Considering arguments by the defense and the health of Dipti Kale, who is admitted in Sassoon hospital, she was granted judicial custody until April 20. Nilesh Shelar was granted police custody until April 23,” said advocate Tosif Shaikh, who appeared for the accused in the court, through text message.The arrested man was demanding money that he had allegedly given to Marathe in the capacity of the money lender, according to the police.The police have seized two mobiles phones, a laptop, an iPad, and some documents from the two. However, the mobile phone used by Shelar to contact Marathe is yet to be seized, according to the police submission to the court.The police also submitted to the court that the two appear to be a part of a bigger “white collar” racket.The case is now under Sections 306 (abetment to suicide), 452 (house-trespass after preparation for hurt, assault or wrongful restraint), 386 (extortion by putting a person in fear of death or grievous hurt), 504 (insult with an intention of provoking breach of peace), 506 (criminal intimidation), 507 (criminal intimidation by an anonymous communication), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code along with Sections 39 and 45 of Maharashtra Money Lenders Act.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/marathe-suicide-abetment-case-one-accused-sent-to-police-custody-101618760666961.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Brigadier-rank AFMC officer dies by suicide||A senior army officer died by suicide at the Pune railway station on Sunday morning, according to Government Railway Police (GRP) of Pune. The deceased was identified as a brigadier-level officer of the Armed Force Medical College (AFMC), Pune. He lived alone in the officers’ quarters in Pune while his family is in Bhubaneshwar, Odisha, according to the police. “Information about the death of an army person at Pune railway station was reported by the railway police to the army authorities. The body of the deceased individual has been identified as a serving officer from AFMC Pune. Further details are being ascertained,” read a statement from a defence spokesperson. “He was working at the AFMC, from what we have gathered,” said Sadanand Vayse-Patil, superintendent of police, Government Railway Police (GRP), Pune. The officer allegedly jumped in front of the Solapur-bound Udyan Express that was on its way to Bengaluru. The train departed from Pune at 11:50 am on Sunday from platform number three where he allegedly jumped in front of the train. “He told his car driver that he will go to MCO. He went to platform 1 and crossed the railway tracks to reach platform 3 where the train was moving. He kept his head on the tracks and there are eye-witnesses to this,” said police inspector SL Rokade-Salunkhe of GRP Pune. There was no note found on his person or in his officer’s quarters which were checked by GRP officials. The GRP Pune has registered an accidental death report (ADR) in the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/brigadierrank-afmc-officer-dies-by-suicide-101618760366884.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports 25,462 Covid cases in a day for first time, positivity rate at 30%||Delhi recorded an increase of over 25,000 Covid-19 cases, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, on Sunday, according to health bulletin from administration. With this, the total tally has reached 853,460. The national capital also saw 161 people succumbing to the disease on the last 24 hours, the health bulletin showed, with the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal flagging the spike as a "major concern".Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe surge in the number of cases has caused Delhi's positivity rate (number of samples testing positive from total samples) to reach nearly 30% from 24% just a day ago. The rapid pace at which the cases are increasing in Delhi has led to a shortage of beds for patients at hospitals in the city.“Cases are increasing at a fast rate and Covid-19 beds are getting occupied across the city. People are getting admitted in hospitals at an unprecedented rate. There is a major crisis of ICU beds. There are less than 100 ICU beds left in Delhi. We are facing a major shortage of oxygen too,” Arvind Kejriwal said earlier in the day.The chief minister has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in which he described the Covid-19 situation in Delhi as extremely serious. “There is a severe shortage of Covid-19 beds and oxygen supply...We need your help. Central government hospitals in Delhi collectively have around 10,000 beds, of which 1,800 are reserved for Covid-19. In the light of the severity of the situation, I appeal to you to reserve at least 7,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. There is a severe shortage of oxygen supply too. Please arrange oxygen for Delhi,” he wrote in the letter.Later in the evening, Arvind Kejriwal took to social media to say that Delhi’s oxygen supply has been reduced and announced that oxygen has become an emergency in the national capital. "Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DEL," the chief minister wrote on Twitter.The Delhi government had also appealed for Covid care coaches at two railway stations in the city. The request was accepted within a few hours and Union minister Piyush Goyal informing about the same. The Northern Railways has deployed 50 isolation coaches, each having two oxygen cylinders, at Delhi's Shakur Basti railway station and 25 such facilities will be placed at Anand Vihar by Monday, the railways ministry said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-25-462-covid-cases-in-a-day-for-first-time-positivity-rate-at-30-101618758638340.html
18-04-2021||Other||Pune district’s total ICU beds with ventilators on par with Mum, Delhi... but only 10 available||PUNE The Pune administration has been able to ramp-up its bed capacity, which has now ensured that the ICU and ventilator capacity in the district is almost on par with Mumbai and Delhi. Zilla Parishad CEO, Ayush Prasad said, “We do not have as many large government hospitals as Mumbai and Delhi, but we have been able to add ventilators, oxygen beds and also ICU beds without ventilators every day. Thanks to these efforts we now have as many ventilators as Mumbai or Delhi. The administration is also looking to procure oxygen concentrators and an oxygen generation plant through CSR and government funds to further increase oxygen beds.”The administration has been able to add new beds each day to fight the virus.As of Sunday, Pune district had 1,305 allocated ICU beds with ventilators, of which, only 10 were available. Also, of the 1,940 ICU beds without ventilators, only 82 were available as per the dashboard. This is in comparison with Delhi, which has 1,250 ventilators, and Mumbai which has 1,339 ventilators. As per the PMC dashboard, Pune city had only two ventilators available, and no ICU beds without ventilators. PCMC had only one ventilator available, though it did have 69 ICU beds without ventilators.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-district-s-total-icu-beds-with-ventilators-on-par-with-mum-delhi-but-only-10-available-101618760066741.html
18-04-2021||Pune||21-year-old arrested for killing minor in Fursungi||A minor boy was among two people booked for the murder of a 16-year-old boy over an argument they had while swimming in a well in Chandwadi village in Fursungi area. While the adult has been remanded to police custody, the police are yet to apprehend the minor in the case. The deceased was identified as Rehman Prashant Vanve (16) also known as Rehman Ansari and a resident of Mahadevnagar in Manjari-Budrukh. The arrested man was identified as Rohit Kadam (21) who worked in an automobile showroom nearby and has been remanded to police custody until April 23 by a local court on Sunday. The deceased, a Class 9 student, lived in the same area as the two accused and was a part of a group of local boys who went to the well in Fursungi to swim regularly, according to the police. “They went there often with seven to eight other people. That day after swimming they were at the edge of the well and they had a scuffle over something after which these two pushed him in the well. The well is 70 feet deep with 30 feet of water,” said police sub inspector RS Dhaware of Hadapsar police station who is investigating the case. The boys did not try to save him and threw his phone away before fleeing the spot, according to the complaint in the matter. A complaint in the matter was lodged by the father of the deceased child, Prashant Vanve (35), a resident of Mahadevnagar in Manjari-Budrukh area near Hadapsar. A case under Sections 302 (murder), 201 (destruction of evidence), and 34 (common intention) of Indian Penal Code was registered at Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/21yearold-arrested-for-killing-minor-in-fursungi-101618759886852.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Maha-Metro successfully completes underground tunneling work beneath Mutha riverbed||The Maharashtra Metro Railway corporation ( Maha Metro) has successfully completed the 30-metre difficult underground tunnelling work crossing the Mutha riverbed stretch near Shivajinagar. Maha Metro started the actual tunnelling work in March for the stretch between Civil court to Budhwar peth. With this, Pune city has become the fourth city after Kolkata, Chennai and Mumbai where an underground Metro rail crosses the river. Within few days of starting the work, Maha-Metro by March end entered the riverbed of the Mutha river. The total width of the riverbed is 90 metres and of that, water flows in the 30 -35-metre stretch. The remaining part of the riverbed is dry, Maha-Metro reached exactly below the water in two-three days and went down 18 metres beneath the actual ground level. Atul Gadgil, Maha-Metro director said, “We have crossed the 30–35-metre stretch beneath the river. We have almost reached the other side of the edge of the riverbed and we will pass it in the coming two-three days.” According to Maha-Metro officials, Metro rail will operate below the surface beneath Mutha river at 28 metres which is the lowest point of the metro route. The tunnel is six meters below the lowest point of the river. After that there is a seven-meter ridge of the tunnel. According to Metro officials, the rail level below the surface at Mutha River is 28 meters which is the lowest point of the metro route. The tunnel will be six meters below the lowest point of the river. After that there is a seven-meter ridge of the tunnel. Pune metro has an underground stretch measuring 5.019 km in its PCMC to Swargate corridor. There are five underground stations. Among these five metro stations, there are three stations where Maha-Metro is erecting multi-modal hubs and other transport models would be connected to each other. The city, as per plan, has three metro corridors being developed by Maha-Metro, the state government company. It will cover a total distance of 31 kilometers (a 16-km stretch from Pimpri to Swargate and another from Vanaz to Ramwadi at an estimated cost of ₹11,420 crore). Besides Pune, the Kolkata metro crosses the Hooghly river where the tunnel has been dug 33 metres below the riverbed. In Mumbai, the Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation (MMRC) completed one of the twin tunnels passing under the city’s Mithi river. The two tunnels, one of which is complete, are almost 12.5m below Mithi river. Chennai has an operational line under water with the proposed Metro line passing through 20 metres deep under the depths of the Adyar river and Chepet Lake while travelling between Madhavaram and Sholinganallur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/mahametro-successfully-completes-underground-tunneling-work-beneath-mutha-riverbed-101618759766810.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Two arrested for forging RT-PCR reports sent to five-day police custody||The two men arrested in the case of forging RT-PCR test results by using name of a private laboratory in Pune were found to be technicians who have worked with several laboratories in the city in the past, according to police. They were remanded to police custody of Deccan Gymkhana police station until April 23 by a local court. The two arrested men were identified as Sagar Ashok Hande (25), a resident of Sangam Chowk area of Pune and a native of Nanded, and Dayanand Bhimrao Kharate (21), a resident of Warje Malwadi area of Pune and a native of Osmanabad. “They found a loophole when people started contacting them directly to collect swabs. We are investigating what kind of kits they used to collect these swabs of which they forged the reports. There are cases where the patients are actually positive and they have given them false negative reports,” said senior police inspector Murlidhar Karpe of Deccan Gymkhana police station. The men are suspected to have multiple other accomplices and have duped 10-15 people so far, according to the police. The men have worked in two to three laboratories across the city and have a working knowledge of how the RT-PCR tests for Covid-19 infection is conducted and the method of issuing reports to the patients. “GenePath labs got suspicious after someone who had developed symptoms came to them saying that their test was negative. In one other case, in one place on the report the accused had forgotten to edit the name of the person they had earlier sent it to. The laboratory got even more suspicious after they saw that the letterhead on which these reports were shown had been scrapped by the lab in the past,” said police sub inspector Abhijeet Kudale of Deccan police station. The laboratory whose name they were misusing was identified as GenePath Laboratories located on Jangli Maharaj road, Pune. The administration manager of the lab, Rupesh Shrikant Nale had lodged a complaint at Deccan police station about the forged reports in the name of his employer being circulated in the city. A case under Sections 419 (personation), 320 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 468, 469, 471 (using forged as genuine), and 336 of the Indian Penal Code was registered at Deccan police station||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/two-arrested-for-forging-rt-pcr-reports-sent-to-five-day-police-custody-101618759106734.html
18-04-2021||Dehradun||20 patients escape from coronavirus care centre in Uttarakhand||Hoodwinking the authorities, 20 patients escaped from a Covid care centre at Narendra Nagar here, officials said here on Sunday.The matter came to light when doctors visited the wards at the centre on Saturday night for a regular check-up, Chief Medical Superintendent Niraj Rai said.Thirty-eight people were being treated there, of which 20 were found missing, said Chief Medical Officer Suman Arya.Two of those who escaped belonged to Uttarakhand while the rest were from outside the state, she said.Seven of them were from Rajasthan, four each from Uttar Pradesh and Odisha and three from Haryana, she said.A case has been registered against the missing patients under the Disaster Management and Epidemic Diseases Acts and a search has been launched for them, Narendra Nagar SHO Shanti Prasad Dimri said.Adequate police personnel have been deployed at the care centre following the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/dehradun-news/20-patients-escape-from-coronavirus-care-centre-in-uttarakhand-101618756050535.html
18-04-2021||Other||Students suffer due to strict restrictions, many stuck in the city||PUNE For Shailesh Patil, it’s one suffering in a lockdown-like situation. Patil has been stuck in Pune for the last one month. “I had come back to Pune to study and prepare for my competitive examinations. Now, curfew orders have made my life miserable. Even my regular canteen has closed down and I have very limited money to even go back to my village in Solapur,” said Patil.Like Patil, there are thousands of students who are struggling to find daily meals and other facilities due to the strict restrictions imposed in the city. “Currently, my friend and I are both staying in a rented flat in Gokhale nagar. I am doing my post-graduation from Pune university and my friend is working. Now, we have to cook our own food at home. We fear travelling back to our hometowns,” said Mitali Gandhi, a student. Pune is an educational hub and every year lakhs of students from across the country come here for studies or to prepare for competitive examinations. Sadashiv peth, Navi peth, Kothrud, and the Bharati Vidyapeeth areas are where a large number of students live in hostels, as paying guests or in rented flats. An entire economy is set up to cater to the students, right from food, groceries, and study material. “As the student numbers have gone down, business is also low. When all the things were opened up and students were returning, business was going on well. Now again it is affected,” said Rohan Nalawade, a bakery and ice-cream shop owner in Navi peth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/students-suffer-due-to-strict-restrictions-many-stuck-in-the-city-101618758386735.html
18-04-2021||Other||50-bed complex, with oxygen, at Vithoba Maruti Pathare sports complex in Kharadi lies empty||While relatives are running helter-skelter for beds for their loved ones infected with Covid-19, a 50-bed complex is lying empty at the Vithoba Maruti Pathare sports complex in Kharadi.The city’s Aam Admi Party (AAP) visited the complex, but, found the doors were closed.“We were informed by a local resident in Kharadi about his isolation unit. Upon reaching the place, we found that the doors to the sports complex were closed, with one side-door open. Upon entering we saw rows of oxygen beds ready for patients, complete with oxygen lines. They also had other, medical equipment ready,” said Dr Abhijeet More, who heads AAP in Pune.“These beds had a cover of dust and there was no one around,” he added. It is a case of unforgivable negligence when people are struggling to get a single bed,” said Ganesh Dhamale, part of the AAP team who visited the site.Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) health department chief, Dr Ashish Bharti, said, “Who says that there is dust at this site. We are still working on getting it ready. There are some jobs left to finish, otherwise, the stadium is ready to look after 50 patients with oxygen beds and a line of oxygen supply. We have the bathrooms, waiting area, two separate halls for men and women, and a reception area ready; but, there are some small things to finish and hence, we have not opened this facility.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/50bed-complex-with-oxygen-at-vithoba-maruti-pathare-sports-complex-in-kharadi-lies-empty-101618757426762.html
18-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan records 10,514 fresh Covid-19 cases, 42 deaths||Forty-two more people died from coronavirus in Rajasthan on Sunday as a record 10,514 cases surfaced, the highest so far since the outbreak of the pandemic in the state last year.The infection has killed 3,151 people in Rajasthan, which has reported 4,14,869 infections so far, according to a health bulletin.Meanwhile, shops and offices, except those dealing in essential services, remained closed due to a weekend curfew imposed by the state government to check the coronavirus spread.Two Congress MLAs--Amin Kagzi and Krishna Poonia—too tested positive for the virus. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot wished them speedy recovery.With fresh infections, the number of active cases in the state stood at 67,387, the bulletin said.Of the 42 deaths on Sunday, 13 were reported in Kota, seven in Jodhpur, four each in Jaipur and Udaipur, three in Bikaner, two each in Alwar and Churu, one each in Bharatpur, Dausa, Dungarpur, Ganganagar, Nagaur, Rajsamand and Sikar.The maximum 1,963 infections surfaced in Jaipur, 1,695 in Jodhpur, 1,116 in Kota, 1,001 in Udaipur, 550 in Bhilwara, 546 in Alwar, 350 each in Ajmer and Bundi, 330 in Bikaner, 201 in Dungarpur and 197 in Sikar.According to the bulletin, 3,084 more patients recovered from the infection in the state, taking the number of cured people to 3,44,331.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-records-10-514-fresh-covid-19-cases-42-deaths-101618755410066.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi: Manpower crunch, infected lab professionals delaying Covid-19 test reports||Amid rising Covid-19 cases in Delhi, private diagnostic labs are witnessing a spike their staff contracting the infection, snowballing into delayed tests results."There is definitely a surge, many laboratory data entry personnel and lab people are being tested positive for Covid-19," Dr Gauri Agarwal, Founder Director of Genestrings Labs told ANI."There is a continuous hiring process, you have to train the people and get them into the system... problem is with the manpower not with the machines," she added.Delhi, on Saturday, recorded 24,375 fresh Covid-19 cases and 167 deaths in one day..Nearly 99,000 coronavirus tests were conducted on Friday while 82,569 tests were carried out on the preceeding."Covid testing has gone up and there is a massive surge in calls for home collection which is difficult to handle. There is no problem with infrastructure or machines. Problem lies with govt-mandated rule to do ICMR entry within 24 hours," Agarwal said.Sunday was the fourth consecutive day of over 2 lakh cases in the country. As many as 2,61,500 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in India in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 1,47,88,109 and death toll has reached 1,75,649.Dr Gauri says that the second wave of Covid-19 seems to have affeceted youngsters mostly- that's what the sample collection by her lab indicates."A lot of young people testing Covid positive as compared to old people. Symptoms are different this time. Many are complaining of dry mouth, gastrointestinal issues, nausea, loose tools, red eyes and headache. Everyone does not complain of fever," she said."Last time there was a lockdown. This time there is no precautions taken. Everybody is on street yet the fact that there no beds, no medicines," she added.She also cautioned people to follow Covid-19 appropriate behaviour, avoid cloth mask and instead use N95 mask.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-manpower-crunch-infected-lab-professionals-delaying-covid-19-test-reports-101618755558018.html
18-04-2021||Noida||Noida reports 700 new Covid-19 cases, highest-ever spike since March last year||Uttar Pradesh's Noida on Sunday recorded 700 new coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases which pushed the overall tally in the district to 30,530, according to state government's health bulletin. This is the highest-ever spike in daily Covid-19 cases in the district since the pandemic began. The death toll in Noida stood at 103 as three Covid-related deaths were reported in the past 24 hours, the bulletin said. The numbers of active cases in the district stood at 3,327 as 147 patients were discharged from the hospitals on Sunday with which the total recoveries stood at 27,100, it further showed.Read more: How bad is Covid-19 situation in Delhi-NCR? Here’s what you need to knowThe Yogi Adityanath-led government last week announced a Sunday lockdown across all districts of Uttar Pradesh till May 15. According to the state government’s order, all districts will remain under lockdown from 8pm Saturday to 7am on Monday. On the first Sunday (April 18), Noida witnessed low footfall and empty roads, as per news agency ANI. Only essential services were allowed in the district as all shops, markets, commercial institutions and offices remained closed. Sanitisation work was also taken up by the authorities during the period. The state government has also increased the penalty amount for people flouting the mask mandate to ₹1,000 and ₹10,000 for repeat offenders.District magistrate Suhas L Y said on Friday that the adequate number of hospital beds are available in Noida for the treatment of Covid-19 patients adding that there will be no shortage of Remdesivir medicine in the district as crucial drugs for treatment and oxygen supply are available in the hospitals of the district.Read more: Commuters between Delhi and Noida to face increase in random Covid tests"Number of beds in hospitals is being increased and there is adequate number of beds but people should not insist on being admitted to any particular hospitals. Arrangement has been made for crucial drugs and oxygen also. Availability of Remdesivir is a challenge and the state government has to some extent made it available. At the local level, tie up has been done with the manufacturer of Remdesivir to make the medicine available at the government hospitals," Suhas said, as per news agency ANI.Uttar Pradesh registered the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases as well as fatality count on Sunday, with the disease claiming 129 more lives, while 30,596 fresh cases pushed the tally to 851,620. With 9,041 patients recovered from the disease between Saturday and Sunday, the total number of recoveries in the state stood at 650,333. The death toll due to the viral disease stood at 9,830 and the number of active cases stood at 191,457.(with agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-reports-700-new-covid-19-cases-highest-ever-spike-since-march-last-year-101618754014485.html
18-04-2021||Lucknow||Uttar Pradesh records highest single-day rise of 30,596 Covid-19 cases||Uttar Pradesh registered the highest single-day rise in Covid-19 cases as well as fatality count, with the disease claiming 129 more lives, while 30,596 fresh cases pushed its tally to 8,51,620.Briefing reporters here, Additional Chief Secretary (Health) Amit Mohan Prasad said in the last 24 hours, 30,596 fresh Covid-19 cases were reported from the state, while 9,041 patients recovered from the disease.A total of 6,50,333 Covid-19 patients have so far recovered from the disease in the state, he added.With the 129 fresh fatalities, the death toll due to the viral disease rose to 9,830, the official said.Of the 129 fresh Covid-19 deaths, 22 fatalities were reported from Lucknow, followed by 15 from Prayagraj, 10 from Varanasi, eight from Kanpur, six from Etawah, five from Mathura and four each from Bareilly, Moradabad, Rae Bareli and Gonda.Of the fresh cases, Lucknow reported 5,551 cases followed by 2,011 from Varanasi, 1,839 from Kanpur and 1,711 from Prayagraj.The count of active Covid-19 patients in the state stands at 1,91,457, he added.Prasad also informed that over 3.82 crore samples have so far been tested in the state, including over 2.36 lakh in the last 24 hours.An official statement issued here said Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has asked Medical Education Minister Suresh Khanna to monitor the current situation of oxygen supply and its projected use in the next 15 days.Adityanath, who is in self-isolation after testing positive for Covid-19, undertook a review meeting with senior officials on Sunday to ensure adequate medical grade oxygen supply in the state, amid a massive surge in its demand for critical Covid-19 patients."Uninterrupted supply of oxygen should be ensured in all the hospitals for the next 36 hours and oxygen cylinders should be regularly replaced in all districts," he said.The capacity of ICU and isolation beds in the 12 most affected districts of the state, including Lucknow, Prayagraj, Moradabad, Jhansi and Kanpur, will be doubled with immediate effect, he said.The chief minister also asked the medical education minister to increase the facilities at GSV Medical College, Rama Medical College and Naraina Medical College in Kanpur.Complying with the CM's order to set up 10 new oxygen plants at different locations of the state, a liquid oxygen plant of 20,000 litres has been installed at SGPGI in lucknow. The DRDO is also lending support in setting up another nine new oxygen plants, the statement said.The chief minister also instructed the department of Food Safety and Drug Administration to keep a constant watch on the availability of various medicines, including Remdesivir.He asked the health minister to keep an eye on the availability of medicines and its entire chain of supply.Taking note of the fire incident at one of the hospitals in Chhattisgarh recently, the chief minister directed officials to test fire safety equipment at all government and private medical institutions of the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/uttar-pradesh-records-highest-single-day-rise-of-30-596-covid-19-cases-101618754298416.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||‘Oxygen an emergency in Delhi', says Kejriwal; will meet Lieutenant Governor tomorrow over Covid-19 situation||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that Delhi is battling an acute shortage of oxygen as it fights to check the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a tweet on Sunday evening, he also declared that oxygen has become an emergency in the national capital.Also Read: Kejriwal says will work with MCDs to defeat Covid, blame game begins soon after"Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DEL," Kejriwal tweeted.Del facing acute shortage of oxygen. In view of sharply increasing cases, Del needs much more than normal supply. Rather than increasing supply, our normal supply has been sharply reduced and Delhi’s quota has been diverted to other states. OXYGEN HAS BECOME AN EMERGENCY IN DELThe chief minister will meet Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Monday over Covid-19 situation in the national capital, news agency ANI reported.Kejriwal had said earlier on Sunday that around 25,500 new Covid-19 cases have been reported in Delhi and the positivity rate has increased to nearly 30 per cent in a 24-hour period.Kejriwal said the current number of fresh cases is "extremely overwhelming" compared to mid-March when 100-150 Covid-19 positive cases were being reported daily."If this pace continues then within the next two to three days, we will face a shortage of beds and other facilities. In a way, this is a race against time," he said.Also Read: ‘Need your help’, Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM ModiKejriwal also said the Delhi government has sought the Centre's help in ensuring adequate beds and oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients. He also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting his help in enhancing the number of hospital beds and immediate oxygen supply for patients in Delhi.Also Watch: 'Just grab it...', top doctor on Kejriwal saying Delhi low on ICU bedsHis Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government also urged the Indian Railways to arrange up to 5,000 beds in view of the rising cases in the national capital.Acting on the chief minister's request, the Northern Railways deployed 50 isolation coaches, each having two oxygen cylinders, at Delhi's Shakur Basti railway station and 25 such facilities will be placed at Anand Vihar by Monday, General Manager Ashutosh Gangal said on Sunday.These coaches, modified for Covid-19 patients, have been divided into eight bays or 'cabins' with each having 16 beds. Every coach has three toilets and a bathroom with hand showers, buckets, mugs and seating arrangement.Mosquito nets, bio-toilets, power sockets and oxygen cylinders are available at the coaches. Also, space has been created to hold IV-fluid bottles. Extra bottle holders and clamps have been provided to hang them.On Sunday, Kejriwal wrote a letter to Union commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal, requesting him to ensure uninterrupted supply of 700MT of oxygen on daily basis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/oxygen-has-become-an-emergency-delhi-needs-more-normal-supply-arvind-kejriwal-101618754237846.html
18-04-2021||Patna||Covid-19: Bihar to observe night curfew from 9pm-5am; Cinema halls, malls to be shut till May 15||Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Sunday that a night curfew will be imposed across the state between 9pm to 5am in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), extending the closure of all educational institutions till May 15.During the night curfew, all shops selling fruits, vegetables and poultry will close by 6pm. Restaurants and dhabas (eateries) will only do home deliveries and take away services till 9pm, Kumar said, according to new agency ANI. “Cinema halls, malls, clubs, gyms, and parks will be closed till May 15,” he added.All government offices will function with one-third of the workforce and have to close by 5pm, Kumar said.Places of religious worship will also be closed till May 15, and not more than 25 people will be allowed to assemble for last rites. Only 100 people will be allowed to attend weddings, the chief minister said.Night curfew (9 pm to 5 am) will remain in place across Bihar. All shops selling vegetables, fruits, eggs & meat will be closed by 6 pm. Restaurants & dhabas to be operational for home delivery & take away services till 9 pm: Bihar CM Nitish Kumar pic.twitter.com/qy5VdKb5y2The decision of night curfew in Bihar comes a day after Governor Phagu Chauhan called an all-party meeting to review the current Covid-19 situation. Senior leaders of the ruling Janata Dal (United) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and those of opposition parties such as the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD), the Congress, and the CPI (ML) among others were a part of the meeting which was conducted virtually.JD(U) state chief Umesh Kushwaha suggested during the meeting there has to be an improvement in the storage of medicines, vaccines and oxygen cylinders for the benefit of the residents, PTI reported.However, RJD Tejashwi Yadav accused the state government of mismanaging the pandemic and also stressed on making sure there is adequate supply of oxygen and beds in all hospitals. Yadav said there should be mobile vans for vaccinating people living in Mohallas and sought the reduction in time period for providing results of Covid-19 tests which according to him is taking almost a week now.Bihar on Saturday saw another single-day high of 7,870 new Covid-19 disease cases as the situation is worsening day by day. Thirty-four more people lost their lives during the same period. The state’s caseload has mounted to 315,427 including 1,722 deaths and 39,497 active cases. The recovery rate has also fallen down to 86.39 per cent, the bulletin showed.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/covid19-bihar-imposes-night-curfew-from-9pm-to-5am-101618752502387.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||BJP trying to ensure Maharashtra doesn't get Remdesivir: State minister Malik||The NCP on Sunday accused the BJP of trying to ensure Maharashtra does not get Remdesivir stock, and wondered why state BJP leaders got scared when Mumbai police questioned the director of a Daman-based company manufacturing the drug used for treating Covid-19 patients.Referring to the appearance of top Maharashtra BJP leaders late Saturday night at the BKC police station after the pharma firm director was grilled, state minister and NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said "something is fishy".Remdesivir is listed for use in serious Covid-19 patients. In view of a sudden spike in demand of the drug due to the surge in Covid-19 cases, the Centre last week banned its export till the situation improves.The police on Saturday questioned Rajesh Dokania, director of Bruck Pharma, a Daman-based pharmaceutical manufacturing company that manufactures Remdesivir vials, following information that thousands of vials of the drug to be flown out of the country, an official said.The opposition BJP in Maharashtra objected to the pharma executive's grilling by Mumbai police, saying the state government was playing politics amid the pandemic.It now appears that the stock had been arranged by the BJP for distribution in Maharashtra.On learning that Dokania was being questioned, Leader of Opposition in the state Assembly Devendra Fadnavis and LoP in the Council Praveen Darekar rushed to the police station.Talking to reporters here on Sunday, Nawab Malik said "when two leaders of opposition and two legislators go to the police station late in the night after detention of Dokania, something is fishy"."The BJP is trying to ensure that Maharashtra doesn't get its stock of Remdesivir," alleged Malik, whose party shares power in the state with the Shiv Sena and Congress.Why did the state BJP leaders get scared? The BJP leaders should explain to the people of Maharashtra why they were "favouring" Dokania, he said.Malik also said that after the Centre banned the export of Remdesivir, Dokania had approached the Maharashtra government and sought permission to sell it in the state.State Food and Drug Administration (FDA) Minister Rajesh Shingane had met Dokania along with Darekar, he said.Malik said when the police got information that there was Remdesivir stock with the company, Dokania was called for questioning. But, Fadnavis and Darekar along with two BJP legislators Prasad Lad and Parag Alavani reached there.Why did they have to do this? Malik asked."When Dokania showed papers that the FDA permission was given for selling the medicine, he was let off. BJP leaders should clarify what is their link with Dokania," he said.Meanwhile, state NCP chief and Water Resources Minister Jayant Patil in a tweet said, "With shortage of #Remdesivir, last night @MumbaiPolice rightly fulfilled their duty to check any supply malpractices/hoarding.""The real Q is: Can any BJP leader, without any info to State govt/Local authorities/Police, procure lakhs of lifesaving drugs @PMOIndia. It's a new low," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bjp-trying-to-ensure-maharashtra-doesn-t-get-remdesivir-state-minister-malik-101618749257154.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal says will work with MCDs to defeat Covid, blame game begins soon after||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s appeal to the commissioners of the three municipal corporations to increase Covid-19 beds in hospitals run by the civic agencies, triggered a blame game on Sunday despite the CM stressing that cooperation between the Centre, state and the municipal bodies was the only way to defeat the pandemic when record infections threatened to overwhelm the healthcare infrastructure in the Capital."I request all three MCDs to provide more beds, we are ready to provide things which will be needed. The Delhi government is preparing beds on a large scale in Yamuna Sports Complex and Commonwealth Games Village. I request all (the) three MCDs to give maximum medical infrastructure and manpower so that we can use them properly," Kejriwal said in a statement released by Delhi government.Hospitals under the civic bodies in Delhi include Kasturba Hospital, Hindu Rao Hospital, Maharishi Balak Ram Hospital, and Girdharilal Hospital. Several of them reserved beds for Covid-19 patients during previous waves of infection recorded in Delhi. While some of them were recently approved as Covid-19 hospitals by the Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA), few others were still awaiting the approval, said a senior official of the DDMA. Delhi’s lieutenant governor Anil Baijal is the chairperson of the DDMA. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal is the vice chairperson.The meeting with commissioners of the three municipalities was held through video conference late Saturday evening and was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and health minister Satyendar Jain, as per the statement.In a separate briefing on Sunday, Kejriwal said Delhi recorded around 25,500 new cases in the last 24 hour cycle and a positivity rate of 30% -- up from around 24,000 new cases and a positivity rate of around 24%, reported the previous day. He said less than 100 ICU beds remained available for Covid patients and urged the Centre to increase the number of reserved Covid-19 beds to 7,000 from the current 1,800 in the city and also increase the supply of oxygen to hospitals, citing the rapid surge in cases.Kejriwal also asserted that the Delhi government was ready to initiate a door-to-door vaccination drive if permitted by the central government and sought municipal corporations’ support for such proposals. He also underlined that the current crisis could only be solved if all worked together."Central government, Delhi government and MCDs will work together. Only then we will be able to handle the current surge of Covid in Delhi. Even in the first wave, the central government, Delhi government and MCD had successfully worked together in Delhi. We will all work shoulder to shoulder for the people of Delhi and the country. If we get permission from the central government, then we will start door-to-door vaccination on a large scale in Delhi. We need your help," Kejriwal was quoted as saying in the statement. The three MCDs are run by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and have often been at loggerheads with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by Kejriwal.It didn’t take long for the blame game to start after Kejriwal’s appeal to the three MCDs. AAP accused the municipal bodies of irresponsible behaviour during the pandemic.“On one side, the Kejriwal government is making an all-out effort to deal with the Covid-19 situation but, on the other side, BJP-ruled MCDs are betraying residents of Delhi. The BJP-ruled MCD has around 3,127 hospital beds in Delhi but they have not provided a single bed for Covid-19 patients yet. It is very shameful that at a time when every citizen is extending their help for Covid-19 patients, the BJP-ruled MCDs are busy doing politics,” said the AAP’s in charge of municipal affairs Durgesh Pathak.The BJP dismissed the claims as “baseless”.“Before levelling such baseless allegations on MCDs, Mr Durgesh Pathak should ask his Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal as to why the Delhi Government is not allowing MCDs to use their hospitals for Covid patients’ treatment. All three MCDs last week itself offered in writing their maximum possible hospital infrastructure for treatment of Covid patients but till today Kejriwal Government has approved only two such offers. They are the ones causing the delay,” said Delhi BJP spokesperson Praveen Shankar Kapoor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-says-will-work-with-mcds-to-defeat-covid-blame-game-begins-soon-after-101618746319919.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt files cases against 4 airlines for not checking RT-PCR reports of passengers coming from Maharashtra||The Delhi government on Sunday registered FIRs against four airlines claiming that they failed to check negative RT-PCR reports of passengers travelling to the national capital from Maharashtra, news agency ANI reported. These airlines are IndiGo, Vistara, SpiceJet, & AirAsia, ANI further reported.These cases have been filed under the Disaster Management Act, according to officials quoted by ANI."It has been observed that a large number of passengers took flights from Maharashtra to Delhi without a valid RT-PCR report. The Delhi government has written to the SHO of Indira Gandhi International Airport to lodge FIRs against Indigo, SpiceJet, Vistara and Air Asia," news agency PTI reported quoting a Delhi government official.In a statement, IndiGo said that it has not received any FIR. Vistara and SpiceJet have not issued any statement on the development.When contacted, an Air Asia spokesperson said, "AirAsia India confirms that we are in compliance with guidelines and protocols issued by the respective regulatory bodies. We would also like to clarify that we have not received any information from any authority on this matter."The stringent action comes at a time when the national capital is recording is witnessing a surge in daily Covid-19 cases which crossed 24,000 mark on Saturday.The Delhi government last week made it mandatory for passengers coming from Maharashtra to carry negative RT-PC report which is not older than 72 hours before departure. Passengers who are found positive will be quarantined at home or hospital for 10 days. Those without a negative report will be placed in quarantine for a period of 14 days, it had said.The surge in number of cases led Kejriwal to seeking the Centre's help in ensuring adequate beds and oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients.He also urged the Northern Railways which deployed 50 isolation coaches, each having two oxygen cylinders, at Delhi's Shakur Basti railway station. Twenty five such facilities will be placed at Anand Vihar by Monday, General Manager Ashutosh Gangal said today.Among other measures put in place by the Delhi government, people comign from Maharashtra will have to undergo random sample collection. The passengers will be allowed to exit after sample collection.Thermal screening will be done for all passengers upon arrival.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-files-firs-against-4-airlines-for-not-checking-covid-test-reports-101618746095863.html
18-04-2021||Other||Covid surge: Public dealing at Ludhiana police stations suspended till April 30||With the district topping its daily Covid-19 cases for two days in a row, public dealing at all 28 police stations and different wings of the Ludhiana police commissionerate has been suspended till April 30. Residents have been advised against visiting the police stations unless in case of an emergency. Meanwhile, complaints can be sent via e-mail at cp.ldh.police@punjab.gov.in. Police have also installed complaint boxes outside the police stations for those, who don’t have access to e-mail. A similar action was taken in July last year after the pandemic broke out and public dealing was resumed only on October 6, 2020, once the Covid-19 cases started going down.Commissioner of police Rakesh Agarwal said the step was taken for the safety of people, as complainants often visited police stations in groups.He said all police stations, posts and wings were being thoroughly sanitised and contacts of positive patients were being tested. Advising residents against venturing outside their houses unless absolutely necessary, the top cop assured that the police were available round-the-clock. The police have already indefinitely suspended the “Know your case” scheme due to the resurge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-surge-public-dealing-at-ludhiana-police-stations-suspended-till-april-30-101618745607203.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Court receivers to assess donations, offerings at Kalka Mandir during Navratri||The Delhi high court appointed receivers to assess the offerings and donations made to South Delhi’s famous Kalkaji temple during the Hindu festival of Navratri, and ordered that the petitioner, one of the traditional priests of the temple, is given 1/6th of the ‘share’ from daily collections. The order was passed while hearing a petition by one Bishan Swaroop, who claims to be a legal heir and a ‘Baridaar’ (worshiper or priest) of the temple, with the right to conduct ‘puja sewa’ (prayer rituals), and receive a portion of the offerings made, during a designated period (‘Shashmahi bari’), which comes every 12 years during the two Navratri periods.Justice Prathiba M Singh appointed two court receivers, who had served in a similar capacity at the temple earlier, till April 22/23- the end of Navratri. It noted that prima facie a monopoly has been created by another family member, Mahendra Pandey, who according to the plea was not allowing Bishan Swaroop to perform puja sewa and claim the share in the offerings and donations.The court directed that all the donation boxes shall now be locked by the court receivers and opened only once every day at the time fixed by the receiver/s either late evening or in the morning in presence of the representatives of the litigants.“In view of this, it is prima facie clear at this stage, that Respondent No.1 seems to have monopolised the bari (turn in performing puja) and the related rights, and is also not giving any proper accounts qua the said bari,” the court order said.HS Sharma, Retd District & Sessions Judge and Anurag Ahluwalia, advocate, were reappointed court receivers for the period till 22/23rd April, 2021 and given the rights to lock the donation boxes and take all required steps to assess the offerings and donations as also the teh-bazari, the April 16 order said.Swaroop alleged he was not being allowed to exercise his rights in the current turn because his mother, late Bishan Devi, being a woman, was declared ineligible despite a 2016 order by a trial court giving rights to the female heir.Swaroop also cited an order of October 28, 2014, passed in his favour as the legal heir of late Bishan Devi, i.e. daughter of late Sh Ram Swaroop, claiming a right over 1/6th share of Ram Swaroop. According to the order of the trial court, the petitioner inherited the right of realisation of 1/6th share of late Sh Ram Swaroop in offerings and tehbazari, from his mother, who was the daughter of late Sh Ram Swaroop.“In the present petition, the share of Bishan Swaroop, who is one of the baridaars during the navratri period, is in dispute. There can be no dispute about the fact that during the navratri period, offerings and the donations which are given at the Kalkaji Mandir are extremely high. This is also clear from the reports received in the earlier petition where the Local Commissioner and the Receivers, who were appointed, have informed this Court that during the navratri period, the footfall in the temple is quite large,” the court said in the April 16 order.It said that the amount collected will be counted by the court receivers and 1/6th share shall be handed over to the plaintiff’s representative. It also directed the receivers to determine as to who is currently running the bari and the manner in which it is being run asking them to file a detailed report at the end of this Navratri period.The judge also noted that the court dealt with a similar case, in respect of various baaridars in the Kalkaji Mandir, during the months of January and February. It said that a detailed order was passed on Feb 5 holding that women, who are legal heirs, will be entitled to exercise their bari and perform the puja rights.“The dispute between the various baridaars in the Kalkaji Mandir has resulted in multiple litigations being filed before the trial courts. In the earlier petition…., this court has been informed that there are over 70 litigations which are pending in respect of the Kalkaji Mandir.“Various branches of families, and the various baridaars who are hundreds in number, keep filing applications/ proceedings before the trial courts, which has resulted in enormous confusion and complete mismanagement at the Kalkaji Mandir. The baris are even auctioned and there are purchasers who have bid for exercising the baris,” the court noted in its order. The matter will now be heard on May 10.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/court-receivers-to-assess-donations-offerings-at-kalka-mandir-during-navratri-101618744226785.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi govt asks railways to provide Covid-care coaches at 2 stations||The Delhi government wrote to the Indian Railways on Sunday requesting its support to arrange for bed facilities for the patients at Anand Vihar and Shakur Basti stations to tackle the massive surge of Covid-19 cases in the national capital.Delhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev informed railway board chairman Suneet Sharma about the tremendous increase of Covid-19 cases in Delhi in the recent past resulting in a high number of serious Covid cases requiring treatment in hospitals.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereStressing that the facilities at government and private hospitals available in Delhi are getting strained and there is an urgent need for more Covid-19 bed facilities, Dev wrote, “I, therefore, request you to kindly arrange Covid bed facilities at Anand Vihar and Shakur Basti Railway Stations with full logistical support, requisite medical and para-medical staff and oxygen facilities etc. on an emergent basis.”The appeal comes at a time when chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has also written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking an increased supply of oxygen and beds for Covid-19 patients in the Capital as the positivity rate has gone up to 30%“The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is extremely serious. There is a severe shortage of Covid-19 beds and oxygen supply. At our level, we are doing everything that is possible. We need your help. Central government hospitals in Delhi collectively have around 10,000 beds, of which 1,800 are reserved for Covid-19. In the light of the severity of the situation, I appeal to you to reserve at least 7,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. There is a severe shortage of oxygen supply too. Please arrange oxygen for Delhi,” he said in the letter.Delhi chief secretary also made similar requests to the railway department saying, “We would be grateful if you identify more such facilities upto a level of 5000 beds, as was done last year, so as to meet the huge demand of beds arising out of an ever increasing surge in positive cases this time in NCT of Delhi.”The demand for railway isolation coaches, which were deployed last year, is growing elsewhere in the country as well. The railways’ western zone has received a demand from Nandurbar, a Maharashtra district close to Gujarat border, for around 95 coaches and 1,500 beds. “Each Covid-19 care rake will have 20 coaches, comprising modified Sleeper and General coaches; each coach can accommodate 16 patients.The coaches will be suitably positioned as mutually agreed upon between the district administration of Nandurbar and divisional administration of Mumbai division of Western Railways,” a memorandum of understanding signed between Western Railways and the district authorities on April 11 noted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-govt-asks-railways-to-provide-covid-care-coaches-at-2-stations-101618742509863.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Curtain Call: The journey of sangeet natak, the way ahead||I was not introduced to theatre till I was nearly twelve years old. It was not a conscious decision, I suppose it was just something that happened.I was studying in an English medium school and theatre wasn’t a big part of it’s cultural activities. I do not remember seeing students performing too. I had watched a few plays on TV. It was common back then. So, when I wanted to sit at home and watch cartoons and my parents decided to take me to watch a play, I was not too thrilled. But I had no choice and I am glad that I did not! Amongst the many plays I watched before taking the decision to pursue it as a profession, I watched only one sangeet natak, the traditional Maharashtrian musical theatre.Marathi theatre finds its roots in sangeet natak when Vishnudas Bhave staged “Sita Swayamwar” in 1843. Since then Marathi theatre was dominated by Sangeet Natak like “Sangeet Saubhadra” by Annasaheb Kirloskar, “Sangeet Sharada” and “Sangeet Saunshaykallol” by Govind Ballal Deval, “Sangeet Manapman” by Krushnaji Prabhakar Khadilkar, and “Sangeet Ekach Pyaala” by Ram Ganesh Gadkari.These were five-act plays with nearly fifty songs on an average. The performances used to start at sundown and continue till sunrise. Many-a-times the plays were socially and politically relevant. Singer-actors like Bal Gandharva, Keshavrao Bhosale and Deenanath Mangeshkar had become superstars and started their own production companies.People used to come to listen to their songs and it is said that for some songs they would get as much as fifteen encores! It is considered to be a golden era of Marathi theatre. It is also the beginning of the downfall of sangeet natak.Songs started becoming more important than the play and that led to an imbalance in performance. Newer singer-actors were not being curated and the old generation continued performing the roles of the protagonists who were young. This hampered the believability of the performance. Also, with the advent of the radio and other technological enhancements in audio recordings, the audience could listen to their favourite songs at home. As a result, lesser and lesser content in sangeet natak was being produced.By the time I started doing theatre, I remember sangeet natak was described as being boring. I had watched a play while I was in school and honestly, I did not feel like watching another one. So, when I was approached to direct one by singer Rahul Deshpande, I was in a fix. On the one hand, I was just starting my career and absolutely wanted to work with someone like him. But, on the other, I wasn’t sure if I wanted to direct something that was exactly a century old – “Sangeet Saunshaykallol”.I read the five-act script and thought that it had some really fun moments. After a brief chat with a theatre researcher about the play, I met Rahul and the producers and asked if I could have a free hand with the content.Since I had not watched any version of the play, editing it became easier. I quickly edited the text into a two-act structure and narrated it to the team. They were on board. Then came the part about balancing the text with songs. I sat with Rahul and identified the songs that absolutely had to be there. It was a sort of a negotiation, wherein he was insisting that a song should be there because of its historic and nostalgic value, while I was trying to ascertain its place in the edited structure and whether it was adding any value to the play. Once we reached a consensus, rehearsals began in full swing. Before we knew it, we had produced three plays in eighteen months.“Sangeet Manapman” and “Sangeet Saubhadra” being next. I had treated sangeet natak as an experiment and was contemplating whether I wanted to do “Sangeet Saubhadra” because the plot and text seemed dated. The songs were great, no doubt. But Anand Bhate agreed to play the part of Lord Krishna and that character had the most amazing songs.Also, it was the first time that Anand was going to act in a play and I could not resist being the one to direct him.All these plays did well commercially, helped me hone my skills, put me in the coveted Forbes Thirty Under Thirty list and brought me a lot closer to sangeet natak. I enjoyed the form, but longed for contemporary content.“Sangeet Devbababhli” by Prajakt Deshmukh is a good start to newer Sangeet Natak and I hope that more and more plays are written and produced in this format.Nipun Dharmadhikari is a storyteller and looks forward to telling them on stage, in front of the camera or in person.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/curtain-call-the-journey-of-sangeet-natak-the-way-ahead-101618743086768.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi's Covid-19 positivity rises to 30%; 'major concern', says Arvind Kejriwal||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal told reporters on Sunday that Delhi recorded 25,500 new cases of Covid-19, and the positivity rate has gone up to 30% from the 24% in the last 24 hours, flagging it as a major concern.“In the last 24 hours, Delhi recorded around 25,500 new cases, up from around 24,000 the previous day and 19,500 new cases the day before that. The more concerning thing is that the positivity rate in the last 24 hours has gone up to 30% from around 24% the previous day,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing.The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) supremo also said that the Delhi government will add 6,000 beds with high-flow oxygen facilities in the coming 2-3 days at the Yamuna Sports Complex.“We will add over 6,000 high-flow oxygen beds in the next 2-3 days at Yamuna Sports Complex,” ANI said quoting Kejriwal.“Commonwealth Games Village and some schools too will be turned into Covid centres and the Covid facility at Radha Soami Satsang Beas will be reopened,” Kejriwal added.The Radha Soami Satsang Beas Covid centre, the country’s largest Covid care facility, was closed down in February. Officials were scheduled to conduct a survey on April 17."The government is planning to restart the facility soon. Officials are likely to conduct a survey on Saturday evening and finalise the modalities," Vikas Sethi, the secretary of the Radha Soami Satsang Beas centre, told news agency PTI.Kejriwal noted that less than 100 ICU beds are left in Delhi, urging home minister Amit Shah to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in central government hospitals to 7,000 from the 1800 currently alloted, and also step up oxygen supply.As of 2pm on Sunday, only 80 beds were vacant for Covid-19 patients in Delhi hospitals. A total of 4,136 ICU beds were initially reserved for Covid-19 patients in Delhi hospitals, according to the city government's ‘Delhi Corona’ mobile application, reported PTI.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-covid-19-positivity-rises-to-30-major-concern-says-arvind-kejriwal-101618742121415.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, wife test positive for Covid-19||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his wife Asha Hooda tested positive for Covid-19 on Sunday.The 73-year-old Congress leader and his wife are in Delhi and they will get themselves admitted to a hospital in Gurgaon as a precautionary measure, party MLA B B Batra told PTI."Hooda had mild fever on Saturday. Later, he and his wife got themselves tested for Covid-19 and their report was positive," he said.When contacted, Hooda told PTI over phone that he had fever but was feeling okay. He said that his and wife's Covid-19 test reports have come positive.On Friday, another senior Congress leader from the state, Randeep Singh Surjewala, had also tested Covid-19 positive.Last year Hooda's son and Rajya Sabha MP Deepender Singh Hooda had also contracted Covid-19.After the outbreak of the coronavirus pandemic, several top politicians from Haryana have contracted the infection. They include Chief Minister M L Khattar, his deputy Dushyant Chautala, state Home Minister Anil Vij and a few other ministers and Assembly Speaker Gian Chand Gupta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/former-haryana-cm-bhupinder-singh-hooda-wife-test-positive-for-covid19-101618741769816.html
18-04-2021||Lucknow||Sudden surge in Covid-19 cases led to shortage of beds: UP health minister||Uttar Pradesh is witnessing a massive surge in the number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases, which has put a stress on the state's health infrastructure. Uttar Pradesh health minister Jai Pratap Singh said on Sunday that this sudden increase in cases during the second wave of Covid-19 has led to a shortage of beds.Speaking to news agency ANI, he also said that the issue of supply of oxygen and drug Remdesivir was raised with Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. “Currently we need 200 metric tonnes (MT) oxygen and 235 MT more by April 30,” said Singh.The Union health ministry has already sanctioned one Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen plant for installation in Uttar Pradesh to address the shortage. News agency PTI reported on Saturday that 10 more oxygen plants will be set up across the state with the help of the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).Sudden surge in Covid cases in 2nd wave led to shortage of beds. Yesterday, supply of oxygen and Remdesivir was also raised with Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan. Currently, we need 200 MT tonne oxygen and 235 MT more by April 30: UP Health Minister Jai Pratap Singh pic.twitter.com/M1Iwnoq3yPEarlier, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla and Union health secretary Rajesh Bhushan on Thursday chaired a meeting with the chief secretaries of Uttar Pradesh and Chattisgarh where it was assured the demand of shortage of oxygen will be taken care of.Uttar Pradesh has so far reported 821,054 cases and 9,703 deaths due to the Covid-19 disease, according to the state health department’s bulletin. More than 641,000 have recovered and the active cases have climbed to 170,059, the bulletin showed. Uttar Pradesh, along with Maharashtra and Chattisgarh, is among the badly-affected states from the pandemic across the country, according to the Union health ministry.Also Read| India's daily Covid-19 positivity rate doubles from 8% to 16.69% in 12 daysOn Saturday, UP reported the highest single-day jump in deaths at 120 while the new cases stayed above the 27,000-mark (27,357 to be exact) for the second consecutive day. On Friday, 27,426 people were detected positive for the disease, the highest single-day spike since the beginning of the pandemic last year while 22,439 new cases were recorded on Thursday.Of Saturday’s tally, state capital Lucknow added the highest number of cases at 5,913, followed by Allahabad (1977), Kanpur (1826) and Varanasi (1,664). Lucknow also topped the list of deaths on Saturday at 36.The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) led government in UP has imposed lockdown on every Sunday till May 15 to curb the spread of the disease where only essential services will be permitted. Shops, Markets, offices and commercial establishments will be closed from Saturday 8pm till Monday 7am. Night curfew timings in nine districts including Noida, Ghaziabad and Meerut have been extended by two hours and now will be 8pm and 7am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/sudden-surge-in-covid-19-cases-led-to-shartage-of-beds-up-health-minister-101618740931063.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||‘Need your help’: Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Narendra Modi amid Covid crisis||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking enhanced supply of oxygen and beds for Covid-19 patients in the Capital, where a record rise in infections was threatening to overwhelm the health infrastructure during the second wave of the disease, said a senior official in the chief minister’s office.“The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is extremely serious. There is a severe shortage of Covid-19 beds and oxygen supply. At our level, we are doing everything that is possible. We need your help. Central government hospitals in Delhi collectively have around 10,000 beds, of which 1,800 are reserved for Covid-19. In the light of the severity of the situation, I appeal to you to reserve at least 7,000 beds for Covid-19 patients. There is a severe shortage of oxygen supply too. Please arrange oxygen for Delhi,” said the letter, a copy of which HT has seen.He said Delhi reported 25,500 new Covid-19 cases, a record number of infections in 24-hour period. The state currently has 3,148 vacant beds against a total capacity of 17,609, and only 76 vacant ICUs against a total of 4,139, as on Sunday afternoon, government records said. According to the health department bulletin, 24,375 new Covid-19 cases were recorded in the previous 24-hour cycle reported on Saturday .Kejriwal also acknowledged help received from the Centre so far but added that more was needed. “I have informed Dr Harsh Vardhan (Union health minister) and Mr Amit Shah (Union home minister) about the matter. The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is providing 500 ICU beds in Delhi. I thank you for that. I shall be grateful, if you could please make it a 1,000 ICU beds. We have so far received immense help from the central government in fighting the pandemic. I hope you will help us on the aforementioned matters,” his letter said.Kejriwal sent the letter to PM Modi shortly after he expressed concerns over shortage of oxygen supply and ICU beds in the Capital in a video message, while noting that the positivity rate had increased to around 30% from 24% within a day and only 100 ICU beds were currently available in the capital.In the next two-three days, the Delhi government plans to add 6,000 beds to existing Covid-19 health care facilities at the Yamuna Sports Complex, Radha Soami Satsang Beas premises and in schools. It was also busy arranging for high-flow oxygen beds for the patients, the chief minister added.Early last week, Delhi government designated 14 big private hospitals as dedicated Covid facilities, sparking protests by the private hospitals. The government revised the order on Wednesday allowing the hospitals to use 10%-30% of their beds to provide emergency care as well as follow-up treatment to some of their patients, reducing the number of beds accrued from 4,337 to 3,553.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/need-your-help-arvind-kejriwal-writes-to-pm-narendra-modi-amid-covid-crisis-101618741286849.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||QS I-GAUGE gives Chitkara University platinum rating||Chitkara University has been awarded ‘platinum’ rating by QS I-GAUGE, a comprehensive and independent rating system for India’s universities and colleges.Rated on seven primary indicators and five secondary indicators, which range from teaching and learning, employability and social responsibility to research and innovation, the QS I-GAUGE rating provides a 360-degree perspective of India’s higher education institutions. Post assessment, the institutes are awarded an overall rating ranging from Bronze to Platinum+.Chitkara University was rated platinum in four key indicators — employability, facilities, entrepreneurship, and governance and structure. In the other five indicators — research, teaching and learning, faculty quality, diversity and accessibility, and social responsibility, the university was rated diamond. The award certificate was presented during the facilitation ceremony at The Taj, Bangalore, by Dr Ashwin Fernandes, QS regional director ( Middle East, Africa and South Asia) and chief executive officer (CEO) QS I-GAUGE. Chitkara University pro-chancellor Dr Madhu Chitkara said, “At the heart of our education system is quality. We never compromise on the same. The governing board has entrusted us with the task of surpassing our benchmarks and acquiring platinum rating by none other than QS I-GAUGE is certainly a feather in our cap.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/qs-i-gauge-gives-chitkara-university-platinum-rating-101618740926946.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Arvind Kejriwal asks for more Covid beds in hospitals run by MCDs||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal chaired a meeting with the commissioners of the three municipal corporations and urged them to increase Covid-19 beds in hospitals run by the civic agencies as record numbers of infections threaten to overwhelm the healthcare infrastructure in the Capital, government said in a statement issued on Sunday.“I request all three MCDs to provide more beds, we are ready to provide things which will be needed. The Delhi government is preparing beds on a large scale in Yamuna Sports Complex and Commonwealth Games Village. I request all (the) three MCDs to give maximum medical infrastructure and manpower so that we can use them properly,” Kejriwal said in the statement.Kejriwal also asserted that the Delhi government was ready to initiate a door-to-door vaccination drive if permitted by the central government and sought municipal corporations’ support for such proposals. He also underlined that the current crisis could only be solved if all worked together.“Central government, Delhi government and MCDs will work together. Only then we will be able to handle the current surge of Covid in Delhi. Even in the first wave, the central government, Delhi government and MCD had successfully worked together in Delhi. We will all work shoulder to shoulder for the people of Delhi and the country. If we get permission from the central government, then we will start door-to-door vaccination on a large scale in Delhi. We need your help,” Kejriwal was quoted as saying in the statement. The three MCDs are run by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and have often been at loggerheads with the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government led by Kejriwal.The meeting was held through video conference late Saturday evening and was attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia and health minister Satyendar Jain, as per the statement.In a separate press briefing on Sunday, Kejriwal said Delhi recorded around 25,500 new cases in the last 24 hour cycle and a positivity rate of 30% -- up from around 24,000 new cases and a positivity rate of around 24%, reported the previous day. He said less than 100 ICU beds remained available for Covid patients and urged the Centre to increase the number of reserved Covid-19 beds to 7,000 from the current 1,800 in the city and also increase the supply of oxygen to hospitals, citing the rapid surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-says-time-to-work-together-seeks-more-beds-in-hospitals-run-by-3-mcds-101618736847533.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||How bad is Covid-19 situation in Delhi-NCR? Here’s what you need to know||The Covid-19 crisis in the National Capital Region (NCR) deepened as Delhi added the highest number of cases since the pandemic first made its ground last year. On Saturday, the Capital recorded 24,375 fresh cases of viral infection, the highest in the NCR area which comprises Gurugram, Faridabad, Noida and Ghaziabad districts.The health infrastructure is in shambles in the NCR region as Covid-19 cases are growing by never seen before levels. On Saturday, Gurugram reported the worst spike in daily cases after Delhi as it reported a surge of 2,549 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease. It was followed by Faridabad district with 987 cases. Both Gurugram and Faridabad are in Haryana. Noida and Ghaziabad, part of Uttar Pradesh, reported a spike of 402 and 250 cases of Covid-19 respectively. The numbers are taken from state health departments.In the wake of rising cases, the state governments have imposed major curbs to check the spread of Covid-19. Delhi is functioning under sweeping restrictions, including a night curfew and weekend lockdown and Noida and Ghaziabad are witnessing low footfall and empty roads due to the similar Covid-19 induced restrictions. The bustling road, Delhi Noida Direct Flyway (DND) is also witnessing limited vehicular movement due to the partial lockdown imposed in both Noida and Delhi.Police were seen checking vehicles coming from Delhi and passengers were asked about their reason to visit Noida. The Delhi Police also checked vehicular movement at several places during the ongoing Covid-induced weekend lockdown in the national capital.The situation in Ghaziabad was grimmer as people were seen waiting outside crematoriums along with corpses of their relatives due to the surge in Covid-19 deaths, according to an ANI report.In Gurugram, all educational institutions have been shut till April 30 while the government has announced a cap on the number of people allowed at a wedding. However, it is yet to decide on night curfew in Gurugram despite the unabated rise in Covid-19 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/how-bad-is-covid-19-situation-in-delhi-ncr-here-s-what-you-need-to-know-101618736332855.html
18-04-2021||Bangalore||3 arrested in Bengaluru for stocking and black marketing of Remdesivir||The Central Crime Branch (CCB), Bengaluru arrested three persons on Saturday for alleged illegal stocking and black marketing of Remdesivir injections."News about hoarding and black marketing of Remdesivir injection have been surfacing on various media platforms and social media. CCB conducted a drive across Bengaluru and arrested three persons who had an illegal stock of the injection. They have been selling the injections at ₹10,500, which is much higher than the MRP. 11 such injections have been seized," Sandeep Patil, Joint CP Crime Branch, Bengaluru told ANI.The cases have been registered against the accused in Suddagunte Palya and Madiwala police stations. The police is further investigating the source from where the doses were procured by the medical shops.After the number of COVID-19 cases increased in Karnataka, especially in Bengaluru, the demand for Remdesivir also increased.Remdesivir is considered a key anti-viral drug in the fight against COVID-19. Several states across the country have asked for more supplies amid the record surge in COVID-19 infections.Karnataka on Saturday recorded its highest ever single-day coronavirus spike by logging as many as 17,489 fresh cases in the span of just 24 hours.According to the state health bulletin, the total tally reached 11,41,998, while the active cases touched 1,19,160.Out of the 17,489 cases in Karnataka, as many as 11,404 infections were reported from Bengaluru. (ANI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/3-arrested-in-bengaluru-for-stocking-and-black-marketing-of-remdesivir-101618735071350.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||Drive to ensure pvt hospitals reserving enough Covid beds in Gurugram||After receiving several complaints on difficulties faced while getting admitted to health facilities, the Gurugram district administration on Saturday deployed at least 10 teams to inspect various private hospitals in the city to check whether the required number of beds has been reserved for Covid-19 patients in these facilities.“The teams became functional on Saturday. They will conduct inspection every 72 hours in different hospitals and submit their reports to the district administration. The teams will also look into the admission and discharge policy followed by hospitals so that serious Covid-19 cases can be accommodated,” said Yash Garg, deputy commissioner.According to the deputy commissioner, each team comprises a member from the Indian Medical Association (IMA), health department and a district government official. They will be accompanied by a doctor from the hospital concerned. “Action will be taken based on the report submitted by the teams,” said Garg.On April 13, the district administration issued an order reserving at least 40% of the total bed capacity in general category and 70% of the bed capacity of ICU/ventilator category for Covid-19 patients. Data available on the district administration website shows that of the 2,637 beds reserved in 43 hospitals, at least 1,345 were occupied till Friday. While 59% of ICU beds -- 314 of 525 beds -- were filled, ventilator beds saw an occupancy rate of 45% -- 108 of 237. Of the total patients, officials said only 594 patients are from Gurugram.Meanwhile, Garg said that the Covid-19 control room, which was set up during the outbreak last year, will be expanded on Sunday to address the increase in queries related to testing and hospitalisation.“At least 60 operators will be deployed to address queries and complaints... The control room will work 24x7 in the Mini Secretariat building. Also a web portal will be activated on bed management for people to easily check availability of beds in different hospitals. It will be updated regularly,” said Garg.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/drive-to-ensure-pvt-hospitals-reserving-enough-covid-beds-in-gurugram-101618733930765.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal cites ‘major Covid crisis’, asks Centre to help with oxygen, ICU beds||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday expressed concerns over shortage of oxygen supply and ICU beds in the Capital, while noting that the city recorded around 25,500 new Covid-19 cases in 24 hours and the positivity rate increased to around 30% from 24% recorded the previous day.Kejriwal said that less than 100 ICU beds were left in Delhi while urging Union home minister Amit Shah to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in Central government hospitals and help with oxygen supply. It’s shortage, he claimed, could trigger a major crisis any moment as the situation was deteriorating every passing second.Watch | ‘Shortage of ICU beds, oxygen in hospitals’: Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal“In the last 24 hours, Delhi recorded around 25,500 new cases, up from around 24,000 the previous day and 19,500 new cases the day before that. The more concerning thing is that the positivity rate in the last 24 hours has gone up to 30% from around 24% the previous day,” said Kejriwal in a video press briefing on Sunday.He further said, “Cases are increasing at a fast rate and Covid-19 beds are getting occupied across the city. People are getting admitted in hospitals at an unprecedented rate. There is a major crisis of ICU beds. There are less than 100 ICU beds left in Delhi. We are facing a major shortage of oxygen too. Last night, a private hospital told us that they almost ran into a disaster situation last night with a major shortage of oxygen supply.”“We are constantly in touch with the Central government. We are getting a lot of help from them. We thank them for that. Yesterday I spoke with Union health minister Harsh Vardhan. He was informed about the situation. Today, I spoke to Union home minister Amit Shah over phone. I have told him that we need more beds. In Delhi, the Central government hospitals collectively have around 10,000 beds, of which around 1,800 are currently reserved for Covid-19 patients. I have requested him (Shah) to reserve at least 7,000 beds for Covid-19. The situation in Delhi is deteriorating every second. I also requested that oxygen supply be provided to us immediately,” said Kejriwal.He further said that the Delhi government will be adding more than 6,000 additional Covid-19 beds with oxygen facilities in the next 2-3 days in locations that include Covid treatment facilities set up at Yamuna Sports Complex, Commonwealth Games (CWG) village and premises of Radha Soami Satsang Beas. “We don’t know how many ICU beds we will be able to increase in such a short time. There are limitations. But we have seen that most patients primarily need high-flow oxygen. So, we are arranging more high-flow oxygen systems so that more beds can be converted into oxygen beds,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-cites-major-crisis-asks-centre-to-help-with-oxygen-supply-icu-beds-101618732345829.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Manish Sisodia flags oxygen shortage in Delhi hospitals, asks Centre for more||Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday expressed concern over shortage of oxygen supply at hospitals in Delhi amid a huge surge in Covid-19 cases and said that the city government has appealed to the Centre to allot more oxygen to the Capital.“For the sharp increase in cases, there is a major shortage in oxygen supply. Several hospitals have informed that they have oxygen stocked for a very limited time now. Delhi government has asked the central government to increase Delhi’s quota for oxygen supply,” said Sisodia in a tweet.HT published a news report on Sunday that said that the demand for oxygen in Delhi hospitals has shot up by four or five times as Covid-19 patients flooded health care facilities in the Capital. Some hospitals even said they will be forced to stop admissions unless the Oxygen supply shortage was overcome.On Saturday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal spoke to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and discussed shortage of oxygen supply along with drugs Remdesivir and tocilizumab, used for treatment of the viral disease. He also pointed to the limited number of ICU beds and requested the Centre to expand the facility. Delhi yesterday reported a record daily surge of 24,000 Covid-19 cases.Prime Minister Narendra Modi also reviewed the overall preparedness and stressed the need to ensure the availability of hospital beds and the supplies of oxygen and ventilators. He also asked his team to work closely with local governments, especially the 12 states ravaged by the surge in coronavirus cases in the second wave.Delhi is currently under a weekend curfew that ends on Monday at 5 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/manish-sisodia-flags-oxygen-shortage-in-delhi-hospitals-asks-centre-for-more-101618727006097.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: 5,275 new Covid-19 cases in Thane, 36 more deaths||Thane has added 5,275 new cases of coronavirus, raising the infection count in the Maharashtra district to 4,11,368, an official said on Sunday.These new cases were reported on Saturday, he said.Thirty six more people also succumbed to the viral infection, pushing the death toll in the district to 6,900.The COVID-19 mortality rate in Thane is 1.68 per cent, he said.The number of active cases and recovered patients was not provided by the district administration.In neighbouring Palghar district, the COVID-19 case count stood at 65,847 and the death toll at 1,301, another official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-5-275-new-covid-19-cases-in-thane-36-more-deaths-101618726386100.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||‘Will win this time as well’: Arvind Kejriwal confident Delhi will beat Covid-19 again||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday expressed confidence that the national capital would once again overcome the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), a day after the city-state witnessed a record rise in its infection tally, with nearly every fourth sample testing positive for the viral disease.Also Read | Every 4th sample in Delhi Covid positive, Capital adds 24,375 new cases in 24 hours“Entire Delhi is united in this battle against Covid-19. I’m confident that just like earlier, we will soon be victorious this time as well,” Kejriwal’s tweet, roughly translated from Hindi, read. The chief minister also attached a clipping of a headline from a Hindi newspaper, which in English roughly translates to “Delhi united against coronavirus, successful first day of weekend curfew.”करोना के ख़िलाफ़ पूरी दिल्ली एकजुट होकर लड़ रही है। मुझे विश्वास है कि पहले की तरह इस बार भी हम जल्द जीतेंगे। pic.twitter.com/B0sghG64czWith Delhi witnessing an unprecedented rise in its daily cases, Kejriwal on Thursday announced a weekend curfew in the Capital. The 56-hour curfew, as announced by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) convenor, came into effect at 10pm on Friday and is scheduled to end at 6am on Monday. The city is also observing a daily night curfew, from 10pm to 5am, which began with “immediate effect” within hours of announcement on April 10, and will go on till April 30.Daily Covid-19 cases in Delhi crossed the 20,000-mark for the first time on Saturday, with 24,735 more people testing positive for the disease, according to a bulletin from the health department. The positive cases were from 99,230 samples tested for Covid-19, which led to a positivity rate of 24.56%, the city’s highest thus far. This means that of the samples tested in the 24 hours leading to Saturday, nearly every fourth sample returned a positive result.Also Read | Mandatory registration for Kumbh-bound Delhi residents, quarantine on returnDelhi’s infection tally currently stands at 827,998, of which 746,239 or 90.12% are recovered cases, the bulletin shows. Active cases and related deaths, meanwhile, are at 69,799 and 11,960 respectively, comprising 8.43% and 1.44% of the overall caseload. This week, Delhi has seen 19,486 new cases and 141 deaths on April 16; 16,699 and 112 on April 15; 17,282 and 104 on April 14; 13,468 and 81 on April 13; and 11,491 and 72 on April 12.Also Read | Delhi running low on ICU beds, oxygen: CMThe situation, Kejriwal said on Saturday, “will be watched closely,” adding that the government will take whatever step is needed to save lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/will-win-this-time-as-well-kejriwal-confident-delhi-will-beat-covid-19-again-101618725177262.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Over 25 lakh matric tonne of wheat procured in Punjab during ongoing Rabi season||Over 25 lakh metric tonne of wheat has been procured so far in Punjab during the ongoing rabi marketing season, officials said on Saturday.As much as 29.65 lakh MT of wheat has arrived so far in mandis across the state of which 25.61 LMT has been procured, they said.Wheat purchase had started on April 10.Expressing satisfaction over the ongoing wheat procurement operations and arrangements put in place to facilitate all stakeholders, Secretary Mandi Board and Director Food and Civil Supplies Ravi Bhagat pointed out that district Sangrur is leading in terms of wheat arrival where 4.76 LMT of crop had arrived in the mandis, followed by Patiala and Mansa with 3.87 LMT and 2.32 LMT respectively.He said the targeted procurement of wheat in the state is 130 LMT during ongoing Rabi Marketing Season.He also said 5.74 lakh passes have already been given to farmers through 'Arthiyas' (commission agents) by the Mandi Board and various market committees in view of the staggered movement of wheat due to COVID-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-25-lakh-matric-tonne-of-wheat-procured-in-punjab-during-ongoing-rabi-season-101618724868586.html
18-04-2021||Bhopal||Case registered after over 800 Remdesivir injections stolen from Bhopal hospital||Around 800 Remdesivir injections were allegedly stolen from Hamidia Hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal, a case has been registered by the police."17 boxes of Remdesivir have been stolen. Each box contains 48 injections and only a few of the boxes were opened," said Assistant Superintendent of Police Ramsnehi Mishra on Saturday.A case has been registered in the matter. Further investigation is underway.Remdesivir is considered a key anti-viral drug in the fight against COVID-19. Several states across the country have asked for more supplies amid the record surge in COVID-19 infections.Madhya Pradesh recorded 63,889 active cases in the last 24 hours on Sunday, as per the Union Health Ministry.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/case-registered-after-over-800-remdesivir-injections-stolen-from-bhopal-hospital-101618720141620.html
18-04-2021||Ranchi||Covid-19: Jharkhand CM Soren seeks services of doctors, CPMF paramedics deployed in state||Jharkhand Chief Minister Hemant Soren on Saturday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, requesting to permit availing services of doctors and paramedics of Central Para Military Forces (CPMF) and military hospitals deployed in the state to help in 'treatment and management' of COVID-19 patients.In the letter, Soren said that during the first wave of COVID-19, more than 90 per cent of cases were asymptomatic and the number of persons that required the support of oxygen or ventilator was not very high."We had anticipated the second wave to be less virulent due to vaccination and herd immunity. But it has surprisingly turned out to be extremely virulent. We are trying to fight this pandemic with whatever medical infrastructure and resources that are available in this backward state. All the doctors and paramedics available in the government and the private sector are being optimally utilized. But, the requirement to handle the current caseload is much higher than the availability," Soren wrote.The Chief Minister said as Jharkhand is a 'left-wing affected' state, a large (part) of Central Para Military Forces (CRPF) are deployed in the state to fight the 'left-wing extremism'."..each such company of CMPF deployed in Jharkhand is manned by a certain number of doctors and paramedics. Similarly, there are two Military Hospitals located at Ranchi and Ramgarh catering to the medical requirement of 23 Infantry Divison, Sikh Regiment and Punjab Regiment. I feel the contingent of doctors and paramedics available with the aforesaid establishments can be of immense help in case they are deployed for the treatment and management of COVID-18 patients," the Chief Minister said.He further urged the Prime Minister to direct the Ministry of Hime Affairs and Ministry of Defence to issue necessary instructions for permitting the state government to deploy doctors and paramedics of the CPMFs and Military Hospitals for the treatment and management of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/covid19-jharkhand-cm-soren-seeks-services-of-doctors-cpmf-paramedics-deployed-in-state-101618719079976.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Fadnavis accuses Maharashtra police of harassing Remdesivir supplier||Maharashtra Leader of Opposition Devendra Fadnavis on Saturday accused Maharastra Police of harassing a Daman-based Remdesivir supplier for agreeing to supply a stock of the drug to the state on the request of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders."Four days ago, we had requested Bruck Pharma to supply a stock of Remdesivir vials to Maharashtra. They said they couldn't until permissions were given. I spoke with Union Minister Mansukh Mandaviya and got Food and Drug Administration (FDA)'s permission. Tonight around nine pm, the police arrested him," Fadnavis told reporters.The former Maharashtra Chief Minister added that the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) Manjunath Singe told they had inputs that some exporters had 60,000 vials and they only wanted to verify the same."We showed the police the permission letter. He (DCP) said it wasn't communicated to them earlier," the BJP leader added.He added that whatever happened was wrong.However, Singe refuted the allegations that the distributor was arrested and said he was summoned just for an inquiry given the widespread black marketing of the antiviral medication."There's a shortage of Remdesvir in the state and black marketing is rampant. We had got information about this storage facility. Acting in good faith, we only wanted to verify the inputs. He (supplier) was called for an inquiry, it wasn't an arrest," Singe told media.As India reported its highest-ever single-day spike of COVID-19 cases with over 2.34 lakh new cases and more than 1,300 deaths on Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a meeting to review the status of preparedness to handle the ongoing pandemic.Prime Minister directed officials that the use of Remdesivir and other medicines must be in accordance with approved medical guidelines and their misuse and black marketing must be strictly curbed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fadnavis-accuses-maha-police-harassing-remdesivir-supplier-101618703814689.html
18-04-2021||Kolkata||Bengal governor seeks update on sensitisation of people on Covid-19||West Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Sunday sought an update from the Chief Secretary on the compliance of directives to sensitise people regarding the surge in COVID-19 cases in the state."There is an alarming surge of COVID-19. All need to gear up to combat this COVID challenge. Awaiting response of Chief Secretary [?]@MamataOfficial to update on compliance of directives to sensitise people. Urge NGOs to take lead in serving society on this aspect," tweeted the Governor's office.The Governor called upon the Chief Secretary and senior officials of the state to brief him on the situation. He also asked the Chief Secretary for a virtual conference with vice-chancellors of all state-aided universities and CEOs of public and private hospitals.Amidst the spike in COVID-19 cases, the eight-phased assembly elections are underway in West Bengal. The political rallies and roadshows are being held in full swing.West Bengal recorded 7,713 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. With this, the total number of cases in the state goes to 6,51,508. The active number of COVID-19 cases stands at 45,300. Meanwhile, 5,95,668 people recovered from the disease so far. The COVID death toll in West Bengal reaches 10,540.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengal-governor-seeks-update-on-sensitisation-of-people-on-covid19-101618716671380.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Mandatory 14-day home quarantine for returning Kumbh visitors: DDMA||The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed all residents of the national capital, who attended the Kumbh Mela in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar from April 4 to April 17, to go for compulsory home quarantine for 14 days and upload their details in the Delhi government website. In a late night order on Saturday, the authority said those planning to go for Kumbh Mela any time between April 18 and April 30 must also compulsorily upload their basic information so that they can be tracked on arrival. The authority also said if anyone violates the directive, they will face legal action.“… it has become imperative to mandatorily test, trace and quarantine all those residents of Delhi, who have visited or are going to visit Kumbh-2021 at Haridwar. All those residents of Delhi, who have visited or are going to visit Kumbh, will be required to compulsory home quarantine themselves for 14 days on arrival to Delhi,” the order issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev said.Those returning from the Mahakumbh will have to upload their details within 24 hours by Sunday midnight on the Delhi government website www.delhi.gov.in.Also read | 455 FIRs, 164 arrests as cops fan out on Day 1 of weekend curfew“If it is found/reported that any such resident of Delhi, who has returned to Delhi after visiting Kumbh, has not uploaded the requisite details/information, he/she will be sent to the institutional government quarantine centers, as the case may be. The District magistrate of Delhi will ensure tracing and surveillance on a daily basis of such residents of Delhi. They should also ensure quarantining of such residents of Delhi, either at home or government quarantine centers. All district magistrates of Delhi and their counterpart DCPs and all authorities concerned should ensure strict compliance of this order,” it added.Also read | AIIMS director says must go back to earlier strategies to bring down Covid casesThe Delhi government, in addition to asking travellers to the Kumbh Mela to voluntarily submit their information, said it is also in touch with authorities in Uttarakhand so that they can have access to a list of all Delhi residents who have visited the Kumbh festival so far.Experts have raised concerns that the religious gathering will turn into a super spreader event as devotees taking part in 'royal baths' (shahi snan) held at Kumbh on April 12 and 14 were seen flouting all Covid-19 norms and at least 2,000 people tested positive in for the coronavirus about a week's time.Delhi on Saturday reported the highest single-day spike in its daily coronavirus disease (Covid-19) tally with 24,375 new cases in the last 24 hours, according to the health department’s bulletin. The new Covid-19 cases have taken the Capital’s caseload to nearly 828,000. The death toll in the national capital is nearing 12,000 after 167 succumbed to the disease, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mandatory-14-day-home-quarantine-for-returning-kumbh-visitors-ddma-101618715540895.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Mandatory registration for Kumbh-bound Delhi residents, quarantine on return||The Delhi disaster management authority (DDMA) made it mandatory for residents to register on a Delhi government website before visiting the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar and undergo 14-day quarantine upon their return. Experts however said the order, announced late Saturday night, was too little, too late, as Delhi recorded a new daily peak of 24,375 new Covid-19 cases the same day. A Delhi government official who didn’t wish to be named acknowledged that “such a portal should have been created earlier, preferably before the Kumbh Mela started on March 11 or from April 1, when the cases started rising in Delhi”. The government has no data of the number of residents who went to the Kumbh Mela this year, senior government officials said. Another official pointed out that an earlier advisory RT-PCR tests and self-monitoring of health after return from the Kumbh was not mandatory. The latest order asks residents who visited Kumbh between April 4 and April 17 to compulsorily upload their contact details within 24 hours by Sunday midnight. These details have to be added through a link provided on the Delhi government website www.delhi.gov.in. Those planning to go to the Kumbh Mela till its closure on April 30 also have to fill up the form on the website.“...If it is found/reported that any such resident of Delhi, who has returned to Delhi after visiting Kumbh, has not uploaded the requisite details/information, he/she will be sent to an institutional government quarantine centre for 14 days by the district magistrate (DM) concerned,” read the order, which also asks DMs to trace such residents and monitor them daily. Violations will invite action under sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, besides under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and other legal provisions as applicable, the order added. Devotees taking part in ‘royal baths’ (shahi snan) held at Kumbh on April 12 and 14 were seen flouting all Covid-19 norms and at least 2,000 persons tested Covid-19 positive in about a week’s time, triggering concerns that the Kumbh had turned into a super spreader event. The late night order came on a day when the national capital recorded its highest daily spike of 24,375 Covid-19 cases by far, taking total number of active cases to 69,799. Several states such as Odisha and Madhya Pradesh have also asked returnees to self-isolate and quarantine themselves. Maharashtra, too is considering issuing an advisory in this regard. Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called for symbolic participation in the last two weeks of the event, including the final Shahi Snan on April 27.But Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), said the damage has already been done. “Weeks have passed since day one of the Maha Kumbh and thousands must have already returned to Delhi. ...Now, people who returned in the past 14 days will have to be traced and tracked and there is no guarantee that everyone who went there will actually fill the forms. All of the returnees are moving freely, some of whom may even have Covid-19,” he said.A revenue official said it will be next to impossible to identify those who returned from the Kumbh without the pilgrims declaring their details on the government portal.“There are chances that we can track those Delhi visitors who registered in the Uttarakhand government portal. But, it is unlikely that most of them did that,” he said on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/mandatory-registration-for-kumbh-bound-delhi-residents-quarantine-on-return-101618715425121.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Colour-coded stickers on Mumbai vehicles. All you need to know||Authorities in Mumbai said people carrying out essential services and exempt from curfew rule will have to use colour-coded stickers on their vehicles to help them operate with more ease and also to limit vehicular traffic on the roads. Mumbai Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale said on Saturday said that red, green and yellow stickers were introduced to ensure the strict imposition of the restrictions brought by the Maharashtra government to curb the rising coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases. Nagrale highlighted that the colour coding of the vehicles will discourage people from getting out unnecessarily. The stickers, which should be in the form of six-inch circles, will be available at ‘nakabandi points’ and all toll nakas and will alsobe provided free of charge by the Mumbai Police.Vehicles used by doctors, medical staff, ambulances and medical equipment suppliers will sport a red sticker. Vehicles involved in transporting food, vegetables, fruits, groceries and dairy products will have stickers in green.Officials of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), people involved in essential services, electricity personnel, members of the media and telecom department personnel will have to use an orange sticker.“If you fall under any of these categories, then please fix the sticker on your vehicle,” Nagrale said in a video message. The city police commissioner also warned against the misuse of these stickers and said it will lead to strict prosecution.Maharashtra, which continues to see record highs in terms of fresh Covid-19 cases, has imposed Section 144 all over the state to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease. Financial hub Mumbai, along with cities Pune and Nagpur, is among the worst-affected urban areas in the world. Nashik was also among the worst affected districts in terms of cases per million residents.The state on Saturday registered another highest single-day surge in terms of daily cases with 67,123 fresh coronavirus disease cases which took its tally to 3,770,707. The death toll in the state inched towards 60,000 as 419 fresh fatalities pushed the toll to 59,970. Mumbai recorded 8811 new cases of Covid-19 on Saturday taking the tally in the city to 571,018. The death toll also crossed the 12,000-mark with 51 fresh fatalities. The city has more than 80,000 active cases.(With inputs from agencies)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/colourcoded-stickers-on-mumbai-vehicles-all-you-need-to-know-101618713752227.html
18-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan slashes RT-PCR test rate in private labs to ₹350||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed private laboratories and hospitals to reduce the rate of RT-PCR test to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to ₹350, which he said will be the lowest in the country. Gehlot, during a meeting to review the status of coronavirus disease in the state on Saturday evening, also directed officials to make a route chart and map for oxygen supply in all the districts of the state, so that medical oxygen supply can be ensured at all places.Gehlot said that the health department and district administration should mobilise more resources for the management of coronavirus disease in every district and ensure there is no shortage at any level. “The way the number of patients and dead is increasing in the country and the state, the situation is worrisome. Even today, 9046 Covid cases have been reported in the state and 37 people have died,” he tweeted after the nearly four-hour meeting on Saturday.Also read | Covid situation turning dangerous, PM should cancel political rallies: GehlotThe senior Congress leader also directed officials of the health department to take strict action against the labs and personnel delaying the report of RT-PCR tests. He said that such negligence in the time of pandemic not only increases the infection but also can prove fatal.The chief minister also discussed in detail the availability of Remdesivir injection and medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients in various districts along with medical experts and officials. He suggested a special protocol should in place to ensure logical and needful use of these life-saving drugs. He said that doctors of district hospitals and other hospitals can discuss with experts from various medical colleges, including SMS Hospital, in this regard so that no necessary resources go waste.Also read | Rajasthan imposes weekend Covid-19 curfew. All you need to knowGehlot instructed Covid Care Centre and institutional quarantine facilities should be to established at district hospitals and medical colleges to reduce the pressure of asymptomatic and less severe Covid-19 patients. He said that food for patients at these centres will be arranged through the Indira Rasoi Yojana, a kitchen scheme named after former prime minister Indira Gandhi. If needed, packets of food from Indira Rasoi will be distributed at these centres.Rajasthan recorded its biggest single-day spike of 9046 fresh Covid-19 cases on Saturday, pushing its tally to 404,355 and the death toll mounted to 3,109 with 37 more fatalities, an official report said. Rajasthan now has 59,999 active cases of the coronavirus disease. A maximum of 1484 new cases were reported in Jaipur, followed by 1265 in Jodhpur, 1049 in Kota, 783 in Udaipur, 591 in Alwar, 407 in Bhilwara.Meanwhile, the weekend curfew was in place on Sunday as shops and offices, except essential services, remained closed. The curfew will continue in the state till 5am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-slashes-rt-pcr-test-rate-in-private-labs-to-rs-350-101618711497104.html
18-04-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh under lockdown today||Uttar Pradesh has announced a lockdown every Sunday across the state till May 15 in order to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The Sunday lockdown comes days after Allahabad High Court asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to consider imposing complete lockdown-like measures for two to three weeks in areas worst hit by the virus.Only essential services will be available and shops, markets, commercial institutions and offices across the state will remain closed from Saturday 8pm till Monday 7am. Sanitisation work will be taken up at all these places, the government said. Public transports, including state transport buses, will run with a 50 per cent capacity.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageIn addition, a fine of ₹1000 for not wearing a mask will be imposed on first-time offenders. If caught without a mask for the second time, people would have to pay ₹10,000.Watch | Uttar Pradesh Sunday lockdown: Strict vigil by cops at Delhi-Noida borderAll indoors functions during the lockdown will have a restriction of 50 guests and the outdoor ones will not be allowed to have more than 100 guests. For funeral services at cremation or burial grounds, not more than 20 people will be allowed.Meanwhile, last week's high court order directed the government to ramp up tracking, boost testing and treatment mechanisms and set up temporary isolation wards across towns to tackle the rising number of infections. The state on Saturday recorded 27,426 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, the highest number of cases reported in 24 hours since the pandemic began in March last year, and 103 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-uttar-pradesh-under-lockdown-today-101618706067407.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||455 FIRs, 164 arrests as cops fan out on Day 1 of weekend curfew||More than 30,000 security personnel were deployed on the streets of Delhi and nearly 400 police pickets set up across the capital to enforce the weekend curfew that came into effect at 10pm Friday to curb the spread of Covid-19. Over 455 FIRs were registered for violations till Saturday 8pm, even as chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said residents of Delhi were mostly abiding by the curbs.At least 92 cases over violations were registered till Saturday morning. The cases were mostly against people who were caught “wilfully disobeying” the curfew orders on flimsy excuses such as “out to buy liquor”, “to withdraw money from ATM”, “returning home from Noida/Ghaziabad”, among others, police said. In addition, 283 people were prosecuted for not wearing masks or not maintaining social distancing while 1,950 preventive actions were taken till Saturday morning.Between 8am and 8pm Saturday, the police registered a further 363 FIRs, arrested 164 people and issued 2,432 fines.The Delhi government also made elaborate arrangements that included issuing e-passes, operating at least 5,600 Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses, and deploying district administration staffers and civil defence volunteers to assist the police.Kejriwal also hinted at stricter curbs or a continuance of the weekend curfew if the Covid-19 situation worsens in the city.Also Read | Delhi running low on ICU beds, oxygen: CM“We will closely monitor the situation over the next few days. We will take whatever steps are necessary for the safety of people. I hope the public will cooperate with us,” he said during a press briefing on Saturday.Government officials said the compliance on the ground was high with almost all markets, including Khan Market, Sarojini Nagar, Connaught Place and Kamla Nagar, remaining shut.The city police also provided humanitarian aid such as doorstep delivery of life-saving medicines and food to Covid patients in home isolation, and ferrying senior citizens from their homes to vaccination centres and back. The Delhi Police’s 24x7 Covid helpline 011-23469900, launched on Friday night, and its Twitter handle were busy addressing distress calls and messages as well as queries regarding e-passes and movement restrictions. More than 1,500 calls were received on the helpline till Saturday evening.Police chief SN Shrivastava was also spotted on the streets with other senior officers. Nearly 350 police personnel have also tested Covid-19 positive in the past 10 days. “Personnel were told to be firm and polite while checking people and vehicles. Strict action is to be taken against those found wilfully disobeying the weekend curfew,” he said.At least 5,600 DTC and cluster buses operated on Saturday during the curfew even as transport officials said the number of passengers were low. “We have put up stickers of the exempted category of passengers on our buses. Only those with a valid ID were allowed on board,” said a senior official of the DIMTS, the company that runs cluster buses in the city.District administrations also deployed teams from the DM’s office to assist the police. “Also, the district control room is working round-the-clock to monitor the curfew and to issue e-passes,” an official said on condition of anonymity.The resident welfare associations (RWAs) in the city also assisted the government agencies in enforcing the restrictions.Amarjeet Singh, president of Lajpat Nagar-3 RWA, said only one of 15 gates in their locality remained open on Saturday. “Only two vegetable vendors were allowed in. We did not allow drivers and helps. All shops were closed except those selling essential items. We will strictly follow the weekend curfew,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/455-firs-164-arrests-as-cops-fan-out-on-day-1-of-weekend-curfew-101618696053987.html
18-04-2021||Other||Woman injured as CRPF men fire at private vehicle in Awantipora||A woman was injured when Central Reserved Police Force (CRPF) personnel fired on a private vehicle in South Kashmir’s Awantipora area on Saturday after the driver did not stop at two checkpoints.A police spokesperson said that a Wagon-R had been signaled to stop at Awantipora Chowk by a police party on Saturday afternoon. But the driver did not stop the vehicle and hit a police personnel deployed there. The vehicle was again signaled to stop at the Padgampora bridge but again, the driver sped away. The suspicious behaviour led the CRPF men to fire a warning shot in the air. When the driver still did not stop, the security forces fired upon the vehicle, which resulted in a tyre burst. A woman, who was travelling in the car, sustained bullet injuries in her right arm in the ensuing incident. She has been identified as Jaisi Parvaiz Sheikh. “The woman was first taken to the sub district hospital, Awantipora, from where she was referred to the Bones and Joints Hospital, Srinagar, for further treatment. Her condition is stated to be stable,” said the police spokesperson. The police personnel, Naser Ullah, who sustained injuries after being hit by the car at Awantipora Chowk, is also said to be stable. The car driver, identified as Junaid Tariq Dar of Bedalpora, Handwara, has been arrested and his vehicle seized.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/woman-injured-as-crpf-men-fire-at-private-vehicle-in-awantipora-101618692442896.html
18-04-2021||Other||J&K’s infections in first half of April exceeded tally of previous 3 months||In the first half of April, Jammu and Kashmir recorded more cases than what it saw in the first three months of the year, data from the health department has revealed. Against 9, 989 cases recorded cumulatively in the months of January, February and March, the UT saw over 13,000 infections between April 1 and 16. Of the total cases in April, around 8, 500 cases were from Kashmir while 4,500 were from Jammu.The UT had reported its lowest single-day count of the year on February 8 when only 43 cases had surfaced. The surge became pronounced in mid-March and became steeper in April with over 800 cases being reported daily since April 7. Since April 13, when the fresh infections soared up to 1, 269, a record daily count after September 20, the daily cases have been hovering around 1, 000. The month of April also saw 54 deaths – 31 in Kashmir and 23 in Jammu. In the first quarter of the year, the UT recorded 111 fatalities due to the virus.The number of active cases has also rapidly risen – from 593 on February 8 to over 10,000 in April. The number of active cases, as on April 16, was 10,620. Surge was expected: ExpertsExperts say the surge was expected in April. “In the first wave, we had achieved a lot in terms of herd immunity. If everyone had got vaccinated, we would have been much safer now. That did not happen,” said Dr Talat Jabeen, divisional nodal officer Covid. She, however, added that the situation in Kashmir is still better than the rest of the country.“The severity of the disease is less here. We have a sufficient number of beds and the oxygen supply is also enough. We have also asked the officials concerned to perform the mandated 15, 000 RT-PCR tests per million populations daily,” she said.Mushtaq Ahmad Rather, director health, Kashmir, said, “We have asked for increased RT-PCR sampling to have early diagnosis and early treatment which will lead to better outcome. We have also called for increased vaccinations.” OPD services at SMHS suspendedIn view of the surge in virus cases, Shri Maharaja Hari Singh (SMHS) hospital in Srinagar closed its out-patient department (OPD) services from Saturday and added 13 wards for Covid-19 patients. Earlier, the Valley’s largest tertiary care hospital in Srinagar, Sheri Kashmir Institute of Medical Sciences (SKIMS) decided to stop all non-emergency surgeries and admissions to cater to the increasing rush of Covid patients.“Over 203 beds have been designated for Covid-19 patients as the inflow of patients has been increasing. We have suspended OPD services and also stopped routine surgeries,” said Nazir Choudhary, medical superintendent of SMHS hospital.“Many of the patients who are admitted in territory care would obviously be sick,” he said.In northern Baramulla district, the Covid centre at Indoor Stadium has been reopened to meet emergency situations. Over 100 patients can be treated here.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/jks-infections-in-first-half-of-april-exceeded-tally-of-previous-3-months-101618692143478.html
18-04-2021||Other||Himachal CM says no plans to impose lockdown in state||Chief minister (CM) Jai Ram Thakur on Saturday sought active support from industrialists in Baddi Barotiwala to contain the spread of Covid-19 while stating that his government had no plans to clamp a lockdown in the state. The CM, who was accompanied by health minister Rajiv Sezal and health secretary Amitabh Awasthi, presided over a meeting of the stakeholders on Saturday, and said, “The state government does not want to impose a lockdown as it adversely affects the economy and causes great panic among the masses.” He said the second wave is more alarming than the first one with the state crossing the 2,000-mark in terms of active cases in just 20 days. He, however, assured that this time around, the state government is better prepared to face the challenges. “When the first case of Covid-19 was detected in the state, we had only 50 ventilators but now we have more than 600,” the CM said.Jai Ram added the state also has sufficient stock of PPE kits, face masks and hand sanitisers. He said all stakeholders such as NGOs, industrial associations, elected representatives of panchayati raj institutions, urban local bodies, Mahila Mandals and Yuvak Mandals had played a crucial role in fighting the pandemic and their continued support is required to win the battle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/himachal-cm-says-no-plans-to-impose-lockdown-in-state-101618691422331.html
18-04-2021||Other||With 1,392 cases, Himachal records biggest single-day spike so far||Himachal Pradesh on Saturday saw its highest single-day spike of the year with 1,392 cases. The new cases took the state’s caseload to 75,587. The death toll climbed to 1,167 after 12 patients succumbed to the contagion in the last 24 hours. Of the new cases, 258 were reported in Kangra, 233 in Solan, 219 in Hamirpur, 208 in Shimla, 126 in Mandi, 95 in Bilaspur, 91 in Una, 73 in Sirmaur, 38 in Chamba, 32 in Kullu, 18 in Lahul-Spiti and one in Kinnaur. The active cases shot up to 8,444 while recoveries reached 65, 947 after 647 patients recuperated. Shimla remains the worst-hit district with a cumulative tally of 12,026 cases followed by Kangra (12, 234 and Mandi (11,655). Solan’s tally stands at 9,451, Una 5,333, Kullu 4,980, Sirmaur 4,784, Hamirpur 4,572, Bilaspur 3,987, Chamba 3,495, Lahaul-Spiti 1,541 and Kinnaur 1, 502.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/with-1-392-cases-himachal-records-biggest-single-day-spike-so-far-101618691182906.html
18-04-2021||Other||Mega plans to develop Chanshal into a world-class tourist destination||The Himachal Pradesh government has set the ball rolling to develop Chanshal valley in Rohru subdivision of Shimla district into a world-class tourist destination.The civil administration in Rohru has submitted a detailed plan to the district administration, stressing on the need to improve road connectivity to the area, located around 14 kilometres from the main Shimla town. The Chanshal Pass links Dodra Kwar with Rohru (Chirgaon), and sits atop the 14,830-ft high Chanshal Peak, which is the highest peak in Shimla district.Sub-divisional magistrate BR Sharma said big projects such as promotion of skiing and ropeway to Chanshal are already under consideration but the administration has suggested a few more activities. Green check post to check garbage disposalThe biggest challenge before the authorities is likely to be that of solid waste management once the area is developed into a tourist hub. To tackle this, the administration has proposed to set up a green check-post, where ₹500 would be charged from every vehicle crossing through. The travelers would be refunded ₹450 if they bring back their garbage, else the entire amount would be forfeited. For disposal of the collected waste, land filling mechanism will be adopted until a proper solid waste management system comes up. Locals to be trained as paragliding pilotsThe plan also proposes to develop Chanshal peak into a paragliding site. It has been suggested to depute a committee of experts to work out the modalities, such as take-off and landing points. There is also a plan to use the 15-km river stretch between Mandali and Sandour for rafting while the reservoir of Sawara-Kuddu Hydropower project could be used for boating.Services of Hatkoti Temple Trust are proposed for management of boating facilities. With a lake, temple and beautiful forest cover, Kharshali is another centre of attraction. Located at a distance of 4km from the main Chanshal Road, it will serve as a gateway point.Government to develop trailsChanshal is at a commanding location with breathtaking all around view. The authorities propose to establish three to four site-seeing points on the peak and equip it with telescopes and proper toilet facilities. For maintenance, local youth clubs will be roped in. For the benefit of trekkers who frequent the famous trails such as Tangnu to Chandernahan, Jakha-Jiskoon to Sangla and Chanshal to Lake Saru, facilities such as resting and camping sites will be set up. The temple of Shikru Devta, the chief deity of the area, is to be renovated and local traditions, costumes, cuisines, songs, dance etc are to be promoted and publicised to add to the attraction.Heli taxi services for peakThe administration also proposes to start heli-taxi services to the peak in summers. An annual Chanshal Festival, proposed for May end when the tourist season is at its peak, will also help popularise the destination. A committee is suggested to be formed to work out the activities of the festival and also make logistical arrangements. It also proposes a disaster management plan for the region.To increase the curiosity of tourists and make it a ‘must-visit’ destination, the administration proposes to put up hoardings depicting the beauty of Chanshal on the Kalka-Shimla highway.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mega-plans-to-develop-chanshal-into-a-world-class-tourist-destination-101618691002978.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Tarn Taran man held for passing info to Pak intel agency||Delhi Police have arrested a 35-year-old man for allegedly passing sensitive information about army deployment to a foreign intelligence agency, officials said on Saturday.The accused has been identified as Harpal Singh, a resident of Tarn Taran in Punjab, they said.“A highly motivated and radicalised man was arrested for passing sensitive information to foreign intelligence agency. He conveyed details related to Indian Army personnel, army movements, location of army and BSF posts and bunkers on the outposts of India at India-Pakistan border,” a senior police officer said.The money routed through hawala channels was used for funding the espionage operation, he said.According to police, they got a tip-off that the accused was having links with intelligence officers of foreign countries and that he had been receiving funds from his handlers through illegal means for conveying sensitive information regarding national security.During investigation, it was found that he was working as a farm machinery operator. While doing fencing work at the India-Pakistan border, he found a way to convey the secret information or documents across the border, the officer said.“On Monday, police received information that Singh was coming to Delhi. He was about to receive some secret documents from his sources. Thereafter, a trap was laid and Singh was apprehended from Majnu Ka Tila area in north Delhi,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Cell) Sajeev Kumar Yadav said.During interrogation, Singh disclosed his involvement in procuring sensitive information and further conveying it through different digital channels to his Lahore-based handler Jaspal, police said.He was receiving money from his handler through hawala channel for funding the espionage operation. He got the chance to meet his handler during his visit to Oman, police said.A mobile phone with two SIM cards, confidential documents of Indian Army and two bus tickets used for the journey were recovered from his possession, they said.Identities and roles of other foreign nationals involved in the conspiracy are also being ascertained. Further investigation is on, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/tarn-taran-man-held-for-passing-info-to-pak-intel-agency-101618690523132.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi running low on ICU beds, oxygen: CM||Delhi recorded 24,375 cases of Covid-19 on Saturday, the highest single-day tally since the pandemic began ravaging countries across the world, with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying that the Capital was facing a “very serious” situation amid shortages of crucial drugs and oxygen in the fourth wave, the worst to hit the city so far.One in four people tested for Covid-19 were found to be positive, with the city’s positivity rate shooting up to 24.56%, according to Saturday’s health bulletin. The Capital reported 167 Covid-19 deaths, the highest toll so far after Friday’s record of 141. The number of hospitalisations reached 12,669, which was the highest so far.Addressing a digital news briefing after meeting key officials, Kejriwal said Delhi was facing shortages of oxygen and life-saving drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab. Terming the current situation as worrisome and very serious, he called upon the Centre for help, saying it wasn’t clear when the current wave of infections would peak. He said the first day of the weekend curfew largely appeared to be followed by people.The Delhi CM said Covid-19 cases in Delhi are increasing faster than what the administration prepared for, adding that the positivity rate – the proportion of people testing positive to those tested – was more than 24% now. The World Health Organization has said that a rate below 5% for two weeks indicates that the pandemic is under control. “The Covid-19 situation in Delhi is very serious and worrisome. Based on the Covid-19 numbers 3-4 days ago, we assumed that our medical stocks and bed infrastructure were sufficient for now. But given the pace of new infections, Delhi now has started facing shortage of oxygen, remdesivir and tocilizumab,” the chief minister said.He also said that Covid-19 beds were filling up fast due to the steep rise in cases and that the government’s focus was to ensure that all the beds that were added in the city were oxygen beds. He urged the central government to reserve around 50% of the 10,000 beds available in its hospitals for Covid-19 patients.“This wave is three times more severe than the third wave. We still have no idea when the ongoing fourth wave will reach its peak. There can be no room for any laxity as we have to be a step ahead of the Covid-19 curve. A few hours ago, I spoke to Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and urged him to increase Covid-19 beds in all Central government hospitals by 50%. During the third wave in November, the central government hospitals in Delhi had 4,100 beds for Covid-19 patients. But in this wave, there are just 1,800 beds reserved for Covid-19 in these central government hospitals. This should be increased, including ICU beds,” he said.Citing examples, Kejriwal said the AIIMS has 1,162 beds, of which only 23 are for Covid-19 patients and the Safdarjung Hospital has 204 of the 2,900 beds reserved for Covid-19.He said the shortage of oxygen was being faced more by private hospitals. “I requested the Union minister to arrange for oxygen as soon as possible and also provide life-saving drugs such as remdesivir and tocilizumab. We have always got help from the central government when faced with tough situations during this pandemic. We are hopeful the Centre will help us now as well,” Kejriwal said.Also Read | Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, lockdown in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur extended till April 26The CM on Saturday held a series of meetings on Covid-19 management, starting with health officials, followed by all district magistrates and then with commissioners of the three municipal corporations. He directed DMs and MCD officials to ensure there was no black-marketing or hoarding of life-saving drugs and to take strict action against those in violation. He also elaborated on the administration’s plan to increase beds in the city. “All health care infrastructures have a limit to which they can be stretched. Going by the current Covid-19 surge, we will swiftly have to increase Covid-19 beds at a large scale. Even ICU beds are filing up fast. In the next 2-4 days, we plan to add around 6,000 beds. We are trying to provide oxygen in as many of these new beds as possible,” he said.Around 1,300 beds are being set up in east Delhi’s Yamuna Sports Complex and Commonwealth Games Sports complex. The government is also reopening a Covid Care Centre in South Delhi’s Chhattarpur area with 2,500 beds in a space provided by Radha Saomi Satsang Beas. This number will be increased by another 2,500 by next week. After attaching banquet halls and hotels with hospitals, the city administration has been able to add 2,100 Covid-19 beds, each equipped with an oxygen facility, Kejriwal said.Delhi recorded the highest number of containment zones on Saturday, records showed. As on Saturday evening, the city had 11,235 micro containment zones, of which at least 1,306 were created in the last 24 hours.On increasing complaints of Covid-19 results taking as long as four-five days, he said strict action will be taken against any laboratory found collecting samples more than its capacity. “Delhi has always been known for giving Covid-19 RT-PCR tests results within 24 hours of sample collection. But this week, we have received complaints that results are now taking three-four days. This is happening because labs are taking samples more than their capacity. I have directed all DMs to monitor and check with every Covid lab in their zone. Strict action will be taken against labs that take samples more than their capacity.”Senior officials who attended Kejriwal’s meeting with health officials said the chief minister himself opened the “Delhi Corona” app on his mobile application and randomly called a few hospitals that showed that beds were available.“He (Kejriwal) found that complaints of people that hospitals were not admitting patients despite showing availability in the app were genuine to a large extent. He asked concerned officials to take strict action against hospitals which are updating false information on the app and are denying beds despite availability in reality,” an official who attended the meeting said on condition of anonymity.On the first day of the weekend curfew in Delhi, Kejriwal said that people seemed to be largely following the lockdown.“We will be monitoring the situation for the next few days and we will take whatever steps are necessary for the safety of people. I hope the public will cooperate with us just like they have in the past,” he said.Experts said that the mortality was likely to increase further with the city’s health infrastructure getting overburdened. “Delhi is in a bad state. The number of cases in Maharashtra has been rising for quite some time, but Delhi crossed the number of cases being reported in Mumbai and Pune within weeks. When the hospitals start running full and we cannot take care of the patients, the mortality will go up. I think the only solution now is a lockdown to cut transmission. But no matter what we do, it will take at least 15 days for the numbers to come down considering the incubation period of the infection and transmission to contacts,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-running-low-on-icu-beds-oxygen-cm-101618690156747.html
18-04-2021||Other||4 dedicated Covid centres for Mumbai Police to be reopened soon||In view of the surge in Covid-19 cases among Mumbai Police, the four Covid care centres set up exclusively for police personnel would soon be reopened. These four centres collectively have a capacity of 726 beds and were shut after a decline in the cases last year, sources at the police headquarters said. “We are seeing 25-30 new cases everyday among the police personnel. A steep rise in infection has also been observed among the family members of the police personnel. Looking at the overall increase in new cases in the city, we are preparing ourselves, and as a result of this, the four Covid centres for the police would also be gradually reopened as the need arises,” said an IPS (Indian Police Service) officer from the headquarters. The first Covid centre in Kalina is likely to be reopened this week, said another senior police officer. The setting up of four dedicated Covid care centres – two at Kalina and one each at Marol and Marine Drive for Mumbai Police had proved to be the most important step taken by the department to save its personal during the first wave of Covid-19 last year. Police commissioner Hemant Nagrale on Friday said that all possible measures are being taken to prevent the spread of infection among the personnel. “Unlike last year, we have now started calling personnel who are aged 55 and above as well as those with comorbidities to duty owing to limited manpower. But we are assigning them only with indoor duties or table work to minimise their risk of contracting the virus,” Nagrale said. Six Covid help desks, one at the control room and five at each region in Mumbai have been set up, said a deputy commissioner of police-rank officer. “Also in major hospitals, we have deputed police nodal officers for better coordination and sharing of information on availability of beds,” the officer said. “Compared to the November-February period, the cases of police personnel getting infected daily in March and April 2021 have gone up, but due to vaccination, the number of serious patients is very low,” said Rajkumar Vhatkar, joint commissioner of police (administration). Since last April, nearly 8,000 personnel have been tested positive for Covid-19 in Mumbai Police, of whom 102 succumbed to the infectious disease. Currently, there are 541 patients in the force who are undergoing treatment at various facilities. The city police force has also expedited the vaccination drive for its personnel. The Mumbai Police has a strength of 45,000 personnel, of whom 70% have received the first vaccine dose, while 40% have got both the doses. Across the state, 37,644 police personnel have been infected with the virus, of whom 380 (34 officers and 346 constables) have died. Currently, there are 3,495 active cases. Around 33,769 police personnel have recovered, while nearly 10,465 are quarantined, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/4-dedicated-covid-centres-for-mumbai-police-to-be-reopened-soon-101618690222265.html
18-04-2021||Other||Shiv Sena slams Centre for ignoring second Covid-19 wave||Shiv Sena mouthpiece Samaana on Saturday slammed the Centre for “ignoring” the second wave of Covid-19 and stated that the Central government, along with the Election Commission are responsible for the current situation. The editorial said that the Covid-19 situation would have certainly been brought under control had the Centre reduced the “political dose” and focussed on the fight against the pandemic.On Thursday, India added 217,353 fresh infections and 1,185 fatalities. “The Centre is not ready to tackle the coronavirus emergency properly... China was held responsible for the first wave of coronavirus, [but] Election Commission and the Centre are responsible for the current wave. Covid-19 spread 500 times faster from states where elections were held or is underway... For polls and political selfishness, the rulers of Delhi created a wave of epidemic by not tackling Covid-19,” the Sena mouthpiece said in an editorial published on Saturday.The party blamed election rallies in the four states and Union Territory where elections are underway. It also said that the coronavirus transmission has gained pace due to the Kumbh Mela.“The vehemence of Covid-19 continues, but the election rallies and Kumbh Mela have not being stopped. Lakhs of devotees congregated at Kumbh and took a dip in the Ganges, which led to transmission of coronavirus across the country. But if the Prime Minister is not ready to stop the election mela in West Bengal, then why should the saints and seers be blamed for Kumbh?” it stated.It further added, “Had the Centre reduced the political dose and kept focus on controlling the spread of coronavirus, the situation wouldn’t have gone out of hand. But the government moved the capital to West Bengal and coronavirus devastated Delhi. Once the capital falls, how long does it take for the country to fall?”The editorial said that the Centre should keep its “ego and political gains aside” to tackle the second wave. It added that the Union health ministry claimed that BJP (Bharatiya Janata Party)-ruled states are doing better than non-BJP ruled ones, but “[the situation in] Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh have forced the ministry to hide their faces”.The Sena mouthpiece said that this is not any state’s failure but a “failure arising from the carelessness of the Centre”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-slams-centre-for-ignoring-second-covid-19-wave-101618690102275.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid beds’ occupancy doubles in Punjab hospitals in two weeks||Owing to the fresh surge in daily infections amid the second wave of the pandemic, the bed occupancy for Covid-19 patients in Punjab hospitals has doubled in the past two weeks. Around 14% of beds reserved for Covid-19 patients in the state’s government and private hospitals were occupied as on April 4 whereas the occupancy increased to 31% by Saturday evening, data available with the health department shows. The health department is emphasising the need to follow Covid-appropriate behaviour and increased vaccination of the eligible people. Since April 4, the state has added 43,678 fresh infections and 751 deaths. To tackle the situation, the health department has reserved 8,400 level-2 beds in government and private hospitals for treatment of moderately ill Covid patients and 2,100 level-3 beds, including the intensive care unit (ICU) beds with or without ventilators, for critical patients. Nearly 13% of the level-2 beds and 17% of the level-3 beds were occupied as on April 4. However, around 2,520 (30%) level-2 beds and 735 (35%) level-3 beds were occupied by the patients by Saturday evening. State nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said, “Hospitalisation is gradually increasing in the state amid a fresh spike in infections. The state has enough beds available for level-2 patients in all the districts. High occupancy of level-3 beds is a major concern as it may lead to a high fatality rate. Also, occupancy of level-3 beds is more because people come to the hospital only when they develop severe symptoms and complications. We have enough ventilators, oxygen supply and other equipment to handle the second wave.” Restrictions on elective surgeries up to April 30 Meanwhile, the health department issued fresh notice to all deputy commissioners of the state to restrict all elective surgeries in all hospitals, including government and private facilities, within the state up to April 30. “The state is experiencing the second wave of Covid-19 and it is severe. Number of daily cases has crossed 4,000 and it has started putting more load of level-2 and level-3 isolation facilities. We will thus require more beds for Covid patients and with the increase of patient load on healthcare facilities, all elective surgeries need to be restricted till April 30,” the notice issued by the principal secretary, health and family welfare department, reads. Dr Bhaskar added, “Besides restricting elective surgeries, we have asked private hospitals to reserve extra beds for Covid-19 patients as need may arise anytime. Also, all the private hospitals in Mohali district have been asked to reserve their 60% available beds only for Covid-19 patients. If required, we will issue similar notice in other districts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-beds-occupancy-doubles-in-punjab-hospitals-in-two-weeks-101618689865294.html
18-04-2021||Other||Delay in test reports led to death of 2 Kalyan doctors: Friend||A day after two doctors – a father and son – from Kalyan died due to Covid-19, a close friend of the family has claimed that the delay of three-four days in receiving their RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test reports led to a delay in their treatment and subsequent deaths. The friend also claimed that the duo – Dr Nagendra Mishra, 57, and Dr Suraj Mishra, 28 – had taken the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine last month. “Nagendra and I were so close that we used to meet on most days after our work. I remember him calling me and complaining that their RT-PCR reports have been delayed, owing to which they could not get admitted anywhere. The delay in RT-PCR led to delay in them getting proper treatment. Also, the family had to struggle a lot for beds to get the two admitted,” said the friend Omprakash Munna Pandey, 61, a resident of Khadakpada, Kalyan (West). Dr Mishra father died at Thane hospital on Thursday night, and hours later, Dr Suraj also succumbed to the infection at a private hospital in Goregaon. Dr Mishra’s wife is also admitted to a private hospital at Dombivli. “By the time Nagendra was admitted to the hospital, his body had 75% percent of the infection. He used to travel to his clinic at Khadavli, Titwala, by local train and had worked throughout the pandemic without any hesitation,” said Pandey. Dr Suraj ran a clinic at Bapgaon, Bhiwandi. “The suspected patients, awaiting their reports, are suffering a lot as they cannot get admitted to a hospital till their reports arrive. And by that time, the infection spreads over their body. I think the government should come up with some measures for suspected patients soon,” added Pandey. Kalyan Dombivali Municipal Corporation’s (KDMC) medical health officer Dr Ashwini Patil also admitted that there is a delay in receiving the RT-PCR reports. “There is no information about the two doctors in our records as of now. We have not received their respective files from the hospitals where they were admitted. But as there is a spike in the cases and increased testing, reports are being delayed by three-four days. We are conducting around 5,000 tests daily. We have increased the manpower at our testing lab, and from Monday, the generation of test reports will speed up,” said Patil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delay-in-test-reports-led-to-death-of-2-kalyan-doctors-friend-101618689802245.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||SIT expedites sacrilege incidents’ probe days after HC rebuff in police firing probe||After Punjab and Haryana high court quashed the investigation reports of the special investigation team (SIT) led by inspector general of police (IGP) Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh in Kotkapura firing case, the SIT probing the 2015 sacrilege incidents has expedited the process to file a supplementary charge sheet. Sources said the SIT led by IGP (border range) Surinder Pal Singh Parmar has been asked to speed up the investigation in the 2015 sacrilege cases and file a supplementary charge sheet. Both 2015 sacrilege and police firing cases are interlinked as two youths had died in the Behbal Kalan firing on October 14, 2015, while protesting against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib at Bargari on October 12. The police also opened fire the same day on protesters at Kotkapura, leaving many injured. An officer privy to the development said an undertaking has been submitted in the court that the new SIT chairman has started the investigation after taking the charge as per the high court order. “Three meetings have been already held since Parmar took the charge as SIT chairman. The SIT has already completed all the investigation at the ground level and now only the record recovered from the CBI needs to be added. The record handed over by the CBI is extensive and the SIT is going through the documents to make a supplementary charge sheet. After the recent order of the high court in Kotkapura firing, the probe has been expedited in these cases,” the officer added. Parmar said investigation on and they are going through the CBI probe documents. “A supplementary charge sheet will be filed in the court after completing investigation. I cannot share more information,” he added. In January this year, the Punjab and Haryana high court had directed the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to hand over the diaries and papers relating to the investigation into the three sacrilege incidents of 2015 to the Punjab Police and asked the state government to replace the then SIT head IG Ranbir Singh Khatra. However, in the order, the high court observed that though it is not discarding the probe conducted by the Khatra-led SIT, the team should be headed by a different officer so as to ensure that “no element of prejudice”, whatsoever, remains in the mind of the petitioner. While in the Kotkapura firing case, the high court has quashed all the investigation report of SIT and asked the state to make a fresh SIT excluding IG Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh. In February, IG Parmar replaced Khatra as the new chairman of the SIT. On March 12, the SIT had informed the court of judicial magistrate Faridkot that IGP Parmar has taken charge as chairman of the SIT. However, Khatra remained a member of the SIT till his retirement on March 31 this year. Khatra was appointed the chairman of the SIT constituted by the state government on April 22, 2020, to probe the cases related to three FIRs registered in connection with sacrilege incidents. The first case pertains to the theft of the ‘bir’ (a copy of Guru Granth Sahib) from Burj Jawahar Singh Wala village near Kotkapura in Faridkot district on June 1, 2015. The second was the putting up of a poster at Bargari village on September 25, 2015; and the third was the sacrilege of Guru Granth Sahib as torn pages of the ‘bir’ were found in Bargari on October 12, 2015. In July last year, the SIT had named jailed Sirsa-based Dera Sacha Sauda chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh and dera’s three national committee members — Sandeep Bretta, Pardeep Kler and Harsh Dhuri — as accused and filed a charge sheet against seven dera followers in a case relating to the theft of a ‘bir’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sit-expedites-sacrilege-incidents-probe-days-after-hc-rebuff-in-police-firing-probe-101618689743240.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Kin react in disbelief: Enough is enough, says relative of Sikh woman killed in Indianapolis shooting||The shocked and grieving families of the Indian-Americans working at a FedEx facility in the US state of Indiana have expressed their anger, fear and anxiety as they came to terms with the loss of their loved ones at a mass shooting that killed eight people, including four Sikhs.Brandon Scott Hole, 19, a former employee at the facility in Indianapolis, carried out the mass shooting on late Thursday before allegedly committing suicide.About 90% of the workers at this delivery service facility are said to be Indian-Americans, mostly from the Sikh community.Late Friday night, the Marion County Coroner’s Office and Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD) released the names of the victims: Amarjeet Johal (66), Jasvinder Kaur (64), Amarjit Sekhon (48) and Jaswinder Singh (68). The first three deceased are women. Four others were Karli Smith (19), Samaria Blackwell (19), Matthew R. Alexander (32) and John Weisert (74).“Enough is enough, our community has been through enough trauma,” Komal Chohan, granddaughter of one of the victims, Amarjeet Johal, was quoted as saying by the New York Post.Amarjeet hailed from Salempur Masandan village near Jalandhar. She moved to the US around 35 years ago, said Sewa Singh, her brother-in-law of Johal, adding that she was survived by three children and five grandchildren. Sewa Singh said he got several calls from his daughter and son-in-law on Friday night and when he called back, he was informed Amarjit was shot dead. “I am heartbroken to confirm that my “naniji” (maternal grandmother), Amarjeet, is among those killed in the senseless shooting at the FedEx facility in Indianapolis,” Chohan said.She said that several of her family members work at the particular facility and are traumatised. “My nani, my family, and our families should not feel unsafe at work, at their place of worship, or anywhere,” Chohan said.Jaswinder Singh, who lost his life in the shooting, was due to get his first paycheck at the facility this month and was working on the night shift to sort out the mail. “He was a simple man. He used to pray and meditate a lot, and he did community service,” said Harjap Singh Dhillon, Jaswinder’s relative, in a New York Times report.Jaswinder’s killing came as a rude shock to his family at Kotla Naudh Singh village in Punjab’s Hoshiarpur district. One of his sons, Gurvinder Singh, with whom he stayed in the US, informed his siblings back home on Saturday morning about their father’s death. “We got a call from our brother early this morning informing us that our father had died in the violence. His body is still in police custody,” said Jatinder Singh, the victim’s younger son. Jatinder said that their parents had migrated to the US eight years ago to be with his middle son. “He had started working at the facility a few days ago and we are told that he had gone there to collect his payment when the shooting occurred,” Jatinder said. He said his parents talked to them two days ago and lamented that due to the Covid-19 pandemic they could not visit India soon. He said that Jaswinder had last come home two years ago. “Little did we know that he would never come again,” Jatinder said. Amarjit Sekhon, another deceased in the incident who began working at FedEx about six months ago, leaves behind two teenage sons who are yet to come to terms with their mother’s death.Rimpi Girn, Sekhon’s niece, said she is struggling to explain her loss of her younger son. “We can’t even think of what to tell him. All of a sudden last night his mom went to work, and she never came back today,” she was quoted as saying in the report.Jasvinder Kaur, who used to travel with Sekhon for her night shifts at FedEx, was to attend her granddaughter’s second birthday celebrations on Saturday. “And today we’re gathering to plan a funeral,” Girn, who is also Kaur’s relative, was quoted as saying by the NYT.For Kamal Jawandha, it was a miracle that both of his parents, who worked at the facility and were present there at the time of shooting, escaped unhurt.Jawandha said that his father had brought his mother food and was getting ready to go inside when the shooting started. His mother hid in the bathroom when the shooting started, the report said.“She’s in deep sadness. She could not sleep. She just can’t stop shaking. She can’t believe this kind of thing would happen here,” Jawandha was quoted as saying by the NYT.Maninder walia, a community member, expressed shock at the shooting incident, saying that it is very hard to understand that it can happen to the community.“We go everywhere. We are all one family. Tragedy has occurred in a particular side of the town and we are all together. Anybody who has been hurt or anything, we mourn for all,” Walia said while speaking to the local WRTV channel.Replying to a question on concerns whether the community is being targeted, he said, “it is too early to say anything and folks who are in the law and enforcement, they are gonna do their thing.” This is the worst Sikh massacre in the US after the Oak Creek Gurdwara mass shooting in Wisconsin on August 5, 2012, where seven members of the community were killed.Although Sikhs began settling in Indiana more than 50 years ago, the first gurdwara was established in 1999. In the last two decades, the Sikh population around Indianapolis has experienced significant growth. Now there are 10 gurdwaras across the state and an estimated 8,000 to 10,000 Sikh Americans who have made Indiana their home. (With inputs from Gagandeep Jassowal and Harpreet Kaur)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/kin-react-in-disbelief-enough-is-enough-says-relative-of-sikh-woman-killed-in-indianapolis-shooting-101618689563082.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Will build Jat Maha Sabha teams across Punjab: Navjot Kaur Sidhu||Former Amritsar (East) MLA Navjot Kaur Sidhu, who nowadays is camping in Patiala, has been taking keen interest in the local politics, especially in Patiala (Rural) and Sanaur constituencies. She even opened a Congress office in Sanaur recently, which is being seen as a move to counter Congress leader Harinderpal Singh Harry Mann, a protégé of MP Preneet Kaur.Addressing the media in Patiala on Saturday, Navjot Kaur said, “Being the state president of women wing of Jat Maha Sabha in Punjab, I will use this platform to build teams across Punjab for the betterment of youth and give them a political space.” On Friday, her husband and former Punjab minister Navjot Singh Sidhu had taken potshots at Capt Amarinder-led government over the “botched-up probe” into 2015 sacrilege cases. On the family’s political future, she said Sidhu family has always stood for Punjab and Punjabis. “No post matters to us and we are here not for personal gains. We want posts and positions only to serve people. The governments have not been listening to the people,” Kaur said.“Governments are like parents and they should listen to the voice of public. But in the present system, the voice of the public is not reaching the ruling class,” she said, without naming anyone. She also said the government should legalise opium farming in Punjab to end the synthetic drug menace. On Friday, her husband, too, had attacked the government on drug issue.Navjot Kaur also took a swipe at the state government saying that those at the helm should have given ear to her husband’s advice on taking control of liquor trade and sand mining to mop up huge revenue for the exchequer. “The government can earn ₹30,000 crore yearly if it takes over the marketing of liquor and sand mining, instead of giving it to contractors for meagre sums. This amount could be used to create jobs and ensure better market price to farmers for their produce,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/will-build-jat-maha-sabha-teams-across-punjab-navjot-kaur-sidhu-101618689382849.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot Youth Cong chief’s murder: Two shooters held in Delhi, process initiated to get production warrants||After the Delhi Police special cell arrested two sharp shooters, who killed Faridkot Youth Congress president Gurlal Singh Pehalwan in February, local police have initiated the process to bring them on production warrants.Rajan Jat and Amit, alias Chota, members of the Kala Jathedi-Lawrence Bishnoi gang, were arrested from a hideout in Navi Mumbai, according to Delhi Police. Ten accused have been arrested in the case so far. Faridkot senior superintendent of police Swarandeep Singh said they received information from Delhi Police that two persons who shot dead Gurlal were arrested. “We have initiated the process to bring them on production warrants. There interrogation will provide further leads in the case,” he added.On February 18, two unidentified men shot dead Gurlal, 34, near the Jubilee Chowk in Faridkot. Gurlal died on the spot. A few hours after his murder, a post on a purported Facebook page of gangster Lawrence Bishnoi, who is currently lodged in Rajasthan’s Ajmer jail, linked the crime with the death of Bishnoi’s aide Gurlal Brar, a former state president of the Students Organisation of Panjab University (SOPU). Brar was killed outside a mall in Industrial Area, Chandigarh, in October 2020. Police said both the accused are wanted in a number of criminal cases in several states. The shooters carried out killing on the instructions of Kala Jathedi, who is a close aide of gangster Lawrance Bishnoi, said police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-youth-cong-chief-s-murder-two-shooters-held-in-delhi-process-initiated-to-get-production-warrants-101618689202752.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Woman, mother die by suicide; bed-ridden brother found dead too near Ludhiana||In an apparent case of suicide pact, a 27-year-old woman and her 60-year-old mother ended their lives by consuming poison reportedly due to their poor financial condition at Sodhiwala village of Sidhwan Bet, 50 km from Ludhiana city. Meanwhile, the younger woman’s bed-ridden brother, aged 40, who was in a coma for the past seven years, also succumbed to the illness. The matter came to the fore after the neighbours went to enquire about elder woman’s wellbeing, who, a few days ago, had suffered injuries after she tumbled in the house. They found the mother-daughter duo lying unconscious, while the son was dead. They immediately rushed them to a hospital and informed the police. Sidhwan Bet SHO sub-inspector Bikramjit Singh said that the mother was declared dead in hospital. Before her death, her daughter told the police that they had consumed poison as they found it hard to make ends meet in absence of a permanent source of income. The SHO said as per the postmortem report, the son had died two days ago due to his illness, while both women died of poisoning. Police have started inquest proceedings. The SHO said the son had fallen off the roof seven years ago and was in a coma since. The family and their relatives had spent ₹18 lakh on his treatment but to no avail. Two years after the mishap, his father died a natural death. The family has a small chunk of agricultural land.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-mother-die-by-suicide-bed-ridden-brother-found-dead-too-near-ludhiana-101618689143572.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Around 64% voting recorded for Pandharpur bypoll||Around 64% voting was recorded in Pandharpur-Mangalwedha constituency in Solapur of western Maharashtra on Saturday till 7pm. Voters came out to exercise their right despite the surge in Covid-19 pandemic and rise in temperature. The turnout figures are subject to change as the polling procedure was going on till late Saturday. The exact figure is going to be released by the election commission on Sunday, the officials said.The counting of votes is scheduled on May 2.The poll percentage is less if compared to the last state assembly elections as the average voting of the last two assembly elections is more than 70%. There are around 320,000 voters in the constituency which is dominated by the Maratha community.This is the first assembly bypoll after Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government formed a coalition government in 2019 and is being seen as a test of the ruling MVA partners. It is a straight contest between NCP candidate Bhagirath Bhalke and BJP nominee Samadhan Autade.Bhalke is son of three term MLA Bharat Bhalke who died in November last year while Autade is a former Shiv Sena leader.BJP made all the efforts to win the seat as to prove a point that there is a discontent against the Uddhav Thackeray led government. NCP too has put all its force and most of the senior leaders led by Ajit Pawar, state chief Jayant Patil, campaigned aggressively for Bhalke. Supriya Sule, Baramati MP and Pawar’s daughter too addressed a rally through video conferencing outside Breach Candy Hospital where the NCP chief Sharad Pawar was recuperating after a gallbladder surgery. State Congress chief Nana Patole too has campaigned for Bhalke but no senior Shiv Sena leader found to have campaigned for the NCP candidate.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/around-64-voting-recorded-for-pandharpur-bypoll-101618689142243.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab hits new peak with 4,498 fresh Covid cases||Punjab on Saturday reported another record spike of 4,498 Covid cases, breaking the previous high of 4,333 infections witnessed on Thursday. With 64 more fatalities, the death toll in the state climbed to 7,834, according to a bulletin released by the state government. A total of 2,95,138 people have been infected by the virus in the state so far. Maximum 10 deaths were reported from Mohali, seven from Patiala and six each from Amritsar, Ludhiana and Gurdaspur. Ludhiana reported 835 new cases, the maximum in the state, followed by 790 in Mohali, 449 in Jalandhar, 372 in Patiala and 357 in Amritsar. As many as 2,615 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,54,805, the bulletin said. There are 46 critical patients on ventilator while 401 are on oxygen support, the bulletin said. A total of 65,61,028 samples have been collected for testing so far in the state, it said. Positivity rate highest in Mohali According to the bulletin, Mohali reported the highest positivity rate of 26.3%, followed by 22.8% in Fazilka, 15.8% in Ferozepur, 15.74% in Bathinda, 14.74% in Patiala, 10.79% in Amritsar, 10.88% in Kapurthala, 10.78% and Hoshiarpur. Sonu Sood tests positive Mumbai: Actor Sonu Sood, the brand ambassador for Punjab’s anti-coronavirus vaccination programme, on Saturday tested positive for Covid-19 and is currently under quarantine. Sood had also met Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on April 10. The 47-year-old actor from Moga, said he will continue his work for those in need. “This is to inform you that I have tested positive this morning for COVID-19. As a part of precautions, I have already quarantined myself and taking utmost care. “But don’t worry, this gives me ample time to solve your problems. Remember, I’m always there for you all,” Sood tweeted. The actor had received the first dose of the coronavirus vaccine on April 7. Paracetamol for those inoculatedLudhiana: Those getting vaccinated in Punjab will now get 10 tablets of paracetamol. The decision was taken during a meeting chaired by chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh with all civil surgeons of the state. Ludhiana civil surgeon Dr Sukhjiwan Kakkar said that it was decided to give paracetamol to the people as the majority of those inoculated were complaining about pain in the arm, bodyaches and fever.Patiala resident booked for violating Covid normsPatiala: A Patiala resident has been booked for violating Covid-19 restrictions after he uploaded his photos of partying on Facebook.SHO Kotwali, Patiala, Inderpal Singh said Sanjeev Kumar Tuteja uploaded photos of his friends partying at a hotel in Rajpura. “They were not wearing masks and social distancing was also not maintained. The gathering of persons appeared to be more than that is allowed,” he said.The Facebook post mentioned that more than 100 persons attended the event, said the SHO, adding a case has been registered under Section 188 (disobeying public official’s order) of the IPC and Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-hits-new-peak-with-4-498-fresh-covid-cases-101618688902802.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Faridkot RTA staffer arrested in backdated driving licence case||he Bahadur Singh Wala crime investigation agency (CIA) has arrested a junior assistant of the regional transport authority (RTA) office, Faridkot, in a case of issuing backdated driving licence to a Sangrur resident, said police on Saturday.Dirba deputy superintendent of police (DSP) and a member of a special investigation team (SIT) Mohit Agarwal said junior assistant Amrit Pal was arrested on April 14 and he is on police remand. Agarwal said three officials of the Faridkot RTA and three agents have been arrested so far.The accused was nominated in an FIR registered at the Longowal police station under Sections 420 (cheating), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) on October 21, 2019. The case was registered on a complaint by Rajinder Singh, a resident of Kanakwal Bhanguan village of Sangrur district, against an agent Ajay Kumar, aka Bittu, of Badrukhan, who allegedly took ₹50,000 for making a backdated driving licence from the regional transport office, Sangrur. However, the licence was issued from the Faridkot RTA with a Faridkot address.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/faridkot-rta-staffer-arrested-in-backdated-driving-licence-case-101618688722848.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Wildbuzz: Delight in a cupwing||Imagine a feathered ball weighing about two ‘tolas’ of gold, stalking moist montane undergrowth and flipping fallen leaves for insects with a deftness worthy of a gambler flicking cards at a casino. A bird reluctant to fly like a ‘bater’ (quail) and virtually tailless! That’s the scaly-breasted cupwing for you, a delightful avian of the Chakki Modh and Jangeshu hills of Solan district. The bird’s lure has spawned a desperate quip among birders of the tricity and from afar such as Delhi, Mumbai and Kolkata: “Hey, have you managed to spot the elusive cupwing?”The cupwing enjoys the reputation of abiding by the motto: discretion is certainly the better part of viewing valour, the kind of dictum that once veiled medieval princesses from public gaze. As it is a ground-dwelling avian, extreme timidity and the camouflage afforded by its dark warm brown plumage ensure better chances of surviving roving hawks and ground predators. It is the kind of creature that may well jump at its own shadow!Among those who managed to photograph the cupwing in a rare moment in the open and free of bushy clutter was Jatinder Vijh, a Chandigarh birder who possesses an exceptional eye for avian behaviour. “I did not see the cupwing initially but heard a faint rustle among fallen leaves. On cautious investigation, I spotted the cupwing. I observed that the cupwing preferred to trot up a moderate incline and then come down while foraging. It is a rare bird, whose presence is all the more difficult to detect because of its furtive habits. We could spot this beauty only after a tedious effort at scouring the area. But success again proved the premise: ‘If you seek the bird, the bird also seeks you.’ I would say the cupwing is one of the seven little wonders of our part of the birding world!” Vijh, a retired joint general manager from HMT, told this writer.The brave bullyThe digital domain is overflowing with images that capture the predatory actions of charismatic species such as tigers and falcons. But a formidable predator, which resembles a powerful, squatting sumo wrestler ready to lunge in ambush mode, dwells right under our upturned noses. This is the Indian bullfrog, among the largest found in the sub-continent and can sport a length of 160 mm! Most of us are either ignorant about the bullfrog’s power or treat it with disgust as a particularly repulsive, flabby, slimy and slothful creature.Bullfrogs are not wholly ‘ugly’. During monsoons, male bullfrogs sport blue balloons and their skin colour turns a vibrant yellow to attract females just as male purple sunbirds assume darkly iridescent hues and sport golden pectoral tufts in response to the warming moods of spring.The above is more an aside to the bullfrog’s gentler, loving instincts. Here is wildlife scientist SB Mishra documenting what it does for a daily living: “The bullfrog feeds on unusual prey, like invertebrates, small mammals, snakes and birds. Plant matter and several odd objects like human hair, cattle dung and grass are also recorded from its stomach.” Bullfrog tadpoles are even known to relish tadpoles of other species or cannibalise their own! In the Wildbuzz column, I have earlier on showcased the stories of a remarkable bullfrog predating on a Russell’s viper and of another pugnacious specimen which waged a 10-minute-long, blood-spewing struggle with a rat snake before managing to kick the snake in the face and escape from the jaws of death!Bullfrogs are among the 258 species of frogs found across the globe that predate on other frogs. A recent photo-documentation of a bullfrog’s predation attempt on a rice paddy frog in Bangladesh will further add to Wildbuzz readers’ awareness of this awesome predator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/wildbuzz-delight-in-a-cupwing-101618687943029.html
18-04-2021||Other||Residential campuses on edge amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Covid-19 cases are seeing a surge at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai. Two students of the institute were found infected with the virus and have been taken to the Covid-19 facilities of the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC), said Sreerup Raychaudhuri, the institute’s dean (administration). “Their close contacts have been isolated in our guesthouse. We have also repurposed some faculty and postdoctoral housing as isolation centres. We will take stock of the situation again on Sunday and decide the future course of action,” said Raychaudhuri. While theoretical classes are being held online, laboratory work is done on a rotational basis. With residential campuses across the country reporting high number of Covid-19 cases, institutes in Mumbai are on the edge. The Indian Institute of Technology –Bombay (IIT-B) last week clamped down activity on campus, following a surge in cases when nine cases were detected in 24 hours. However, cases among students have come down this week, said IIT-B deputy director S Sudarshan. “We have a whole hostel wing (of 160 rooms) dedicated for isolation of positive patients, but [there are] less than 20 active cases and a few suspected cases,” he said. In an official email to students last week, the IIT-B administration informed students that the night canteen was shut and mess facility moved out to a different location. For students to move out of a floor after a single positive case is found, they will have to take an RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test. There are around 3,000 students and 2,000 staff members on campus at the moment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/residential-campuses-on-edge-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101618687822153.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra, Centre trade barbs over oxygen supply, remdesivir||After a face-off over shortage of vaccine doses, the Uddhav Thackeray-led Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)-led Union government locked horns again on Saturday, this time over inadequate supply of medical oxygen and anti-viral drug remdesivir.State minority affairs minister and NCP chief spokesperson Nawab Malik said chief minister Thackeray tried to contact Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the phone to take up the shortage of oxygen and remdesivir but was told that the PM is on a Bengal tour. The Prime Minister’s Office refuted the allegations, saying that PM Modi himself reviewed the situation of oxygen supply on Friday and the Centre is in constant touch with state governments.“There are queues outside the crematoriums; hospitals are struggling to save the lives of patients as there is a shortage of oxygen supply. Yesterday patients had to be shifted from a few BMC-run hospitals in Mumbai due to oxygen shortage. The Centre has created this chaos-like situation. The chief minister (Uddhav Thackeray) was trying to contact PM Modi on the phone but was informed that the Prime Minister is on a Bengal tour,” Malik told reporters.“Nero was playing flute when Rome was burning, a similar situation has been created today as people are dying and the Prime Minister is busy in elections…,” he said.Later in the day, Thackeray confirmed that he called the Prime Minister. “We are in dire need of oxygen as the cases have surged. Currently, oxygen produced in the state is diverted for medical use...I wasn’t able to speak to the Prime Minister on this issue yesterday evening as he was busy with the elections in West Bengal. But we are getting all the assistance from the Centre,” a statement from the chief minister’s office quoted Thackeray as saying.Malik alleged that the Centre has asked exporters not to give stock of remdesivir injections to Maharashtra, else they will have to face action. This is being done to create trouble for the state as it is being ruled by opposition parties Shiv Sena, NCP and Congress, Malik claimed.Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan spoke to the chief minister on phone and assured adequate and uninterrupted supply of oxygen, health care infrastructure and medicines. He shared the information on his Twitter handle.Union railway minister Piyush Goyal said Thackeray was playing petty politics and should take responsibility for his failure in handling the pandemic.“Saddened to see @OfficeOfUT’s gimmicks on oxygen. GoI, with all stakeholders, is ensuring maximum oxygen production in India...Maharashtra has so far received the highest quantity of Oxygen in India,” Goyal said in a series of tweets.Maharashtra is the worst affected state by the pandemic. It has so far seen 3,770,707 cases and 59,970 deaths. On Saturday, Maharashtra recorded 67,123 new cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-and-centre-trade-barbs-over-oxygen-supply-101618687762269.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||BMC forced to move patients due to oxygen shortage||In a first in the Covid-19 pandemic, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) had to move 168 Covid patients admitted to various civic-run hospitals across the suburbs, including Bandra, Jogeshwari and Borivali to jumbo centres on account of a shortage of oxygen. Put together, the 150 Covid-19 hospitals (private and government run) in Mumbai require 235 metric tones (mt) of oxygen. However, Mumbai mayor Kishori Pednekar said the city has been facing a shortage since the past two days, as vendors are reportedly facing a shortage of raw material. “168 patients were safely shifted from Bhabha Hospital at Bandra, Bhabha Hospital at Kurla, Bhagwati Hospital at Borivali, Shatabdi Hospital at Govandi, M T Agarwal Hospital and Trauma Hospital at Jogeshwari as oxygen supply was affected at these hospitals, to jumbo centres,” the civic body said in a release on Saturday. Pednekar, who visited many civic hospitals on Saturday to review the oxygen shortage, said that oxygen capsule plants would be started at Shatabdi Hospital and Bhagwati Hospital. “The production of oxygen was low due to lack of supply of raw materials. I have asked the administration to set up a liquid oxygen plant to have a permanent solution to these issues. Also, the process of starting an oxygen capsule plant at Shatabdi Hospital and Bhagwati Hospital will be starting. We are trying to keep the citizens of Mumbai safe, and the citizens should cooperate with the municipal administration without leaving their homes,” she said. Medical-grade oxygen is used for the treatment of critical Covid-19 patients and in other cases of respiratory diseases. The BMC said that while there was no shortage of beds, the problem was one of oxygen supply, and the issue will be resolved in the coming days, Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner BMC said.“Despite there being issues in oxygen supply today, there is no shortage of beds. The oxygen supply issue will be resolved soon,” Kakani said. The city started reporting increase number of cases daily since February 10. From over 500 cases daily, the daily figure went up to above 5,000 by March-end to around 8,000 to 10,000 by the first week of April. On Saturday, 8811 new cases were reported in the city, taking the total up to 571018 cases of Covid. The high daily caseload of the second wave has caused a strain on the city’s health care infrastructure. Of the 20,279 beds in the city, around 80% (16,335) are currently occupied. Seen at a granular level, Intensive Care Unit beds and Oxygen beds are next to fully occupied: the occupancy rate is 98% for ICU beds and 88% for oxygen beds. Officials said that while oxygen beds may be available, several smaller private hospitals in the city did not have adequate supply of oxygen on Saturday. Meanwhile, the BMC in a statement on Saturday said, “Majority of private centres may not be able to conduct sessions tomorrow [Sunday] or may conduct for only half a day.” Officials said this was due to a shortage of vaccine doses. On Saturday, 50,725 citizens were vaccinated. Until Saturday, over 1.9 million citizens have been vaccinated in Mumbai since January 16. On Saturday too, vaccination at several centres was affected due to shortage of vaccine doses. Several private and government centres were not able to vaccinate citizens as stock fell short.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bmc-forced-to-move-patients-due-to-oxygen-shortage-101618687642102.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Two kill man for robbing ₹500 from them, arrested||Versova police have arrested two men within eight hours for killing a man after he robbed them of ₹500 a day earlier.According to the police, at 1am on Saturday, they had received information about a body being found at Goma Lane in Versova village. On reaching the spot, the officers found a 25-year-old lying in a pool of blood, with his neck slit and injuries on his chest and stomach.The officers said based on the tattoo on his arm, the police identified the body. The victim Vikram Nishad was a resident of a nearby locality.The locals informed that the victim fought with two men living in the area after he had robbed ₹500 from one of them, to buy drugs.Siraj Inamdar, senior police inspector of Versova police station, said the victim was stabbed more than ten times in his stomach and back. Inamdar added that within eight hours of registering the offence the police traced the two accused identified as Sandip Rai, 25 and Ghanshyam Das, 50. On questioning the two, the men confessed to the murder. Das revealed that on Saturday night while they were roaming in the area, they spotted Nishad. With the intention of revenge, the two approached Nishad with a knife.The two stabbed Nishad in his stomach and slit his neck. The duo then left the spot before they could be seen by anyone.Inamdar said that they have arrested the two on the charge of murder under section 302 of the Indian Penal Code.“We will produce the two in front of the holiday magistrate on Sunday,” Inamdar added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-two-kill-man-for-robbing-500-from-them-arrested-101618687463250.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh achieving only 50% of its vaccination capacity||Even as the authorities claim to have created the capacity to vaccinate 10,000 persons a day against the coronavirus, the number of people receiving the dose remains between 4,000 and 5,000 (roughly 50%). UT adviser Manoj Parida said the number of doses administered in the city, when compared to its population, is a grave cause of concern for the administration. “There is no target. If we compare doses administered in other states and UTs with similar population as ours, the saturation is low. The Centre wants to speed up vaccination. We have enough doses for the next 10 days and people should come forward. The health department is looking into the reason for people’s reluctance. Effective strategies will be launched,” Parida added. Doses administered in Chandigarh, however, are highest in the tricity area. In Mohali and Panchkula, around 1.1 lakh doses each have been administered till April 16. In Chandigarh, 1.37 lakh doses have been administered. Whenever new groups are authorised to take the vaccine shot, the vaccination briefly picks up the pace, briefly, but the response loses steam within weeks.In the twelfth week of the vaccination drive that was launched on January 16, Chandigarh recorded a new high of administering the first dose to 20,828 people, its highest number. Overall, the drive started losing steam by March-end. A jump was witnessed again after the co-morbid condition was removed and everyone between 45-60 was made eligible to take the jab. After the new conditions, the number of people in this age group receiving the jab has seen an increase of 80% (from 4,164 persons in March to 29,140 persons in the first 15 days of April). For the group of senior citizens, the participation has dwindled. In March, 32,154 persons aged above 60 received the jab, which translates into 1,050 doses being administered per day. In the first 15 days of April, only 10,680 persons have received the jab for a daily average of 700 in the group. Frontline workers also laggardsThe vaccination for frontline workers is also a concern. Despite warnings from the administration, only 58% health workers have been vaccinated. In other categories of frontline workers, the coverage is 65%.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said there was these workers were hesitant and coverage in this segment was low as compared to other states. “We have tried to address their issues, but many among them are not ready. Among the other eligible groups, the response is tepid. Against the capacity of 10,000, only half is being used,” he added. “People enthusiastic about receiving the jab have come forward and got the doses. Now, people are waiting and watching for side-effects. We are reassuring people that the vaccine is safe and effective,” said Dr VK Nagpal, joint director UT health department.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-achieving-only-50-of-its-vaccination-capacity-101618687462754.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Assistant police inspector booked for raping colleague||An assistant police inspector (API) from Dongri police station was booked on Friday after a female colleague filed a complaint of rape against him.The 30-year-old woman police officer has alleged that API Sandip Peese, 32, had promised to marry her and raped her repeatedly from January 2014 to April 2021. She has also claimed that since she was from a lower caste, Peese’s mother Alka, 50, and his brother Sagar, 30, got him married elsewhere and assaulted her and her relatives when they went to talk to them.The complainant had joined the police force in 2013 and she was posted at Dongri police station after passing her exam. Peese was also posted there and as a temporary staying arrangement, the senior inspector had given them accommodation in police quarters where the woman stayed in one room and male officers including Peese stayed in the room opposite hers.A few days later, Peese began going close to her. However, when she objected, Peese proposed to her. She later agreed to marry him. The two then began meeting each other outside the police station. On January 1, 2014, Peese entered the victim’s room and raped her by promising to marry her after he was promoted. Peese then raped her repeatedly at several places. He also asked her to keep their affair a secret. “When the senior police inspector asked me about the affair, I did not say anything,” the complainant said.On April 2 this year, the woman learnt that Peese had taken holiday and gone to his village for his wedding. When she contacted him, he told her that his parents had tested positive Covid-19. The woman alleged that Peese’s mother and brother abused and assaulted her and her family members and got Peese married to another woman.“Peese had also blackmailed me by threatening to post objectionable photos on internet,” the officer said.On Friday, the victim approached Dogri police station and lodged a complaint against Peese on charges of rape, cheating, threatening, assaulting and also under relevant sections of the Atrocities Act.“We have registered a case against Peese, his mother and brother, and are investigating the case,” said another officer from Dongri police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-assistant-police-inspector-booked-for-raping-colleague-101618687402144.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: Grassroots vaccine distribution needed||India and governments across the world are struggling to bring vaccines within reach of 7.67 billion people. Many countries are simply flummoxed by the overwhelming task. In cities, people can visit hospitals for jabs. However, in villages and slums, the vaccines will have to travel to the people. The challenge before developing countries such as India, with large rural populations, is distribution of vaccines to small towns, villages and slums. Of 6,64,369 villages in India, 35.5%, which is 2,36,004 villages, have a population less than 500. It will be an enormous undertaking, to bring vaccines to people in these areas due to lack of motorable roads.Companies are using grassroots distribution techniques to reach consumers in small towns and villages. Middlemen are not available for this ‘last mile distribution’. Companies have innovated techniques such as motorcycle brigades, retail foot soldiers, distribution and propaganda vans and distribution boats. These mass-distribution ideas can be deployed for vaccinations in small towns and villages.‘Covid-19 warrior motorcycle brigade’The ‘motorcycle brigade’ model comprises teams of youngsters visiting villages and slums to retail small packets of toothpaste and washing powder among other essential items. ‘Riders for health’ in Africa visit villages on motorcycles to distribute anti-malaria medicines. The health departments could launch ‘Covid-19 warriors motorcycle brigades.’ These would be health workers, with ice boxes carrying vaccines mounted on motorcycles, visiting villages to inoculate residents. Two health workers on a motorcycle could cover one or two villages daily and vaccinate 500 villagers.The visiting health workers should carry hand-held terminals to record names, ages and locations of the people they inoculate. Small printers, attached to the terminals, can print vaccination certificates. The ‘warriors motorcycle brigade’ programme should inform villages being visited in advance. Then, residents will be ready, at a central place like the village school, temple, mosque or church.‘Covid-19 foot-soldiers’A major challenge in developing countries is to vaccinate people in villages that have no motorable roads at all. Even motorcycles find it difficult to reach some villages due to rainfall and slush. We had initiated a scheme called ‘Mama-Mia distribution programme’, in our company, which translates to ‘hundred mamas distribution programme’. These were 100 housewives who collected a carton of toothpaste every morning and sold the tubes to villagers in their homes.The scheme can be relaunched as ‘Covid-19 foot soldiers’. Health workers could carry an ice-box of vaccines to villages, which are inaccessible by road and vaccinate the villagers. The execution of the programme will require resolving logistical issues such as sourcing the appropriate type and number of ice-boxes.Each team of two ‘Covid-19 foot soldiers’ should aim to cover at least one village with 300-500 vaccines per day. The foot soldiers should carry hand-held terminals and micro-printers to record their vaccinations.‘Distribution and propaganda’ vansTo accelerate vaccinations and create awareness about Covid-19, health authorities should use ‘distribution and propaganda’ vans. These are vans or autos, which undertake vaccinations and propaganda activities. Health authorities can deploy vans with freezers, to transport the vaccines to villages and slums. The workers can vaccinate from the vans.A propagandist distributes masks free to the assembled villagers. He makes announcements on how to avoid infections and videos can be used to demonstrate how to observe Covid-19 protocols. The van can cover two villages per day. If three hundred villagers congregate at every meeting, a van could vaccinate 600 villagers daily.‘Covid-19 warrior boats’Many interior villages are surrounded by backwaters or rivers and are inaccessible by roads. In Kerala , many villages can be accessed only through boats. The company I worked with deployed boats to sell soaps to village shops along the bank of different waterways, including the Amazon River in Peru, Colombia and Brazil. In water-bound regions, health departments can initiate ‘warrior boats’, which will carry medical staff, vaccines and masks. They will visit five to six villages per day, vaccinate and distribute masks. They can also organise demonstrations on Covid-19 protocols. A refrigerated mother ship could carry the vaccines and feed 10 to 15 smaller ‘warrior boats’ every night. Operation vaccine floodGlobally, around 230 vaccine candidates are being researched to fight Covid-19. Of these, ten vaccines are now being deployed. By the end of 2021, we could have 15 to 20 approved vaccines. India should launch ‘operation vaccine flood’, to ensure that by mid-2022 every person is be able to buy a vaccine of choice, from any pharmacist.( The writer, an alumnus of Harvard Business School, is a Mumbai-based management consultant)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/grassroots-vaccine-distribution-needed-101618687285725.html
18-04-2021||Other||Many staff of Prayagraj-based MLNMC microbiology lab down with Covid hampering RT-PCR testing||As many as 14 of the 30 trained employees of microbiology department of Motilal Nehru Medical College, where all of Sangam city’s RT-PCR tests of corona are being investigated, have tested positive leading to a backlog of samples, said an official of the department.The head of department, Dr Monica said, “We are somehow managing things with half of the trained staff and no one is ready to get trained because of the increasing numbers of cases. If we get a team only then we would be able to prepare them for investigation, but the problem is there are no volunteers to get trained.”One of the employee of the department without wanting to be named said: “Because of deficiency of ‘fit’ staff, there is the backlog of over 5,000 samples that have to be tested and the staff is under great stress but doing their best in the present challenge.” The official said because of the backlog, people have to wait for three to four days for their report which also pushes the treatment further. The situation is that people have themselves started to reach the microbiology lab, trying to find out their reports. Even more worrying is that if further lab workers become infected, the RTPCR investigation in the district will come to a standstill.“The district administration too has to consider taking the needed steps so that the backlog is cleared and the RTPCR investigation is not hampered by the dearth of staff. If the investigation of the collected samples is reduced instead of increase, then the situation will become worse,” the official said.The RTPCR tests in the department started on April 10 last year and since then it has not found a single researcher. Allahabad University and Motilal Nehru National Institute of Technology (MNNIT) both have a departments of microbiology where research work is going on. The number of tests can be increased by roping in researchers here in the lab of MLN College, he added.If researchers or the lab of these two institutions along with one private lab are involved, there would be less dependency on only one place for the investigation of RTPCR. This is need of the hour as the Union Health Ministry has passed the mandated that 70% RTPCR and 30% antigen test has to be done to prevent corona infection, the official added.The source suggested that King George Medical University, Lucknow, has set an example by preparing a large number of people to conduct RTPCR investigation here. In view of corona’s growing transition, administrative officials should seriously consider implementing the KGMU formula.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/many-staff-of-prayagraj-based-mlnmc-microbiology-lab-down-with-covid-hampering-rt-pcr-testing-101618687284525.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula hits a new high with 349 Covid cases||Panchkula recorded 349 fresh cases of Covid-19 on Saturday in record single-day spike since the outbreak.The neighbouring Mohali district reported 744 cases while 431 people tested positive in Chandigarh, taking the tricity’s total to 1,524 on Saturday.While the tricity and Mohali hit the peak with 1,587 and 860 cases, respectively, on Thursday, Chandigarh saw the steepest spike in daily figures with 481 cases on Friday.Meanwhile, a day after 10 people succumbed to the virus in the tricity, nine more deaths were reported on Saturday, including five in Mohali. Both Chandigarh and Panchkula recorded two fatalities each.With 349 cases, Panchkula’s total has climbed up to 16,609. The deaths of a 55-year-old Pinjore woman and 70-year-old Kalka man have taken the district’s toll to 164.While 14,422 patients have recovered, 2,023 cases are still active. The recovery rate of the district has dropped to 86% from 90% on April 1.In Chandigarh, the death toll reached 410 after two residents of Sector 56, a 52-year-old woman and 57-year-old man, died at different hospitals. As many as 33,309 people have tested positive in the UT so far, of whom 29,485 have recovered and 3,414 are still undergoing treatment. Just 17 days into April, the city has recorded around 6,000 cases and 31 deaths.Besides 744 cases and five deaths, Mohali district also reported 473 recoveries. Among the fresh cases, 225 surfaced in Mohali city, followed by 197 in Dhakoli, 109 in Kharar and 88 in Dera Bassi. With this, the total has reached 35,193, of which 28,913 patients have been cured, 499 have died and 5,781 cases are active.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-hits-a-new-high-with-349-covid-cases-101618687284020.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai colleges all set to upgrade tech for another online academic year||As rising Covid-19 cases have left the current examination process in for a relook, city colleges are preparing for the next academic year. While last year the virtual classroom system was forcefully thrown at the institutes, this time colleges are already busy preparing for the 2021-22 academic year, and the idea is to enhance the system which is already in place rather than make do with the routine.“Last year, our teachers were creating links for classes and sharing the same with students on WhatsApp. At least a couple of times it so happened that someone shared lewd content on the classroom screen while a lecture was on. We took the matter to the cybercrime cell, but we knew we needed a more fool-proof technology,” said Neha Jagtani, principal in-charge, RD National College, Bandra.After completing the last academic year on a free software, the college has now invested in Google classroom package which allots individual IDs to both teachers and students, and only those particular individuals can log in the class with that particular ID. “This way we will know exactly who has logged into the lecture and who tends to misbehave, if at all, in the future,” added Jagtani. Through the new software, only the teacher can now share screen, and this will automatically rule out chances of any miscreants joining the class henceforth, she added.In 2020, the University of Mumbai (MU), after fourth months of lockdown, on August 3 stated that the new academic year 2020-21 should begin from August 7. The circular, which was addressed to all affiliated colleges, stated that with the completion of admissions for all batches, except first-year undergraduate and postgraduate graduate courses, colleges should start virtual lectures for the new academic year until further notice.In a separate circular released on July 31, 2020, the university had clarified the admission rules as well. While all institutes were asked to finish admissions of their current students after promoting them, the varsity had clarified that no outside admissions will be allowed for batches other than first-year.Jai Hind College at Churchgate had invested in a software before virtual classes were a norm and managed to continue regular lectures on the same software once the MU circular was released. However, there were hiccups once more than 6,000 of their students and staff logged into the software at the same time, but the problems were ironed out soon enough.“Technology is so advanced now, we have started the process of upgrading our software to make it more fool-proof and avoid hacking in any way possible,” said Ashok Wadia, principal. He added that while their college was one of the handful of institutes that managed to train their teachers on how to conduct virtual classes last year, this year they have put together a platform exclusively for their teaching staff in order to ensure better team building among the staff.“Every day, teachers find new software and tools that enhance their teaching-learning methodology, and through this new platform, they can now share the same with other colleagues. The idea is to build a strong foundation and help everyone grow together,” added Wadia.Many colleges are also investing in better software to tackle online exams. From hiring third-party proctoring methodology to involving more teachers in the examination process, the idea is to make the examination process more stringent.Institutes have also started working on a different teaching module to help their teachers plan their lectures better and at the same time, also make learning more fun and interactive for students. “We teachers are currently attending virtual workshops organised by our institute to help us incorporate more technology in the virtual classroom. From using basic MS Office to introducing animated videos for science practical sessions, all is being taught to us and this gives us more confidence to tackle the next academic year,” said an assistant professor from a south Mumbai college.While colleges are currently busy planning and preparing for the next academic year, university officials too are brainstorming to make the upcoming academic year less stressful for colleges as well as students. “We are currently focusing on the examination and results process. In the meantime, a team is already charting out a plan for the next academic year, but the same cannot be shared until the government gives us a go ahead,” said a senior official from the varsity. He added that for the time being, the university is making plans assuming that the next academic year will also be conducted online only.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-colleges-all-set-to-upgrade-tech-for-another-online-academic-year-101618687282664.html
18-04-2021||Other||Maa Vindhyavasini temple in Mirzapur to remain closed till April 21||Vindhya Panda Samaj has decided to keep the Maa Vindhyavasini temple closed for devotees from Saturday 8pm till April 21 in view of surge in Covid cases. However, sringar and puja, including arti, will be done daily by the priests of the temple. The decision was taken on Saturday during a meeting of Shri Vindhya Panda Samaj chaired by Mirzapur city MLA Ratnakar Mishra. The meeting was attended by 19 members of the executive committee of Shri Vindhya Panda Samaj as well as its president Pankaj Dwivedi, secretary Bhanu Pathak and other members of Panda community. Mishra said any further decision will be taken after April 21 if the situation improves.Dwivedi said devotees from every corner of the country and abroad come to the temple in Navaratri and if it remains open, there will be huge crowd. “With the temple being overcrowded, corona is likely to spread more. Therefore, it was decided that after worship and arti of Maa Vindhyavasini on Saturday 8pm the temple will be closed,” he said. Dwivedi said the members of Teerth Purohit community will perform Havan at the temple in order that the people of the country may get rid of Corona pandemic. Members of panda community Prashant Dwivedi, Gautam Dwivedi, Gunjan Mishra and others were also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/maa-vindhyavasini-temple-in-mirzapur-to-remain-closed-till-april-21-101618687162128.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||10 people held for violating weekend curfew in Chandigarh||Ten people were arrested for violating the curfew orders as Chandigarh went into weekend lockdown on Saturday.Compliance remained high despite limited checking by police. However, the administration has said that the restrictions will be strictly enforced on Sunday.“Despite various activities allowed, such as interstate travel, we were quite successful in imposing the restrictions. We are thankful to city residents for their compliance and cooperation,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida, adding that police were directed not to impose strict restrictions on the first day. Parida said that on Sunday, when in general there is less movement, even better compliance is expected. “If violations are reported, police will be stricter,” he said.“We have registered 10 FIRs for curfew violation,” said senior superintendent of police (SSP) Kuldeep Singh Chahal. “The residents themselves stayed indoors. However, police control room vehicles will be making rounds of different areas at night to ensure strict compliance,” he said. Police also issued 12 challans for not wearing face masks, 52 for not adhering to social distancing and 22 for spitting in different areas of the city on Saturday. Fines worth ₹55,500 were collected from the violators.Meanwhile, as hospitals remained open, there was no impact seen on the Covid-19 vaccination drive or testing. While 4,052 people got vaccinated, around 3,000 underwent the test, nearly the same as the average daily figures. The Chandigarh administration had decided to impose weekend curfew on Friday amid a record spike in Covid-19 cases. As many as 481 people had tested positive on Friday in the biggest single-day spike.The curfew is to remain in force for 55 hours, from 10pm on Friday till 5am on Monday. Except for some exemptions, all public movement has been prohibited. Those specially issued a restricted movement curfew pass are also exempted. It can be availed on the official website of the administration: http://admser.chd.nic.in/dpc. Officials are also available on 0172-2700076 and 0172-2700341.Free movement within tricityAs there is no restriction on intercity movement, no nakas were set up at the entry points and people moving from or to Mohali and Panchkula were given free passage through the borders.While tourist spots and major commercial centres such as Sukhna Lake and Sector 17 wore a deserted look, there was considerable footfall at smaller markets, as people ventured out to get essentials despite only home delivery being allowed.“The border with Mohali is open and no vehicle is being stopped, which is so much relief. I had left early fearing checks by the police,” said Jasbir Singh, a resident of Kajheri who has a dairy shop in Phase 1, Mohali. Even domestic helps and other workers, such as gardeners, moving within the city or from Mohali villages to southern sectors of Chandigarh were not stopped. “ I had left home thinking that if cops stop me, I would return, but there was no checking,” said Bala, a domestic help staying in Sector 56. Kishore Mandal, a resident of Palsora who works as a gardener, said, “There are policemen at the junctions, but they are not stopping anyone. They are checking people who are not wearing masks.” “It is a tricity area, and when Panchkula and Mohali doesn’t have curfew, then it becomes difficult to enforce it fully in the city,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida, adding that the interstate traffic, particularly people coming from Panchkula and Mohali to attend their government offices, can’t be stopped.“Our focus is more on creating awareness so that people themselves accept the change,” said deputy superintendent of police Charanjit Singh. “People are adhering to the curfew order and are not moving out. Anyone going out for medication or buying essentials is not being stopped, but we are definitely checking those found loitering.” Traders still call it unnecessaryHowever, traders continued to call the weekend lockdown “unnecessary”. Chandigarh Beopar Mandal president Charanjiv Singh said: “The shopkeepers had complied with the administration’s instructions, but people were still seen coming to the markets.” Naresh Mahajan, president of the Sector 23 Market Welfare Association who runs a grocery store, said: “There was hardly any difference in the market on Saturday. Most people came to the market to shop for essentials and we only got a few calls for deliveries.” With restaurants allowed only home delivery, the hospitality industry did see a major dip in sales. “More than 50% of our weekly sales happen on the weekend. The small eateries will surely suffer, and we request the administration to support us during these testing times,” said Ankit Gupta, president, Chandigarh Hospitality Association.Meanwhile,a large number of people decided to stay home. Rajat Sharma, general secretary, Chandigarh Residents Association Welfare Federation, said streets in Sector 45, where he stays, remained empty. Federation of Sectors Welfare Association Chandigarh chief spokesperson Pankaj Gupta said residents by and large followed the instructions. “However, we need to examine whether such a curfew is actually needed,” he said.Senior deputy mayor Maheshinder Singh Sidhu said: “Most residents faced no difficulties during the lockdown. People should use this opportunity to get themselves vaccinated if they are eligible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/10-people-held-for-violating-weekend-curfew-in-chandigarh-101618686984044.html
18-04-2021||Mumbai||University of Mumbai announces PET results for PhD, MPhil||The University of Mumbai (MU) on Saturday announced results for the preliminary eligibility test (PET). According to the information shared by the varsity, 55.8% of applicants for Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) and 47.5% Master of Philosophy (MPhil) applicants cleared the entrance test.A total of 7,706 students appeared for the entrance test for PhD this year, and of them, 4,304 applicants passed the exam. Similarly, 223 students appeared for the entrance test for MPhil courses of which 106 students cleared the exam.“The exam was held online between March 25 and 27 this year for a total of 79 subjects. Due to the lockdown, we could not hold this exam in 2020 so there were more applications this year,” said an official from MU. This year, MU received more than 11,759 applications for this examination, including 11,352 for PhD and 407 applications for MPhil. This includes 4,914 male students and 6,437 female students for PhD programmes and 197 male and 210 female students for MPhil programmes.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/university-of-mumbai-announces-pet-results-for-phd-mphil-101618686803938.html
18-04-2021||Other||All 100 wards of Prayagraj to be sanitised on weekends||In view of the sudden surge in the number of corona positive cases in the city for the past one week, which has broken all the previous records, the Prayagraj Municipal Corporation (PMC) has decided to sanitise all the 100 wards of the city on a war footing.For this purpose, it has been decided that the vehicles being used by PMC, presently being used for improving the quality of air in the city, like anti-smog gun, water vehicle and sprinkler and the vehicles used by Jal Sansthan including jetting machines will be used for the sanitisation work. The sanitisation work will be carried out on weekends (Saturday’s and Sunday’s).Altogether 17 vehicles have been pressed into the service and the entire 100 wards of the city have been distributed among eight zones. These zones have been given two vehicles each for sanitisation work barring zone one which consists of areas around Khuldabad. This had been the area where maximum numbers of patients were reported in the recent spike in the cases. These localities include the Himmatganj, Chuck Niratul, Beniganj, Kareli, Sultanpur Bhava, Karelabagh etc.According to the public relation officer (PRO) of PMC PK Mishra, the sanitisation work was carried out on Saturday as well in all eight zones of the city.The PRO further informed that zone two consists of localities around Muttiganj, zone three have areas of Civil Lines and Katra, zone four has Allahapur and Georgetown and adjoining areas, zone five would be of areas and localities around Naini, zone six would be of the areas of Transport Nagar and adjoining areas including Preetam Nagar etc, zone seven is of Phaphamau and neighbouring localities and zone eight is of Junshi area.Mishra further informed that apart from sanitisation work, the municipal commissioner of Prayagraj inspected the special sanitisation drive in the city to break the Covid-19 chain. The inspection was conducted at Zero Road bus stand, Katra, Phaphamau zone, Naini zone, Allapur, Rasulabad Ghat crematorium.“Special sanitisation drive is being conducted in all the eight zones of the city in two shifts as per an elaborative plan wherein responsibility has been given to each official and they can be contacted in case of need,” said the PRO.Besides, Nigrani Samiti members were trained and motivated for tracking persons coming from outside for testing and vaccination of persons above 45 years of age.As a part of the sanitisation drive, all the railway stations, bus stands, major roads, public places, religious places, and narrow lanes will be sanitised with a 1% sodium hypochlorite solution, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-100-wards-of-prayagraj-to-be-sanitised-on-weekends-101618686742071.html
18-04-2021||Other||Meerut: Alarming! Corona graph rising in western UP cities||After hitting bigger cities of the state, now the smaller cities of western Uttar Pradesh are getting overwhelmed with coronavirus cases. In all, 1802 people have tested positive for the virus in eight cities of the region while nine people succumbed during the treatment, as per the health department.However, the reports released by the health department shows a disparity in the number of deaths that are being witnessed. The register at Surajkund cremation ground in Meerut records the death of 24 corona patients between April 12 and April 16 while the health department registers only 10 Covid deaths, in the district, during these four days.The number of corona cases is drastically surging in cities of western Uttar Pradesh that has recorded 1802 fresh cases and 9 deaths in the past 24 hours. The maximum number of positive cases were reported from Meerut with 551 new cases and 2 deaths followed by 362 cases and 4 deaths in Muzaffarnagar, 192 cases and 1 death in Bulandshahr, 272 cases in Saharanpur, 168 in Bijnor, 123 cases and 1 death in Hapur, 60 cases and 1 death in Baghpat and 74 new Covid cases in Shamli district.The health department officials claim that appropriate arrangement has been made in the hospitals for treatment of corona patients and additional beds are being arranged to meet the demands with increasing positive cases. Health department officials said that the district has presently 1935 beds available with oxygen and 335 ICU beds are also available to treat critically ill patients.Dr Ambesh Pawar, the president of Meerut Nursing Homes Association which has 120 registered members claimed that district administration has so far hired services of eight private hospitals for treatment of Covid-19 patients. “These are not exclusive Covid hospitals, but the separate arrangement has been made for treating Covid patients,” shared Dr Pawar and added that these hospitals all together have 150 to 200 beds available for treating Covid patients.During a meeting with hospital and nursing-home owners on Saturday, district magistrate K Balaji insisted on converting few hospitals into Covid hospitals. “We have motivated a few hospitals to convert themselves as Covid hospitals and hope that some private hospitals would willingly come forward to declare them as Covid hospitals,” said Dr Pawar.Presently, the district has a level 3 hospital for the treatment of Covid patients in LLRM Medical College. The Subharti and NCR Medical College are L2 hospitals. Four CHCs also have converted into L1 and L2 level hospitals to provide treatment to Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/meerut-alarming-corona-graph-rising-in-western-up-cities-101618686682049.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh’s PGIMER running out of beds for Covid patients||Seeing a faster inflow of Covid-19 patients, the dedicated facility at Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, has been stretched to its initial capacity with just nine beds of the total 253 remaining vacant on Saturday afternoon.The bed occupancy, which was around 66% just 10 days back, has now reached 96%, prompting the hospital authorities to consider opening new areas to accommodate patients.“The situation is worrisome as more patients who have moderate to severe illness are coming to the institute. The inflow is not only from Chandigarh but from other states as well. These patients come to the emergency, are tested positive for the virus and are shifted to the dedicated Covid-19 facility,” said Dr Jagat Ram, director, PGIMER.Currently, 94 patients are from Punjab, followed by 65 from Chandigarh, 46 from Haryana and 17 from Himachal Pradesh.“More than 50% of the patients in the dedicated facility are young, which was not the case earlier. The new strain is targeting the young population as they are more mobile. Though there are fewer fatalities in such cases, hospitalisation is needed,” said Dr GD Puri, head of the Covid-19 management committee at PGIMER.A senior doctor, on the condition of anonymity, said that around four patients lose the battle against the virus everyday at the PGIMER. While the institute has shut down routine healthcare services to dedicate more workforce to manage the pandemic, it is concerned about its impact.“We will add more beds as the need arises, but we have to make a proper balance with emergency services the hospitals offer to neighbouring states. We have the resources, but the demand at this time is also increasing. Each facility available should be utilised to its capacity,” said Dr Jagat Ram.Other hospitals better placedAlthough in other city hospitals the occupancy is relatively low, the health authorities have said that more dedicated beds are being earmarked keeping in view the surge.For instance, at Government Medical College and Hospital, Sector 32, the initial capacity, including ICU beds, is just 65 beds, of which 57 are occupied. “We are adding around 155 beds at GMCH-32 campus, out of which 23 will have ventilator support as patients with serious complications are being hospitalised now. Similarly, of 100 beds at the Sector 48 facility, 17 will have ventilator support,” said Dr Jasbinder Kaur, director-principal, GMCH.Dr VK Nagpal, joint director, UT health department, said: “Panjab University hostels, which were earmarked as Covid care centres, are being opened from Monday. We are also adding more beds with oxygen support at GMSH, Sector 16.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarhs-pgimer-running-out-of-beds-for-covid-patients-101618686623638.html
18-04-2021||Chandigarh||Guest column: When the Chandigarh spring beckons||A few months ago, on my flight back to Chandigarh, I had a panoramic view of the tree-lined vistas of Chandigarh. The foliage was so dense that one could not identify much, except some landmarks such as the Secretariat and the Sukhna Lake.I was reminded of the view on the morning of Good Friday (April 2) when I was chauffeuring my son for a photography trip. As we scouted for vantage points to get the best frames, I was struck by the mesmerising views. We enlisted Google’s help to identify trees and I was taken back to my college days in the 1970s when as botany students we would go around the city looking for different trees and plants. Their common and botanical names used to be etched on small metal boards.From mid-March to the next four weeks, Chandigarh’s foliage is a riot of colours. The brilliant transformation of Chandigarh’s winter landscape to the vibrant hues of copper, yellow, purple, red and green happens gradually over three-four weeks in the backdrop of verdant evergreen trees. One can identify more shades of green than in a paint catalogue. An early morning drive on the city’s roads is a pleasurable treat as colourful flowers carpet the ground — in March it is the bright red bottle brush while in April it is the purple Jacaranda or beautiful pink and purple flowers of the Moulmein rosewood. In the afternoon, you can see different hues of green and brown shimmering in the sunlight. At dusk the view is radiant as the leaves and flowers seem to change colour. If there is a breeze, or if it rains the view becomes heavenly. If I were to pick one tree, I would choose the leaning yellow flower trees, the yellow trumpet or Tecona, on the Jan Marg as the most eye-catching.Is Chandigarh’s spring foliage fiesta any less than the famed New Jersey fall or Seattle fall colours? The best time to see the hues of the Seattle fall is the first two to three weeks of October while it is the last 10 days of October in New Jersey. Chandigarh’s spring bonanza seems to last first three weeks of April.My desire to know more about Chandigarh trees was rekindled when a nephew of mine visited us last week. An environmentalist, he was all praise for the founding fathers of the city as he explained that six mature trees offset one tonne of carbon dioxide. Despite having the highest per capita CO2 emission and per capita car ownership in the country, it is probably the lush tree cover of over 100 varieties that maintains the city’s beautiful character. It was interesting to know that of the 60 odd avenue trees in Chandigarh nearly half are from countries as far away as Brazil and Australia. The onus lies on us to preserve our city’s heritage.(The writer retired as a professor of gastroenterology from PGIMER, Chandigarh)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/guest-column-when-the-chandigarh-spring-beckons-101618686562770.html
18-04-2021||Other||UP farmers block Karnal-Meerut highway over non-procurement of wheat in Haryana||Agitated over non-procurement of wheat from other states, farmers from Uttar Pradesh blocked the Karnal-Meerut highway near Yamuna bridge on Haryana-UP border.Farmers alleged that the Haryana government is not procuring their produce despite them registering on the ‘Meri Fasal Mera Byora’ portal. “They are procuring wheat of Haryana farmers but UP farmers are not being allowed to enter mandis,” alleged the protesting farmers.Hundreds of people remained stranded in traffic jam for hours as the protesting farmers parked their tractor-trailers blocking the road, not allowing movement of vehicles. After high drama for over four hours, UP Police reached the spot and farmers opened the blockade.Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav said the produce of all registered farmers are being procured as per schedule but generation of gate passes was stopped for two days to speed up lifting operations.He said that the movement of tractor-trailers from UP was stopped for two days as it causes traffic jams on NH-44. He said that he has taken up the issue with Shamli district magistrate for arrangements of stay of famers coming from UP.Taking note of tardy lifting in mandis, the Karnal DC has issued strict instructions for action against transporters for delays and tardy lifting.The directions were issued after the DC visited mandis in district and he was not satisfied with lifting of procured wheat.“Tardy lifting causes glut-like situation in the mandis, forcing the government to put gate pass generation on hold for two days,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/up-farmers-block-karnal-meerut-highway-over-non-procurement-of-wheat-in-haryana-101618686083774.html
18-04-2021||Other||Spike in calls on Ambala, Jhajjar Covid helpline numbers||Covid-19 helpline numbers in Ambala and Jhajjar have witnessed a sudden spike in the number of calls, particularly after March.Ambala health authorities issued three helpline numbers — 9996223030 for emergency calls, 7082303976 for general queries, and 7015076108 for ambulance services — for home-isolated patients.Due to panic-like situation, MBBS doctors are responding to queries related to same toilet usage by family members in home isolation, or getting vaccinated after recovering from the infection.Dr Rajinder Rai, in-charge of home isolation, said, “Such calls on 24×7 emergency helpline numbers have become a headache for the staff. They cannot ignore calls as there might be a patient in dire condition needing shifting to hospital.”To reduce burden on the helpline staff, the health department introduced two apps to monitor patients in home isolation and check availability of beds in hospitals.Dr Rai said, “But patients prefer to call the helpline numbers. On an average, 3-4 of them are shifted to hospital daily by one of our 62 field staff, as the situation worsens.”Deputy civil surgeon Dr Sanjeev Singla said there are different helpline numbers for the general public where queries on sampling, vaccination centres, availability of reports and drugs, etc are attended.Jhajjar principal medical officer Dr Sanjay Dahiya said they have increased helpline numbers.“There is burden of work on everyone and our helpline numbers are continuously ringing. We cannot predict the number of calls but our staff remains busy answering the queries,” he added.He said they are receiving calls about availability of ambulance, people complaining about having fever, cold and viral, and asking symptoms of Covid.HARYANA RECORDS 7,717 FRESH COVID CASESAnother high of 7,717 fresh coronavirus infections and 32 deaths were reported from Haryana on Saturday. This has pushed the active case count to 38,558.As per the medical bulletin, the sample positivity rate increased to 5.15% and recovery rate dropped to 88.01%. The health authorities tested 43,987 persons on Saturday.Gurugram with 2,549 fresh cases continued to be the leading district in state followed by Faridabad (987), Sonepat (646), Hisar (507), and Karnal (477).Among the 32 deaths on Saturday, five each were from Faridabad and Panipat; three each from Hisar, Karnal and Rohtak; two each from Gurugram, Ambala, Panchkula, Jind and Palwal; and one each from Fatehabad, Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar.STATE RESTRICTS OFFICE ATTENDANCEFollowing surge in Covid cases, the Haryana government has decided that officers of the under secretary or equivalent level and below be allowed to work from home. Their physical attendance in offices will be restricted to 50% of the actual strength.A communication in this regard was issued by the chief secretary’s office. All officers of deputy secretary, equivalent and above level are to attend office on regular basis.As per orders, employees’ attendance record will be prepared by divisional and wing heads concerned. Individual wing heads can, however, call for more than 50% physical attendance of any of the categories in their wing, if required, on administrative grounds.Officials who do not attend office on a particular day are to make themselves available on telephone and other electronic means at all times from their residence and work from home.Officials residing in containment zones will continue to be exempted from coming to office till the containment zones are de-notified.Crowding in lifts, staircases, corridors, common areas including refreshment kiosk and parking areas, is to be strictly avoided. As per orders, meetings, as far as possible, should be conducted through video conferencing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/spike-in-calls-on-ambala-jhajjar-covid-helpline-numbers-101618685910844.html
18-04-2021||Other||Repolling at Chennai booth, 186 out of 548 voters turn up||Chennai: Re-polling at one booth in Chennai’s Velachery assembly constituency concluded on Saturday, where 186 out of 548 eligible voters cast their votes, said a statement from the Greater Chennai Corporation. Voting went on peacefully from 7am to 7pm following all Covid-19 protocol, said the civic body.The bypoll was scheduled after Congress and Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM) candidates complained that staff of Greater Chennai Corporation were transporting an EVM and VVPAT machines on a two-wheeler after polling concluded for the 234 assembly seats on April 6. The corporation staff were later suspended for violating SOPs of transporting EVMs. Though preliminary reports said that two EVMs were unused, on further investigation, Tamil Nadu’s chief electoral officer Satyabrata Sahoo said that 15 votes were polled in the machine before it developed a snag. On April 13, the Election Commission of India ordered a repoll in the booth under section 58 (1) (b) of the Representation of People’s Act following reports submitted by returning officers and observers about the incident on April 6.Velachery is an urban constituency in the southern region of Chennai where the main candidates are from the AIADMK, Congress and MNM. Elections in Tamil Nadu were held in a single phase on April 6 and counting will be done on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/repolling-at-chennai-booth-186-out-of-548-voters-turn-up-101618685841960.html
18-04-2021||Other||Kumaraswamy hospitalised after testing Covid positive, son also infected||Bengaluru Former Karnataka chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Kumaraswamy and his son Nikhil Kumaraswamy tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. The former chief minister has been admitted to Apollo Hospital in Bannerghatta Road, according to a statement from his office. “I have tested positive for Covid. I request everyone who came in close contact with me over the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested,” the 61-year-old leader posted on Twitter on Saturday. He tested positive after having spent days campaigning in the Basavakalayan assembly constituency for a bypoll. Kumaraswamy experienced fatigue on Friday evening while he was campaigning, following which he returned to Bengaluru. “This morning, he contacted doctors and got tested, the reports to which came positive. He wanted to rest at his farmhouse, but doctors did not agree. They asked him to get admitted immediately,” read a statement from his office. According to a statement, Kumaraswamy did not find a bed for treatment at Manipal Hospital. Even Karnataka health minister Dr K Sudhakar’s intervention did not help, the statement claimed. It further added that Kumaraswamy is scheduled to appear before a court in connection with a case on Saturday. “Since he has tested positive, he will appear via video conference,” the statement read. His mother Chennamma Devegowda had earlier tested positive, and his father and HD Devegowda too was in isolation as a precaution. Kumaraswamy’s wife and Ramanagara MLA Anita Kumaraswamy is under home quarantine on the advice of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kumaraswamy-hospitalised-after-testing-covid-positive-son-also-infected-101618685661938.html
18-04-2021||Other||Punjab man held for leaking sensitive info to Pak agent||New Delhi: A 35-year-old Punjab resident was arrested for allegedly spying for a foreign intelligence agency and passing on sensitive information about the Indian Army, their movements, and location of posts and bunkers of the army and the Border Security Force (BSF) at the India-Pakistan border in Punjab, said officials from the Delhi Police’s special cell said on Saturday. Several confidential documents of the Indian Army were recovered from him, the police said.Officials said the arrested man, Harpal Singh, was sending sensitive information pertaining to the Army and the BSF through WhatsApp and other encrypted text and voice messaging mobile applications since October last year to his handler based in Pakistan. Preliminary scanning of the mobile phone seized from him revealed that Singh shared hundreds of videos and photographs with his handler, identified by him as Jaspal, in the past six months. “Singh received several lakhs of rupees that were routed through hawala channels for sharing such sensitive information and funding the espionage operation,” said deputy commissioner of police (special cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav. He added the special cell has been working with central intelligence agencies to counter terror activities and ensure no secret information is passed on from India to other countries. During the process, the special cell’s south-western range team received inputs about Singh, a native of Punjab’s Tarn Taran, of having links with intelligence officers of foreign countries and also receiving funds from his handlers through illegal channels for leaking sensitive information having potential to compromise national security. Accordingly, a case under sections 3,4,5 and 9 of the Official Secrets Act and criminal conspiracy was registered on April 11, said the DCP. “The movement of Singh was monitored through surveillance mounted by our team and the military intelligence. We learnt that to mislead law enforcement agencies, Singh worked as a farm machinery operator and also used to do fencing work at the Indo-Pakistan border in Punjab. His job helped him find and create a way to transfer secret information and documents across the border,” said Yadav.On April 12, the team learnt that Singh was coming to Delhi to get some sensitive information from his sources. Accordingly, a team was deployed which caught him with some confidential documents from the Majnu ka Tilla area in north Delhi. During interrogation, it came to the fore that since Singh was born and brought up in a village in Punjab adjoining the Indo-Pak border, he was very well versed with details and locations of the Indian troops posted there. “Since he allegedly used to upload inflammatory posts against the Indian government on his social media account, one Jaspal, who is suspected to be based in Lahore, Pakistan, contacted him between June and July last year,” said a police officer associated with the case requesting anonymity.“Jaspal radicalised him and persuaded Singh to work for him. Later, Singh came to know that Jaspal was based in Pakistan and working for the country’s intelligence agency. He also got a chance to meet Jaspal during his visit to Oman,” the officer said.Yadav said Singh was being interrogated to ascertain the source from whom he was receiving confidential documents and other sensitive information about the Indian Army and the BSF. “Forensic analysis of his mobile phones is being done to unearth the entire network and conspiracy in this case. Identities and roles of other foreign nationals involved in the conspiracy are also being ascertained,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/punjab-man-held-for-leaking-sensitive-info-to-pak-agent-101618685603022.html
18-04-2021||Other||Elective surgeries stopped at PGIMS, Rohtak||The Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS, Rohtak, stopped the elective surgeries due to rise in Covid-19 cases.PGIMS medical superintendent Dr Pushpa Dahiya said elective surgeries were closed since Friday night but the emergency operations will be continued as usual. “Once the situation improves, we will resume elective services as well,” she added.After the elective surgeries were closed, those who can afford will opt for private hospitals but the poor have no choice but to wait for PGIMS to resume services.As per information, over 15,000 major and minor surgeries are conducted in PGIMS every month. Of these, over 15% are elective surgeries. “More than 1.84 lakh minor and major surgeries were carried out in 2019 and the figure were 1.83 lakh in 2018,” an official said.67 MORE PGIMS FRONTLINE WORKERS TEST +VETotal 67 frontline workers have tested positive for Covid-19 at PGIMS on Saturday.These include 18 doctors, 12 staff nurses, eight paramedics, six bearers and sweepers, seven ministerial staff, and 16 students (mostly junior doctors). Total 260 workers have tested positive at PGIMS in April so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/elective-surgeries-stopped-at-pgims-rohtak-101618685602543.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||Some hospitals say short of oxygen amid rising tide of Covid-19 patients||The demand for oxygen in Delhi hospitals has shot up by four or five times, said vendors, as Covid-19 patients flooded care facilities in the Capital, even as some said they will be forced to stop admissions unless supply shortages were overcome.A record 12,699 patients were admitted in Delhi’s 16,979 beds reserved for Covid-19 treatment, as of Saturday evening.Chief minister, during a video press briefing, acknowledged the shortage of oxygen in the city and said the state was working towards adding more oxygen beds in the Capital.“There is an acute shortage of medical oxygen across hospitals in Delhi. Vendors say they do not have any more,” said Dr GS Grewal, president, Delhi Medical Association.He said, “If hospitals were using 20 cylinders a day earlier, they are using at least 40 cylinders now.”Similarly, Dr PK Bharadwaj, secretary of Delhi Voluntary Hospital’s forum (an association of hospitals), said he received messages from at least three hospitals on Saturday about severe oxygen shortages.Also Read | Everyone above 25 must be able to get vaccinated: Sonia at CWC“If a hospital was using 100 oxygen cylinders during the November peak, it is using over 250 now. Vendors can also provide only so much over the capacity. All our consumables, equipment, everything is stretched,” said Dr Bharadwaj.Daryaganj’s Sanjeevan hospital is one of the facilities faced with the oxygen crisis.“My vendor has told me that he cannot supply any more oxygen. I have a small plant that can produce around 24 cylinders a day, which won’t last long with the high-flow oxygen that Covid-19 patients need. I will admit only as many patients as I can manage on that number,” said Dr Prem Agarwal, medical director, Sanjeevan hospital.The solution, he said, was to divert supply from industrial plants.Bhairav Shah, north India head for Inox Air products, one of the four main oxygen suppliers in Delhi, said, “We have already informed our industrial customers that we cannot supply them for now. We need to send oxygen to the hospitals. Delhi needs about 50,000 metric tonnes of oxygen normally, but the requirement has now increased four to five times.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/some-delhi-hospitals-say-oxygen-running-out-amid-surge-in-covid-19-deaths-101618685542446.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||As deaths mount, crematorium in Ghazipur to run 24x7, says EDMC||With Covid-19 cases spiralling in the Capital and number of fatalities mounting, the East Delhi Municipal Corporation (EDMC) has decided to operate a crematorium in Ghazipur round-the-clock and start two CNG furnaces at Karkardooma crematorium to help dispose of bodies. The crematorium in Ghazipur will be the first in Dehi to operate round the clock.The East civic body has at least five crematoriums in its jurisdiction. Mayor of east corporation Nirmal Jain said, “We have decided to run our Ghazipur cremation ground 24x7. We will also start two CNG furnaces at Karkardooma crematorium from Tuesday. All this is being done to ensure people do not have to wait for performing last rites of their loved ones who have died of Covid.”Though the north and the south corporations are yet to start such a facility, officials said they have asked the state government to look for alternative burial grounds and cremation facilities. Jai Prakash, mayor of the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “So far, we have no plans of running our facilities round-the-clock as the situation is still under control. We have asked hospitals to send bodies of Covid-19 patients only to the dedicated cremation sites or burial grounds attached with the hospital. We have asked the government to look for alternative graveyards as a precautionary measure.”In the past seven days, 725 people in the national capital have died of Covid-19.Officials managing the cremation grounds have confirmed that due to the increasing number of bodies arriving at the funeral sites, relatives of the dead have to wait for several hours. A doctor at AIIMS, who did not wish to be named, said, on Thursday, one body was returned to the mortuary because the officials at the funeral sites could not manage the burden of the huge pile-up of bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/ghazipur-crematorium-becomes-first-in-city-to-operate-24x7-101618685481921.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||IIT-Delhi students ‘advised’ to return home||Amid a spike in Covid-19 cases in the national capital, the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D), has advised students residing on the campus to return to their homes and also urged day scholars to avoid coming to the institute unless “necessary”. There are at least 23 active Covid-19 cases, including students and faculty members, on the IIT-D campus.IIT-D director V Ramgopal Rao said that the institute has advised students to return in view of the unprecedented rise in Covid-19 cases in the national capital. “We have around 2,000 students on campus. As per the Delhi government rules, we cannot isolate students at the campus and we will have to shift them to quarantine centres. We are told that Delhi quarantine centres are all full at present. We are worried in case something goes wrong, there won’t be any place to shift them. We have just advised the students and nobody will be forced to return,” he said.Rao said “30 students have tested positive” on campus in the last month. “Everything is under control at the campus. The institute is following Covid-19 appropriate precautions,” he said.In an email sent to students and faculty members on Saturday, IIT-D deputy registrar and nodal officer for Covid-19, N Bhaskar, said that at least 15 students, six employees, and two family members of the employees recently tested positive for the infection on the campus. “All are requested to kindly take the necessary precautions and follow the guidelines strictly without any laxity, in the common interest of the safety of the campus community,” he said.Earlier on Friday, Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) also advised students to leave for their homes. According to the advisory issued by the university, more than 322 Covid-19 cases have been reported at the JNU campus since March 2020. Presently, there are 64 Covid-19 cases in JNU, including 11 cases detected on Friday.“Keeping in mind the well-being and safety of students and all campus residents, it is advisable, where feasible, for the students to leave for their native places in order to stay safe, and also help curb the virulent spread of Covid-19 virus,” said JNU Registrar Anirban Chakrabarti in the advisory.Meanwhile, some students have tested positive for Covid-19 at Delhi University’s (DU) Gwyer hostel that accommodates masters and research scholars.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-jnu-iit-delhi-advises-students-to-return-home-amid-covid-19-surge-some-cases-reported-in-du-s-gwyer-hostel-101618685423742.html
18-04-2021||Noida||Ghaziabad says 2 Covid deaths in April, but bodies pile up at Hindon cremation ground||Officially, Ghaziabad has reported just two “Covid-related deaths” so far in April. Yet, on Saturday, when HT visited the Hindon cremation ground in the district, the facility was struggling to cope with the deluge of bodies reaching there. A person at the ground said nearly 60 bodies arrived on Friday, and at least 15 were meant for the electric crematorium, for cremation as per Covid protocols. The situation was no less grim on Saturday — the facility received about 38-40 more bodies, with about eight to 10 meant for the electric furnace.But with the electric crematorium, maintained by the Ghaziabad municipal corporation, going out of order on Friday night, several bodies had to be cremated on Friday on the footpath of the road leading from the ground to the post-mortem house. HT on Saturday spotted charred remains, with garlands placed over them, on the pavement located behind the ground.While the mismatch between the official figures and the situation on the ground is glaring, district officials insisted that only two people have died of the infection this month, while 104 have succumbed to the infection in the district so far.Dr NK Gupta, chief medical officer (CMO), Ghaziabad, said, “We have only two Covid-related deaths which have taken place in the district in the month of April. Our overall death count is 104 at present. We cannot say anymore.”When asked, district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey redirected questions regarding fatalities to the CMO. None of the officials that this paper reached out to was ready to reveal any figures on Covid fatalities or reasons for the rush at the cremation ground.“The rush happened as the electric crematorium went out of order on Friday night and bodies kept coming in large numbers even on Saturday — we estimate around 60 were brought here on Friday and about 38 more on Saturday.The number is high, considering that we normally receive only about 10 to 12 bodies a day. About 18 bodies on Friday were to be incinerated in the electric furnace, as per Covid protocols. Another 8-10 came in for the electric furnace on Saturday,” said a person familiar with the matter at the Hindon cremation ground, asking not to be named.The ground has around 50 platforms for cremation of which nine are newly constructed by the municipal corporation, besides an electric furnace.“Since the electric crematorium was out of order, the 8-10 bodies meant for the furnace were cremated on the additional platforms on Saturday. Since the number of deaths has increased, the waiting time has also increased,” the person said.Ghaziabad municipal commissioner MS Tanwar said, “I have directed that the repair work on the electric crematorium be expedited. We have also appointed staff and a nodal officer to look after arrangements at the site and to ensure that all (Covid) protocols are followed.”For families, however, the pain of losing a loved one was compounded by the long wait to perform the last rites on Saturday.“I came to cremate my father who died of prolonged illness, and we were kept waiting for over one-and-a-half hours with the body,” said Amit Kumar, a resident of Vijay Nagar.Ajay Kumar, who lives in Pratap Vihar, said, “It took more than two hours to perform my mother’s last rites. Most of the families had to wait for a long time but none complained, fearing that it might not go down well with the management.”The official sources said the waiting time for cremations has increased because all bodies were being cremated as per Covid protocols at the Hindon cremation ground.“Several bodies also come from outside the district and the place has to be sanitised after every cremation. Further, platforms remain occupied for over a day so that families can return to pick up the ashes,” said an official from Ghaziabad district administration, asking not to be named.The official also had another reason for the long wait. “The nine new platforms are rectangular in shape and are located in a direction which is considered inauspicious for performing the last rites. Hence most families don’t prefer using them for their loved ones. The modifications will be taken up soon,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/only-two-covid-deaths-in-april-in-ghaziabad-but-rush-forces-hindon-cremation-ground-to-set-up-pyres-on-footpath-101618685422560.html
18-04-2021||Other||Delhi L-G asks DMs to open oxygen centres in every locality||New Delhi: Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal on Saturday directed district magistrates (DMs) to tie up with resident welfare associations (RWAs) to create small facilities at the colony level equipped with few beds and oxygen cylinders. “The plan is to create small facilities at the RWA level where a willing doctor from the local community can supervise the provision of oxygen to needy patients in the colony with an aim of assisting them in the critical period when their SpO2 (oxygen saturation in blood) levels start falling. Such cases can then be addressed without going to hospitals that are already overburdened with more serious patients,” said a senior government official who attended the meeting the L-G and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had with all the DMs. For this purpose, the government and the district administration will provide the required oxygen cylinders or concentrators provided the RWAs and the doctors are ready to run the facilities and are volunteering. A few facilities are expected to start functioning on a pilot basis from Sunday. The decision to create small facilities came after a joint front of East Delhi Residents Welfare Associations (RWA) shot a letter to Kejriwal requesting the same. “Even if 10% of the exponentially increasing home-isolation cases require any medical help in an emergency, by way of oxygen, ICU beds, and ventilators, Govt has nothing to offer and it may lead to increased mortalities. In such a critical situation, can’t we have the Covid-19 oxygen centres in every locality, under every MLA, or under every councillor, to provide at least the life-saving breathing booster by way of providing oxygen to the patient in dire need…?” read the letter.Meanwhile, all districts have also started reaching out to RWAs in their areas. The south district administration wrote to all RWAs in its jurisdiction urging them to identify spaces that could be turned into mini Covid care centres. “In our constant efforts to tackle the surge of cases and as per directions of the chief minister, RWA representatives may please suggest places where Covid care centers can be set up for augmenting the capacity of oxygenated beds. The RWA may identify a place and invite doctors and nurses from the community. The district administration will provide PPE kits, oxygen supplies, medicines, oximeters while other details can be worked out. We are open to your suggestions. Please inform us if you would be willing for such a collaboration,” read the message from the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-l-g-asks-dms-to-open-oxygen-centres-in-every-locality-101618685421926.html
18-04-2021||Delhi||L-G orders districts to tie up with RWAs, set up care facilities with oxygen support||Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal on Saturday directed district magistrates (DMs) to tie up with resident welfare associations (RWAs) to create small health facilities in colonies, equipped with a few beds and oxygen cylinders.“The plan is to create small facilities at the RWA level where a willing doctor from the local community can supervise the provision of oxygen to needy patients in the colony with an aim of assisting them in the critical period when their SpO2 (oxygen saturation in blood) levels start falling. Such cases can then be addressed without going to hospitals that are already overburdened with more serious patients,” said a senior government official who attended the meeting the L-G and chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had with all the DMs.The government and the district administration will provide the required oxygen cylinders or concentrators provided the RWAs and the doctors are ready to run the facilities. A few facilities are expected to start on a pilot basis from Sunday.Also Read | Deep Sidhu gets bail, held again hours laterThe decision came after a joint front of East Delhi Residents Welfare Associations (RWAs) wrote to Kejriwal. “Even if 10% of the exponentially increasing home-isolation cases require any medical help in an emergency, by way of oxygen, ICU beds, and ventilators, Govt has nothing to offer and it may lead to increased mortalities. In such a critical situation, can’t we have the Covid-19 oxygen centres in every locality, under every MLA, or under every councillor, to provide at least the life-saving breathing booster by way of providing oxygen to the patient in dire need…?” read the letter.Meanwhile, all districts have also started reaching out to RWAs in their areas. The south administration wrote to all RWAs in its jurisdiction urging them to identify spaces that could be turned care centres.“RWA representatives may please suggest places where Covid care centres can be set up for augmenting the capacity of oxygenated beds. The RWA may identify a place and invite doctors and nurses from the community,” read the message from the administration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/lg-orders-districts-to-tie-up-with-rwas-set-up-care-facilities-with-oxygen-support-101618685161807.html
18-04-2021||Other||Chief justice tests positive; HC suspends physical hearing||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Saturday indefinitely suspended physical hearing of cases from April 19 in view of the surge in covid-19 cases. Chief Justice RS Jha has also tested positive for Covid-19, an official said adding that his condition is stable. Limited physical hearing of cases had started on February 8. A high court official said that the decision to suspend physical hearings was taken after a meeting between the high court administration and top law officers of both the states and the Centre, and executive members of the Bar association. Between March 2020 and February 8, the high court was hearing cases through virtual hearings and it resumed limited physical hearing in February on the Bar body’s demand. In another development, the high court has asked sessions judges in both the states and Chandigarh to assess prevailing local conditions, including the intensity of spread of covid-19 in their areas of jurisdiction, and accordingly decide at their own level on whether to hear cases through the physical or virtual mode. It emphasised that guidelines from the state governments and the Centre should be strictly followed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hcsuspends-physical-hearing-chief-justices-tests-positive-101618681942751.html
18-04-2021||Patna||Lalu gets bail, free to go home after treatment||The Jharkhand high court on Saturday granted bail to Rashtriya Janata Dal leader Lalu Prasad in the Dumka treasury case, one of the three main cases in the multi-crore fodder scam, paving the way for his release from jail.The high court has asked the 73-year-old leader to submit two sureties of ₹1 lakh each and a penalty of ₹10 lakh to secure his bail.“The bench of Justice Aparesh Kumar Singh granted bail to Prasad on the condition that he would furnish two sureties of ₹1 lakh each and ₹10 lakh fine amount before the court ,” said CBI’s counsel and assistant solicitor-general Rajiv Sinha.Prasad’s counsel Prabhat Kumar said his client is likely to be released by Wednesday or Thursday next week. Devarshi Mandal, also a member of Prasad’s legal team, told PTI that they will move Special CBI court in Ranchi on Monday to seek his release.The former Bihar chief minister, who was undergoing treatment at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences for two years, was shifted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi in January.Explaining the release procedure, Mandal said they have sent an application to Prasad for his signature, and will submit this to the CBI court here Monday along with the HC order. The CBI court will then send the order to Birsa Munda Jail in Ranchi, where Prasad was housed before being moved to a hospital. The Birsa Munda jail authorities will send the relevant papers to Tihar jail in Delhi, who will manage the release process, Mandal said.Prasad has been languishing in jail since December 23, 2017, after his conviction in three fodder scam cases in quick succession. He secured bail in two cases on the grounds of completion of half the sentence period, and moved a bail plea in the third case on similar grounds.The case is related to the fraudulent withdrawal of ₹3.76 crore from the Dumka treasury between December 1995 and January 1996. Prasad is facing trial in two more cases.(With PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lalu-gets-bail-after-over-3-years-in-jail-101618678041422.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Class 10 exams unlikely to be cancelled: MSBSHSE chairman||After the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) cancelled the examination for Class 10 amid surging cases of Covid in the country, the Maharashtra State Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Certificate (MSBSHSE) has clarified that Class 10 exams are not likely to be cancelled in the state. Officials at the state board said that unlike CBSE, it is not possible for MSBSHSE to cancel Class 10 exams. Dinkar Patil, chairman of MSBSHSE said that as of now the exams are postponed but they will be conducted for sure at a later date. “Students of Maharashtra are at remote places and the number of students appearing for Class 10 exams is huge. In that case, it is unlikely to cancel the examination. Due to the increase of Covid cases right now, the final board exams are postponed. However, they are very unlikely to be cancelled,” said Patil. Last week, the Cambridge international board also decided to cancel the Class 10 and Class 12 exams and instead promote students on the basis of school assessment. Along with the CBSE, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) also said that Class 10 students have a choice and can opt to not appear for offline exams. For students who choose not to appear for the offline examination, a fair and unbiased criterion will be devised for evaluation, said the board in an official statement. Speaking about the Class 10 examination by the state board in Maharashtra, Avinash Takawale, principal, Poona Night High School and Junior College said that as major boards across the country are cancelling Class 10 exams, and Maharashtra should do it as well. “Firstly, it will be a very unfair decision for Class 10 state board students to appear for the exam when CBSE board students are not. The criterion for admission in Class 11 is merit. Students may not perform very well as in the last one year they don’t have the habit of writing for three hours. There are other reasons as well. For example, students in rural parts of Maharashtra have faced many challenges in online education. It will be unfair to them as well,” said Takawale. He further added that because of the postponed exams of Class 10, the results will be late and so will be the admission process for Class 11. “This time as well, students of Class 11 are struggling as they have got less time to finish their academic year due to late admissions. The situation will be more or less the same this time for Class 10 pass outs,” said Takawale. He added that the uncertainty around Covid is giving a lot of stress to students.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/class-10-exams-unlikely-to-be-cancelled-msbshse-chairman-101618676841338.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Covid-19 testing protocols take a dive at Pune airport||While Pune city is under curfew and strict restrictions, the Pune airport where passengers are arriving from across the country has seen a dip in following strict testing protocols. Passengers have complained about not getting their test reports once they step out of the airport on time while others have claimed that passengers are not even asked for negative reports which are mandatory for people coming from Delhi and the most infected states. Currently, Lifenity Wellness is providing RT-PCR testing facilities at the Pune airport. Rahul Mhadekar the manager in charge of the Covid19 testing Kiosk at the airport said, “We get about 20-40 patients who need a test done either upon arrival or while departing. Not all states need the mandatory RT-PCR reports, but some do. We ensure to provide the report within 24 hours as most of them need it for professional reasons and before departing. However, most of the time we also see passengers who do not have a smartphone, or an email id or even technical knowledge to send the report in such cases the report gets delayed in reaching the passenger.” One such passenger, Jagat Kishor Prasad was awaiting his report for the samples he submitted at the Pune airport. Prasad said, “It has been days and I have still not received my RTPCR report. The customer care of the concerned laboratory is also not responding, and I am allowed to enter inside the airport without a ticket.” Passengers from Delhi need to have a negative RTPCR report or get themselves tested. A passenger who travelled via a Delhi flight on 14th April said, “I was one of the few passengers who disembarked the flight last. Some officials were asking for the negative report but after some time they left and around 20-30 passengers who were still awaiting their luggage and waiting near the conveyor left unchecked.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/fall-in-testing-protocols-at-pune-airport-some-pax-allowed-in-unchecked-101618676661349.html
18-04-2021||Pune||MSRTC buses to ply only with minimum of 10 passengers||Dinkar Mendhe, a construction worker from Sangli district faced a tough time to travel back to his village when he got to know that scheduled ST buses have been cancelled from the Swargate ST stand. According to the fresh directives, the MSRTC bus depots have been instructed to allow a bus to leave only if there are a minimum of 10 people on board. On the other hand, there is a huge rush of passengers at the Pune railway station to travel across the country. Since strict restrictions have been imposed on the state, many workers and labourers are returning back to their states from Pune. “It is difficult to survive here in Pune, my labour job at one of the construction sites stopped due to the new restrictions. I live with my family of four persons, and we have left with very few money. So, we have decided to return back to my village in Sangli district,” said Dinkar Mendhe. The Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) Pune division has cancelled all the scheduled bus operations from Pune. “Since there are fewer number of passengers traveling by ST buses, we have instructed all our depots to allow a bus to depart only when there are more than 10 passengers on a certain route,” said Ramakant Gaikwad, MSRTC Pune divisional controller. A contrary scene is being witnessed at the Pune railway station with passengers rushing back to their villagers across the country. “I am going back to Patna in Bihar, as the barber shop where I was working is closed. We are not able to do any work and earn now, so I am going back to my home. I will return back once things normalise in Pune.” said Ramratan Pandey, a barber. Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson said, “We have given additional special trains on various routes across the country. As there is a heavy rush of passengers going towards North India, several new special trains have been provided by the railways. In the last couple of weeks, there has been a considerable amount of increase in the number of daily passengers travelling through various trains starting from Pune.” Due to the fear of strict restrictions, several migrant workers who had returned back to Pune at construction sites have now again started going back to the villages.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/msrtc-buses-to-only-depart-with-minimum-of-10-onboard-101618676541333.html
18-04-2021||Pune||Covid second wave: After Remdesivir, Pune city faces shortage of Tocilizumab||After Remdesivir, the city is now facing a shortage of Tocilizumab injections, an essential drug in the treatment of severe Covid-19 patients. This is the next drug to be given after Remdesivir which is used to treat patients with moderate symptoms while the latter works for those who need intensive care unit (ICU).For the past 15 days, the city hospitals have been facing a shortage of both drugs and are forced to look for alternatives. The drug is most costly and used for patients with severe symptoms. Unlike six doses of Remdesivir patients often need only one dose of Tocilizumab.Vitthal Sandbhor ( 60), has been hospitalised at the Baner, dedicated Covid hospital (DCH), and his family has been looking for Tocilizumab injections for the past three days, but to no avail. One of the patient’s relatives said that they tried to call relatives and friends in Mumbai to possibly send the drug to Pune, but could not get any injection and now the doctors await to begin the treatment.Dr HK Sale, executive director of Noble hospitals, said, “There is a shortage of both, Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, in the city for the past 15 days. We have alternatives, but sometimes we do not even get the alternative medicines. We need medicines to control the spread of the infection and to stabilize the vitals.”In the last two days, April 16 and 17, Pune district got 5,646 injections of Remdesivir when the demand has gone up to 8,209 for a day for patients.Dr Nitin Lohokare, who runs Mahesh Smruti hospital, said, “We are facing a shortage of the drug since the past 15 days and it has been found effective earlier too when used on a patient at the right time. In the absence of the drug we are presently using Inj Alzumab 1.6 mg /kg and it is equally effective, but it has high chances of an anaphylactic reaction. T Baricitinib can also be used which is now available in India.”However, the drug also comes with certain limitations. Dr Girish Date, senior consultant and intensivist at Sahyadri Hospitals, said, “One has to be vigilant for bacterial infection after use of Tocilizumab and hence as practice surveillance cultures are sent after 48 hours of administration of Tocilizumab to pick up any bacterial infection and act accordingly.”“The use and dosage of Tocilizumab depends on indicators including worsening hypoxia, increased required for ventilation and markers like D-dimer, IL 6 and ferritin. It must be noted that since Covid is relatively new there has been no proven study about the efficacy of these medicines which were primarily used as a treatment in other diseases,” he said.Pune Food and Drug Administration (FDA) officials have now stopped answering calls from relatives as the city does not have any available stock of the drug.SB Patil, FDA joint commissioner Pune division did not respond to the calls, but a senior official confirmed that there is zero stock available of Tocilizumab in the city.No evidence of Remdesivir drug’s effectiveness: WHOThe World Health Organisation’s (WHO) guideline development group (GDG) expert panel, which includes experts from around the world including four patients who have had Covid-19, concluded that Remdesivir has no meaningful effect on mortality or on other important outcomes for patients, such as the need for mechanical ventilation or time to clinical improvement. The panel acknowledged that the certainty of the evidence is low and said the evidence did not prove that Remdesivir has no benefit; rather, there is no evidence-based on currently available data that it does improve important patient outcomes.Maharashtra state task force explained that while Remedesivr is not a life-saving drug in Covid, it is helpful during the second to the ninth day of illness and not thereafter. It arrests the replication of the virus and therefore reduces the in-hospital stay and convalescence of the patient by one to two days.How does Tocilizumab work in Covid-19?As per the US department’s National Institute of Health, the use of Tocilizumab (single intravenous dose of 8 mg/kg of actual body weight, up to 800 mg) in combination with dexamethasone (6 mg daily for up to 10 days) in certain hospitalised patients who are exhibiting rapid respiratory decompensation due to Covid-19. The patients included in this population are, recently hospitalised patients who have been admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU) within the prior 24 hours and who require invasive mechanical ventilation, non-invasive mechanical ventilation (NIV), or high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) oxygen (>0.4 FiO2/30 L/min of oxygen flow) (BIIa) or recently hospitalized patients (not in the ICU) with rapidly increasing oxygen needs who require Noninvasive ventilation (NIV) or high-flow nasal cannula (HFNC) and have significantly increased markers of inflammation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-second-wave-after-remdesivir-pune-city-faces-shortage-of-tocilizumab-101618674981226.html
18-04-2021||Gurugram||Residents raise concerns over GMDA project to fill up ponds in Aravallis with treated water||To increase groundwater recharge in the city, the Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) plans to redevelop about 10 water bodies in the Aravallis, using treated water, by June.As per the plans, the GMDA will install a pipeline from the Behrampur sewage treatment plant for releasing treated water in the existing water bodies, located on the stretch from Sakatpur to Gairatpur Bas village, in the foothills of Aravallis.“A pipeline of treated water is being laid by the infrastructure department to feed all existing water bodies in that region. We are working on redevelopment of the water bodies by deepening them wherever needed. Once the pipeline is laid, a valve will be set up so that these water bodies get water throughout the year, which will help in groundwater recharge and act as a source of water for wildlife in the region,” said Subhash Yadav, divisional forest officer and head of urban environment division, GMDA.He said that the area has eight to 10 water bodies and once the pipeline work is completed by June, around 3 million litres per day (MLD) of treated wastewater will be supplied to these water bodies.The project was proposed at the GMDA’s authority meeting conducted last week, which was headed by chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar. The consolidated agenda of the eighth authority meeting states, “The water bodies will be utilised for filling the treated water from sewage treatment plant, Behrampur, as otherwise, this water is going to Najafgarh jheel. This project will be helpful in solving the problem of submergence of farmers’ land in Daultabad and nearby villages.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gmda-to-fill-water-bodies-in-aravallis-with-treated-water-101618423912465.html
18-04-2021||World||Rockets hit Iraqi air base, 2 security forces wounded||Multiple rockets hit an Iraqi airbase just north of the capital Baghdad Sunday, wounding two Iraqi security forces, Iraq's news agency said.It said at least two rockets exploded in and around the Balad airbase, which houses U.S. trainers. The attack comes few days after an explosives-laden drone targeted U.S.-led coalition forces near a northern Iraq airport, causing a large fire and damage to a building.The incident was the latest in a string of attacks that have targeted mostly American installations in Iraq in recent weeks.American forces withdrew from Iraq in 2011 but returned in 2014 at the invitation of Iraq to help battle the Islamic State group after it seized vast areas in the north and west of the country. In late 2020, U.S. troop levels in Iraq were reduced to 2,500 after withdrawals based on orders from the Trump administration.Calls grew for further U.S. troop withdrawals after a U.S.-directed drone strike killed Iranian Gen. Qassem Soleimani and an Iraqi militia leader in Baghdad in January 2020.Last month, a base in western Iraq housing U.S.-led coalition troops and contractors was hit by 10 rockets. One contractor was killed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/rockets-hit-iraqi-air-base-2-security-forces-wounded-101618768860354.html
18-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Hong Kong suspends flights connecting India from April 20 to May 3||Hong Kong has suspended all flights connecting it with India from April 20 to May 3 amid a surge in Covid-19 cases in the country, aviation industry sources said on Sunday.They said the Hong Kong government has also suspended flights to and from Pakistan as well as the Philippines for the aforementioned time period.The Hong Kong government's decision has come after 50 passengers of two Vistara flights this month were found positive for Covid-19 when tested on arrival.According to rules, all passengers who want to come to Hong Kong need to have a Covid-negative RT-PCR result with them from a test done 72 hours prior to the journey.Earlier on Sunday, the Hong Kong government announced suspension of all Vistara flights on Mumbai-Hong Kong route till May 2.This decision was taken as three passengers on Vistara's Mumbai-Hong Kong flight on Sunday tested positive for Covid-19 on arrival.Till Sunday, total 47 passengers who were on Vistara's Delhi-Hong Kong flight of April 4 have tested positive for Covid-19 in Hong Kong. Vistara's flights on Delhi-Hong Kong route had earlier been banned from April 6 to April 19.Vistara did not respond to PTI's request for a statement on the matter. A record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken India's case tally to 1,47,88,109, while active cases have surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.The death toll increased to 1,77,150 with a record 1,501 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-hong-kong-suspends-flights-connecting-india-from-april-20-to-may-3-101618767141653.html
18-04-2021||World||France sees EU coordinating on trips from Covid variant-hit countries||The European Union will try to coordinate a common policy for travelers from countries dealing with coronavirus variants such as Brazil and India, France’s Foreign Affairs Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said on Sunday.France announced late Saturday the implementation of a 10-day quarantine for travelers from Argentina, Chile, South Africa and Brazil, with police controls and stiff fines, to try and limit the spread of variants within the country, on top of mandatory tests. The French government will discuss these new measures with its European partners early next week, Prime Minister Jean Castex said in an emailed statement.Beforehand, travelers entering France from outside the EU were requested to commit to isolate for seven days with no proper checks, even though Europe’s outside borders have been closed since March 2020.Last week, France announced a temporary suspension of all flights from Brazil due to the deteriorating health situation there, yet maintained flights between its overseas territory of Guyana, which shares 700 kilometers (435 miles) of borders with Brazil.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-sees-eu-coordinating-on-trips-from-covid-variant-hit-countries-101618745509772.html
18-04-2021||World||US focus shifting to China from Afghanistan, says Blinken||Withdrawing U.S. troops from Afghanistan meshes with the Biden administration’s goal of focusing resources on China and the Covid-19 pandemic, Secretary of State Antony Blinken said, as another top U.S. official said it was time for the Afghan people to “step up.”“The terrorism threat has moved to other places,” Blinken said on ABC’s “This Week” on Sunday. “And we have other very important items on our agenda, including the relationship with China, including dealing with everything from climate change to Covid. And that’s where we have to focus our energy and resources.”President Joe Biden said Wednesday that U.S. forces would fully withdraw from Afghanistan by the 20th anniversary of the Sept. 11, 2001 attacks, saying it’s time to end America’s “forever war.”Blinken, who met with Afghan leaders in Kabul and NATO allies in Brussels last week, said al-Qaeda, which carried out the attacks two decades ago, “has been significantly degraded.”He played down concern that U.S. intelligence might be blindsided to terrorist threats emerging in Afghanistan, saying the U.S. will be repositioning forces and assets to “guard against the potential reemergence.”“We’ll be able to see that in real time with time to take action,” Blinken said. “We have different capabilities, different assets, and I think a greater ability to see something coming with time to do something about it.”Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said in a CNN interview that the U.S. withdrawal would eliminate an “excuse” for the Taliban to keep fighting and “the ball clearly is in the court of Taliban and their supporters.”Yet he expressed caution about the Taliban’s readiness to agree to a political settlement, saying “what I hope they will go for and what they’re likely to go for are likely to be different things.”The U.S. is committed to helping find a peace deal for Afghanistan that includes the Taliban, Blinken said.“Ultimately, it is in no one’s interest in Afghanistan, whether it’s the Taliban or anyone else, it’s certainly not the people of Afghanistan, for the country to descend once again into civil war, into a long war.”Separately, U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan said there are no guarantees about what will happen in Afghanistan.“All the United States could do is provide the Afghan security forces, the Afghan government and the Afghan people resources and capabilities, training and equipping their forces, providing assistance to their government,” Sullivan said on “Fox News Sunday.” “We have done that, and now it is time for American troops to come home and the Afghan people to step up to defend their own country.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-focus-shifting-to-china-from-afghanistan-says-blinken-101618765668631.html
18-04-2021||World||China to expand digital yuan experiments: Official||China will expand digital yuan experiments to more cities, but there is no specific timetable for its official rollout, central bank vice governor Li Bo told an annual gathering on Sunday of top Chinese and foreign policymakers, executives and academics.China is one of the frontrunners in the global race to launch central bank digital currencies to modernise financial systems, ward off the threat from cryptocurrencies like bitcoin and speed up domestic and international payments.Last year it launched testing in several cities including Suzhou, Shenzhen, Chengdu and Xiong'an.Li said testing had shown that the issuance and distribution mechanism of the digital yuan, or e-CNY, are compatible with the existing financial system, and help minimize the impact on the banking sector.China will continue to improve e-CNY's ecosystem, enhance its security and reliability, and set up a set of legal and regulatory framework, Li said at the Boao Forum in the country's southern island province of Hainan. The forum was cancelled last year due to COVID-19.The digital currency will be used by Chinese citizens as well as foreign visitors to the Beijing Winter Olympics to be held next year, he said.Li also said the focus of developing the e-CNY will be mainly for domestic use, while cooperating with other countries to find a solution for cross-border payments in the long run.The yuan internationalisation will be a natural process, and China's goal is not to replace the U.S. dollar or other global currencies, but let the market make choices, Li added.Zhou Xiaochuan, China's former central bank governor, told the same forum that China's initial motivation for developing the digital yuan was for domestic retail payments, not for cross-border payments, which still face many complex issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-to-expand-digital-yuan-experiments-official-101618763573338.html
18-04-2021||World||3 killed in police crackdown on banned radical Islamist party TLP in Pakistan||Three workers of banned radical Islamist party Tehreek-i-Labbaik Pakistan (TLP) were killed and scores injured in a fresh operation launched by Pakistani security forces here on Sunday against the outfit that carried out violent protests to force the government to expel the French ambassador over a blasphemous caricature published in France last year.Rangers and police on Sunday morning launched the operation at the TLP headquarters (Chowk Yateem Khana) Lahore to remove thousands of workers camped there, blocking the main Multan Road.During the operation, three TLP activists were killed and dozens injured. A senior police officer is among several law enforcers suffered injuries, a senior police officer told PTI.“As the number of TLP supporters was in thousands the Rangers and police could not manage to disperse them in a three-hour operation,” he said, adding that the law enforcers ended the operation fearing loss of more lives.During the operation, the protesters also held a senior police officer, Omar Farooq Baloch, hostage and tortured him, he said.In a video message released by the TLP, Baloch, who had head injury, urged the Imran Khan government not to kill fellow Muslims and abide by the agreement his government signed with the TLP over expulsion of the French ambassador.Police have failed to recover Baloch from the TLP’s custody so far despite having negotiations with it.Punjab police spokesperson Rana Arif also confirmed death of three persons during the law enforcement agencies's operation. He said a dozen or so police officials were “brutally tortured” by the TLP workers.“Today in the early morning, miscreants (TLP workers) attacked Nawankot Police Station (which is close to TLP headquarters) where Rangers and police officers were trapped inside the police station and Deputy Superintendent Police (Omar Farooq Baloch) was kidnapped and taken to the TLP Markaz (headquarters)," the Punjab police said in a statement issued here on Sunday afternoon.“One oil tanker with 50,000 litres of petrol has been taken by the miscreants to the Markaz. The miscreants were armed and attacked Rangers and police with petrol bombs. Police and Rangers pushed them back and took back the possession of the police station. Police did not plan or conduct any operation against the mosque or seminary,” the statement said.In a video message, a TLP spokesperson Shafiq Ameeni said: “Police attacked us at Lahore Markaz on Sunday morning in which a large number of our workers have been martyred while many are injured. We will bury our dead till the French ambassador is expelled and our agreement with the government is implemented."The government on Friday had announced completion of the operation against TLP in the country which had begun Monday last. After completion of the operation, Prime Minister Imran Khan had said four policemen were killed and over 600 injured in the four-day violent clashes between the law enforcers and TLP workers across the country."I want to pay special tribute to our police force for their heroic stand against organised violence intended to create chaos to blackmail government. Four policemen were martyred and over 600 injured. Our nation is indebted to these heroes and we will look after the families of the martyrs," Khan had said in a tweet on Friday.The Pakistan government had blocked the access to social media platforms — Twitter, Facebook, WhatsApp, YouTube and Instagram — from 11am to 3pm on Friday in connection with the law enforcement agencies' operation against the TLP protesters who refused to vacate some main roads and highways in Lahore and other parts of the Punjab province.The cellular and internet service has been suspended in some parts of Lahore including the area housing the TLP headquarters till Sunday.The government this week banned the TLP. A notification declaring TLP as a proscribed organisation was issued by the Ministry of Interior shortly after the federal Cabinet approved a summary to ban the party.The government has also imposed a ban on the media coverage of TLP and any police action against it. In compliance with this, none of the broadcast media in the country reported police action against the TLP in Lahore on Sunday.The TLP workers had blocked all major roads and highways in the country mostly in Punjab on Monday last after the Imran Khan government arrested it's chief Allama Saad Rizvi.The TLP had given the government April 20 deadline to expel the French ambassador over a blasphemous caricature published in France last year.Punjab police spokesperson Rana Arif said more than 3,200 workers and leaders or TLP have been arrested in Punjab since clashes broke between Islamists and law enforcers.He said all four policemen killed during clashes belong to Punjab police. TLP claims that over a dozen of its activists have been killed in clashes and hundreds of them injured.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-killed-in-police-crackdown-on-banned-radical-islamist-party-tlp-in-pakistan-101618764592580.html
18-04-2021||World||China's population to enter negative growth after 2025: Official||The demographics of the world's most populous country is set to change as China will experience a negative growth after 2025, which will result in shortage of consumer demand, a well-known Chinese economist has cautioned.China’s population is set to peak in just four years’ time and the milestone will be marked by a significant downturn in consumer demand, said Cai Fang, a member of the monetary policy committee of the People’s Bank of China, the central bank.“When the total population enters negative growth (after 2025), there will be a shortage of demand,” Cai was quoted as saying by Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post on Sunday.“We need to pay attention to the impact of demographics on future consumption,” he said.Cai’s comments came as China is due to release its latest census later this month.According to a PBOC study released a few days ago, China should immediately liberalise its birth policies or face a scenario in which it has a lower share of workers and higher burden of elderly care than the United States by 2050.In a rare frank appraisal, four researchers from the PBOC said the country should not interfere with people’s ability to have children or it will be too late to reverse the economic impact of a declining population.Since 2016, Chinese couples have been allowed to have two children.“We should not hesitate and wait for the effects of existing birth policies,” the researchers said in a working paper published early this week.“The birth liberalisation should happen now when there are some residents who still want to have children but can’t. It’s useless to liberalise it when no one wants to have children,” it said.After implementing the controversial one-child policy for over three decades, China is facing a demographic crisis with a rapidly ageing population over 60 years, which according to official figures, has increased to 420 million in 2019.The two-child policy, which was implemented from 2016 failed to make an impact on the low birth rates as the number of newborns dropped by two million in 2018.China as a whole saw 580,000 fewer new-borns in 2019 compared to 2018, marking the third consecutive year of decline since the implementation of the universal two-child policy in the mainland, according to official data.According to China’s statistics bureau, the country had a population of 1.34 billion in 2010 with an annual growth rate of 0.57 per cent, down from 1.07 per cent a decade earlier.Cai said the number of Chinese of working age had been in decline since 2010, which had mainly affected the supply side of the economy.He said if people of working age were faced with the additional financial burden of looking after an elderly relative while trying to raise a family it would make them more likely to save than consume.That would be bad news for the economy as the government has sought in recent years to drive growth through domestic consumption.“The cost of childbearing, parenting and education are the biggest constraints on young couples,” Cai said.“For the elderly, we need to increase their labour participation and social security benefits so that they can contribute to and share in the economic growth, while also maintaining consumer demand,” he said.The government should also do more to stimulate consumption among low-income groups that had a higher propensity for spending than the wealthy, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-population-to-enter-negative-growth-after-2025-official-101618763610298.html
18-04-2021||World||Passenger train derails in Egypt, 100 injured||A passenger train derailed Sunday north of Cairo, injuring around 100 people, Egyptian authorities said. It was the latest of several rail accidents to hit the country in recent years.At least eight train wagons ran off the railway at the city of Banha in Qalyubia province, just north of Cairo, the provincial governor's office said in a statement. Videos on social media purportedly showed wagons overturned and passengers escaping to safety along the railway.The train was travelling to Nile Delta city of Mansoura from the Egyptian capital, the statement said. The health ministry said that least 97 people were injured. It was not immediately clear what caused the train to derail.Last week, at least 15 people were injured when train carriages derailed in the Nile Delta province of Sharqia.Sunday’s train accident came three weeks after two passenger trains collided in the province of Sohag, killing at least 18 people and injuring 200 others, including children.Prosecutors said they found that gross negligence by railway employees was behind the deadly March 25 crash, which caused public outcry across the country.Train wrecks and mishaps are common in Egypt, where the railway system has a history of badly maintained equipment and mismanagement.Hundreds of train accidents are reported every year. In February 2019 an unmanned locomotive slammed into a barrier inside Cairo’s main Ramses railway station, causing a huge explosion and a fire that killed at least 25 people. That crash prompted the then-transportation minister to resign.Egypt’s deadliest train crash was in 2002, when over 300 people were killed after a fire broke out in an overnight train traveling from Cairo to southern Egypt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/passenger-train-derails-in-egypt-100-injured-101618757623066.html
18-04-2021||World||‘Tried to get him help’: FedEx mass shooter’s family apologises to victims’ kin||The family of the 19-year-old mass shooter in Indiana who killed eight people, including four Indian-Americans, has apologised to the relatives of the victims, saying they were "devastated" by the actions of their son and that they tried to get him the help he needed.The gunman, identified as Brandon Scott Hole, shot and killed himself after opening fire at the FedEx Ground Facility in Indianapolis on Thursday night. He was a former FedEx employee.Hole's family released a statement to the families of the victims and the Indianapolis community on Saturday."We are devastated at the loss of life caused as a result of Brandon’s actions; through the love of his family, we tried to get him the help he needed."Our sincerest and most heartfelt apologies go out to the victims of this senseless tragedy. We are so sorry for the pain and hurt being felt by their families and the entire Indianapolis community."Hole is accused of killing Amarjeet Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Jaswinder Singh, 68; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; Matthew R. Alexander, 32; Samaria Blackwell, 19; Karli Smith, 19; and John Weisert, 74.Police say they are trying to understand the motive behind the mass shooting incident.In March 2020, Hole's mother told law enforcement authorities that he might attempt "suicide by cop," the FBI's Indianapolis office said.Special Agent in Charge Paul Keenan said Hole was placed on an immediate mental health temporary hold by the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department. He also said a shotgun was seized at Hole's residence."Based on items observed in the suspect's bedroom at that time, he was interviewed by the FBI in April 2020," CNN quoted the statement as saying."No Racially Motivated Violent Extremism ideology was identified during the course of the assessment and no criminal violation was found. The shotgun was not returned to the suspect."McCartt said that Indianapolis police found Hole's name in two past incident reports.Meanwhile, the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department (IMPD)announced on Saturday that Hole purchased two guns used in the attack legally."During Thursday's incident, the suspect, Brandon Hole, was witnessed using assault rifles in the assault," it said."ATF conducted a trace on the two weapons. IMPD learned that Brandon Hole purchased the rifles legally in July and September of 2020."While Hole's motive is not yet known, "he targeted a facility known to be heavily populated by Sikh employees, and the attack is traumatic for our community as we continue to face senseless violence," said Satjeet Kaur, executive director of the Sikh Coalition.That sentiment was echoed in a letter to the Biden administration on Saturday, in which the Sikh Coalition wrote, "It was no accident that the shooter targeted this particular FedEx facility where he had worked and knew was overwhelmingly staffed by Sikhs.""The people that were shot and killed were not random targets," the coalition said."As such, we implore the Administration to ensure that this shooting is not simply dismissed by the media or law enforcement and acknowledge what it is -- a deliberate act intended to inflict the most harm against diverse Americans."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tried-to-get-him-help-fedex-mass-shooter-s-family-apologises-to-victims-kin-101618761414256.html
18-04-2021||World||No guarantees about Afghanistan's future after US troops leave: White House||No one can offer guarantees about Afghanistan's future after U.S. troops leave, a top White House official said on Sunday, even as he stressed the United States would stay focused on terrorist threats emanating from the country.President Joe Biden announced on Wednesday that the United States will withdraw its remaining 2,500 troops from Afghanistan by Sept. 11, the 20th anniversary of the al Qaeda attacks that triggered America's longest war.White House National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan was asked on the Fox News Sunday program about the risk of a repeat of what happened in Iraq, where Islamic State militants seized territory after U.S. troops withdrew in 2011.That led then-President Barack Obama to send troops back into Iraq.Sullivan said Biden had no intention of sending American forces back to Afghanistan, but he added: "I can't make any guarantees about what will happen inside the country. No one can.""All the United States could do is provide the Afghan security forces, the Afghan government and the Afghan people resources and capabilities, training and equipping their forces, providing assistance to their government. We have done that and now it is time for American troops to come home and the Afghan people to step up to defend their own country."CIA Director William Burns told the Senate Intelligence Committee on Wednesday that America's ability to collect intelligence and act against extremist threats in Afghanistan will diminish after the departure of U.S. troops.A United Nations report in January said there were as many as 500 al Qaeda fighters in Afghanistan and that the Taliban maintained a close relationship with the Islamist extremist group. The Taliban denies al Qaeda has a presence in Afghanistan.Announcing his decision to withdraw troops, Biden said the United States would monitor the threat, reorganize counterterrorism capabilities and keep substantial assets in the region to respond to threats to the United States emerging from Afghanistan."He has no intention of taking our eye off the ball," Sullivan said of the president."We have the capacity, from repositioning our capabilities over the horizon, to continue to suppress the terrorist threat in Afghanistan."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/no-guarantees-about-afghanistan-s-future-after-us-troops-leave-white-house-101618760864377.html
18-04-2021||World||Passenger train derails in Egypt, nearly 100 people injured||A passenger train derailed Sunday north of Cairo, injuring around 100 people, Egyptian authorities said. It was the latest of several rail accidents to hit the country in recent years.Four train wagons ran off the railway at the city of Banha in Qalyubia province, just north of Cairo, the railway authority said in a statement. Videos on social media purportedly showed wagons overturned and passengers escaping to safety along the railway.The train was travelling to Nile Delta city of Mansoura from the Egyptian capital, the statement said.The health ministry said in a statement that least 97 people were injured. Around 60 ambulances were sent to the scene and the injured were taken to nearby hospitals, the ministry added.It was not immediately clear what caused the train to derail. Prosecutors said they were investigating the causes of the crash.Last week, at least 15 people were injured when train carriages derailed in the Nile Delta province of Sharqia.Sunday's train accident came three weeks after two passenger trains collided in the province of Sohag, killing at least 18 people and injuring 200 others, including children.Prosecutors said they found that gross negligence by railway employees was behind the deadly March 25 crash, which caused public outcry across the country.Train wrecks and mishaps are common in Egypt, where the railway system has a history of badly maintained equipment and mismanagement.The government says it has launched a broad renovation and modernization initiative. President Abdel Fattah el-Sissi said in March 2018 that the government needs about 250 billion Egyptian pounds, or USD 14.1 billion, to overhaul the run-down rail system.Hundreds of train accidents are reported every year. In February 2019 an unmanned locomotive slammed into a barrier inside Cairo's main Ramses railway station, causing a huge explosion and a fire that killed at least 25 people. That crash prompted the then-transportation minister to resign.In August 2017, two passenger trains collided just outside the Mediterranean port city of Alexandria, killing 43 people. In 2016, at least 51 people were killed when two commuter trains collided near Cairo.Egypt's deadliest train crash was in 2002, when over 300 people were killed after a fire broke out in an overnight train travelling from Cairo to southern Egypt.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/passenger-train-derails-in-egypt-nearly-100-people-injured-101618760863345.html
18-04-2021||World||Anthony Fauci expects Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine to resume this week||The United States will likely move to resume Johnson & Johnson's Covid-19 vaccine this coming week, possibly with restrictions or broader warnings after reports of some very rare blood clot cases, the government's top infectious diseases expert said on Sunday.Dr. Anthony Fauci, in a series of news show interviews, said he expects a decision when advisers to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention meet Friday to discuss the pause in J&J's single-dose vaccine.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "I would be very surprised if we don't have a resumption in some form by Friday,” he said. "I don't really anticipate that they're going to want it stretch it out a bit longer."Fauci, who is President Joe Biden's chief medical adviser, said he believed that federal regulators could bring the shots back with restrictions based on age or gender or with a blanket warning, so that it is administered in a way "a little bit different than we were before the pause."The J&J vaccine has been in limbo after the CDC and the Food and Drug Administration said last week they needed more evidence to decide if a handful of unusual blood clots were linked to the shot — and if so, how big the risk is.The reports are rare - six cases out of more than 7 million US inoculations with J&J vaccine. The clots were found in six women between the ages of 18 and 48. One person died.The acting FDA commissioner had said she expected the pause to last only a matter of days. Still, the decision last Tuesday triggered swift action in Europe and elsewhere.Fauci said he doubted very seriously that the US would permanently halt use of the J&J vaccine."I don't think that's going to happen," he said. "The pause was to take a look, make sure we know all the information we can have within that timeframe, and also warn some of the physicians out there who might see people, particularly women, who have this particular adverse event, that they treat them properly.""I think it'll likely say, OK, we're going to use it. But be careful under these certain circumstances.'”More than 6.8 million doses of the J&J vaccine have been given in the US, the vast majority with no or mild side effects. Authorities stressed they have found no sign of clot problems with the most widely used Covid-19 vaccines in the US - from Moderna and Pfizer.Fauci appeared on NBC's "Meet the Press," CNN's "State of the Union," ABC's "This Week" and CBS' "Face the Nation."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/anthony-fauci-expects-johnson-johnson-s-covid-19-vaccine-to-resume-this-week-101618760480494.html
18-04-2021||World||Bangladesh likely to extend lockdown for another week as Covid-19 worsens||Bangladesh is likely to extend the ongoing nationwide lockdown for another week as the Covid-19 situation in the country continues to worsen."The ongoing nationwide lockdown is likely to be extended for another week, and the decision in this regard will come within a day or two," Dhaka Tribune quoted State Minister for Public Administration Farhad Hossain as saying."We haven't yet got any decision about a fresh lockdown. There'll be a meeting on Monday over the current Covid-19 situation. But advice is there overextending the ongoing lockdown," the State Minister added.Bangladesh on Sunday reported over 100 Covid-19 single-day deaths for the third consecutive day.On Sunday, another 102 deaths were logged in 24 hours. Earlier on Saturday and Friday, 101 new deaths were recorded in a single day, the highest in the country so far since the first reported death on March 18, 2020.With the updated data, the death toll in the country stands at 10,385, and the total cases at 718,950.On April 14, the Bangladesh government enforced a fresh lockdown with harsher measures. The ongoing lockdown was imposed after a 'loose' nationwide lockdown for one week from April 5 as part of its move to contain the spike in both coronavirus infections and fatalities."The decision [to extend lockdown] will be known within 1-2 days as the coronavirus infections keep spreading. If people follow health guidelines properly and stay home, then the infection rate will come down," Hossain said.The National Technical Advisory Committee (NTAC) on Covid-19 has recommended a 14-day fresh lockdown and the ongoing lockdown might be extended for another week based on the recommendation.Replying to a question about the extension of the ongoing lockdown, Additional Secretary of the Cabinet Division Rafiqul Islam, said: "The decision in this regard will be known on Monday after an inter-ministerial meeting."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-likely-to-extend-lockdown-for-another-week-as-covid-19-worsens-101618756278020.html
18-04-2021||World||Signs of thaw on Iran nuclear standoff emerge in Vienna Talks||World powers working to end the standoff between Iran and the U.S. are due to reconvene Sunday amid signs of a thaw that may lead to a revival of the 2015 nuclear deal and reduce tensions in the energy-rich Persian Gulf.Iran’s lead negotiator, Deputy Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi, said Saturday a “new understanding” was taking shape at the talks in Vienna and that his country would start work on a full draft text for negotiators to discuss. While the U.S. hasn’t yet responded, the European Union and Russia echoed his optimism without suggesting a breakthrough was imminent.The remarks inject new hope into a process rocked last week by an attack on an Iranian nuclear facility that prompted the Islamic Republic to enrich uranium at levels nearer to weapons grade. The incident, which Iran blamed on Israel, was the latest in a series of flashpoints in the region that have included assassinations, attacks on energy installations and tanker seizures.The nuclear deal, which imposed strict limits on Iran’s atomic activity in exchange for sanctions relief, was a signature achievement of the Obama administration. Abandonment of the accord in 2018 by then-President Donald Trump and the reimposition of sanctions have kept relations between the longstanding foes close to breaking point.“The drafting of the text can begin now, and the Iranian delegation has prepared and presented its text on the nuclear sphere and the lifting of sanctions,” Araghchi told Iranian state TV, cautioning that serious disagreements remained.The talks underscore Washington’s changed stance toward Iran since Joe Biden entered the White House earlier this year. The U.S. president has pledged to return his country to the 2015 accord, but the administration has been reluctant to make any grand gestures or agree to remove sanctions all at once, something Iran insists Washington must do as the party that first violated the deal.In an apparent further sign of easing tension, the Financial Times reported Sunday that senior officials from Saudi Arabia and Iran have been holding talks to repair relations. The newspaper cited three unidentified officials. The meeting in Baghdad on April 9 included discussions about recent attacks and would be followed by another round of talks next week, it said.The International Atomic Energy Agency confirmed on Saturday that Iran has started the process of enriching uranium to 60%, an important step closer to weapons grade of 80% to 90%. Iran insists that the uranium will be used for medical purposes only. Biden criticized the move, saying it was contrary to the agreement, but said it wouldn’t derail the Vienna talks.The Islamic republic began in 2019 to gradually increase its atomic activity -- beyond the limit of 3.67% allowed in the deal -- in response to Trump’s so-called “maximum pressure” strategy.“The reality is that the alternative to reviving the nuclear deal is not attractive for either side,” said Ali Vaez, director of the Iran Project at the International Crisis Group. “But a lot of hard work remains, including on figuring out how to sequence the implementation of the measures and their verification.”Earlier this week, Araghchi said that Washington and Tehran had to specify the steps they would each need to take in order to restore the 2015 deal, including a tally of all Trump-era sanctions that Iran says the U.S. would need to remove.The European Union and Russia, which along with China are trying help the U.S. and Iran choreograph the restoration of the deal and full compliance to its terms, encouraged both sides to double down on efforts to reach an agreement.Enrique Mora, who’s leading the talks on behalf of the EU, tweeted that the discussions had been “intensive,” and that “progress has been made in a far from easy task.” The group now needs to focus on more detailed work, he added without elaborating.It was “key” that all the parties are committed to seeing the U.S. rejoin the accord and that it’s fully implemented by both Washington and Tehran, Mora said.Russia’s envoy to the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mikhail Ulyanov, said that the countries would continue working over the weekend and into next week as they agreed to “not waste time” and reach a successful outcome “as soon as possible.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/signs-of-thaw-on-iran-nuclear-standoff-emerge-in-vienna-talks-101618740469430.html
18-04-2021||World||Four dead in light plane crash outside Paris: Fire service||Four people died when a light plane crashed east of Paris on Sunday, the local fire service said.A Robin DR400 aircraft that had taken off from Beauvais, northwest of the capital, was found in a field near Saint-Pathus, and an investigation was begun to determine the cause of the accident, the service added.Information provided to AFP by the Lognes-Emerainville airfield suggested it was a training flight.The light aircraft was "of French origin, limited by law to visual flights at altitudes of no more than 15,000 feet," an airfield source said.It crashed around 20 kilometres (13 miles) from France's biggest airport, Paris Charles de Gaulle.A search unit from the paramilitary gendarmerie police was dispatched to the scene, where a strong smell of kerosene filled the air, the fire service said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/four-dead-in-light-plane-crash-outside-paris-fire-service-101618756219841.html
18-04-2021||World||Iran sees highest Covid-19 daily death toll in months as cases surge||Iran's daily coronavirus death toll climbed over 400 for the first time in months on Sunday, as the country, which has long had the region's largest outbreak, battles a post-holiday infection surge.Iranian health authorities recorded 405 fatalities from the virus, pushing the total death toll to 66,732. Officials increasingly have warned about the impact of trends seen nationwide during the Persian New Year, or Nowruz. The two-week holiday last month brought increased travel, relaxed restrictions and large gatherings without precautions.After COVID-19 cases broke record after record earlier this month, the Health Ministry reported 21,644 infections on Sunday, bringing the total count over 2.2 million. Hospitals are rapidly filling across the country, particularly in the capital. Authorities reported 130 deaths in Tehran alone, according to Mohsen Hashemi, head of the Tehran municipal council. The single-day death toll nationwide reached a peak of over 480 last November.The coronavirus pandemic has hammered Iran for months, but the government has signaled it can't sustain the punishing lockdowns seen in the U.S. and Europe without risking economic catastrophe, especially for the nation's poorest. Its ailing economy has struggled under harsh U.S. sanctions, reimposed when former President Donald Trump abandoned the 2015 landmark nuclear deal that granted the country sanctions relief in exchange for curbs on its nuclear program.Still, Iran has restricted business operations in more than 250 cities for a period of 10 days, shuttering restaurants, beauty salons, malls and bookstores, confectionaries and public parks.The country's inoculation rollout has gotten off to a slow start, with Iran producing and promoting a range of domestically made vaccines and warning against the import of American-made ones amid deep-rooted suspicion of the West.However, President Hassan Rouhani stressed the importance of importing foreign-made vaccines in a speech last week.“We cannot wait for the domestic vaccine to reach mass production,” he said. "We need to expand vaccination this spring by importing vaccines in appropriate ways.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-sees-highest-covid-19-daily-death-toll-in-months-as-cases-surge-101618749738735.html
18-04-2021||World||Bangladesh reports record 102 daily deaths from Covid-19||Bangladesh on Sunday reported its deadliest day of Covid-19 so far, with a record 102 deaths from the coronavirus epidemic.It was the third consecutive day for more than 100 daily deaths from Covid-19 reported in the Asian country, bringing the death toll to 10,385.The country's Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) also reported 3,698 new confirmed cases of Covid-19 on Sunday, raising its total tally to 718,950.It came as daily Covid-19 cases decreased, with confirmed infections dropping to around 4,000 per day recently, compared to about 7,000 in each of the days before April 13, showing early signs that strict lockdown restrictions beginning April 14 have been working.The official data showed that 19,404 samples were tested in the last 24 hours across Bangladesh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-reports-record-102-daily-deaths-from-covid19-101618754059012.html
18-04-2021||World||Indianapolis shooter legally bought guns used in FedEx shooting: Police||The former employee who shot and killed eight people at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis legally purchased the two assault rifles used in the attack despite red flag laws designed to prevent that, police said.A trace of the two guns found by investigators at the scene revealed that suspect Brandon Scott Hole, 19, of Indianapolis, legally bought the rifles in July and September of last year, officials with the Indianapolis Metropolitan Police Department said Saturday.IMPD did not share where Hole bought the guns, citing the ongoing investigation, but said Hole was witnessed using both rifles during the assault.Deputy Police Chief Craig McCartt said Hole began firing randomly at people in the parking lot of the FedEx facility late Thursday, killing four, before entering the building, fatally shooting four more people and then turning the gun on himself.Indiana has had a “red flag law” allowing police or courts to seize guns from people who show warning signs of violence since 2005, when it became one of the first states to enact such a law after an Indianapolis police officer was killed by a man whose weapons had to be returned despite hospitalization months earlier for an emergency mental health evaluation.The law is intended to prevent people from purchasing or possessing a firearm if they are found by a judge to present “an imminent risk” to themselves or others.Authorities have two weeks after seizing someone’s weapon to argue in court that the person should not be allowed to possess a gun, according to the law. Officials have not said whether a judge made a red flag ruling in Hole’s case.Paul Keenan, special agent in charge of the FBI’s Indianapolis field office, said that agents questioned Hole last year after his mother called police to say that her son might commit “suicide by cop.” He said the FBI was called after items were found in Hole’s bedroom but he did not elaborate on what they were. He said agents found no evidence of a crime and that they did not identify Hole as espousing a racially motivated ideology.A police report obtained by The Associated Press shows that officers seized a pump-action shotgun from Hole’s home after responding to the mother’s call. Keenan said the gun was never returned.McCartt said Hole was a former employee of FedEx and last worked for the company in 2020. The deputy police chief said he did not know why Hole left the job or if he had ties to the workers in the facility. He said police have not yet uncovered a motive for the shooting.Investigators searched a home Friday in Indianapolis associated with Hole and seized evidence, including desktop computers and other electronic media, McCartt said.Hole’s family said in a statement Saturday they are “so sorry for the pain and hurt” his actions caused.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indianapolis-shooter-legally-bought-guns-used-in-fedex-shooting-police-101618752790332.html
18-04-2021||World||Most Americans want to end lifetime Supreme Court appointments: Poll||A majority of Americans want to end lifetime appointments for U.S. Supreme Court justices, according to an Ipsos poll for Reuters, though less than half are in favor of other efforts to reform the judiciary.The national opinion poll, conducted on Thursday and Friday, found that 63% of adults supported term or age limits for Supreme Court justices. Another 22% said they opposed any limits and the rest did not express an opinion.The poll also found that only 38% would support expanding the size of the court by adding four more justices. Another 42% said they would oppose doing so and the rest were unsure.Liberal activists and some legal scholars have been pushing for judicial reforms as Republican leaders in Congress built a 6-to-3 conservative Supreme Court majority over the past several years, in part by blocking a Democratic nominee and allowing Republican former President Donald Trump to install three picks during his single term.Some Democratic lawmakers on Thursday introduced legislation to expand the Supreme Court to 13 justices, a move that they believe would restore public confidence in the judicial branch. But the party's leadership appeared cool to the idea of pursuing that course.President Joe Biden has formed a bi-partisan committee to look at the merits of adding justices as well as other potential reforms to the court.While Congress has the power to change the number of justices who sit on the court, legal scholars believe it would likely require a constitutional amendment to end their lifetime appointments.The poll found that only 49% of Americans have a "great deal" or a "fair amount" of confidence in decisions made by Supreme Court justices. In comparison, 43% of respondents expressed a similar amount of trust in decisions made by the White House and 32% said the same of decisions made by Congress.The Reuters/Ipsos poll was conducted online, in English, throughout the United States. The survey gathered responses from 1,003 adults. The results have a credibility interval, a measure of precision, of 4 percentage points.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/most-americans-want-to-end-lifetime-supreme-court-appointments-poll-101618752809727.html
18-04-2021||World||'We don't have time': Navalny's team calls new protests in Russia||Activists for imprisoned Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny on Sunday called for massive protests in the heart of Moscow and St Petersburg as Navalny's health reportedly is deteriorating severely while on hunger strike.Leonid Volkov, a top strategist for Navalny, said the demonstrations were called on short notice for Wednesday because “his life hangs in the balance...We don't know how long he can hold on...But it is clear we do not have time.”The 44-year-old Navalny, President Vladimir Putin's most visible and persistent critic, started a hunger strike more than three weeks ago to protest prison authorities' refusal to allow him to be seen by a private doctor for diagnosis of severe back pain and loss of feeling in his legs; the Russian penitentiary service says he is getting adequate care.On Saturday, a doctor said test results that he received from Navalny's family showed sharply elevated levels of potassium, which could lead to cardiac arrest, and signs of kidney failure.“Our patient could die at any moment,” said the doctor, Yaroslav Ashikhmin.There was no immediate comment from police or government officials about the call for protests, but the response is likely to be harsh. Police arrested more than 10,000 people during nationwide protests in January calling for Navalny to be freed.The Wednesday protests have been called for symbolically resonant locations — Manezh Square in Moscow, just outside the Kremlin walls, and St Petersburg's sprawling Palace Square.Navalny was arrested on January 17 when he returned to Russia from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from Soviet nerve-agent poisoning that he blames on the Kremlin. Russian officials have denied any involvement and even questioned whether Navalny was poisoned, which was confirmed by several European laboratories.Navalny was ordered to serve 2 1/2 years in prison on the grounds that his long recovery in Germany violated a suspended sentence he had been given for a fraud conviction in a case that Navalny says was politically motivated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/we-don-t-have-time-navalny-s-team-calls-new-protests-in-russia-101618752069879.html
18-04-2021||World||Israel and Greece sign record defence deal||Israel and Greece have signed their biggest ever defence procurement deal, which Israel said on Sunday would strengthen political and economic ties between the countries.The agreement includes a $1.65 billion contract for the establishment and operation of a training centre for the Hellenic Air Force by Israeli defence contractor Elbit Systems over a 22-year period, Israel's defence ministry said.The training centre will be modeled on Israel's own flight academy and will be equipped with 10 M-346 training aircraft produced by Italian company Leonardo, the ministry said.Elbit will supply kits to upgrade and operate Greece's T-6 aircraft and also provide training, simulators and logistical support."I am certain that (this programme) will upgrade the capabilities and strengthen the economies of Israel and Greece and thus the partnership between our two countries will deepen on the defence, economic and political levels," said Israeli defence minister Benny Gantz.The announcement follows a meeting in Cyprus on Friday between the UAE, Greek, Cypriot and Israeli foreign ministers, who agreed to deepen cooperation between their countries.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-and-greece-sign-record-defence-deal-101618750700591.html
18-04-2021||World||UK Opposition urges Boris Johnson to cancel India visit over new 'double mutant' Covid-19 variant||Britain's Opposition Labour Party on Sunday joined calls for Prime Minister Boris Johnson to cancel his visit to India, starting next Sunday, amid growing concerns of a new variant of Covid-19 detected in the country.Public Health England (PHE) has said that 77 cases of the so-called “double mutant” Indian variant have been detected in the UK since last month and that it has now been classed as a Variant Under Investigation (VUI).Downing Street had earlier confirmed a much shorter schedule for the UK prime minister's visit, with the bulk of the programme including talks with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi set for a day-long agenda on Monday, April 26.“I can't see why the prime minister can't conduct his business with the Indian government via Zoom,” said Labour’s Shadow Communities Secretary Steve Reed.“The prime minister, like all of us in public life, needs to try and set an example. I'd much rather the prime minister did it by Zoom rather than travelling to India," he told ‘Sky News’, when asked if the visit should go ahead next week.A government minister, meanwhile, stressed that there is no evidence the Indian variant can evade vaccine protection or that it is more contagious."I'm told there is no evidence at the moment this particular variant is able to get around the vaccine or...that it is necessarily more contagious than the others – but we are looking at it, it will be studied," said Environment Secretary George Eustice.The variant – officially named B.1.617 – is believed to be almost certainly playing a part in the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic in India and a major spike in infection rates. It has sparked concerns among academics and sections of the UK media, who have called for India to be added to the “red list”, which involves stricter travel restrictions with a compulsory 10-day hotel quarantine for anyone returning to the UK from such countries.Danny Altmann, a professor of immunology at Imperial College London, is among those who said that he finds it “mystifying” and “slightly confounding” that India is not yet on the red list and that those flying into the UK from there are not subjected to the compulsory hotel quarantine.“I think we should be terribly concerned about it,” Prof Altmann told the BBC.Meanwhile, speculation is rife that India has been kept off the red list to allow Johnson's visit to go ahead, even though cut short, and to ensure that India-UK trade negotiations are on track ahead of India’s negotiations with the European Union (EU).Downing Street has said that designations under the red list, which currently covers around 40 countries, are kept “under constant review” and so far the message is that the visit will go ahead in its shortened version."As with all the prime minister’s visits, his trip to India will prioritise the safety of those involved. All elements of the visit will be Covid secure,” the prime minister's spokesperson said.A lot is riding on the visit, previously postponed from a Republic Day tour in January, as the first major bilateral visit for Johnson outside Europe since the UK general election in December 2019 and the conclusion of the Brexit transition period at the end of December 2020. The priority is for both sides to agree to a ‘Roadmap 2030’, a plan for the next decade to pave the way to a free trade agreement (FTA) in future.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-opposition-urges-boris-johnson-to-cancel-india-visit-over-new-double-mutant-covid-19-variant-101618750356341.html
18-04-2021||World||Magnitude 5.9 earthquake hits southern Iran: Report||A magnitude 5.9 earthquake on Sunday struck Iran's southern province of Bushehr, where a nuclear power plant is located, but there were no immediate reports of major damage, state television said.The epicentre of the quake was the town of Rig and hospitals in nearby cities and provinces were on alert, with rescue teams and 50 ambulances sent to the area, a regional official told state TV.Local official Gholamreza Mehrjou told state TV that water, electricity and internet have been restored to villages in the quake-hit area and people who had taken to the streets in fear of more tremors "have returned to their homes".An Iranian government official told Reuters there were no reports of damage at the Bushehr nuclear complex on Iran's Gulf coast.The quake was centred 100 km (60 miles) from the plant and was relatively shallow - only 10 km deep, according to Iranian media - which would have amplified the shaking.Iranian media reported 16 aftershocks and posted pictures that showed collapsed mud brick walls in some villages.Five people were injured in Gonaveh and were being taken to hospital, Saeed Kashmiri, head of the Bushehr University of Medical Sciences, was quoted as saying by state media.Crisscrossed by major fault lines, the Islamic Republic is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the world. In 2003 a magnitude 6.6 quake in Kerman province killed 31,000 people and flattened the ancient city of Bam.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/magnitude-5-9-earthquake-hits-southern-iran-report-101618750552269.html
18-04-2021||World||Explained: Rise in Covid-19 cases in Pakistan, death toll and vaccination||Amid surge in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in South Asia, Pakistan on Sunday reported its highest single-day spike in new cases this year with 6,127 cases. The previous highest surge in Covid-19 cases was recorded last year on June 20 when the country reported 6,825 infections and 153 deaths. The country on Sunday reported 149 Covid-related fatalities- the second highest number of fatalities since the pandemic began- which pushed the death toll to 16,243. As the country scrambles to vaccinate its population, the infection tally in the country stands at 756,285 and the positivity rate continued to climb, reaching 8.5 percent on Sunday, as per a report in Dawn.Is the rise in Covid-19 cases reported throughout Pakistan?The rise in new Covid-19 cases is being reported in all the provinces in Pakistan. The highest number of Covid-19 cases was reported in the Punjab province which added 3,562 infections, thus marking the first time that the province reported more than 3,000 infections since the pandemic began. Khyber Pakhtunkhwa reported 958 new coronavirus cases on Sunday which were down from 1,061 on Saturday. Balochistan recorded 62 cases and the caseload in the province reached 20,822 on Sunday.What about the death toll, critical cases and the recoveries in Pakistan?The death toll in Pakistan has crossed the 16,000 mark and currently stands at 16,094 cases. Sunday marked the fifth consecutive day that the country reported more than 100 Covid related fatalities, reported Dawn. The active cases in Pakistan stand at 79,108 and according to the government’s Covid-19 portal 4,984 patients have been admitted to hospitals in the country and are in critical condition. The total number of recoveries in the country has reached 659,483 after 4,527 more recoveries were reported in the country on Sunday.Where does Pakistan stand on the vaccination front?With a population of over 220 million, the country’s vaccination programme has faced major challenges and remains slow owing to the lack of availability of the doses. Currently the country’s vaccination programme, which began on February 2, has only covered 1.3 million people. Amid rise in new cases, Pakistan’s government has announced that it will expand its vaccination programme to include people in the age group of 50-59 years from April 21. Till now, the immunization drive was restricted to people above the age of 60. The country’s vaccination programme is largely dependent on China’s Covid-19 vaccines although some private companies have imported a limited number of Sputnik V vaccines from Russia. The country had also expected to receive around 17 million doses of AstraZeneca vaccine in March under the COVAX initiative but was unable to do so. Pakistan’s foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi tweeted about the same, saying that the country will now receive 15 million AstraZeneca jabs by June 30. “Following my meeting with Foreign Minister @HeikoMaas, I am happy to announce that Pakistan will receive 15 million doses of the #COVID vaccine under COVAX, with a commitment for these to be delivered by May,” Qureshi said in a tweet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/explained-rise-in-covid-19-cases-in-pakistan-death-toll-and-vaccination-101618749762130.html
18-04-2021||World||'Extremely concerned' about Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny's health: France||French foreign minister Jean-Yves Le Drian said Sunday his country is "extremely concerned" about the health of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, who is on a hunger strike in a Russian penal colony."Navalny's situation is extremely concerning," Le Drian told France 3 television. "I hope that measures are taken to ensure Navalny's physical integrity, but also his freedom," he said."There is a major responsibility here for President (Vladimir) Putin."Navalny, Putin's most prominent opponent, was arrested in January on returning to Russia after recovering from a near-fatal poisoning attack he says was orchestrated by the Kremlin. The Kremlin denies the allegation.He is serving two and a half years on old embezzlement charges -- which he says are politically motivated -- in a penal colony in the town of Pokrov around 100 kilometres (60 miles) east of Moscow.The 44-year-old began a hunger strike on March 31 to demand proper medical treatment for back pain and numbness in his legs and hands.On Saturday, several doctors close to Navalny warned that his health had rapidly deteriorated and he could "die any minute," demanding prison officials grant them immediate access."There is truly an authoritarian drift in Russia," Le Drian said."Russia is responsible for Navalny's health, it must assume its role," he added, saying the European Union was closely following his fate."We have already taken action," he said, referring to EU sanctions."The package of sanctions is already significant, but there may be others."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/extremely-concerned-about-kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny-s-health-france-101618749792453.html
18-04-2021||World||Deadly clashes after Islamists of TLP take police hostage in Pakistan's Lahore||Police in Pakistan said a hardline Islamist group had taken six security personnel hostage at its headquarters in Lahore on Sunday after a week of violent clashes following the arrest of the group's leader.The Tehrik-i-Labaik Pakistan (TLP) group had given the government an April 20 deadline to expel the French ambassador over the publication of cartoons in France depicting the Prophet Mohammad. The authorities responded by arresting its leader, prompting supporters to hold protests and sit-ins across Pakistan. At least four people were killed, hundreds injured, and thousands arrested. Pakistan banned the group after the violence.A senior police officer and two paramilitary were among the six being held by supporters of (TLP), Lahore police spokesman Arif Rana told Reuters."The TLP activists have two fuel tankers containing thousands of liters of petrol. They are throwing petrol bombs and stones at security officials, and also shooting bullets as the result of which 11 officials are injured," Rana said, adding the operation was ongoing.TLP spokesman Shafiq Amini told Reuters four supporters had been killed on Sunday by police and several others were wounded.Pakistani news channels have been barred from providing coverage of the group since it was banned last week , and on Sunday mobile and internet services were down in the area where clashes were taking place.Roads leading to the headquarters of the group, in Lahore's Chowk Yateemkahan, have been blocked.Still, supporters of TLP have been sharing videos on social media of what they said were clashes on Sunday with police, and hashtags supporting the group were trending in Pakistan on Sunday.The videos, which Reuters could not independently verify, showed thousands of protesters clashing with police in riot-gear, as clouds of tear gas hung in the air and the crackle of gunfire could be heard. Other videos showed injured protesters being carried away.On Saturday Prime Minister Imran Khan said the group had been banned because it "challenged the writ of the state and used street violence & attacking the public & law enforcers."Last week France advised its citizens to temporarily leave Pakistan for their safety.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/deadly-clashes-after-islamists-of-tlp-take-police-hostage-in-pakistan-s-lahore-101618749315318.html
18-04-2021||World||AstraZeneca could have Covid-19 vaccine against variant by end-2021: Report||A modified version of AstraZeneca's Covid-19 vaccine tailored to combat a coronavirus variant first documented in South Africa could be ready by the end of 2021, an AstraZeneca official in Austria said in an interview published on Sunday.Sarah Walters, AstraZeneca's Austria country manager, told the Kurier newspaper that studies, so far, indicating the existing AstraZeneca vaccine was less effective against the more infectious variant first documented in South Africa were "too small to draw final conclusions"."In the meantime, AstraZeneca and Oxford University have started on modifications to the vaccine for the South African variant and we expect it will be ready by the end of the year, should it be needed," Walters told the Kurier.Walters blamed challenges - including delivery delays for the AstraZeneca shot in the European Union - on the "complex process" of producing a vaccine, coupled with the extremely high demand arising from the coronavirus pandemic."We had to work without keeping a supply in reserve. As a result, we couldn't make up for unexpected events," she said. "We are confident that we will fulfill our commitment to deliver 300 million doses to the European Union this year."The Kurier interview did not directly address ongoing investigations into health concerns over the AstraZeneca shot. The EU has put a warning label on the vaccine over its possible linkage to extremely rare blood clots, Denmark has completely halted use of the vaccine and Britain has advised people under 30 to get another brand of vaccine.Asked about "thousands" of people in Austria who are cancelling their appointments for AstraZeneca shots, Walters said the company's plan was "to continue to transparently provide information about efficacy and safety to doctors, so that they can adequately inform people" of benefits and risks.British and European Union medicine regulators have said that the overall benefits of using the vaccine outweigh any risks of rare clotting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/astrazeneca-could-have-covid-19-vaccine-against-variant-by-end-2021-report-101618747286666.html
18-04-2021||World||Nasa believes Ingenuity Mars helicopter will lift off this time. Here’s why||Nasa has completed a full-spin speed test of the Ingenuity helicopter and the team at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) is going to attempt on Monday the first-ever controlled flight on Mars after multiple delays. The US space agency had previously postponed the flight attempt after an issue was flagged during a high-speed test of the rotor blades.Nasa JPL then revealed that the watchdog timer, which alerts the system about any potential issues, expiration occurred when the command sequence was trying to transition the flight computer from ‘Pre-Flight’ to ‘Flight’ mode. MiMi Aung, Ingenuity Mars helicopter project manager at Nasa's JPL, explained why they are optimistic about the helicopter taking off from the Martian surface this time.Aung wrote in a blog post that the team has been testing two solutions to address the watchdog timer issue that prevented the helicopter from transitioning to ‘Flight’ mode. The first solution was to adjust the command sequence from Earth to slightly alter the timing of this transition. It required adding a few commands to the flight operations sequence and was tested on both Earth and Mars.“From testing this technique on Ingenuity over the last few days, we know this approach is likely to allow us to transition to flight mode and prepare for lift-off about 85% of the time,” the project manager wrote.“This solution leaves the helicopter safe if the transition to flight mode is not completed. On Friday, we employed this solution to perform our first-ever high-speed spin test on Mars,” she added.Aung said that the first solution is the least disruptive to a helicopter since the team doesn’t need to change its configuration, and the Ingenuity has been behaving just as expected. However, if the first plan doesn’t work after subsequent attempts in the days following, the team has a backup plan which requires modification and reinstallation of Ingenuity’s flight control software.The Ingenuity helicopter team at the JPL has transmitted the new software for the second solution to Nasa’s Perseverance rover, which acts as the helicopter’s base station on Mars. The rover will send the new flight control software to the helicopter and the team would require several additional days for preparing to “load and test the new software on Ingenuity, redo the rotor tests in this new configuration, and recycle for a first flight attempt.”“Our team considers Monday’s attempted first flight like a rocket launch: We’re doing everything we can to make it a success, but we also know that we may have to scrub and try again,” Aung said.The rotorcraft weighing 1.8 kilograms is set to take off on Monday at 12:31am PDT (1:01pm IST) and hover 10 feet above the surface for up to 30 seconds. Data from the first flight attempt will return to Earth a few hours following the autonomous flight. The live coverage confirming Ingenuity’s first flight will begin at 3:15am PDT (3:45 pm IST) on Monday on Nasa’s website, app, and television. It will also be live-streamed on multiple social media platforms of the US space agency, including the JPL YouTube and Facebook channels.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasa-believes-ingenuity-mars-helicopter-will-lift-off-this-time-here-s-why-101618743462370.html
18-04-2021||World||Bangladesh arrests Hefazat-e-Islam leader Mamunul Haque after violent protests||Police in Bangladesh on Sunday arrested an influential leader of an Islamist group that led violent protests against last month's visit by India's prime minister to the Muslim-majority nation, officials said.Mamunul Haque of the group Hefazat-e-Islam faces charges of instigating violence, but police did not provide details on specific cases or whether the charges stem from Narendra Modi's visit. Harunur Rashid, a senior Dhaka Metropolitan Police official, said in a short briefing that Haque was arrested from a madrassa, or Islamic school, in the capital of Dhaka’s Mohammadpur area.Haque, 47, is a leading figure in the Hefazat-e-Islam group, which has a strong network of Islamic schools across Bangladesh. The group says it is not a political party, but its leaders in their sermons regularly talk about the country’s politics, advocating an Islamic revolution in the nation of 160 million people. Its leaders often challenge the basics of the country’s constitution and its legal system, which is based on based on British common law.The group criticized Bangladesh's Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina for inviting Modi to join a March 26 celebration of the country’s 50th anniversary of independence, and threatened to shed blood in the streets to undermine the visit. Critics accuse Modi’s Hindu-nationalist party of stoking religious polarization in India and discriminating against minorities, particularly Muslims.Modi’s two-day visit was overshadowed by the violence, and at least 17 supporters of Hefazat-e-Islam were killed in separate clashes with police as they attacked a police station and other government buildings, and blocked highways elsewhere in the country. In Dhaka, they clashed with police outside the country’s main Baitul Mokarram Mosque during the visit.In a speech to Bangladesh's parliament earlier this month, Hasina warned the group and its leaders that they would face consequences if they continue to resort to violence.Haque and his associates led a recent campaign against building a sculpture of independence leader Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Hasina’s father, saying sculptures are un-Islamic. The government backed off.Hefazat-e-Islam also wants Hasina's government to enact blasphemy laws, under which anyone convicted of criticizing Islam’s prophet would face the death penalty.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bangladesh-arrests-hefazat-e-islam-leader-mamunul-haque-after-violent-protests-101618745178290.html
18-04-2021||World||UK defends ex-PM Cameron as scale of lobbying scandal grows further||Former Prime Minister David Cameron didn’t get any “special favors” when he lobbied for financial aid to Greensill Capital, a top Cabinet minister said, as the furor engulfing the government over its ties to business intensified.Environment Secretary George Eustice said Sunday the government will wait for findings on the Greensill saga before committing to changing lobbying rules. Multiple inquiries into the issues have already started; another one due to be announced Monday is expected to call every living former Prime Minister who isn’t currently in politics for evidence, the Telegraph reported.“Did people give any special favors to David Cameron or indeed to Greensill? The answer to that is no,” Eustice said in an interview with Sky News. “He meticulously observed the rules there that he himself actually put in place after some concerns around lobbying a decade ago.”The scandal’s main focus has been Cameron, who sent text messages to ministers last year about financial aid for Greensill Capital, where he was an adviser. The scale of Greensill’s links to the government has broadened to senior civil servants, with revelations that some were also on Greensill’s payroll while in their government jobs.Cameron’s role as a lobbyist came into focus after Greensill, which offered supply-chain financing services, faced a credit squeeze and then went into administration last month, leading to thousands of threatened job losses.The Greensill revelations has also brought attention to the links between government officials and their financial interests more widely. Earlier this week, Health Secretary Matt Hancock was accused of “cronyism” over the award of contracts to a company he owns shares in.The controversies have become a source of embarrassment for the government just before local elections next month. Chancellor of the Exchequer Rishi Sunak was also implicated after it emerged he “pushed” officials to consider ways of helping Greensill following a request from Cameron. On Wednesday, opposition Labour leader Keir Starmer declared “the return of Tory sleaze.”“It is very clear to me, from what I can see, that the Chancellor has not acted at all improperly,” Eustice told the BBC’s Andrew Marr show on Sunday. “He flagged it, he looked at it, and nothing was done on that case.”Prime Minister Boris Johnson risks suffering electoral fallout over the scandal and could face defections of some of the Labour voters he won over for the Conservative party that drove his landslide election victory in 2019, a senior Tory official said.Those former Labour voters “will start to dismiss him unless he can show he is more open, more transparent and very different from the out-of-touch elite he defeated in the 2016 (Brexit) referendum and ousted from government,” Sir Bernard Jenkin, chair of the powerful Commons liaison committee, said in the Observer on Sunday.The drip-feed of revelations is likely to continue as more critical attention is paid to whether the U.K.’s lobbying scene descended into corruption. Developments reported over the weekend include:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-defends-ex-pm-cameron-as-scale-of-lobbying-scandal-grows-further-101618743482545.html
18-04-2021||World||Local IS leader killed by Afghan special forces in eastern Nangarhar province||A local Islamic State (IS) leader was killed by Afghan Special Forces in the country's eastern Nangarhar province Saturday night, National Directorate of Security (NDS), the country's national intelligence agency, confirmed on Sunday."Acting on a confirmed tip-off, the NDS Special Operations Forces conducted an operation in Kuz Kunar district, Nangarhar province, to arrest Kamin, known as Hakimullah, one of the IS newly designated local leaders," the agency said on Twitter."A gunfight took place while the targeted man was planning to flee the area. As a result, Kamin, who served as IS military chief for Pachir Wa Agam and Haska Mina districts of Nangarhar was killed," the statement read.In an unrelated development, Afghan army personnel discovered and destroyed an attack tunnel of Taliban terrorists and arrested four terrorists in Sharsharak village of northern Balkh province on Friday night, the army's 209 Shaheen Corps confirmed Sunday.The arrested militants tried to assault an army operating base in the area by digging the tunnel, according to the source.The Afghan security forces continued in mopping-up operations as spring and summer known as fighting season is drawing near in the Asian country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/local-is-leader-killed-by-afghan-special-forces-in-eastern-nangarhar-province-101618743508889.html
18-04-2021||World||Presidential elections in Syria to take place on May 26, says Parliament speaker||Syria's parliament speaker announced Sunday that presidential elections in the war-ravaged country will be held on May 26.Speaker Hammoud Sabbagh said the window for nominations will be open for 10 days starting Monday. Syrians abroad will vote May 20, he said.The election is widely expected to give President Bashar Assad a fourth seven-year term. It is unclear whether any candidates will run against him but any such runs would be symbolic.The United States last month warned Assad that the Biden administration will not recognize the result of its presidential election unless the voting is free, fair, supervised by the United Nations and represents all of Syrian society.Syria has been in the throes of civil war since 2011, when Arab Spring-inspired protests against the Assad family rule turned into an armed insurgence in response to a brutal military crackdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/presidential-elections-in-syria-to-take-place-on-may-26-says-parliament-speaker-101618743120061.html
18-04-2021||World||3 dead, 2 wounded in shooting at Wisconsin tavern: Police||A shooting at a tavern in Wisconsin killed three people and seriously injured two others, police said.The shooting happened early Sunday at Somers House Tavern in the Village of Somers, Kenosha County Sgt. David Wright said.The suspected shooter was not immediately captured. Wright said the shooting appeared to be a “targeted and isolated incident,” and authorities don't believe the general public is in danger.Officials were still working to determine the identities of the people who died. The two people who were wounded were taken to area hospitals, Wright said.The road leading up to the tavern was closed early Sunday while officials were investigating.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-dead-2-wounded-in-shooting-at-wisconsin-tavern-police-101618741485721.html
18-04-2021||World||France's Macron says 'clear red lines' should be drawn with Russia: Reports||World powers should draw "clear red lines" with Russia and consider possible sanctions against Moscow when they're crossed, French President Emmanuel Macron told US news network CBS in an interview."We have to define clear red lines with Russia," Macron said, according to a video excerpt of the interview to be aired later on Sunday."This is the only way to be credible. Sanctions are not sufficient in themselves but sanctions are part of the package," he said, adding that he also agreed with U.S. President Joe Biden's willingness to open a dialogue with Russian President Vladimir Putin at a time of festering tensions.Macron's remarks departed from France's previous stance on Russia and shifted the country closer to its U.S. ally.Since his election in 2017, the French leader had tried to reduce distrust between Russia and the West, hoping to enlist Russian help in solving the world's most intractable crises.Macron's comments come amid some of the worst friction between the United States and Russia since the 1989 end of the Cold War.The United States last week imposed a broad array of sanctions on Russia, including curbs to its sovereign debt market, over what it said was Moscow's interference in last year's US election, Russian cyber hacking, bullying of Ukraine and other alleged malign actions.Washington also expelled 10 Russian diplomats.In response, Russia on Friday told 10 US diplomats to leave the country and suggested the US ambassador return home for consultations.In Europe, tensions between Moscow and Kyiv have also been rising amid a build-up of Russian troops along the border with Ukraine and clashes in that country's east between the Ukrainian army and pro-Russian separatists.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy called on Friday for peace talks with Moscow.In another sign of broader tensions, the Czech Republic said on Sunday it had informed NATO and European Union allies about suspected Russian involvement in a 2014 ammunition depot explosion and the matter would be addressed at an EU foreign ministers' meeting on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/frances-macron-says-clear-red-lines-should-be-drawn-with-russia-reports-101618740281392.html
18-04-2021||World||Daughter of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny says he needs a doctor||The daughter of hunger-striking Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny called on Russian authorities on Sunday to allow a doctor to treat her father in prison, a day after a group of medical professionals warned he is at risk of kidney failure.Navalny, a fierce opponent of Russian President Vladimir Putin, started refusing food on March 31 in protest at what he said was the refusal of prison authorities to provide him with proper medical care for acute back and leg pain.Prison authorities say they have offered Navalny proper medical care but that the 44-year-old opposition politician has refused it and insisted on being treated by a doctor of his choice from outside the facility, a request they have declined."Allow a doctor to see my dad," Navalny's daughter Dasha, a student at Stanford University, wrote on Twitter.A medical trade union with ties to Navalny said on Saturday he was in critical condition, citing medical tests that it said showed that Navalny's kidneys could soon fail, which could lead to cardiac arrest.A group of actors, writers, historians, journalists and directors, including Jude Law and J.K. Rowling, wrote an open letter to President Vladimir Putin on Friday urging him to ensure Navalny gets medical care.A group of opposition regional lawmakers also called on Putin on Saturday to make sure Navalny is properly treated.Navalny has said prison authorities are threatening to put him in a straitjacket to force-feed him unless he abandons his hunger strike.Russia jailed Navalny for 2-1/2 years in February for parole violations he said were fabricated. He was arrested in January when he returned to Russia from Germany, where he had been recovering from a nerve agent poisoning attack he blamed on Putin.The Kremlin has said it has seen no evidence he was poisoned and has cast Navalny as a U.S.-backed subversive on a mission to destabilise Russia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daughter-of-jailed-kremlin-critic-alexei-navalny-says-he-needs-a-doctor-101618737293252.html
18-04-2021||World||Israel rescinds outdoor coronavirus mask requirement||Israel rescinded the mandatory wearing of face masks outdoors and fully reopened schools on Sunday in the latest return to relative normality, boosted by a mass-vaccination campaign against the Covid-19 pandemic.With almost 54% of its 9.3 million population having received both shots of the Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine, Israel has logged sharp drops in contagion and cases.The police-enforced wearing of protective masks outdoors, ordered a year ago, was scrapped from Sunday, but the Health Ministry said the requirement still applied for indoor public spaces and urged citizens to keep masks to hand.With Israeli kindergarteners, elementary and high school students already back in class, middle school pupils who had been kept at home or attended class sporadically returned to pre-pandemic schedules.The education ministry said that schools should continue to encourage personal hygiene, ventilaton of classrooms and to maintain social distancing as much distance as possible during breaks and lessons.Israel counts East Jerusalem Palestinians among its population and has been administering the vaccines there.The 5.2 million Palestinians in the occupied West Bank and the Islamist Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip have been receiving limited supplies of vaccines provided by Israel, Russia, the United Arab Emirates, the global COVAX vaccine-sharing scheme and China.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/israel-rescinds-outdoor-coronavirus-mask-requirement-101618736488330.html
18-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Australia's Sydney cases, transmitted during quarantine, raise concern||Concerns in Australia about Covid-19 spreading in quarantine are mounting as three new cases among a family of returned travelers were discovered to have been transmitted in a Sydney hotel.The infections, initially recorded as contracted overseas, are now believed to have been picked up from a family of four in an adjoining room in a city quarantine hotel, New South Wales Health said in a statement Sunday. Investigations into how the transmission occurred are under way, it said.“All guests staying on the same floor of the hotel have been retested and returned negative results,” and staff who worked nearby are self-isolating and getting tests, New South Wales Health said.The incident adds to debate over possible shortcomings within the hotel quarantine system, given the rise of more-infectious strains of the virus. The new cases also fuel speculation that ventilation systems may be contributing to dispersion.Shadow Minister for Health and Ageing Mark Butler on Sunday called for national standards on quarantine and for dedicated facilities to be established away from the central business districts. Federal and state leaders will meet to strategise on the response to the virus and the vaccine rollout Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-australia-s-sydney-cases-transmitted-during-quarantine-raise-concerns-101618735529288.html
18-04-2021||World||Canada likely to give nod to universal basic income programme||The idea of instituting a universal basic income or UBI programme is gaining ground in Canada ahead of the budget to be presented by the government on Monday.The budget will be first during the second term of the Liberal Party government led by Prime Minister Justin Trudeau since coming to power after the October 2019 federal elections. It will also be the first to be presented by deputy prime minister Chrystia Freeland, who assumed charge of the finance portfolio following the resignation of her predecessor Bill Morneau last year.Importantly, the Liberal Party passed a resolution supporting UBI during its national convention in the second week of April. The resolution was supported by 77% of party members who sought to “ensure that communities at risk (including indigenous people) are able to feel financially secure,” according to CBC News. The New Democratic Party convention also adopted a similar motion earlier this month.That momentum for UBI came as the Trudeau government already implemented the Canada Emergency Response Benefit (CERB) in March last year that paid out 2,000 Canadian dollars (US$1,599) per four-week period to those rendered unemployed or underemployed during the Covid-19 pandemic. That was later converted into the ongoing Canada Recovery Benefit (CRB).Experts believe a start could be made in the budget by studying various aspects of a UBI scheme. “I think you might see some funding in the budget for studying a basic income or maybe doing some pilots of a basic income,” professor Dionne Pohler, acting director of the University of Toronto’s Centre for Industrial Relations and Human Resources, said. However, she did not consider the CERB or CRB as having laid the groundwork towards UBI as they were forms of employment insurance. But, they may have change public perception of UBI, making more politically palatable. As she said in the past, the idea someone was poor was attributed to “character flaw or a moral failure or they’re just not working hard enough”. And, so I think that what Covid did for the public was make them realise, “You know this could happen to anyone losing their job and at what would you do if you didn’t have access to income?”Pohler believes a targeted basic income programme would be more viable in terms of cost and equity, with those making below a threshold income receiving a cash transfer which would be phased out as the beneficiaries’ income rose.Groups are also lobbying for a version of UBI given the current conditions of uncertainty caused by the coronavirus crisis. The Ottawa-based Basic Income Network has argued for an “architecture” for those in the 18 to 64 age bracket to “be put in place as soon as possible in order that everyone in Canada can contribute to, and benefit from, a healthier new normal”.The biggest roadblock could be the cost involved. The Trudeau government has already taken the federal deficit to nearly 382 billion Canadian dollars (US$306 bilion) by late March, according to an estimate by Parliamentary Budget Officer Yves Giroux.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-likely-to-give-nod-to-universal-basic-income-programme-101618736846396.html
18-04-2021||World||Germany remembers nearly 80,000 dead in Covid-19 pandemic||Germany is paying tribute Sunday to the nearly 80,000 people it has lost to the coronavirus, even as the country struggles to get a grip on another rise in infections.President Frank-Walter Steinmeier will lead a memorial event with other top officials at Berlin's Konzerthaus concert hall. His office says it is also dedicated to the bereaved “who could not accompany their relatives when they died and for whom important and comforting rituals of mourning were not possible.”Germany's confirmed death toll from Covid-19 stood at 79,914 on Sunday, an increase of 67 over the previous day. That is the fifth-highest total in Europe, after the U.K., Italy, Russia and France.Germany had a comparatively small number of deaths in the pandemic’s first phase, but saw much higher infection levels in the fall and winter. In January, more than 1,000 deaths per day were reported at times in the country of 83 million people.Infections have increased again over the past two months as a more contagious coronavirus variant first detected in Britain took hold. Germany has reported 3.14 million cases since the pandemic began.Chancellor Angela Merkel is trying to get a bill through parliament that would mandate an “emergency brake” in areas where there are more than 100 weekly new cases per 100,000 inhabitants. The nationwide rate stood at 162 on Sunday.It would require the closure of stores, cultural and sports facilities, limits on personal contacts and nighttime curfews. The idea is to end the patchwork of measures that has characterized the pandemic response across Germany’s 16 states.Merkel says the plan is needed to prevent the health care system from becoming overwhelmed, but state governments and others have found fault with aspects of it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/germany-remembers-nearly-80-000-dead-in-covid-19-pandemic-101618735604258.html
18-04-2021||World||Japan to have enough vaccines to inoculate those above 16 by late Sept: Minister||Japan will have enough coronavirus vaccines to provide them to everyone older than 16 by the end of September, Administrative Affairs Minister Taro Kono said on Sunday, in the wake of successful talks between Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga and Pfizer CEO.In an interview with Fuji TV, the minister, who also supervises the country's vaccination effort, noted that Suga and the head of Pfizer, Albert Bourla, recently had a phone conversation, agreeing on additional vaccine shipments to Japan so that the country has enough doses by late September."This means that they have basically reached an agreement. The way things are, there will be enough delivered vaccines for everyone who can be inoculated. We will be able to cover those over 16," Kono said.The minister also noted that the US had launched a vaccine certification process for children aged 12-15 and that Japan would do the same."I think that a request will be filed soon. We will discuss this with specialists, alongside our vaccination plans," the official added.Tokyo has vaccine supply deals with Moderna, AstraZeneca and Pfizer. However, only the Pfizer vaccine has been approved for use in the country so far and has been used to vaccinate the population since February. The vaccines by Moderna and AstraZeneca are expected to be approved in May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/japan-to-have-enough-vaccines-to-inoculate-those-above-16-by-late-sept-minister-101618735460586.html
18-04-2021||World||Saudi Arabia, Iran hold talks to repair relations: Report||Senior officials from Saudi Arabia and Iran have been holding talks to repair relations between the two regional rivals, four years after they broke off diplomatic ties, the Financial Times reported, citing three unidentified officials.The meeting, which took place in Baghdad on April 9, included discussions about attacks by Iranian-aligned Houthi rebels and was positive, it said, citing one of the people. The Saudi delegation was led by intelligence chief Khalid bin Ali al-Humaidan, according to the report, adding that another round of talks had been scheduled for next week.The talks were thought to be the first significant political discussions between the two nations since 2016 and came as US President Joe Biden seeks to revive the nuclear deal Iran signed with global powers in 2015 and dial down tension in the region, the Financial Times said.A senior Saudi official denied that any talks with Iran had taken place, while the Iraqi and Iranian governments did not comment. A senior Iraqi official and a foreign diplomat confirmed the talks to the FT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-iran-hold-talks-to-repair-relations-report-101618735766213.html
18-04-2021||World||In Jeff Bezos' letter, mention of a couple that bought 2 shares of Amazon in 1997||Jeff Bezos, in his final letter to shareholders as the chief executive officer of Amazon, talked about a couple that bought two shares of the company for their 12-year-old son in 1997, and 24 years later, is going to use the return on their investment to buy a house. The stock the couple bought split three times within the next two years, leaving them with 24 shares. Mary and Larry, whose second name was withheld for privacy reasons, sent an email to Bezos in March, thanking him for turning Amazon into a "great" company. The Amazon CEO attached their email in his final annual letter to the shareholders. "Due to the exponential growth in value, we decided to split the stock between ourselves and both of our children, Ryan and Katy. This year Ryan is buying a house and would like to sell some shares," the couple wrote in their email read. "Those two shares have had a wonderful influence on our family. We all enjoyed watching Amazon value grow year after year and it is a story we love to tell others," they added.The Amazon CEO, who is set to step down this year as Amazon Web Services' (AWS) founder Andy Jassy Amazon takes his place, said he is approached with similar stories all the time. "I know people who’ve used their Amazon money for college, for emergencies, for houses, for vacations, to start their own business, for charity – and the list goes on," he said. "I’m proud of the wealth we’ve created for shareowners. It’s significant, and it improves their lives," he added.According to Bezos, Amazon has created $1.6 trillion of wealth for its shareowners. "My Amazon shares have made me wealthy. But more than 7/8ths of the shares, representing $1.4 trillion of wealth creation, are owned by others," he said in his letter.Giving details about how the company has grown, Jeff Bezos said it hired 500,000 employees last year, and now directly employs 1.3 million people around the world. "We have more than 200 million Prime members worldwide. More than 1.9 million small and medium-sized businesses sell in our store, and they make up close to 60% of our retail sales. Customers have connected more than 100 million smart home devices to Alexa," he said in his letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/in-jeff-bezos-letter-mention-of-a-couple-that-bought-2-shares-of-amazon-in-1997-101618735198024.html
18-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Canada reports 2nd case of blood clot from AZ jab; patient recovering||A second case has emerged of a person in Canada suffering from blood clots after taking AstraZeneca’ Covid-19 vaccine. Canadian health authorities, however, have continued to recommend the jab for those above 55 years of age.The case was reported on Saturday in the province of Alberta in an unidentified man in his 60s. he had recently received a dose of the AZ vaccine manufactured by the Pune-based Serum Institute of India (SII) under the brand Covishield. The man was “diagnosed, treated promptly and is now recovering”, Deena Hinshaw, Alberta’s chief medical officer of health, tweeted.Canadian health authorities continue to urge people to get vaccinated and have defended the use of the AstraZeneca vaccine. During the course of a media interaction following the announcement of the case, Hinshaw said, “I continue to recommend AstraZeneca for anyone who is 55 and older, and to recommend that all Albertans get vaccinated as soon as they are able.” She pointed out that it was only the second case in the country after more than 700,000 doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine had been administered.The “global rate” of such clots “has been estimated at only one case in 100,000-250,000 doses,” she said, adding that in contrast, “those age 55 and older who get Covid-19 have a one in 200 chance of dying” and is also “at least 1,500 times more likely to be hospitalised due to Covid-19 than experiencing this disorder” from the vaccine.The case was confirmed by Health Canada. The agency tweeted, “Based on all the evidence available internationally to-date, Health Canada continues to consider that the benefits of the #AstraZeneca and Covishield vaccines to protest against Covid-19 outweigh the potential risks.”It said it is continuing to monitor these adverse actions. “The report of this case shows that Canada’s vaccine safety monitoring system works,” it noted.Hinshaw elaborated that with health authorities aware of this reaction, they could “watch for it and reduce the risk of serious harm or death even further”.Canada’s first case of this particular reaction to Covishield was reported on April 14 in a patient, a Quebec-based woman, who is also said to be recovering.Canada received 500,000 doses of Covishield on March 3, and the entire consignment has been distributed across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-canada-reports-2nd-case-of-blood-clot-from-az-jab-patient-recovering-101618733426043.html
18-04-2021||World||China's hotels, restaurants see jump in output as economic recovery gathers pace||China’s accommodation and catering industry was the fastest-growing among all sectors in the first quarter as the nation’s recovery from the pandemic quickened.Output in hotels and restaurants, one of the hardest-hit industries during the coronavirus pandemic, jumped 43.7% from the same period in 2020, the National Bureau of Statistics said Saturday in a supplemental report on gross domestic product. That compares to a 2.7% gain in the previous quarter.Transportation and storage expanded 32%, the second-fastest, according to the statement. The financial sector grew the slowest at 5.4%.China’s economy advanced at a record pace of 18.3% in the first quarter as consumer spending strengthened, suggesting a more balanced recovery after an investment and export-fueled rebound from last year’s coronavirus lockdowns. The rebound in catering and offline consumption accelerated this year, the statistics bureau spokeswoman Liu Aihua said at a press conference Friday, as virus control measures are gradually eased and the job market and incomes improved.Output in industrial enterprises expanded 24.4%, after increasing 6.9% in the previous quarter, and manufacturing grew 26.8%.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-hotels-restaurants-see-jump-in-output-as-economic-recovery-gathers-pace-101618732776181.html
18-04-2021||World||Nobody’s going to refuse a vaccine: Ukraine scoops up Europe's unwanted Astrazeneca Covid-19 vaccine shots||As safety concerns prompt western European countries to limit the use of AstraZeneca Plc’s coronavirus shot, Ukraine is leading a charge from the continent’s east to scoop up unwanted doses.The government in Kyiv, which has struggled to secure vaccine supplies, says it’s been talking to the European Union about potential purchases for months. With Denmark banning the use of the Astra jab altogether this week, the Czech Republic, Latvia and Lithuania have joined the pursuit.Eastern Europe has been the global epicenter for Covid-19 deaths and infections in recent weeks -- leaving the region desperate for more vaccine doses. The inoculation program in Ukraine is among Europe’s slowest, making people there more inclined to look past worries over blood clots and accept the Astra jab.“Nobody’s going to refuse a vaccine,” Ukrainian Health Minister Maksym Stepanov said this week in an interview in his office. “The benefits from all approved vaccines far outweigh the risk of side effects.”While Ukraine has signed contracts for 32 million doses, less than a million shots have arrived so far -- from AstraZeneca and China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. With Astra deliveries delayed as infections soar in India, where the producer is located, Ukraine has vaccinated just 433,000 of its 42 million population.Russia’s Sputnik V jab, which is being used by EU member Hungary, has been rejected, with tensions between the governments in Kyiv and Moscow flaring again recently.The health situation, meanwhile, is becoming more urgent: Daily new cases hit a record of more than 20,000 this month.No offers have emerged from EU countries selling unwanted shots, according to Stepanov. “Every country cares exclusively for its own citizens to the exclusion of everyone else,” he said.There could be other problems. A March survey found that while almost half the population wants to be vaccinated, more than two-thirds would refuse the Astra jab -- for which less than 0.25% of Ukrainians have reported side effects. More than two-fifths of people don’t know how to register for vaccination.Stepanov says the shortage of doses -- not hesitancy about their safety -- is the main reason for the slow pace of inoculation. Ukraine is in talks to secure another 16 million vaccine doses this year and wants to administer them all by year-end -- stepping up the pace to 5 million-6 million doses a month by using open-air stadiums, he said.Speed will be vital as hospitals in big cities reach capacity and people bristle at prolonged lockdown measures. As of Thursday, 187,731 jabs had been given in April, though 117,000 doses produced by Pfizer Inc arrived the next day as part of the World Health Organization-led Covax initiative.“We’re waiting for the vaccines,” Stepanov said. “We’re fully prepared.”For more articles like this, please visit us at bloomberg.com©2021 Bloomberg L.P.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nobodys-going-to-refuse-a-vaccine-ukraine-scoops-up-europe-s-unwanted-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-shots-101618732489185.html
18-04-2021||World||'US can't do two things at once': Biden defends not immediately raising refugee cap||US President Joe Biden on Saturday explained his initial decision to not increase the limit on refugee admissions to the United States stating that his administration "couldn't do two things at once".Biden while speaking to reporters in Delaware said that he couldn't initially increase the cap due to burdens that the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) is facing because of a rise in unaccompanied child migrants at the southern US border."We're going to increase the number. The problem was that the refugee part was working on the crisis that ended up on the border with young people," Biden said according to a White House pool report, as cited by The Hill."We couldn't do two things at once. But now we are going to increase the number," he continued.According to The Hill, the comment comes a day after the White House reversed course on a decision to keep the number of refugees allowed into the US at levels that were in place under the former President Donald Trump. The decision was made following 'blowback' from Democrats who wanted to see a higher cap.The President signed an order on Friday maintaining the 15,000 cap on refugee admissions for fiscal year 2021, a controversial number set by the previous Trump administration. It is also far below the cap of 62,500 that Biden wanted to put in place for 2021.Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez (Democrat from New York), called on the president to "keep [his] promise" to "welcome immigrants.""Upholding the xenophobic and racist policies of the Trump admin, incl the historically low plummeted refugee cap, is flat out wrong," she tweeted.The Hill reported that Like Biden's comments on Saturday, Psaki said the initial decision was due to changes made by Trump and ORR's handling of the influx of unaccompanied migrant children at the borderWhite House Press Secretary Jen Psaki later said that a new, higher ceiling would be set on May 15."For the past few weeks, he has been consulting with his advisors to determine what number of refugees could realistically be admitted to the United States between now and October 1," Psaki said in part. "Given the decimated refugee admissions program we inherited, and burdens on the Office of Refugee Resettlement, his initial goal of 62,500 seems unlikely.ORR is the office within the Department of Health and Human Services that is responsible for housing the minors.The Hill citing The Wall Street Journal reported that it has already went through $1.3 billion of its budget handling the influx of migrants, which would likely make it hard to raise the refugee cap.Biden is aiming to increase the refugee cap to 125,000 in his first year in office and has requested a USD 4.3 billion budget for ORR for 2022 with that goal in mind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-can-t-do-two-things-at-once-biden-defends-not-immediately-raising-refugee-cap-101618727591321.html
18-04-2021||World||World Heritage Day 2021: Theme, history and its significance||World Heritage Day, also known as International Day for Monuments and Sites, is being observed on Sunday. The day is dedicated to the conservation and promotion of cultural heritage through various activities undertaken by the International Council on Monuments and Sites (ICOMOS). To mark World Heritage Day, various programmes and tours are organised by heritage sites. People can also take part in seminars or group discussions on heritage-related topics.HistoryIn 1982, ICOMOS suggested United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (Unesco) that April 18 should be celebrated as the International Day for Monuments and Sites. Unesco approved the proposal during the 22nd General Conference in 1983.According to ICOMOS, the “essential aspect is to mark this day so that it becomes not only a day to celebrate your National Heritage but also a day of International Solidarity in favour of strengthening and safeguarding Heritage worldwide.”ThemeThis year, Unesco has decided on “Complex Pasts: Diverse Futures” as the theme for World Heritage Day celebrations. "The conservation of cultural heritage requires careful examination of the past, and its practice demands provision for the future," the world body said on its website.SignificanceThe day is observed to raise awareness about the cultural heritage that we see around us. It is also aimed at promoting historical monuments and sites through which we can actually preserve the cultural integrity of a community as well. "Deterioration or disappearance of any item of the cultural or natural heritage constitutes a harmful impoverishment of the heritage of all the nations of the world," the World Heritage Convention (1972) stated. "Together with ICOMOS, the UNESCO World Heritage Centre supports inclusive and diverse points of view in heritage identification, conservation and transmission to future generations," it also said on its site.As the day is being observed amid the Covid-19 crisis, it has invited people to participate in the celebrations by visiting Unesco World Heritage sites virtually through the online exhibits on Google Arts & Culture.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-heritage-day-2021-theme-history-and-its-significance-101618726111428.html
18-04-2021||World||Canada province’s premier backs India’s farm laws, says they will yield results||The premier of a Canadian province has backed the three farm laws passed by India last year that have been triggering protests in India and abroad, arguing that they will yield results in the long term as similar measures in Canada had seen a beneficial outcome.Scott Moe, Saskatchewan’s premier, said, “Growth comes only with change, and change is not always easy. Growth brings great opportunity.” He made the comment while participating in a webinar organised by the Indo-Canada Chamber of Commerce (ICCC).Moe is the senior-most Canadian leader to have openly supported the reforms even as protests against the farm laws in India have been echoed across the country, with many residents of Indian origin, mainly those with roots in Punjab, opposing the changes envisaged in the new laws.Moe compared the situation in India after last year’s agricultural deregulation measures to that in his province after the Canadian Wheat Board was abolished in 2012.That board, somewhat resembling the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee system in India, had a monopoly over similar goods in western Canada, including in Saskatchewan. A release issued by the ICCC based on the discussion said “reform fraught with initial uncertainty subsequently led to a revolutionary transformation of the agriculture sector in these provinces and especially in Saskatchewan, leading to a continuous and exponential rise in production and exports”.Moe found more parallels between India’s journey in 2021 and Saskatchewan’s experience in 2012. He said the reforms brought challenges, but the province’s farmers adapted quickly to those changes, innovated, and were “far better off with the new opportunities. Saskatchewan’s grain exports nearly touched $17 billion and are rising exponentially”. The previous system, he pointed out, had become “archaic and unworkable. It stifled growth, innovation and opportunity”.Also participating in the discussion was India’s high commissioner to Ottawa, Ajay Bisaria, who said, “There is a broad consensus in India that in the agriculture sector, change is imperative. There is consensus on the direction and nature of the reforms. The conversation about reforms is informed by global experience.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/canada-province-s-premier-backs-india-s-farm-laws-says-they-will-yield-results-101618724065516.html
18-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Australia PM Morrison says in no hurry to reopen borders||Australia is no hurry to reopen its international borders and risk the country's nearly coronavirus-free lifestyle, Prime Minister Scott Morrison said on Sunday.Australia closed its borders to all non-citizens and non-residents in March 2020 and has been permitting only limited international arrivals in recent months, mainly its citizens returning from abroad.The border closure, together with snap lockdowns, swift contact tracking and high community compliance with health measures, have made Australia one of the world's most successful countries in curbing the pandemic, limiting coronavirus cases to under 29,500 infections and 910 deaths."Australia is in no hurry to open those borders, I assure you," Morrison said at a televised briefing."I will not be putting at risk the way we are living in this country which is so different to the rest of the world today."For months now, except for some short snap lockdowns, Australians have been able to dine out, gather nearly freely and stop wearing face masks in most places.They exchanged their international forays for local trips, with government figures showing big annual increases in intra-state travel in the first months of 2021.From Monday, Australians and neighbouring New Zealanders will be able to travel between both countries without the need to apply for an exemption or spend time in mandatory quarantine.New Zealand has had only 2,239 confirmed coronavirus cases and 26 related deaths.Morrison flagged on Sunday that vaccinated Australians could be able travel overseas "for essential purposes" and return via home quarantine in the second half of the year, but that possibility is only in "planning stages".Australia recently abandoned a goal to vaccinate nearly all of its 26 million population by the end of 2021 following advice that people under the age of 50 take Pfizer's COVID-19 vaccine rather than AstraZeneca's shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-aus-pm-morrison-says-in-no-hurry-to-reopen-borders-101618721085833.html
18-04-2021||World||Ukraine-Russia tensions rise, UK to send warships to Black Sea in May: Report||British warships will sail for the Black Sea in May amid rising tensions between Ukraine and Russia, the Sunday Times newspaper reported, citing senior naval sources.The deployment is aimed at showing solidarity with Ukraine and Britain's NATO allies, the newspaper reported. One Type 45 destroyer armed with anti-aircraft missiles and an anti-submarine Type 23 frigate will leave the Royal Navy's carrier task group in the Mediterranean and head through the Bosphorus into the Black Sea, according to the report.RAF F-35B Lightning stealth jets and Merlin submarine-hunting helicopters will stand ready on the task group's flag ship, the carrier HMS Queen Elizabeth, to support the warships in the Black Sea, the report added.Tensions between Moscow and Kyiv have been rising amid a build-up of Russian troops along the border and clashes in eastern Ukraine between the army and pro-Russian separatists.Officials at the UK Ministry of Defence were not immediately available for comment.A ministry spokesman told the newspaper that the UK government was working closely with Ukraine to monitor the situation and continued to call on Russia to de-escalate."The UK and our international allies are unwavering in our support for Ukraine's sovereignty and territorial integrity", the newspaper quoted the spokesman as saying.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ukrainerussia-tensions-rise-uk-to-send-warships-to-black-sea-in-may-report-101618720582506.html
18-04-2021||World||Covid-19's deep scars on world economy will be visible even after recovery||Just as some patients recovering from Covid-19 suffer long-lasting symptoms, it’s becoming clear that the same will be true for the global economy once this year’s V-shaped rebound fades.While $26 trillion worth of crisis support and the arrival of vaccines have fueled a faster recovery than many anticipated, the legacies of stunted education, the destruction of jobs, war-era levels of debt and widening inequalities between races, genders, generations and geographies will leave lasting scars, most of them in the poorest nations.“It’s very easy after a gruelling year or more to feel really relieved that things are back on track,” said Vellore Arthi of the University of California, Irvine, who has examined the long-term health and economic hit from past crises. “But a lot of the effects that we see historically are often for decades and are not easily addressed.”All told, the decline in gross domestic product last year was the biggest since the Great Depression. The International Labour Organization estimates it cost the equivalent of 255 million people full-time jobs. Researchers at the Pew Research Centre reckon the global middle class shrank for the first time since the 1990s.The costs will fall unevenly. A scorecard of 31 metrics across 162 nations devised by Oxford Economics Ltd. highlighted the Philippines, Peru, Colombia and Spain as the economies most vulnerable to long-term scarring. Australia, Japan, Norway, Germany and Switzerland were seen as best placed.“Getting back to the pre-Covid standard will take time,” said Carmen Reinhart, the World Bank’s chief economist. “The aftermath of Covid isn’t going to reverse for a lot of countries. Far from it.”Not all countries will be affected equally. The International Monetary Fund sees advanced economies less affected by the virus this year and beyond, with low-income countries and emerging markets suffering more — a contrast to 2009, when rich nations were hit harder. With U.S. GDP next year forecast to be even bigger than projected before Covid-19, propelled by trillions of dollars in stimulus, the IMF’s projections show little residual scarring from the pandemic for the world’s No. 1 economy.The World Bank warned in a January report of “a decade of global growth disappointments” unless corrective action is taken. It estimated global output was on course to be 5% lower by 2025 than its pre-pandemic trend and that the growth rate at which inflation ignites is set to drop below 2% in the next decade, having already declined to 2.5% in the 2000s from 3.3% in the prior decade.Experts, including Arthi, say there needn’t be a lost decade if the right policy steps are taken, especially in the areas of reskilling workers and putting a floor under those hit hardest by the crisis. One way out includes encouraging policies that create incentives for business to innovate and invest, particularly in climate change. Central banks and most governments are already signaling they will keep stimulus running hot.The right kind of policy mix could push the rebound towards a full recovery, according to Catherine Mann, chief economist at Citigroup Inc.“Innovation supports higher productivity growth, and new investment raises living standards,” she said. “Key too are strategies to keep and train workers to take advantage of the higher productivity opportunities.”After the VCountries that were quick to control the virus are sending warning flares about the uneven road ahead. After initially enjoying a V-shaped recovery, New Zealand’s economy contracted in the final three months of 2020 as the absence of foreign tourists left a hole that locals couldn’t fill. Now, the country that consistently topped Bloomberg’s Covid resiliency rankings faces the prospect of a double-dip recession.In China, where the pandemic has been under control for almost a year, retail spending has lagged the broader recovery.What Bloomberg Economics Says:“Focusing on headline GDP, with the U.S and China engines humming the world is set for a triumphant 'V' shape recovery. Beneath the surface, divergence between advanced and emerging markets, superstar firms and their smaller rivals, and high- and low-skill workers points to scars that will take longer to heal.”—Tom Orlik, chief economistHow consumer confidence and spending patterns are shaped by ongoing concerns regarding health and hiring could end up being one of the crisis’ most important economic legacies, just as the Great Depression of the 1930s led to greater thrift. That’s a risk even though many people racked up savings during the past year.“There’s genuine uncertainty over how much people’s behavior in terms of consumption patterns changes as a result of this crisis,” said Adam Posen, president of the Peterson Institute for International Economics. “If people go back to eating in restaurants, doing leisure travel, working out in gyms then a lot of those industries will revive. But it’s also possible that people’s tastes just genuinely change, in which case there is going to be transitionally more unemployment and there’s no good government fix for that.”History shows that five years after country-specific recessions, long-term growth expectations were typically 1.5 percentage points lower than in those without recessions, according to the World Bank.Lasting ChangeThe crisis has accelerated the use of robots in both manufacturing and in the services industry as workers and customers need to be protected from the spread of disease. While that’s spurring hopes for a revival in productivity growth, millions of jobs will be threatened with a question mark over whether enough new ones will be created in the process.Over 100 million people in eight of the world’s largest economies may need to switch occupation by 2030, according to McKinsey & Co. Those most likely to suffer skill gaps are the less educated, women, ethnic minorities and the young.The longer people are out of work the more their skills atrophy in a process known as hysteresis.“A lot of those jobs are gone forever,” said Eric Robertsen, Standard Chartered Plc’s global head of research. “Low-wage job in marginal companies or marginal sectors are gone as the companies have gone bankrupt or the sectors have been hollowed out. A lot of the more-adaptive companies will have filled the void but with fewer workers.”Even where jobs aren’t lost, work patterns have shifted and it remains an open debate about how those changes will impact wage packets.Longer-term effects will also be evident in human capital after the pandemic locked out children and university students from classrooms for as much as a year in some countries.The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development calculated in September that even a loss equal to a third of a year for pupils affected by closures when the pandemic was declared could curb a country’s GDP over the remainder of the century. Students in grades 1-12 may see 3% lower income over their lifetimes, the OECD warned, with the poor or those from minority backgrounds hardest hit.How to finance a full recovery will be complicated by the extra $24 trillion in borrowing that the world took on in 2020, bringing total debt to a new high of $281 trillion, according to the Institute of International Finance.Even without a debt crisis, once interest rates start to rise both governments and companies will come under pressure, according to Mark Zandi, chief economist of Moody’s Analytics.“The global economy will get back to full employment after the pandemic much more quickly than it did after the financial crisis,” he said. “But once back to full employment the global economy will be stuck in the low gear that prevailed prior to the pandemic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19s-deep-scars-on-world-economy-will-be-visible-even-after-recovery-lockdown-curfew-india-china-us-middle-class-banking-sector-101618717490017.html
18-04-2021||World||Ant is not exploring way for Jack Ma to sell his stake, denies report||Ant Group denied a report that the Chinese finance-technology company is exploring ways for founder Jack Ma to sell his stake and give up control as a means to ease pressure from the country’s regulators.Reuters reported earlier that officials from the People’s Bank of China and the China Banking and Insurance Regulatory Commission held talks with Ma and Ant separately between January and March, where the possibility of Ma’s exit was discussed. The report cited people familiar with the matter.The company hoped that Ma’s stake would be sold to existing shareholders in Ant or its e-commerce partner Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., Reuters said.Ant issued a statement to the news agency that said the divestment of Ma’s stake wasn’t considered. The company reiterated the denial in a tweet following the report, saying the “divestment of Mr. Ma’s stake in Ant Group has never been the subject of discussions with anyone.”The Chinese’ government has been squeezing Ma’s internet empire as part of an effort to imprint its authority indelibly on the country’s technology industry. In landmark announcements this month, it slapped a record $2.8 billion fine on Alibaba for abusing its market dominance, then ordered an overhaul of Ant.Ant will effectively be supervised more like a bank, a move with far-reaching implications for its growth and ability to press ahead with a landmark initial public offering that the government abruptly delayed late last year.The overhaul outlined by regulators and the company will see Ant transform itself into a financial holding company, with authorities directing the firm to open its payments app to competitors, increase oversight of how that business fuels it crucial consumer lending operations, and ramp up data protections. It will also need to cut the outstanding value of its money-market fund Yu’ebao.Bloomberg Intelligence senior analyst Francis Chan said in a report earlier this week he expects Ant’s valuation to drop below 700 billion yuan ($107 billion) from 2.1 trillion yuan in an earlier attempt to go public.“Ant Group’s prospects could wane further after China halts improper linking of Alipay payments with Ant’s other products,” he said. “New curbs on Yu’ebao also hurts its wealth business.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ant-is-not-exploring-way-for-jack-ma-to-sell-his-stake-denies-report-101618717272301.html
18-04-2021||World||US, China to work together against climate change issue joint statement||The US and China are committed to cooperating to tackle climate change, they said in a joint statement after meetings between senior envoys last week.The two nations will work together and with other parties to support implementation of the Paris Agreement and to promote a successful UN climate change conference in Glasgow later this year, they said.The US and China support the Paris Agreement’s aim to limit the increase in the global average temperature to below 2 degrees Celcius and to try to restrict it to 1.5 degrees Celcius, according to the statement.The statement followed discussions in Shanghai on April 15 and 16 between US presidential climate envoy John Kerry and his Chinese counterpart, Xie Zhenhua. Kerry’s visit was part of a tour that’s so far included India, the U.K., Bangladesh and the United Arab Emirates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-china-to-work-together-against-climate-change-issue-joint-statement-101618709148602.html
18-04-2021||World||Philippines readies for flash floods as Surigae intensifies into super typhoon||The Philippines warned of flash floods and landslides as Surigae intensified while on water to become the first super typhoon of 2021.The typhoon, locally known as Bising, which now has the strength of a Category 5 hurricane, is over the Philippine Sea to the east of the Bicol region, the nation’s weather bureau said Sunday. While the storm isn’t expected to hit land, it will bring heavy rains and strong winds to eastern provinces as it moves northwest with top winds of 215 kilometers (134 miles) per hour and gusts of up to 265 kilometers an hour.The U.S. Joint Typhoon Warning Center has labeled Surigae as a super typhoon, with maximum sustained winds of 165 knots and gusts of up to 200 knots.“Considering the uncertainty in the track forecast of the typhoon, a westward shift in the current forecast track may result in potentially significant impacts,” the Philippine weather bureau said. “The possibility of a close approach scenario is not ruled out.”An average of 20 typhoons pass through the Philippines each year. In 2013, Haiyan killed more than 6,300 people.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/philippines-readies-for-flash-floods-as-surigae-intensifies-into-super-typhoon-101618707533453.html
18-04-2021||World||George Bush steps into US migration debate in op-ed and book||Former president George W. Bush has stepped into the US debate on immigration, saying migrants are "a force for good" and arguing for a gradual process to allow undocumented immigrants to earn legal status.Bush, a past governor of Texas -- a border state heavily impacted by migration -- made his points in an op-ed article in the Washington Post previewing his new book "Out of Many, One: Portraits of America's Immigrants."The book, whose name comes from the nation's Latin motto "E Pluribus unum," features portraits of immigrants done by Bush himself, who self-deprecatingly says he knows his paintings "may not set the art world stirring."But he says that by sharing the portraits of immigrants, each with "a remarkable story," he hoped "to humanize the debate on immigration and reform."His pro-immigrant message comes as President Joe Biden, who had promised to ease Donald Trump's severe immigration crackdown, has struggled with an uncontrolled surge of migrants coming through Mexico.The immigrant portraits drawn by Bush range from those of the unknown -- like a young French man who became an American soldier and won the country's Medal of Honor -- to the much better-known stories of two migrants, Madeleine Albright and Henry Kissinger, who fled prewar Europe and rose to become US secretaries of state.Bush asks in his op-ed how it is that "in a country more generous to new arrivals than any other, immigration policy is the source of so much rancor and ill will."The short answer, he adds, brings "little credit to either party."While offering no specific policy prescriptions, the former president advocates several "good-faith" steps: a path to citizenship for those brought to the US as children; greater securing of the southern border; a modernized asylum system; and increased legal immigration to allow "talented people (to) bring their ideas and aspirations here."As for the millions of undocumented migrants living in the US, Bush says that a grant of amnesty would be "fundamentally unfair" to those trying to come legally, but he adds that "undocumented immigrants should be brought out of the shadows through a gradual process in which legal residency and citizenship must be earned."Applicants should have to pay a fine and back taxes, document their work history, demonstrate English proficiency and knowledge of US history and civics, and provide a clean background check.After all, he adds, their determination to come to the US "is an affirmation of our country and what we stand for."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/george-bush-in-op-ed-and-book-steps-into-us-migration-debate-101618705291272.html
18-04-2021||World||US planned to assassinate Raul Castro in 1960: Declassified documents||The CIA made its first known attempt to assassinate a leader of the Cuban revolution in 1960, offering $10,000 to a pilot flying Raul Castro from Prague to Havana to arrange an "accident," according to declassified documents published Friday.Pilot Jose Raul Martinez, who had been recruited by the CIA, asked for -- and received -- assurance from the agency that it would provide university educations to his two sons if he died during the operation, according to the documents published by the Washington-based National Security Archive research institute.After Martinez left for Prague, CIA headquarters in the United States told its Havana station to cancel the mission."Do not pursue," the cable said. "Would like to drop matter."At that point, the pilot was already out of contact. When he returned to Cuba, Martinez told his handler that "he had no opportunity to arrange an accident such as we had discussed."The plot came to light as Castro, the 89-year-old brother of late revolutionary leader Fidel Castro, prepares to leave Cuban politics by stepping down as head of the all-powerful Community Party of Cuba.Raul's departure ends a near six-decade family hold on power in Cuba that started in 1959.The reins will now pass to 60-year-old Miguel Diaz-Canel, who has served as Cuba's president since 2018."These documents remind us of a dark and sinister past in US operations against the Cuban revolution," National Security Archive analyst Peter Kornbluh told AFP."As the Castro era officially comes to an end, US policymakers have the opportunity to leave this historical baggage behind and engage Cuba's post-Castro future."Fidel Castro defied 11 American presidents and survived numerous assassination plots -- 638 according to Guinness World Records -- as well as a failed 1961 attempt by 1,400 anti-Castro Cubans, who were trained and financed by the CIA, to land at the Bay of Pigs in an attempt to overthrow the communist regime.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-planned-to-assassinate-raul-castro-in-1960-declassified-documents-101618705041880.html
18-04-2021||World||French prison inmate posting food videos from jail becomes Instagram star||The chocolate sauce bubbling in a bain-marie is a staple of cookery programmes, but this is food porn with a twist, as France's newest celebrity chef cooks up a storm in a corner of his prison cell.Welcome to Dany Hellz Kitchen, the popular Instagram account of a French inmate, who conjures up mouthwatering tagines, tiramisus and pizzas with the few basic utensils he is allowed to keep behind bars."You can make everything with nothing," is the motto of this foodie convict, who films himself in action with his phone but does not show his face on camera in order to remain anonymous, phones being banned in French prison cells.Dany (not his real name) has spent over seven years in jail for trafficking illegal substances (he would not say which)."After a few years, prison food is so jaded, it always tastes the same, so I try to vary the dishes," he told AFP in a telephone interview.- Hot plate on stilts -The centrepiece of his "hell's kitchen" -- a nod to British chef Gordon Ramsay's TV series of the same name -- is a hot plate that doubles up as an oven when turned upside down and propped up by four cans."In the past I had two hot plates meaning I could cook something evenly, sandwich-style, but they took it away from me so now I have to turn the stove around half-way through to distribute the heat," he says.His videos provide a rare glimpse into prison life, with the light filtering into his cell through the bars on the window and a small TV screen perched high on a wall.They also underscore the importance attached to food among people struggling with boredom and loneliness.For Dany, a university graduate of north African origin, cooking is a form of therapy."I get up, I set up my equipment and it allows me to concentrate on something I enjoy and that other prisoners also enjoy," he says.His approach is two-fold: either he takes his prison food tray and reworks the steamed fish or vegetables with olive oil and garlic to add flavour or he creates his own dish from scratch using food and equipment sourced through the prison catalogue.He also receives food parcels from family and friends.One of his most recent gifts was a bottle of soy sauce but in the past visitors have also managed to smuggle in fresh goods, including, he says, a leg of lamb on one occasion.- No sharp knives -With no sharp objects allowed in cells, he chops and peels with a knife with a rounded tip.Prisoners are also not allowed to have yeast lest they use it to make alcohol, a pet peeve of Dany's but which doesn't stop him making bread.Like all chefs, he has a secret ingredient he cannot live without -- tomato paste, "which makes an excellent base for lots of different sauces."As his culinary fame grows, fellow prisoners have begun placing orders for favourite dishes, such as one man's request for loubia, a Moroccan bean stew, which he served with peppers roasted directly on his hot plate.Dany shares his creations with other inmates during walks in the prison yard as well as with the wider world in videos recorded in a mix of slang-infused French and English.One video on Instagram, where he has nearly 30,000 followers, shows him making and icing a birthday cake."Dude you eating better than me and your in prison," one incredulous follower commented on Instagram."Chef, I've tasted your cooking, it's incredible", another follower, with the alias 24-El-Padrino, praises.Dany is hoping to use his newfound fame to launch his own cannabis cooking oil after his release, expected later this year.And he has already planned the menu for his prison parting feast -- there will be couscous -- and is salivating at the prospect of his first meal as a newly-free man."It'll be a wood-fired pizza, I think."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/french-prison-inmate-posting-food-videos-from-jail-becomes-instagram-star-101618704635997.html
18-04-2021||World||NASA's Ingenuity Mars Helicopter flight could happen as soon as Monday||NASA's Ingenuity Mars Helicopter could make its first flight over the Red Planet as soon as Monday, the US space agency reported, following a delay of more than a week due to a possible technical issue.The mini-helicopter's trip will mark the first-ever powered, controlled flight on another planet, and will help NASA reap invaluable data about the conditions on Mars."NASA is targeting no earlier than Monday, April 19, for the first flight of its Ingenuity Mars Helicopter," the space agency reported Saturday.Data will return to Earth "a few hours following the autonomous flight," which would take off at approximately 3:30 am (0730 GMT), NASA said.Ingenuity's first trip was initially set for last Sunday, but was delayed after a potential issue emerged during a high-speed test of the four-pound (1.8 kilogram) helicopter's rotors.NASA calls the unprecedented helicopter operation highly risky: The flight is a challenge because the air on Mars is so thin -- less than one percent of the pressure of Earth's atmosphere.The helicopter arrived on Mars attached to the underside of the Perseverance rover, which touched down on February 18.After the helicopter's flight, Ingenuity will send Perseverance technical data on what it has done, and that information will be transmitted back to Earth.The helicopter mission is be the equivalent on Mars of the first powered flight on Earth -- by the Wright brothers in 1903 in Kitty Hawk, North Carolina. A piece of fabric from that plane has been tucked inside Ingenuity in honor of that feat.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-ingenuity-mars-helicopter-flight-could-happen-as-soon-as-monday-101618704150953.html
18-04-2021||World||France to impose 10-day quarantine for travellers coming from Brazil||France will order a strict 10-day quarantine for all travellers coming from Brazil starting April 24, the prime minister's office said on Saturday, in a bid to prevent the spread of a coronavirus variant first found in the South American county.France decided this week to suspend all flights to and from Brazil. The measure will be extended until April 23, the prime minister's office said in the same statement.Starting April 24, only people residing in France or holding a French or European Union passport will be allowed to fly to the country.The government will impose a 10-day quarantine on all travellers upon arrival, the prime minister's office said, and authorities will make checks before and after the flight that the travellers made the proper arrangements to isolate themselves.The police will also be used to ensure the quarantine is respected, it said. Prior to boarding on the plane, authorised travellers will be required to present a negative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test that is less than 36 hours old.The same measures will also gradually be put in place by April 24 for people returning from Argentina, Chile and South Africa, where the presence of other coronavirus variants were detected, the prime minister's office said.A 10-day quarantine will also be imposed on travellers coming from the French Guiana, an overseas department of France on the northeast coast of South America.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-to-impose-10-day-quarantine-for-travellers-coming-from-brazil-101618701987662.html
18-04-2021||World||Biden says situation with Russia's Navalny 'totally unfair'||US President Joe Biden on Saturday said the situation with Russian opposition figure Alexey Navalny, who is currently serving a two-and-a-half prison term, is "totally unfair."Biden was asked to comment on Navalny's detention conditions on Saturday. In response, the US president told reporters that it is "totally unfair" and "totally inappropriate."Navalny, who has been complaining about severe back and leg pain, went on a hunger strike at the end of March, after being denied a visit by a doctor of his own choice. Olga Mikhailova, his lawyer, says the 44-year-old is suffering from two spinal hernias. He has refused the treatment offered by the prison authorities.According to the Russian Federal Penitentiary Service, Navalny's health has been assessed as stable and satisfactory by medical professionals and he has been receiving all necessary care.In January, Navalny returned to Moscow from Berlin after receiving medical treatment for his alleged poisoning. The 44-year-old was arrested on arrival and referred to a court, which in early February rescinded his suspended sentence in the 2014 Yves Rocher fraud case over multiple probation breaches and replaced it with a 3.5-year term behind bars. A Moscow city court reinstated the ruling but reduced the sentence to 2.5 years.Navalny has been found guilty of defrauding the Russian subsidiary of French cosmetics firm Yves Rocher of 26 million rubles ($340,500).Last week, Russian Foreign Ministry's spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, said that the United States is making up "stories" about Navalny's detention conditions while the US itself continues to violate the rights of prisoners.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-says-situation-with-russia-s-navalny-totally-unfair-101618700041782.html
18-04-2021||World||Czechs blame Russia for 2014 blast, expel embassy staff||The Czech government alleged Russia was involved in a deadly blast at a munitions site in 2014 and said it’s expelling 18 embassy staffers, signaling that the country is joining growing international pressure to rein in President Vladimir Putin.Prime Minister Andrej Babis’s unexpected announcement coincides with concern in the U.S. and Europe about Russia’s military buildup on the border with Ukraine, and hacking alleged by the U.S.Acting Foreign Minister Jan Hamacek likened the explosion, which killed two people at a private munitions warehouse, to the 2018 poisoning of former Russian agent Sergei Skripal in Salisbury, England.“I’m very saddened that the Czech-Russian relations are going to suffer such significant damage, but the Czech Republic must respond,” Hamacek said Saturday. The Czech government has notified the European Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and is seeking their support, he said.The latest rift signals that relations between the Czech Republic, a member of NATO and the EU, and Russia may be headed toward the lowest point since the end of communist rule.Czech authorities suspect Russia’s GRU intelligence service helped orchestrate the 2014 blast at Vrbetice, Babis said at a briefing. Hamacek said the Russian embassy staff whom he described as spies must leave the country within 48 hours.An employee who answered the switchboard at the Russian Embassy in Prague outside business hours declined to comment.Russian PassportsCzech police said Saturday they’re searching for two men who visited the country using Russian passports with the same names that U.K. police have said they believe to be aliases of GRU agents who poisoned Skripal four years later.The men used the identities of Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov, as well as passports with other names, when they traveled within the Czech Republic for about a week in October 2014. They are wanted in connection with “serious criminal activity,” according to a police statement that didn’t elaborate.The latest accusations risk escalating tension between Prague and Moscow to the highest level since the former Soviet satellite overthrew communist rule more than three decades ago. Relations have since included diplomatic clashes, such as when the Czechs expelled two Russian diplomats last year for what Prague said was fabrication of information on an alleged poisoning plot against municipal officials.President Joe Biden’s administration this week imposed further sanctions on Russia, including limits on buying newly issued sovereign debt. On Wednesday, the Czech government offered to host an as yet unscheduled Biden-Putin summit.Russia’s alleged role in the explosion marks “an absolutely unprecedented violation of the sovereignty and security of the Czech Republic,” said Jana Cernochova, head of the defense committee of the lower chamber of parliament. “This cannot be tolerated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/czechs-blame-russia-for-2014-blast-expel-embassy-staff-101618698205890.html
18-04-2021||World||Joe Biden says first golf as President leaves course record intact||President Joe Biden spent Saturday afternoon on the first golf outing of his presidency, playing at the Wilmington Country Club near his Delaware home.Speaking to reporters after his round, Biden said “the course record is still intact.”The president golfed with White House counselor Steve Ricchetti and Ron Olivere, father of his late son Beau Biden’s widow Hallie, the White House said.Biden was ranked one of Washington’s best golfers a few years ago, sporting a single-digit handicap, but took a break during his 2020 campaign for the White House.Like his most recent predecessors, Biden’s an avid golfer. Donald Trump played hundreds of rounds at his own clubs in Florida, New Jersey and Virginia, while Barack Obama frequently played at courses on military bases in the Washington area and in Hawaii during Christmas vacations.Many other presidents, from William Howard Taft to George W. Bush, have also golfed in office.While he was vice president, Biden occasionally played with Obama, including a 2011 round with two Republicans, then-House Speaker John Boehner and John Kasich, then the governor of Ohio.Kasich turned the experience into a punchline during a speech at the 2012 Republican National Convention.“Joe Biden told me that he’s a good golfer and I can tell you that’s not true, as well as all the other things that he says,” Kasich said.Biden has been reported to have memberships at Fieldstone Golf Club, which he lists as his home course, and Wilmington, a 36-hole facility that’s hosted several national amateur championships. Both are just a few miles from his home.The course, busy with people playing and practicing, was visible to reporters when Biden’s motorcade pulled up. His visit wasn’t announced in advance, and club members were seen filming the event on mobile phones.In 2014 Biden joked with then-Irish Prime Minister Enda Kenny that being in presidential politics had affected his game. “I don’t know about you, but if you want to keep your handicap in golf, don’t run for president,” Biden said. “So I expect strokes when we play.”In 2011, Golf Digest ranked Biden the 29th best golfer in Washington, with a 6 handicap. Biden had a 6.7 handicap in the U.S. Golf Association’s GHIN database in 2018, when his most recent scores were posted.Biden, 78, fractured a foot in November while playing with Major, one of his two dogs, although by February his doctor said it had fully healed. He’s expected to return to Washington on Sunday night.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/joe-biden-says-first-golf-as-president-leaves-course-record-intact-101618692231531.html
18-04-2021||World||Iran offers upbeat assessment of progress in nuclear talks||A senior Iranian official offered a cautiously upbeat assessment of progress in talks aimed at bringing the United States back into world powers' 2015 deal with Tehran on its nuclear program, saying Saturday that a “new understanding” appears to be taking shape.Iran has been negotiating with the five powers that remain in the agreement -- France, Germany, Britain, Russia and China — in Vienna over the past two weeks. An American delegation also has been in Vienna, but not talking directly to Iran.Iran’s deputy foreign minister said the talks had entered a new phase, adding that Iran had proposed draft agreements that could be a basis for negotiations.“We think that the talks have reached a stage where parties are able to begin to work on a joint draft,” Abbas Araghchi told Iranian state television. “It seems that a new understanding is taking shape, and now there is agreement over final goals.””The path is better known, but it will not be easy path,” Araghchi added. “It does not mean that differences of views have come to the end.”The accord is aimed at preventing Iran from developing a nuclear weapon, something it says it doesn't want to do. It restricted Iran’s nuclear program in return for relief from U.S. and international sanctions. In 2018, then-President Donald Trump pulled the U.S. unilaterally out of the accord, opting for restored and additional American sanctions.Since then, Iran has steadily violated restrictions in the deal, like the amount of enriched uranium that it can stockpile and the purity to which it can be enriched. Tehran’s moves have been calculated to pressure the other participants to do more to offset crippling U.S. sanctions. President Joe Biden has said he wants to bring the U.S. back into the deal but that Iran must reverse its violations.Additional complications have arisen: last weekend, Iran’s Natanz nuclear facility was sabotaged. The attack was widely suspected of being carried out by Israel, which opposes the nuclear deal, though authorities there have not commented.Iran responded by announcing it would increase uranium enrichment to 60% purity, far higher than ever before, and install more advanced centrifuges at the Natanz facility. On Saturday, the International Atomic Energy Agency said it had verified that Iran had begun the production of uranium hexafluoride enriched up to 60% at Natanz.Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei on Wednesday dismissed offers seen so far in Vienna as “not worth looking at.” Still, he said he had confidence in his negotiators, and Iran's Saturday readout seemed upbeat.Diplomats from the six countries participating told expert-level working groups on sanctions-lifting and nuclear issues “to continue their activities on Saturday afternoon, Sunday and next week” to make further progress, Russian representative Mikhail Ulyanov tweeted.Enrique Mora, the European Union official who chaired the talks, tweeted that “progress has been made in a far from easy task. We need now more detailed work.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/iran-offers-upbeat-assessment-of-progress-in-nuclear-talks-101618689099468.html
18-04-2021||World||India, Pakistan deny reports on ministers’ meeting in UAE||External affairs minister S Jaishankar and his Pakistani counterpart Shah Mahmood Qureshi will be in the United Arab Emirates (UAE) over the weekend though both countries said on Saturday that no meeting was planned between the two leaders.Hours after Qureshi began a three-day visit to the UAE, MEA spokesperson Arindam Bagchi announced on Twitter that Jaishankar would visit Abu Dhabi on April 18 at the invitation of his UAE counterpart Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed Al Nahyan.The announcement triggered speculation about a meeting between Jaishankar and Qureshi, especially in the wake of the acknowledgement by a senior Emirati diplomat of the UAE’s role in facilitating secret talks between India and Pakistan.A person familiar with developments, however, said Jaishankar’s visit is “purely bilateral” and his engagements are “only with UAE dignitaries”. “He will be discussing some pressing economic and community welfare issues related to Covid-19.”In Islamabad, Foreign Office spokesperson Zahid Hafeez Chaudhri said: “No such meeting is scheduled during foreign minister Shah Mahmood Qureshi’s ongoing visit to the UAE.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-pakistan-foreign-ministers-to-be-in-uae-both-sides-say-no-meeting-planned-101618679062294.html
18-04-2021||World||US, Japan pledge to build a free Indo-Pacific||The United States and Japan on Friday pledged to build a “free, open, accessible, diverse, and thriving Indo-Pacific” working along with allies and partners such as India and Australia of the four-nation Quadrilateral Security Dialogue (Quad), which they said, “has never been stronger”.US President Joe Biden and Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga did not announce the first in-person summit of the fledgling grouping more popularly called the Quad, contrary to its likelihood raised in an official preview of their meeting.But, it was certainly not for the lack of seriousness about the grouping. “Together, we will continue to work with allies and partners, including with Australia and India through the Quad, which has never been stronger, to build the free, open, accessible, diverse, and thriving Indo-Pacific we all seek,” they said in a joint statement.The leaders personally pledged commitment to the Quad several times in their remarks at the joint briefing. “Earlier this year, we - together with India and Australia - launched the landmark Quad Vaccine Partnership to expand the manufacturing of Covid-19 vaccines and assist countries throughout the region with vaccination efforts,” Biden said in his opening remarks at the joint news conference.India will manufacture 1 billion does of Covid-19 vaccines by the end of 2022 under this initiative which is being funded by the US and Japan. Australia will pay for its distribution. In his opening remarks, Suga underlined the importance of Quad in a free and open Indo-Pacific by cooperating with “other countries and regions, including the Asean, (and fellow Quad members) Australia, and India”.China hit back at the show of alliance during talks between Biden and Suga.“It cannot be more ironic that such attempt of stoking division and building blocs against other countries is put under the banner of ‘free and open’,” the spokesperson for the Chinese Embassy in Washington said on Saturday.With inputs from Associated Press||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-japan-focus-on-free-and-accessible-indo-pacific-to-keep-china-at-bay-101618638019881.html
18-04-2021||World||Indian-Americans grieve victims from community||Four members of the local Sikh community were among eight killed in a mass shooting at a FedEx facility in Indianapolis in the US state of Indiana on Thursday night, prompting concerns among Indian-Americans and calls for an investigation into possible racial or ethnic hatred as a factor.The victims were identified by local authorities as Amarjeet Kaur Johal, 66; Jaswinder Kaur, 64; Amarjit Sekhon, 48; and Jaswinder Singh, 68.“I am heartbroken to confirm that my naniji (maternal grandmother), Amarjeet Kaur Johal, is among those killed in the senseless shooting at the FedEx facility in Indianapolis,” Komal Chouhan, a member of the local Sikh community said in a statement released by the Sikh Coalition, an advocacy group.There were more than 160 workers at the FedEx facility at the time of the shooting, according to local reports. Though no counts were available of Sikhs among them, anecdotal accounts pointed to a sizable presence.”I have several family members who work at the particular facility and are traumatised,” Chouhan said further, adding: “My nani, my family, and our families should not feel unsafe at work, at their place of worship, or anywhere. Enough is enough — our community has been through enough trauma.”US President Joe Biden echoed the frustration in remarks from the White House. “This has to end. It’s a national embarrassment. It is a national embarrassment what’s going on,” he said at a joint news conference he addressed with his first foreign guest after taking office, Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga.India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar said in a tweet: “Deeply shocked by the shooting incident at FedEx facility in Indianapolis. Victims include persons of Indian American Sikh community. Our Consulate (in Chicago)@IndiainChicago is in touch with the Mayor and local authorities in Indianapolis as well as the community leaders.” “Will render all possible assistance.” Biden unveiled a modest package of gun law reforms last week to stop the “epidemic” of gun violence. A legislation is before the congress for expanding background checking, but experts say it has no chance of being passed. And there is no movement towards banning military-style assault rifles that have been used most frequently in mass shootings in the US.The police identified 19-year-old Brandon Scott Hole as the shooter in the FedEx incident. He was previously employed at the facility, the police said, adding that he was found dead with an apparent gunshot wound at the facility. No details were available of the motive behind the crime. The Associated Press reported citing officials that police were searching a home in Indianapolis related to the shooter and that they seized certain items as evidence. The death of members of the Sikh community came to light later as victims had not been officially identified till Friday evening. The Sikh Coalition was first to report it late afternoon, saying it was “deeply saddened to learn” that Sikh community members were among those killed. It followed up with an update saying four of them were Sikhs.The community was still not sure how many of their members were injured in the shooting. “I have sat with families from our community and so many others at the (local) Holiday Inn Express as they wait to hear the fates of their loved ones,” said community member Maninder Singh Walia, in the statement from Sikh Coalition. The Sikh community has been battling social, religious and racial bias and violence for years in the US. The first person killed in the 9/11 backlash in 2001 was a Sikh man in Arizona, mistaken for a turbaned West Asian. In 2012, six members of the community were gunned down by a white supremacist at a gurdwara in Oak Creek, Wisconsin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/sikh-community-in-shock-after-four-members-die-in-indianapolis-shooting-101618634901198.html
18-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh records 12,345 new Covid-19 cases, 170 deaths||Chhattisgarh on Sunday reported 12,345 fresh Covid-19 cases and 170 deaths, taking the infection count to 5,44,840 and the toll to 5,908, a health official said.The state has recorded over 2.25 lakh cases and 1,993 deaths in the last one month.The number of active cases in Chhattisgarh reached 1,28,019 after 189 people were discharged from hospitals while 13,886 others completed their home isolation stay in the day.With this, the number of people who have recovered from the infection increased to 4,10,913.The worst-hit Raipur and Durg districts reported 2,524 and 1,281 new cases, respectively, during the day.While the total count of infection in Raipur has reached 1,16,259, including 1,632 deaths, Durg's overall caseload climbed to 67,329, including 1,097 deaths.Rajnandgaon recorded 732 new cases, Bilaspur 1,217 and Koba 885 among other districts, the official said.Of the latest fatalities, 170 were reported on Sunday and Saturday.With 42,652 samples tested on Sunday, the total number of tests conducted in Chhattisgarh went up to 65,62,553.Chhattisgarhs coronavirus figures are as follows: Positive cases 5,44,840, New cases 12,345, Deaths 5,908, Recovered 4,10,913, Active cases 1,28,019, Tests today 42,652 and Total tests 65,62,553.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-records-12-345-new-covid-19-cases-170-deaths-101618768180527.html
18-04-2021||India||Flight bans, oxygen shortages and fresh curbs: Top Covid-19 news of the day||India, the second worst-hit country in the world by Covid-19, has been battling a resurgent virus, putting strain on the healthcare resources needed to fight it. All over the world, the Sars-CoV-2 virus has mutated and variants have been added to already unmanageable caseloads forcing countries to take tough calls on curbs, hoping to not exhaust their burdened medical infrastructure.Listed below are the top 10 Covid-19 news from today.10. The Maharashtra government designated Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and NCR and Uttarakhand as 'sensitive origins' making RT-PCR mandatory for train passengers travelling from these states, adding that unreserved passengers will not be allowed to board trains from these few states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/flight-bans-oxygen-shortages-and-fresh-curbs-top-covid-19-news-of-the-day-101618767453729.html
18-04-2021||India||Govt must explain why disengagement talks with China 'not yielded results': Congress||The Congress on Sunday asked the government to explain why disengagement talks with China have "not yielded results" in other friction points in eastern Ladakh.Citing media reports that China has refused to pull back its troops from Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang, Congress senior spokesperson Ajay Maken asked the government to come clean on the issue."Why has the disengagement talks as promised by the Defence Minister on remaining friction points 'not yielded any results for India," he said.He asked if the government's decision to "withdraw troops from PP-14 in Galwan Valley and subsequent creation of buffer territory" in that area has landed India in a disadvantageous position."The country is seeking answers as to when will the Modi Government take action to restore 'status quo ante' as on April 2020, specially in Galwan Valley, Pangong Tso Lake, Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs," he said."After the failure of the military talks with China and compromising our territorial integrity, what plan does the Modi Government have to take back our territory from China? PM Modi must answer," he said in a statement.There was no visible forward movement at the latest round of military talks between the two countries early this month.The Indian Army had said in a statement that both sides held a detailed deliberation on the disengagement of troops in the remaining friction points of Hot Springs, Gogra and Depsang in eastern Ladakh and agreed to jointly maintain stability on the ground, avoid any new incidents and resolve the outstanding issues in an "expeditious manner".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-must-explain-why-disengagement-talks-with-china-not-yielded-results-congress-101618767257871.html
18-04-2021||India||Odisha shuts down Lingaraj Temple as Covid-19 cases rise in Bhubaneswar||The Odisha government on Sunday shut down Lingaraj Temple, Bhubaneswar’s largest Shiva temple for devotees, after four temple servitors tested positive as Covid-19 cases rose substantially in the state capital.Officials of the Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation said out of the samples of 60 servitors of the 11th century Lingaraj Temple, the samples of four were found positive for Covid-19. The samples of another 185 servitors have been sent for testing.“In the larger public interest and with a view to contain the further spread of coronavirus, public entry to the Lingaraj Temple is restricted until further orders,” said the order by the BMC. The BMC officials said the Ashokastami car festival scheduled on Tuesday will be held without devotees like last year.In Puri, the officials of the Jagannath Temple administration have already made it mandatory for people coming from outside Odisha to carry a RT-PCR negative test report. Similar measures are being considered for Odisha devotees too.The closure of the temple came as the positivity rate in Bhubaneswar hovered around 20 per cent and the number of active cases crossed 2500. Bhubaneswar reported about 338 cases on Sunday. Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation commissioner PC Chaudhary said of the 775 Covid-19 dedicated beds available in 2 hospitals, around 70 per cent stand occupied.“Most of the active patients are in home isolation. But we plan to add 600 more beds in the next few days as more number of patients are likely to need hospitalisation. If needed, we will reactivate the hospitals that were used last year. However, there is no problem with oxygen supply in Bhubaneswar’s hospitals,” he said.Chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra had earlier directed the civic body to mobilise at least 50 rapid response teams for regular monitoring of home isolation patients and ensure implementation of Covid-19 protocols.In Odisha, the number of new Covid-19 cases jumped to 3664 in the last 24 hours while positivity rate jumped to over 10% forcing the state government to announce a five-fold increase in the number of beds in dedicated Covid Care Centres and hospitals to accommodate patients.Director of Public Health Niranjan Mishra has said that a five-fold increase will be made in the number of beds in hospitals and all the District Collectors have been instructed to do so.Mishra said the number of beds will be increased 4 to 5 times more than last year. “Four categories of beds are required for Covid-19 infected patients which include- common beds, oxygen support beds, ICU beds, and ICU beds with ventilators. Only critically ill patients will be given ICU beds. Oxygen supply will be increased by 10 times so that our state does not experience a shortage of oxygen,” he said.At present, 25 per cent of general beds and 60 per cent of ICU beds are occupied by patients. Similarly, 14 per cent of the patients are in ventilator beds. Of the 248 beds, 45 patients are on ventilators. There are a total of 541 ICU beds in the state, of which 329 are currently occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/odisha-shuts-down-lingaraj-temple-as-covid-19-cases-rise-in-bhubaneswar-101618767447850.html
18-04-2021||India||Maharashtra makes negative Covid-19 report mandatory for passengers from Delhi, 5 states||The Maharashtra government on Sunday declared six regions, including Delhi-NCR, Kerala, and Gujarat as ‘sensitive origins’ as far as spread of Covid-19 is concerend and made it mandatory for rail passengers coming from these states to carry a negative RT-PCR report amid a surge of Covid-19 cases there.The regions classified as ‘sensitive origins’ by Maharashtra are Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and NCR, and Uttarakhand. The people who do not have a ticket reservation will not be allowed to board the train to Maharashtra from these states.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Maharashtra’s chief secretary Sitaram Kunte has also issued an SOP for the passengers travelling to Maharashtra from the ‘sensitive origins’: Here’s are all the rules1. Railways shall share data of the trains that are scheduled to be running between these origins and stations of Maharashtra with the local Disaster Management Authority (DMA).2. No unreserved ticket for Maharashtra should be issued on trains from sensitive origins. Also, passengers without a confirmed ticket should not be allowed to board for Maharashtra.3. All passengers willing to travel to Maharashtra will need RT-PCT negative test within 48 hours of travel.4. All passengers shall be compulsorily screened and only asymptomatic passengers shall be allowed to board the trains for Maharashtra. Social distancing should be ensured during boarding/de-boarding and travel.5. Railways shall share the data with the local DMA of the passengers who are travelling on the said trains and who are scheduled to disembark at various stations of Maharashtra on each day at the earliest, at least four hours prior to departure from the origin. Data should contain information about all the passengers that may disembark at any station of Maharashtra. However, in some cases, this data may not be completely available and thus local authorities are advised to plan for 10% more than the expected disembarkment.7. Railway authorities and local DMA should maintain close coordination to exchange information about delays or schedule changes of trains and about the number of passengers disembarking.8. Railway authorities should announce on each station en-route, about systems that have been put in place so that each passenger gets informed about the rules to follow. Railway authorities may also plan printing pamphlets in Hindi/ Marathi (bi-lingual) to be distributed to all the passengers informing them of Covid Appropriate Behaviour expected and dangers to themselves and their family members if they fail to do so. These should also carry information on fines, protocols at the destination etc.9. Railway authorities should ensure that trains from these origins come to outer platforms where it may be easier to do thermal and other checking without affecting passengers from other origins and without mixing the two. Also, wherever possible, all passengers alighting from the said trains to be guided towards a single exit.10. After dis-embarkment, all the passengers will be queued up for screening. Passengers carrying negative RT-PCR test will undergo minimal checking like thermal scanning and symptoms checking.For those not carrying the report, the health authorities may opt to set up Rapid Antigen Testing (RAT) testing facility at the station, either through using railway, state government or private labs. Such passengers, however, should be let go only after reasonable confirmation of them being non-infected, the order read.11. Every passenger with Covid-19 positive result or with symptoms or refusing to undergo screening shall necessarily be moved to quarantine centres. If a passenger wants to move to a hospital of choice that has bed available, DMA may allow the same.12. All passengers without symptoms will be stamped on their hands for compulsory home quarantine for 15 days. This is required for those passengers also who are carrying negative RT-PCR test as well as who have tested negative in RAT at the station or otherwise.13. Any person with a quarantined stamp found outside their home except for medical emergency within the period of 15 days of stamping shall be fined Rs. 1000/- and shall be moved to institutional quarantine.14. Local authorities should plan, along with local MSRTC/local public bus transport officers about the buses that may ply to take these passengers for onward joumey.15. Railways must ensure extra precautions are taken by their employees while serving trains from these origins.16. Covid appropriate hehaviour in the trains we well as the stations must be enforced rigorously.17. Railway shall appoint a nodal officer for the state level as well as various DMA levels who will be responsible for coordinating with SDMA and DMA for the purposes of these guidelines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-makes-negative-covid-19-report-mandatory-for-passengers-from-delhi-5-states-101618766809260.html
18-04-2021||India||Rajasthan govt to use state funds for Isarda-Dausa project||The Rajasthan Cabinet on Sunday gave approval to use state funds for the completion of the Isarda-Dausa drinking water project.Under the project, drinking water will be supplied to six towns and 1,256 villages of Dausa and Sawai Madhopur districts.In addition to the funds available from the Union government under the Jal Jeevan Mission, state funds will be used for the project, an official statement said.Pure drinking water will be provided from the Isarda dam to the villages covered under the project.A target has been set to establish infrastructure required for it till July 2024.The Cabinet also decided to implement the Ghar-Ghar Aushadhi Scheme.Under this, saplings of medicinal plants like tulsi and ashwagandha will be developed.The scheme will be implemented in collaboration with public representatives, Panchayati Raj Institutions and industrial houses.The nodal department for the scheme will be the Forest Department.District-level task forces headed by DCs will be constituted for its implementations.A state-level monitoring committee will also be constituted under the chief secretary.The Cabinet decided that the theme for the Van Mahotsava in July this year will be the Ghar-Ghar Aushadhi scheme.In view of the second wave of coronavirus hitting the state, the Cabinet decided to request the Centre for adequate supply of oxygen and other essential medicines, including Remedisvir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rajasthan-govt-to-use-state-funds-for-isarda-dausa-project-101618758972088.html
18-04-2021||India||No charges will be levied from states for Covid-19 isolation coaches: Railways||No charges will be levied from states for Covid-19 isolation coaches, said Northern Railway General Manager Ashutosh Gangal on Sunday."To my knowledge, no charges will be levied from states for Covid isolation coaches. Health ministry guidelines don't mention any such thing," Northern Railway General Manager Ashutosh Gangal said.He further said, "We have purchased oxygen cylinders, we can provide two cylinders in each coach. Thereafter refilling and other things will be taken care of by the state governments."The Indian Railways has converted 4,002 train coaches as a Covid-19 care-cum-isolation facility to provide assistance to state governments amid surging coronavirus cases in the country.Pictures for the same were shared by Union Minister of Railways, Piyush Goyal on Sunday."Railways is devoting all its resources for fighting Covid-19. Isolation coaches have started functioning at Nandurbar, Maharashtra with Covid-19 patients being admitted."Additionally, as some states are facing scarcity of medical oxygen amid surging Covid-19 cases in the country, the Railways is getting ready to transport Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) and oxygen cylinders across the key corridors.A meeting was held between Railway Board officials and State Transport Commissioners along with representatives of industry on the "issues related to transportation of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO)" on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/no-charges-will-be-levied-from-states-for-covid-19-isolation-coaches-railways-101618766341396.html
18-04-2021||India||IFFCO to set up oxygen plant in Gujarat, will give it for free to hospitals amid Covid-19 crisis||Cooperative fertiliser major IFFCO on Sunday said it is setting up a medical oxygen plant in Gujarat and will supply it for free to hospitals.IFFCO will also put up three more plants across the country to help the nation in this pandemic period, it said."We at IFFCO, humbly share that on nation's service, IFFCO is putting up an Oxygen plant with capacity of 200 cubic meter per hour in its Kalol unit in Gujarat," IFFCO managing director and CEO U S Awasthi tweeted.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here IFFCO will give free oxygen to hospital each cylinder of 46.7 litres, he said.The proposed oxygen plant in Kalol will generate medical grade oxygen and fill 700 big D- type cylinders daily and also 300 medium B-size cylinders on demand, which will be supplied to all hospitals free, he added.Awasthri said that IFFCO will fill up free of cost the oxygen cylinders for hospitals but they need to bring their own cylinders for refill.A security deposit will be taken if cylinders taken from the IFFCO to avoid hoarding of oxygen, he added.In view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases, there is huge demand for oxygen for effective clinical treatment of Covid-19 patients.   As a result, there are reports of shortage of medical oxygen in some parts of the country, especially in states of Maharashtra and Delhi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iffco-to-set-up-oxygen-plant-in-gujarat-will-give-it-for-free-to-hospitals-amid-covid-19-crisis-101618765491254.html
18-04-2021||India||Covaxin production to increase 10 times by September: Harsh Vardhan||Union health minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said there will be a 10 times rise in Covaxin vaccine production by September while manufacture of remdesivir jabs, an anti-viral drug against Covid-19, will be doubled to 74.1 lakh each month by May.In a series of tweets, he also said all support is being extended to states to fight Covid-19 and uninterrupted supply of oxygen and enhancement of healthcare infrastructure is being ensured.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Highlighting the steps taken to fulfil the requirement of remdesivir, Vardhan in a tweet said, "Production being doubled to 74.1L per month by May; Express permission given to 20 manufacturing plants to increase production; Exports prohibited; Prices capped; Strict monitoring to curb any malpractice, hoarding and black marketing."On the issue of oxygen supply, he said in another tweet, "Projected demand of high-burden states mapped with supplies; Oxygen production being maximised and diverted from industrial use to medical use; Expediting installation of 162 PSA plants across the country; Round-the-clock coordination cell assisting the States".Amid spiralling coronavirus cases in the country, the demand for medical oxygen in the country has gone through the roof.While the Railways has decided to run 'Oxygen Express' trains over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country, the Home Ministry has banned the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes except in nine specified industries.He also said the number of beds for Covid-19 patients will be enhanced by setting up temporary hospitals and dedicating wards at hospitals under Union ministries.The government has provided 1,121 ventilators to Maharashtra, 1,700 to Uttar Pradesh, 1,500 to Jharkhand, 1,600 to Gujarat, 152 to Madhya Pradesh and and 230 to Chhattisgarh, Vardhan said.Listing the measures being taken to strengthen the Covid-19 inoculaton drive across the country, he tweeted, "COVID-19 vaccine supplies to small states being replenished every seven days and every four days for big states. Steps taken to quickly enhance basket of vaccines available. Production of Covaxin to increase 10 times by September 2021."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-production-to-increase-10-times-by-september-harsh-vardhan-101618763487203.html
18-04-2021||India||2 nabbed in ₹72-lakh bribery case involving DGMS official: CBI||The CBI apprehended two men on Sunday in connection with a ₹72-lakh bribery case allegedly involving Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director General at the Directorate General of Mines Safety (DGMS), for influencing the members of the interview board to ensure the qualification of favoured candidates, officials said.The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) laid a trap at Bihar's Lakhisarai and nabbed Triloki Nath Singh and Kailash Mandal, a relative of Kumar, who was allegedly receiving ₹35 lakh on behalf of the accused officer as the first installment of the bribe amount, they added.It is alleged that Kumar, Deputy Director General (Central Zone), DGMS, had hatched a conspiracy with Singh and others for favouring some of the candidates appearing in the oral examination after qualifying in the computer-based examinations for manager's, certificate of competency (restricted and unrestricted), conducted by the DGMS, the officials said.They allegedly conspired to manipulate and influence the interview board members for a bribe of ₹1.5 lakh per candidate, totalling ₹72 lakh for 48 candidates referred through Singh and others, the officials added.The oral examination was conducted by the DGMS between March 8 and March 20."It was further alleged that the Deputy Director General (Central Zone) had got the 48 candidates qualified in the said interview, who were referred to him by the said private person (Singh). It was alleged that the said amount was to be delivered in two installments to another private person (Mandal) at Lakhisarai (Bihar)," CBI spokesperson RC Joshi said in a statement."The CBI laid a trap and caught the accused persons while exchanging the first installment of the alleged bribe amount of ₹35 lakh. Searches are being conducted at 12 locations, including Lakhisarai, Dhanbad, Ranchi, Nagpur, Udaipur, Shahdol, Hyderabad and Bilaspur, which have led to the recovery of incriminating documents, articles etc.," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/2-nabbed-in-rs-72-lakh-bribery-case-involving-dgms-official-cbi-101618763019281.html
18-04-2021||India||'India's Covid figures not looking good, but...': Top doctor gives tips to be safe||Gripped by the second wave of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India is currently witnessing a tsunami of cases and deaths. The number of daily cases topped the 100,000-mark on April 5, a record jump never seen in the country ever before. This record was broken exactly 10 days later on April 15, when more than 200,000 citizens (200,739 exact) tested positive for the disease in 24 hours. Since that day, the numbers are scaling new heights.On Sunday, another record 261,500 cases and 1,501 deaths were reported in the country, taking the caseload to over 14.78 million including 177,150 deaths, 1,801,316 active cases and 12,809,643 discharges, according to the Union health ministry’s dashboard.Hospitals and medical facilities across states and union territories (UTs) are overburdened and are complaining of shortages of beds, oxygen supply and essential drugs.In such a scenario, K Vijay Raghavan, principal scientific adviser to the government of India, shared a thread on microblogging website Twitter, which contained insights from Dr CS Pramesh, a thoracic surgeon and director of the Tata Memorial hospital in Mumbai.An important and useful thread from a top clinician researcher, and Director of the Tata Memorial Hospital, @cspramesh . Simply and well stated. https://t.co/Ed0FbluQHOIn a series of tweets, he agreed that the overall situation is not good and suggested ways to overcome it. Here is a look at some important tweets from Dr Pramesh:1. Dr Pramesh said that people do whatever they can to avoid getting infected. If they are infected, they should minimise adverse consequences to themselves and others.2. He pointed out there is "no magic bullet" to avoid getting infected but people must stick to the basics.3. Dr Pramesh urged people to follow all precautions which are known to be helpful. “These include masks (whenever you are not at home and not alone), physical distancing to the extent possible, and washing hands frequently. The 3 Ws - Wear a mask, Watch your distance, Wash your hands,” he tweeted.4. With regard to social distancing, the top doctor suggested six feet is preferable but a minimum of three feet distance should be maintained. He also urged people to avoid crowded places and meet others "only if absolutely necessary".Also Read| India’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate leaps from 3.05% to 13.54%5. Dr Pramesh urged people to get vaccinated against the Covid-19 disease as soon as they can, adding that it reduces the chances of getting infected by 70-80% and contracting serious illness by 90%. Talking about the side effects of the vaccines, he said, "We’ve heard of blood clots etc. Yes, they do occur, but they are extremely rare events, and the benefits of taking a vaccine far outweigh the risks."6. He said people should be well prepared even before they get infected. “Buy a thermometer and a pulse oximeter to keep at home. These are two important instruments you need in case you get infected,” the top doctor wrote on the microblogging site.7. If a person gets infected, the doctor said that there is no need to panic as 98% get through without any major issues. Dr Pramesh further urged them to isolate themselves from others.8. In terms of which medicine to take if one tests positive, the top doctor said, “If your oxygen saturation is fine and you have no symptoms other than fever, all you need is Paracetamol."Also Read| Oxygen for industrial use to be diverted for Covid-19 patients: Centre9. Amid an outcry by states and UTs over the shortage of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab, he said these drugs are only beneficial in very limited situations, adding that people must let their physicians decide whether these drugs should be prescribed.10. Dr Pramesh also pointed out one can test positive for Covid-19 despite taking all precautions and even after getting vaccinated. “Remember, none of this is 100% effective - but 70 to 95% effective is a whole lot better than 0%,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid-figures-not-looking-good-but-top-doctor-gives-tips-to-be-safe-101618762127895.html
18-04-2021||India||JP Nadda asks BJP members to begin drive to rid their booth of Covid-19||BJP president JP Nadda on Sunday asked party functionaries to launch "apna booth corona mukt" (Our booth is free of corona) campaign amid a huge surge in the COVID-19 cases across the country. Addressing BJP's national office-bearers and its state unit chiefs in a virtual meeting, Nadda asked state units to set up help desks and put out a helpline number for the people. They should take measures to help Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals, he said. According to a party statement, he said BJP members should distribute masks and sanitisers and also coordinate with local administration to launch campaign for plasma donation. Party units should also launch preventive measures like cleanliness drive and campaign to raise awareness in people about following Covid-19 guidelines. Nadda said party members across the country should undertake these measures to help curb the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/jp-nadda-asks-bjp-members-to-begin-drive-to-rid-their-booth-of-covid19-101618762078354.html
18-04-2021||India||Manmohan Singh writes to PM Modi on Covid-19: Full text of letter||Congress leader and former prime minister Manmohan Singh wrote a letter to PM Modi on Sunday, suggesting ways to ramp up Covid-19 vaccination efforts in the country. The veteran Congressman urged a preference of the total percentage of the population that has been vaccinated instead of looking at “absolute numbers”.Noting that India currently has vaccinated only a small fraction of its population, Singh said he is certain that with the right policy design, "we can do much better and very quickly".Here is the full text of Manmohan Singh's letter:||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-writes-to-pm-modi-on-covid-19-full-text-of-letter-101618761525199.html
18-04-2021||India||Oxygen for industrial use to be diverted for Covid-19 patients: Centre||Amid rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases in several states, Union home secretary Ajay Bhalla asked all chief secretaries on Sunday to take measures to prohibit the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except for those that fall in the exempted category. Oxygen is an important element used in the treatment of certain medical conditions which arise due to the Covid-19 infection.“Keeping in view the rapid rise in COVID cases and resultant rapid demand for medical oxygen, particularly in high-burden states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, etc, EG-II has reviewed the supply of oxygen for industrial use in order to divert the same to meet the rising demand for medical oxygen in the country and save precious lives,” Bhalla wrote in a letter to all chief secretaries.“I urge you to issue necessary instructions to all the authorities concerned in your state to ensure compliance to the decision and take necessary measures to prohibit the supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except those exempted nine industries,” he added.Union Home Secretary Ajay Bhalla writes to all Chief Secretaries asking them to take all measures to prohibit supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except those exempted. pic.twitter.com/RbQsaNmdNWThe exempted industries include: ampoules and vials, pharmaceuticals, petroleum refineries, steel plants, nuclear energy facilities, oxygen cylinder manufacturers, wastewater treatment plants, food and water purification and process industries which require uninterrupted operation of furnaces as approved by the state governments, according to the order.Read more: 'Shameless politics': Piyush Goyal to Uddhav Thackeray after Maharashtra complains of oxygen shortageAfter the order, Union minister Piyush Goyal said that the measure has been taken to ensure adequate supply of oxygen to hospitals."Before COVID pandemic hit India, our daily medical oxygen consumption was around 1000-1200 metric tonnes. But on April 15, 4,795 metric tonnes of medical oxygen was used in the country. We've increased production capacity in last one year," Goyal said according to news agency ANI.The government also gave a break-up of the shares that will be allotted to states which face the shortage of oxygen. Maharashtra will get the largest share with 1,646 metric tonnes of oxygen, followed by Uttar Pradesh which will be given 752 metric tonnes and Delhi which will be allotted 378 metric tonnes.Increased #oxygen supplies mapped to high burden States to meet heightened demand ◽️Maharashtra - 1646 MT◽️Delhi - 378 MT◽️UP - 751 MT…@PMOIndia @MoHFW_INDIA @DIPPGOI #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/e7bHlrJ4PgEarlier in the day, following reports of shortage of oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients across several states, the Indian Railways said that it will operate ‘Oxygen Express’ trains for the transport of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and oxygen cylinders.Several states have reported shortage of oxygen with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal saying on Sunday that the national capital was facing a “very serious” situation amid the rise in Covid-19 cases which has resulted in shortage of crucial drugs and oxygen. Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray had also talked about the shortage of oxygen in his address to the people of the state on April 13.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-for-industrial-use-to-be-diverted-for-covid-19-patients-centre-101618760096345.html
18-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Railway minister Goyal responds to Delhi's need for special Covid-coaches and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.On Delhi's request for special Covid coaches, railway minister replies '800 beds ready'Union minister for railways Piyush Goyal assured support to the Delhi government on Sunday, saying that special Covid-19 care coaches will be made available at two railway stations for patients in the city. Read moreMadras HC clears former TN chief secretary’s appointment as NGT expertThe Madras high court on Saturday vacated an interim stay on the appointment of former Tamil Nadu chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan as an expert member of the Southern Regional bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), ruling that she was qualified to hold the post. Read moreSigns of thaw on Iran nuclear standoff emerge in Vienna TalksWorld powers working to end the standoff between Iran and the US are due to reconvene Sunday amid signs of a thaw that may lead to a revival of the 2015 nuclear deal and reduce tensions in the energy-rich Persian Gulf. Read moreConfident India will be No 1 EV maker in the world: Union minister GadkariUnion minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday expressed confidence that lithium-ion batteries would be manufactured fully in the country in the next six months and India will become number one electric vehicle maker in the world in due course of time. Read moreIPL 2021: RCB ride on Maxwell, de Villiers show to make it three in a row against KKRGlenn Maxwell and AB de Villiers fired impressive half-centuries as Royal Challengers Bangalore defeated Kolkata Knight Riders by 38 runs in IPL 2021 to make it three wins in a row. Read moreSomya Seth opens up about her battle with suicidal thoughts during pregnancyActor Somya Seth has opened up on how she battled suicidal thoughts when she was pregnant, soon after her wedding in 2015. In a recent interview, she also talked about how her unborn son Ayden, now three and a half year old, saved her life. Read more'Am I delicious?': Doggo’s reaction to human’s prank is too precious to missNumerous videos on the Internet prove that doggos are one of the most precious beings in the lives of humans. This clip showing a woman trying to prank her doggo is a precious addition to that treasure trove. Shared by Instagram user Savannah, the video is bound to leave you saying ‘aww’ multiple times. Read more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-goyal-responds-to-delhi-s-need-for-special-covid-coaches-101618758940757.html
18-04-2021||India||Kerala’s daily viral caseload hits all-time high with 18,257 new Covid-19 infections||Kerala recorded the highest single-day surge on Sunday with 18,257 new Covid-19 cases and a test positivity rate (TPR) of 16.77%, according to the data released by the state health ministry. At least five districts in the state reported more than 1000 new cases. The state has tested the maximum samples in the last 24 hours-- 1,08, 898, clocking a high TPR. The active caseload has also risen to 93,686. Ernakulam topped the list with 2835 cases followed by Kozhikode district with 2560 cases. Many areas in the worst-affected districts were declared containment zones and restrictions tightened by district collectors. The state also recorded 26 fatalities taking the death toll to 4929. The first state to report a virus case in the country in January 2020, Kerala has been witnessing constant peaks and curves in the last one year. A close look at the statistics show after local body elections in December, Covid-19 cases peaked but came down after two months and started peaking again in March. Many health experts blamed the recently-concluded assembly elections for the latest surge but state health minister K K Shailaja did not agree with that view. “In Maharashtra and Delhi there were no elections but cases peaked. We can’t blame only the elections for this,” she said. She said the state which has a high density of population will have to be extra cautious-- only 11 per cent of the total population were exposed to the virus and 10 per cent have got inoculated. Though cases are rising steadily the robust health system in the state is managing the situation well, ground reports show. Out of 11,584 Covid-19 beds in the government sector, 6403 were occupied leaving 5181 unoccupied. In the private sector also enough beds are unoccupied. In Kerala at least 70 per cent of the population depend on the private sector for their medical needs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-daily-viral-caseload-hits-all-time-high-with-18-257-new-covid-19-infections-101618759347396.html
18-04-2021||India||Maharashtra breaks another grim milestone, records highest single-day spike of 68,631 cases of Covid-19||Maharashtra recorded 68,631 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), the highest caseload in a 24-hour span, according to state government's health bulletin on Sunday. This took the statewide tally to 3,839,338, the health bulletin showed.Sunday's count is more than yesterday's 67,123 cases, which was till noe the highest single-day caseload since the pandemic began.The state also recorded 503 deaths (the highest since October last year) which is 84 more than Saturday's fatality count, showing how deadly the pandemic has been for the western state. With this, Maharashtra's death toll has reached 60,473.The state has 6,70,388 active cases.Sunday's health bulletin showed that out of 2,38,54,185 samples, 38,39,338 (or 16.1%) have been tested positive for Covid-19 until today. On Saturday, 23,580,913 samples were tested.This is the fourth consecutive day that Maharashtra has recorded over 60,000 cases in 24 hours. Its capital Mumbai added 8,468 new cases of the infection, which took the city's tally to 579,486.Mumbai recorded 53 fatalities due to the infection, which took the death toll to 12,354. There are 87,698 active cases in Mumbai while the death toll stands at 12,347.Nagpur reported 7,107 new Covid-19 cases, 3987 recoveries, and 85 deaths in the last 24 hours.India too reported its highest-ever single-day spike of Covid-19 cases with 2,61,500 fresh cases and 1,501 Covid-related deaths.With this, the total number of cases has gone up to 1,47,88,109. The active number of cases in the country stands at 18,01,316.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-records-68-631-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-count-till-date-101618758067658.html
18-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Andhra Pradesh sees 6,582 fresh cases, 22 deaths||Andhra Pradesh reported 6,582 fresh cases of coronavirus, 2,343 recoveries and 22 deaths in the last 24 hours ending 9 AM on Sunday. The active Covid-19 caseload has increased to 44,686, a bulletin said. The chart showed 9,62,037 positive cases, 9,09,941 recoveries and 7,410 deaths so far. Chittoor district crossed the one-lakh mark and reached 1,00,254 today after adding 1,171 fresh cases in the 24 hours. It is the second district in the State after East Godavari (1,29,312) to register over a lakh infections since the outbreak of the pandemic in March 2020. It now has 7,856 active cases, the highest in the State after 91,480 recoveries and 918 deaths, another high. Srikakulam registered 912 new cases, Guntur 804, Kurnool 729, SPS Nellore 597, Visakhapatnam 551, Krishna 465, Vizianagaram 349, Prakasam 314, Anantapuramu 30 and Kadapa 203 fresh cases in a day. The two Godavari districts - East and West - logged 100 and 82 respectively. Chittoor reported five fresh fatalities, Krishna and SPS Nellore four each, Kurnool three, Anantapuramu and Guntur two each, Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram one each in the 24 hours. Meanwhile, the Health Department, in a press release, said two lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine arrived in the State today. On Saturday, the State received five lakh doses of Covishield and one lakh of Covaxin. State Covid Control Nodal Officer Arja Srikanth said the left over health workers and frontline workers would be vaccinated in a special drive from Monday. Of the 4,90,843 registered health workers, 3,93,628 got the first dose of the vaccine administered since the launch of the programme on January 16. About 2,48,178 of them got the second dose. Similarly, 4,68,194 of the 7,37,253 frontline workers were inoculated with the first dose and another 2,10,056 the second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-andhra-pradesh-sees-6-582-fresh-cases-22-deaths-101618753769902.html
18-04-2021||India||Tamil Nadu announces night curfew, lockdowns on Sundays starting April 20 to curb Covid-19 spread||Tamil Nadu on Sunday imposed a state-wide night curfew between the hours of 10 pm and 4 am starting from April 20. The state will also be observing Sunday lockdowns during this period.During night curfew hours public buses, rental auto, taxi, and private vehicles will not be allowed to operate. Restaurants would be permitted to operate only for take-away services at three scheduled time slots throughout the day from 6am to 10 am in the mornings, between 12pm to 3pm in the afternoon, and from 6pm to 9 pm in the evenings. Food delivery services like Swiggy and Zomato have permission to operate during the fixed hours.Employees who work in night shifts, like guards, will be allowed to travel only if they have a letter of permission from their respective companies. Factories producing essential goods can also stay open during night curfew hours.On Sundays, the state will be under lockdown with only essential services like those dealing with daily newspaper distribution, milk supply, pharmacies, medical laboratories, ambulances, agriculture, vehicles transporting LPG, CNG, petrol, and diesel allowed to function.The state government has also taken the decision to postpone class 12 state board exams in view of the recent surge in Covid-19 cases.As India reports a record number of daily Covid-19 cases, states all over the country have been trying to bring the second wave under control by imposing night curfews and weekend lockdowns.Tamil Nadu had on Saturday reported 9,344 new Covid-19 cases taking the state’s caseload to 9,80,728. Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) leader MK Stalin wrote to the Prime Minister on Sunday urging for 20 lakh vaccine doses as the second wave of Covid-19 rages on in the state. Citing ‘news sources’ Stalin also alleged in his letter that there was a huge shortage of vaccines in the state and many people are unable to get inoculated when they visit government run vaccination centers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tamil-nadu-announces-night-curfew-lockdowns-on-sundays-starting-april-20-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101618755000490.html
18-04-2021||India||On Delhi's request for special Covid coaches, railway minister replies '800 beds ready'||Union minister for railways Piyush Goyal assured support to the Delhi government on Sunday, saying that special Covid-19 care coaches will be made available at two railway stations for patients in the city. The minister responded within hours of the Delhi government’s request for the arrangement to accommodate patients amid a huge spike in cases of the coronavirus disease in the national capital.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “Govt under PM @NarendraModi leading the fight against COVID-19: 50 COVID-19 isolation coaches with 800 beds ready at Shakur Basti Station & 25 coaches will be available at Anand Vihar Station in Delhi. Railways can setup >3 lakh isolation beds across the country on States' demand,” Piyush Goyal informed on Twitter.Govt under PM @NarendraModi leading the fight against COVID-19: 50 COVID-19 isolation coaches with 800 beds ready at Shakur Basti Station & 25 coaches will be available at Anand Vihar Station in Delhi. Railways can setup >3 lakh isolation beds across the country on States' demand pic.twitter.com/b9ehFnEgfIGoyal's tweet came shortly after Delhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev requested railway board chairman Suneet Sharma to arrange for Covid-19 bed facilities at Shakur Basti and Anand Vihar railway stations in the city like last year when the pandemic was peaking.Delhi is currently witnessing the fourth wave of Covid-19 and nearly 25,000 new cases were reported on Sunday, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said, adding that the positivity rate has gone up to 30% from the 24% in the last 24 hours.In the letter to the railway board chairman, Vijay Kumar Dev requested the bed facilities at the two stations along with full logistical support, requisite medical and para-medical staff and oxygen facilities etc. on an emergent basis. “We would be grateful if you identify more such facilities upto a level of 5000 beds, as was done last year, so as to meet the huge demand of beds arising out of an ever increasing surge in positive cases this time in NCT of Delhi,” he added.Earlier in the day, the ministry of railways retweeted a post according to which as many as 4,002 coaches converted into Covid care coaches are available at present in railways’ 16 zones and can be made available for the state governments on request.Last week, the railways’ western zone also received a similar demand for isolation coaches from Nandurbar, a Maharashtra district close to Gujarat border, for around 95 coaches and 1,500 beds.The Covid-19 isolation coaches were designed to be used for patients with mild symptoms in areas where states have “exhausted the facilities”, according to the railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/on-delhi-s-request-for-special-covid-coaches-railway-minister-replies-800-beds-ready-101618754010314.html
18-04-2021||India||Madras HC clears former TN chief secretary’s appointment as NGT expert||The Madras high court on Saturday vacated an interim stay on the appointment of former Tamil Nadu chief secretary Girija Vaidyanathan as an expert member of the Southern Regional bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), ruling that she was qualified to hold the post. Vaidyanathan’s counsel cited her tenures as the environment secretary and the chairperson of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board for 2.5 years and also her stint as the health secretary for 2.5 years, when she was responsible for management of bio medical waste to argue she met the required criteria.After hearing arguments from both sides, the first bench of chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and justice Senthikumar Ramamoorthy held that she possessed necessary qualifications to be appointed an expert member of the NGT’s southern bench. The bench observed that the former chief secretary had “dealt with environmental matters” as per clause (b) of the NGT Act, 2010. Vaidyanathan was Tamil Nadu chief secretary from December 2016 to June 2019. Her appointment was challenged in a public interest litigation filed by Chennai-based non-governmental organisation (NGO) Poovulagin Nanbargal. G Sundarrajan, who heads the NGO, argued that the NGT Act, 2010 mandates a person to have 15 years of administrative experience including five years of having dealt with matters of environment in the state or central government or in a reputed institution to qualify for the post. The court stayed her appointment on April 9, stating she prima facie didn’t meet the eligibility requirement. The court then also questioned the need to appoint bureaucrats without field experience to tribunals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-clears-former-tn-chief-secretary-s-appointment-as-ngt-expert-101618753107317.html
18-04-2021||India||Railways to run ‘Oxygen Express’ trains via green corridors for bulk supply||The Indian Railways will deploy first-of-a-kind ‘Oxygen Express’ trains over the next few days to transport Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) and oxygen cylinders in bulk along key corridors, amid high demand from states grappling with the second wave of the Covid-19 health crisis.“Railways is leaving no stone unturned in the battle against Covid-19. We will be running Oxygen Express trains using green corridors to supply oxygen in bulk and rapidly to patients,” Union railways minister Piyush Goyal tweeted.Tentatively, a movement plan has been made for dispatching 10 empty tankers on Monday; the railway ministry said adding that the Transport Secretary of Maharashtra has assured to provide the tankers. “On April 17th, a meeting was held between Railway Board officials and State Transport Commissioners and representatives of industry on the subject of issues related to transportation of Liquid Medical Oxygen. It was decided that the tankers would be organized by the Transport Commissioner, Maharashtra. These empty tankers would be moved from Kalamboli/Boisar, Railway stations in and near Mumbai, and sent to Vizag and Jamshedpur/Rourkela/Bokaro, for loading of liquid medical oxygen tankers from there,” the railway ministry said in a statement on Sunday.“Zonal Railways have been informed regarding the demands from state governments. CFTMs and PCOMs are in touch with the Industry and state governments. Railway Board has directed the concerned GMs to be fully prepared and proactively assist the state and Central Government Agencies in movement of oxygen by rail,” it added.With several states reporting a shortage of oxygen, the Centre on Friday directed them to ensure uninterrupted movement of medical oxygen carrying vehicles along their borders and said they must not impose any curbs on production and supply of the essential public health commodity anywhere.The railway ministry on Friday approved transportation of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic tankers under its Roll on-Roll off model as a special case following a request from the Maharashtra government. “A request had been received from the principal secretary in the public health department of Maharashtra government for transport of medical oxygen in cryogenic containers. The matter has been examined. Competent authority has approved the transport of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic containers,” it said. It also summed up the charges to be levied for the service, the railway board said in its circular issued late on Friday.The move comes days after Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking the Centre’s support in addressing the shortage of oxygen in the state. Maharashtra, crippled by the second wave of the Coronavirus pandemic, is facing a crisis with the medical and health infrastructure collapsing under the weight of rising cases and deaths.The circular also said that the staff accompanying liquid oxygen trucks to be loaded on the Ro-Ro service will be charged second class ticket for the journey and only two people will be allowed to accompany the truck. The empty flow direction of the containers will also be charged by the railways.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-to-run-oxygen-express-trains-via-green-corridors-for-bulk-supply-101618752987312.html
18-04-2021||India||Green corridor, Ro-Ro service: All you need to know about 'Oxygen Express' train||As India is dealing with the unprecedented crisis of coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Indian railways are gearing up to run special "Oxygen Express" trains to transport liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and oxygen cylinders across the country over the next few days. "Availability of oxygen is a key element in the treatment of certain medical conditions in the Covid infection," it said in the official announcement.On Saturday, the railways formulated guidelines to allow transportation of liquid medical oxygen in cryogenic tankers after the Maharashtra government and Madhya Pradesh made a request to meet the shortage of the gas used for Covid-19 patients in the state.Here's everything you need to know about the special initiative of Indian Railways:* The liquid medical oxygen will be transported via roll on-roll off (Ro-Ro) service with road tankers placed on flat wagons to various destinations.* On April 17, a meeting was held between Railway board officials, state transport commissioners and representatives of industry regarding the issues related to the transportation of LMO. It was decided that the tankers will be organised by the transport commissioner of Maharashtra. These empty tankers will then be moved from Kalamboli and Boisar, Railway stations in Mumbai, and sent to Vizag station in Andhra Pradesh and Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro in Jharkhand for loading of liquid medical oxygen tankers.* Empty tankers will begin their journey from Kalamboli and Boisar railway stations in and near Mumbai on Monday to load liquid medical oxygen Vizag, Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro, officials said.* It has also created a green corridor at the railway stations for the fast movement of the train. Ramps at other locations would also be ready in a couple of days by the time the tankers reach those locations.* To ensure that parameters of transportation are tested, the railways have already organised trials at various locations. "DBKM wagon was placed at Kalamboli goods shed in Mumbai on 15.04.2021 and a T-1618 tanker loaded with LMO was also brought here. Joint measurements were taken by representatives of Industry and Railways," it informed in the release.* Many states including Maharashtra, Delhi, Madhya Pradesh have said they are facing a severe shortage of medical oxygen as the Covid-19 pandemic is tightening its grip over the nation. Earlier this week, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray sought the Centre's assistance in oxygen supply as he said that there was a shortage of medical oxygen in the state.* Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal also wrote to the Centre asking to ramp up oxygen supply as he highlighted that the situation is deteriorating every passing second.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/green-corridor-ro-ro-service-all-you-need-to-know-about-oxygen-express-train-101618751011302.html
18-04-2021||India||Manmohan Singh writes to PM Modi, suggests ways to tackle second wave of Covid-19||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday, listing five suggestions to tackle the Covid-19 vaccine shortage in India, which is currently fighting the second wave of the deadly virus. The former PM acknowledged the cloud of uncertainty among the people of the country who are “wondering when their lives would go back to normal”.In his letter, Singh asked Modi to make public orders for the coronavirus vaccine placed by the government and reveal how the doses will be distributed among the states based on a transparent system. He also suggested that the Prime Minister offer some kind of flexibility to states in defining categories of frontline workers who can get vaccinated against the virus even if they are below the age of 45 years. He clarified, “For instance, states may want to designate school teachers, bus, three-wheeler and taxi drivers, municipal and panchayat staff, and possibly lawyers who have to attend Courts as frontline workers.”Highlighting the vaccine shortage in the country, the former Prime Minister suggested that any vaccine that has been approved by credible authorities like the European Medical Agency should be allowed to be imported without insisting on domestic bridging trials. He said, “The relaxation could be for a limited period during which the bridging trials could be completed in India. All consumers of such vaccines could be duly cautioned that these vaccines are being allowed for use based on the approval granted by the relevant authority abroad.”Acknowledging the huge potential in the private sector, Singh recommended that the government should actively support domestic vaccine producers to expand their manufacturing facilities by providing them with funds and other concessions. He further added, “I believe this is the time to invoke the compulsory licensing provisions in the law so that a number of companies are able to produce the vaccines under a licence.”On Sunday morning, the Union Ministry of health and family welfare had announced that more than 122 million people in India have been vaccinated against coronavirus in the span of the last 92 days. It further added that in the last 24 hours, over 2.6 million people have been vaccinated in the country, pushing the total number of people inoculated to 122,622,590.Pointing out that the key to the fight against Covid-19 must be ramping up the vaccination effort, he said, “We must resist the temptation to look at the absolute numbers being vaccinated, and focus instead on the percentage of the population vaccinated.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-writes-to-pm-modi-suggests-ways-to-tackle-second-wave-of-covid19-101618750406940.html
18-04-2021||India||Railways set to run ‘Oxygen Express’ amid shortage for Covid-19 patients||Amid reports of shortage of oxygen supply for Covid-19 patients across several states, the Indian Railways is all set to operate ‘Oxygen Express’ trains for the transport of liquid medical oxygen (LMO) and oxygen cylinders, the ministry of railways said in a statement on Sunday.Noting that oxygen is a key element in the treatment of certain medical conditions in the Covid-19 infection, the railways ministry said it has explored the technical feasibility of transportation of LMO tankers at the request of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra governments.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe ministry said that a green corridor is being created to ensure fast movement of Oxygen Express trains, which will ply after the completion of technical trials. Following the trials, the railway ministry said, “empty tankers would be moved from Kalamboli, and Boisar railway stations in and near Mumbai, and sent to Vizag and Jamshedpur, Rourkela, and Bokaro, for loading of liquid medical oxygen tankers.”The announcement comes a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting in which he directed that the installation of approved medical oxygen plants should be sped up. Officials said that 162 PSA oxygen plants are being installed in 32 states and Union territories from PM CARES and one lakh cylinders are being procured, which will be supplied to states soon.“A supply mapping plan for 12 high burden states till 30th April has also been undertaken. The Prime Minister also said that supply of oxygen required for production of medicines and equipment necessary to handle the pandemic should also be ensured,” PM Modi’s office said in a statement.On Friday too, PM Modi had reviewed the status of oxygen availability to ensure adequate supply and told officials to ensure seamless and free movement of tankers carrying oxygen across the country.“The Government has exempted all interstate movement of oxygen tankers from registration of permits to enable easier movement. PM was informed that States and transporters have been asked to ensure tankers move round the clock with drivers working in shifts to ensure faster turnaround and adequate capacity to meet the surge in demand,” the Prime Minister’s office said, adding that cylinder filling plants will also be permitted to operate 24 hours with necessary safeguards.The Centre has also allowed industrial cylinders to be used for medical oxygen after due purging. “Similarly nitrogen and argon tankers will be automatically allowed to be converted to oxygen tankers to overcome the potential shortage of tankers,” the statement added. Efforts are also being made to import medical grade oxygen, officials told PM Modi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/railways-set-to-run-oxygen-express-amid-shortage-for-covid-19-patients-101618749267208.html
18-04-2021||India||PM Modi has to resign since he is responsible for Covid-19 surge : Mamata Banerjee||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday demanded Prime Minister Narendra Modis resignation for mishandling of the Covid-19 second wave and alleged that the prime minister failed in planning to contain the rise in the number of infections.Asserting that PM Narendra Modi did little to address the possible crisis in the supply of medical oxygen and vaccines in the five-six months when the virus had lost its sting before its resurgence this year, Banerjee accused Modi of exporting vaccines to other countries to boost his image in the international arena while there was a scarcity in his own nation."For the rise in Covid-19 cases PM Modi has to resign. He is the man responsible for the present situation. He did not make any administrative planning for 2021. And look at the situation in Gujarat."The BJP cannot tackle the Covid-19 spike even in Gujarat, and has brought the entire country, including West Bengal, to such a pass," the TMC supremo said.Highlighting that the West Bengal government had asked for 5.4 crore doses of vaccine from the prime minister for vaccinating every citizen of the state free of cost, the chief minister said, we are yet to get any response from him.West Bengal would have borne the entire cost of the Covid-19 vaccines, the chief minister had said."I will send a strong letter to the PM today on this issue. There is shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drug Remdesivir in the entire country. Who is responsible for this? Had they given us the consent, we would have been able to vaccinate every resident of the state," she said."The crisis of life saving materials has also been flagged by the Maharashtra government.But without attending this issue you (Modi) are attending election rallies in Bengal," she said.Accusing Modi of exporting vaccines to 80 countries, she said "we have no problem if you help others in the world, but first give it to Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bengal, and other states of the country. You failed to do so and was only concerned about your image-building exercise in the global community."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-has-to-resign-since-he-is-responsible-for-covid-19-surge-mamata-banerjee-101618748517593.html
18-04-2021||India||Covid in Bengal: Mamata Banerjee flags 3 issues to PM Modi, seeks ‘intervention'||West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi where she highlighted three issues which are important with regard to the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India which is leading to a huge spike in number of cases and fatalities.The issues which Banerjee mentioned in her letter are vaccination, supply of essential medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab and the supply of oxygen in West Bengal. She requested the Centre’s intervention in these areas. “As such, in the present situation, we have to significantly scale up our capacities to tackle the pandemic on war footing,” she added.At the beginning, Banerjee told PM Modi that another letter was addressed to him on February 24 where she asked him to allow West Bengal to purchase vaccine doses directly from state funds and launch a free vaccination campaign to cover the state’s entire population. “However, the state has not received the requisite clearance yet.”Here are the three issues which the Bengal CM asked the Centre to address:1. Vaccination:In the letter, Banerjee said that the density of population in West Bengal and more particularly in the capital city of Kolkata is extremely high, and a focussed and aggressive vaccination against the Covid-19 disease is very important. However, the supply of vaccine doses from the Centre has been ‘scarce and erratic’ which has negatively affected the state’s vaccination programmes, she said, adding that the vaccination programme is suffering due to uncertainties of supply from the Centre.Pointing out that almost 2.7 crore beneficiaries have to be vaccinated and 5.4 crore vaccine doses are needed, the CM requested Modi to urgently intervene and ensure the requirement of doses is fulfilled at the earliest.2. Supply of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab:Banerjee said the supply of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab is extremely scarce in West Bengal and the state needs 6,000 vials of Remdesivir and 1,000 vials of Tocilizumab on a daily basis. Currently, only 1,000 vials of Remdesivir is available in the state per day and there is no fresh supply of Tocilizumab, Banerjee added and urged the Prime Minister to see that all relevant authorities ensure the ramp up their efforts and ensure the steady supply of these medicines as soon as possible.West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee writes to PM Narendra Modi requesting supply of 5.4 crores more vaccine doses, steady supply of Remdesivir and Tocilizumab medicines & supply of oxygen as soon as possible. pic.twitter.com/mHYnjTn73x3. Supply of oxygen:The final point which the Bengal CM wrote in her letter to PM Modi was of oxygen supply for the infected patients. Amid the massive spike in cases and deaths in India, several states have reported a severe shortage of oxygen and have requested the Centre to address the issue.Banerjee aid the supply of oxygen in West Bengal must be assured and certain. “The Steel Authority of India Limiter (SAIL) is meeting up our need for the moment and we shall be grateful if you kindly instruct them too for ensuring steady supplies,” she added.Also Read| India’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate leaps from 3.05% to 13.54%West Bengal on Saturday reported the highest single-day spike of 7,713 new Covid cases, taking the caseload to 651,508, according to the state health department’s bulletin. More than 10,500 people have succumbed to the disease so far with 24 fresh deaths on Saturday. Kolkata, the worst hit region in the state, saw a record day jump of 1,998 new cases and 10 deaths on Saturday.The recent surge and deaths in West Bengal can be attributed to the political rallies and road shows being held as a part of the eight-phase state assembly elections where social distancing, wearing of face masks and other Covid protocols are not followed.CM Banerjee also said in her letter that sharp rise in the cases in West Bengal is primarily due to the large number of outsiders coming into the state for poll campaigning and other purposes “at the behest of some political parties”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-in-bengal-mamata-banerjee-flags-3-issues-to-pm-modi-seeks-intervention-101618748412054.html
18-04-2021||India||India’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate leaps from 3.05% to 13.54%||India’s weekly Covid-19 positivity rate has increased from 3.05 per cent to 13.54 per cent in the span of a month, while the daily positivity rate more than doubled from 8 per cent to 16.69 per cent, the Union health ministry said on Sunday. The weekly average national positivity rate on April 11 was 9.9 per cent.“The national weekly positivity rate has increased from 3.05% to 13.54% in the last one month,” said the ministry on Twitter, taking into consideration cases recorded in the last one month.Positivity rate is referred to the actual number of individuals who test positive for Covid-19 against the total number of tests conducted.Out of all states and Union territories (UT) which witnessed a spike in weekly positivity rates, Chhattisgarh leads the count. Between March 11 and 17 the state had a positivity rate of 2.38 per cent, while between April 11 and 17 it spiraled to 30.38 per cent. Goa was next with an increased weekly rate of 24.24 per cent from 5.17 per cent in the same time period. At 24.17, per cent Maharashtra trailed right behind at third position.Dr VK Paul, NITI Aayog Member (Health), said at a press conference on April 13 that the coming four weeks are going to be very critical, the nation has to come together to fight off this pandemic."People's participation is vital to control the second wave. The next four weeks are going to be very critical. The entire country has to come together and make efforts to fight the pandemic." Paul told reporters.Other states and UTs which witnessed a record spike in their weekly positivity rates are Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Ladakh, Haryana, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Puducherry, Chandigarh, and Delhi.Of all the states and UTs which are witnessing a current surge in positivity rates, Dadra and Nagar Haveli is the only UT which has recorded no fatalities in the last 24 hours (till Sunday morning), while Maharashtra has recorded the most number of fatalities at 419.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-weekly-covid-19-positivity-rate-leaps-from-3-05-to-1354-101618747419978.html
18-04-2021||India||More young people testing Covid positive, different symptoms this time: Experts||As India is witnessing the second wave of Covid-19, many young people are testing positive for the viral disease as compared to older people and are reporting symptoms different than what were common when the infection initially began spreading, an expert from a Delhi-based diagnostic lab told news agency ANI on Sunday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“A lot of young people are testing Covid positive as compared to old people. Symptoms are different this time. Many are complaining of dry mouth, gastrointestinal issues, nausea, loose tools, red eyes, and headache. Everyone doesn't complain of fever,” Dr Gauri Agarwal, founder-director, Genestrings Diagnostic Centre, was quoted as saying by the agency. A lot of young people testing COVID positive as compared to old people. Symptoms are different this time. Many are complaining of dry mouth, gastrointestinal issues, nausea, loose tools, red eyes & headache. Everyone doesn't complain of fever: Genestrings Diagnostic Centre chief https://t.co/3JkPwWC0siDelhi's chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had recently said that 65 per cent of new patients are below the age of 45."We are also seeing children under the ages of 12 and 15 being admitted with symptoms in the second wave. Last year there were practically no children," Khusrav Bajan, a consultant at Mumbai's PD Hinduja National Hospital and a member of Maharashtra's Covid-19 taskforce, was quoted as saying by news agency AFP. Experts, however, say that more data is needed to back up the anecdotal evidence in India, with genome sequencing of samples playing a key role."Sequencing will tell you about the mutant that's emerging," said virologist Shahid Jameel. But it doesn't take away from everything else that you should be doing - that is to wear a mask and avoid crowded places."The remarks come on a day when India logged over two lakh Covid-19 cases for the fourth consecutive day with which the total infection tally went up to 14.78 million. Another doctor cited by news agency ANI, Dr Shyam Agrawal of Delhi's Sir Gangaram Hospital, said that according to a study of the molecular basis, 60% of strain is "double mutant" which is extremely dangerous. While several states have imposed weekend and night curfews, he suggested that only a long period of lockdown can break the chain of transmission of the virus.In line with the Centre’s call for massive testing, Dr Gauri Agarwal told ANI that testing has gone up but the testing labs are facing several challenges including calls for home collection of samples and the timely updating of data. “There's a massive surge in calls for home collection which is difficult to handle. There's no problem with infrastructure/machines. The problem lies with the government-mandated rule to do ICMR entry within 24 hours,” the Genestrings Diagnostic Centre’s chief said.On Saturday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting with top officials in which he stressed that there is no substitute for testing, tracking and treatment. Early testing and proper tracking remain key to reduce mortality, his office said in a statement.As PM Modi discussed the status of medicines, oxygen supply, ventilators and vaccination, he assured, “India had defeated Covid last year and India can do it again, with the same principles but faster speed and coordination.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/more-young-people-testing-covid-positive-different-symptoms-this-time-experts-101618746510073.html
18-04-2021||India||Covid-19: DMK chief Stalin urges PM Modi to dispatch 20 lakh doses to Tamil Nadu||DMK president M K Stalin on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to direct officials to send 20 lakh Covid-19 vaccine doses 'requisitioned' by the Tamil Nadu government immediately and ensure supplies commensurate with the state's population.In view of rapid increase in the number of people getting infected by Covid-19, 'universal vaccination' is the need of the hour to protect lives, the DMK chief said in a letter to the Prime Minister and appealed to him to 'take a policy decision swiftly,' over it.Tamil Nadu would need more vaccine doses than allotted now to accomplish effective vaccinations, break the cycle of infection and flatten the curve, he said.Now, there was a 'huge shortage of vaccines' across the state and there 'are news reports' to suggest that the people who visit government hospitals for vaccination were returning for want of vaccine availability, Stalin, the leader of opposition claimed.Stalin requested Modi to intervene and direct the Ministry handling the matter "to supply more number of Covaxin and Covishield vaccines to Tamil Nadu commensurate with the population of the state besides immediately sending 20 lakh vaccines (doses) as requisitioned by the state government."The Centre should allow states to independently procure drugs, vaccines and medical equipment as the pandemic affected states could not wait every time for Centre's nod for 'each and everything,' he said.Tamil Nadu had on Saturday reported 9,344 new Covid-19 cases pushing the caseload to 9,80,728. Till date, 'only 46.70 lakh people' have been vaccinated out of which, 40.64 lakh were administered the first dose and 6.05 lakh the second dose, he said. Tamil Nadu Assembly polls were held on April 6 and counting of votes is scheduled for May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-dmk-chief-stalin-urges-pm-modi-to-dispatch-20-lakh-doses-to-tamil-nadu-101618745274616.html
18-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Kejriwal sends an SOS to PM, asks for more Covid-19 beds, oxygen and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.‘Need your help’: Arvind Kejriwal writes to PM Narendra Modi amid Covid crisisDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking enhanced supply of oxygen and beds for Covid-19 patients in the Capital. Read MoreManmohan Singh writes to PM Modi, makes suggestions on Covid-19 vaccinationFormer prime minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, where he raised the issue of vaccination. Read MoreDelhi govt asks railways to provide Covid-care coaches at 2 stationsThe Delhi government wrote to the Indian Railways on Sunday requesting its support to arrange for bed facilities for the patients at Anand Vihar and Shakur Basti stations to tackle the massive surge of Covid-19 cases in the national capital. Read MoreIndia's daily Covid-19 positivity rate doubles from 8% to 16.69% in 12 daysThe coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to spread fast across India. The country has been making records in terms of single-day rise in cases. Read MoreIPL 2021: KKR's Rahul Tripathi takes a stunning catch running backwards to dismiss Virat Kohli – WATCHVirat Kohli's quest to get to 6000 IPL runs would have to wait, thanks to an incredible piece of fielding by Rahul Tripathi of Kolkata Knight Riders during Match 10 of the IPL 2021 in Chennai on Sunday. Read MoreFatima Sana Shaikh channels her Ajeeb Daastaans character in ₹18.5k sareeFatima Sana Shaikh is riding high on the success of her film Majnu, which is part of the multi-story film, Ajeeb Daastaans, and the Dangal fame actor has been posting about the many positive reviews her character, Lipakshi, has been receiving. Read MoreRecipe: Give vegan a tantalizing twist with this Spicy Garlic TofuMade of condensed soy milk and then pressing the resulting curds into blocks in a cheese-making-like process, tofu is a silken soft food item which can be whipped up in various ways to appeal to your taste buds. Read MorePrachi Desai shares casting couch experience, says it was a ‘big film’ and director called her even after she said noPrachi Desai said that she was asked for sexual favours in order to be cast in a ‘big film’ but she refused to give in. She added that the director called her, even after she turned down the offer, and she reiterated her stand. Read MoreWatch: Nail-biting video shows big doggo rescuing little doggo from poolIf rescue stories, where doggos stuck in a sticky spot getting rescued by humans, leave you teary-eyed with happiness then this video of a bigger doggo rescuing its doggo sibling may melt your heart instantly. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-kejriwal-sends-an-sos-to-pm-asks-for-more-covid-19-beds-101618743427308.html
18-04-2021||India||Tharoor writes to Kerala Guv; requests postponement of physical examinations||Congress MP Shashi Tharoor on Sunday requested Kerala Governor Arif Mohammed Khan for postponement of all "physical conducted examinations" until such time as either COVID is past, or online examinations can be conducted.In a tweet, Tharoor wrote, "I am pleased to say that I have had an excellent conversation with Governor of Kerala Arif Mohammed Khan, who heard me out sympathetically and has promised to consider the matter in his capacity as Chancellor/Visitor of all state universities.""Irresponsible to conduct physical exams now," he added.In another tweet, the Congress leader attached a letter and wrote, "Following our conversation, and at his request, I have also sent him my own representation in writing so that it is a matter of official record."Shashi Tharoor in his letter to the Governor, said, "I am writing to convey to you the desperate concern of students and parents about the fact that so many universities and colleges in Kerala are unwisely proceeding with examinations in crowded examination centres despite the mounting COVID pandemic.""I am already the recipient of hundreds of representations from students of Kerala University, Kerala Technological University, Calicut University, Mahatma Gandhi University, CUSAT, the Kerala University of Health Sciences, the College of Agriculture in Vellayani, and from LLb students who have to take examinations state-wide between tomorrow (Monday 19th) and April 28," he wrote.Shashi Tharoor further added, "I implore you, as a chancellor/visitor of Kerala's universities, to take matters in hand and decree a postponement of all physical conducted examinations until such time as either COVID is past, or online examinations can be conducted."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tharoor-writes-to-kerala-guv-requests-postponement-of-physical-examinations-101618741599448.html
18-04-2021||India||'Must resist temptation': Manmohan Singh's 5 suggestions for PM on Covid-19||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the raging coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic, where he raised the issue of vaccination. Singh called for "expanding the nationwide vaccination programme to more beneficiaries" to successfully manage the pandemic."We must resist the temptation to look at the absolute numbers being vaccinated, and focus instead on the percentage of the population vaccinated," Singh said in his letter.Noting that India currently has vaccinated only a small fraction of its population, Singh said he is certain that with the right policy design, "we can do much better and very quickly".Also Read | India's daily Covid-19 positivity rate doubles from 8% to 16.69% in 12 daysThe former prime minister also asked the Centre to tell about the Covid vaccine orders placed for the next six months, and how these will be distributed to the states.The Congress leader suggested that the Centre may retain 10 per cent for distribution based on emergency needs "but other than that, states should have a clear signal of likely availability so that they can plan their roll out." He added that the states should be given some flexibility to define categories of frontline workers who can be vaccinated even if they are below 45 years.Currently, people above 45 years of age are eligible for vaccination.In the list of suggestions to the Centre, Singh also appealed to PM Modi to assist vaccine producers "with funds and other concessions" so that they expand their manufacturing facilities quickly.The letter comes a day after the Congress Working Committee (CWC) held a meeting on the Covid-19 situation. Singh is part of the CWC along with other senior Congress leaders.Earlier in the day, the Union ministry of health and family welfare, announced that India vaccinated more than 122 million people against the Covid-19 in a span of just 92 days. The United States achieved a similar feat in 97 days while China achieved a similar milestone in 108 days, the ministry also said.In the last 24 hours, India vaccinated more than 2.6 million people, pushing the total number of vaccinated people to 122,622,590 people, it added.In terms of cases, the nationwide tally rose to 14,788,109 after 2,61,500 people tested positive for Covid-19. The number of total fatalities increased to 177,150 after 1,501 people succumbed to the viral disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manmohan-singh-writes-to-pm-modi-makes-suggestions-on-covid-19-vaccination-101618742678619.html
18-04-2021||India||Kerala's Kozhikode sees stringent Covid-19 restrictions on Sunday||After the Kozhikode administration announced stringent restrictions on Sunday, the city witnessed strict adherence to the orders.The roads were seen as empty, and only a few people were seen on the roads as essential shops remained open under the orders.Two days after a state-wide mass testing drive in which 42,000 tests were conducted, the district administration imposed strict regulations in the city.Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao said in a statement that the district will be under stringent restrictions on Sundays while public transport, essential shops will not be affected.In the mass testing drive, the positivity rate of the district was reported above 20 per cent.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/keralas-kozhikode-sees-stringent-covid-19-restrictions-on-sunday-101618740721797.html
18-04-2021||India||Kejriwal sends an SOS to PM Modi, asks for more Covid-19 beds, oxygen||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking more beds and oxygen for coronavirus disease patients as he said the Covid-19 situation in the national capital was "very serious”. In his letter to PM Modi, Kejriwal appealed regarding urgent supply of oxygen and allocation of more beds for Covid-19 patients in hospitals run by the central government. "The coronavirus situation in Delhi has become very serious. There is a severe shortage of corona beds and oxygen. Almost all the ICU beds are full. All of us are trying our level best but we need your help," Kejriwal wrote in the letter in Hindi."There are about 10,000 beds in central government hospitals in Delhi, out of which only 1800 beds are reserved for corona patients. We request to increase this to 7000 beds in view of the seriousness of the situation," he also said.The Delhi chief minister also thanked PM Modi for instructing the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) to set up 500 Covid-19 beds and asked for the numbers to be increased by 1000. "So far, there has been a lot of support from the central government in this pandemic. I hope that you will definitely help us on the relevant topics as well," Kejriwal said.This comes as Delhi is battling with the fourth wave of the coronavirus pandemic, during which Covid-19 cases have risen multiple folds as the city broke records of daily cases reported in previous waves. On Saturday, Delhi logged 24,375 fresh cases of viral disease in the sharpest spike in a single day so far. It also reported 167 fatalities in the span of 24 hours, which pushed the death toll to nearly 12,000. On April 16, 19,486 Covid-19 cases and 141 related deaths were reported in the city.Earlier in the day, Kejriwal said he has requested Union health minister Harsh Vardhan and home minister Amit Shah to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in hospitals under the central government. He also alerted the Centre that the shortage of beds and oxygen could trigger a major crisis any moment as the situation was deteriorating every passing second. "There are less than 100 ICU beds left in Delhi. We are facing a major shortage of oxygen too. Last night, a private hospital told us that they almost ran into a disaster situation last night with a major shortage of oxygen supply,” he said in a video conference."I have requested him (Shah) to reserve at least 7,000 beds for Covid-19. The situation in Delhi is deteriorating every second. I also requested that oxygen supply be provided to us immediately,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kejriwal-sends-an-sos-to-pm-modi-asks-for-more-covid-19-beds-oxygen-101618741051046.html
18-04-2021||India||Union minister VK Singh seeks bed for Covid+ ‘brother’, tweets clarification||Union minister of state for road transport and highways Vijay Kumar Singh on Sunday took to social media to seek help for a person who tested positive for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) but was unable to find a bed in any hospital in Uttar Pradesh’s Ghaziabad. However, his tweet generated a lot of buzz on the micro-blogging website, prompting Singh to issue a clarification.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here “@dm_ghaziabad Please check this out. Please help us, my brother needs a bed for corona treatment. Now beds are not available in Ghaziabad.@shalabhmani@PankajSinghBJP@Gen_VKSingh,” he posted a tweet which was partly written in Hindi.Am amazed at IQ level of trawls and fastest finger channels. Tweet was forward of a tweet to DM and says "please look into this". Forwarded tweet is in hindi. Bed needs have been sorted out by DM & CMO , hence to DM. Suggest correct your understanding. https://t.co/BVZyZgQoDGVK Singh, who is also an MP from Ghaziabad, later clarified that he is not related to the person by blood and his tweet was for the district administration to reach out to the infected person. “Clarification: I tweeted this request so that the district administration can reach the person in need and provide him with medical care that his brother requires. He is not my brother by relation, but by bond of humanity. I think it's an alien concept to some,” the Union minister’s tweet read. He, however, deleted it minutes after posting it.Shortly after, VK Singh, who is a former chief of Army staff, posted a tweet slamming trollers and also informed that the bed requirement issue for the coronavirus patient has been sorted out by the local administration and chief minister’s office. “Am amazed at IQ level of trawls and fastest finger channels. Tweet was forward of a tweet to DM and says "please look into this". Forwarded tweet is in hindi. Bed needs have been sorted out by DM & CMO , hence to DM. Suggest correct your understanding,” he wrote on the microblogging site.VK Singh’s post comes at a time when the country is reeling under the second wave of Covid-19 infections and Uttar Pradesh is among the 10 states reporting nearly 79% of daily new cases. On Saturday, the state reported 27,426 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease, the highest number of cases reported in 24 hours since the beginning of the pandemic.Uttar Pradesh is witnessing a Sunday lockdown, which will be imposed every week till May 15. The order came days after Allahabad High Court asked chief minister Yogi Adityanath to consider imposing complete lockdown-like measures for two to three weeks in areas worst hit by the virus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/union-minister-vk-singh-seeks-bed-for-covid-brother-tweets-clarification-101618739306106.html
18-04-2021||India||Wrong photo of Hathras rape victim on social media: Plea in HC for information on uploader||The Delhi High Court has sought responses of the Centre and social media platforms, Facebook, Google and Twitter on a plea seeking complete details of those who uploaded a wrong photo of the Hathras rape victim.Justice Prathiba M Singh issued notice to the Ministry of Electronics and Information Technologies and the social media platforms and asked them to place before the court, in a sealed cover, the basic subscriber information of the person(s) who uploaded videos and photos which showed a deceased woman as the rape victim.The direction came on the application moved by the widower of the deceased in his main petition in which he has contended that his wife's photograph was being circulated on various social media platforms wrongly depicting her as the victim of the unfortunate incident of rape and murder of a young girl at Hathras, Uttar Pradesh.In January, Facebook, Google and Twitter had told the court that they have blocked or taken down all links which incorrectly showed the deceased woman's photo as that of the Hathras rape victim.On the last date of hearing, Facebook and Google also told the court that they cannot on their own search for such links and remove them without a court or government order.The petitioner's lawyers told the court that a victim cannot be expected to keep on providing the links after they have brought the issue to the notice of the social media platforms.The court had also earlier said that "a victim cannot go on searching for links and making complaints. There has to be some other solution."The petitioner has also contended in his plea that even otherwise, revelation of the identity of the rape victim is an offence under the Indian Penal Code, though in the present matter image of a wrong person is in circulation.A 19-year-old Dalit woman was allegedly raped by four upper-caste men in Hathras on September 14, 2020. She died on September 29, 2020 at Delhi's Safdarjung Hospital during treatment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/wrong-photo-of-hathras-rape-victim-on-social-media-plea-in-hc-for-information-on-uploader-101618737560810.html
18-04-2021||India||Medical infrastructure helped Varanasi in fight against Covid-19, says PM Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday reviewed the Covid-19 situation in Uttar Pradesh’s Varanasi, which he represents in the Lok Sabha, and said the holy city has been able to fight the coronavirus disease because of its robust medical infrastructure, news agency ANI reported citing a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO).Also Read | PM Modi to chair meeting to review Covid-19 surge in Varanasi today“PM reiterated the importance of masks and urged all to ensure ‘do gaj ki doori’. He said that as a representative of Varanasi, he takes constant feedback from the public and in the last five-six years, medical infrastructure has advanced in Varanasi that has helped in the fight against Covid-19,” ANI quoted the PMO as saying.PM reiterated importance of masks & urged all to ensure 'do gaj ki doori'. He said that as a representative of Varanasi, he takes constant feedback from public & in last 5-6 years, medical infrastructure has advanced in Varanasi that has helped in the fight against #COVID19: PMOPrime Minister Modi began his review meeting at 11am, as tweeted by the PMO on Sunday morning. “The meeting will be attended by top officials, local administration and doctors who are involved in fighting Covid-19 in Varanasi,” read the tweet.At 11 AM, Prime Minister @narendramodi will be chairing a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in Varanasi. The meeting will be attended by top officials, local administration and doctors who are involved in fighting COVID in Varanasi.The Prime Minister’s review meeting came as Varanasi contributed 1664 Covid-19 cases on Saturday and witnessed eight deaths. Uttar Pradesh on Saturday witnessed 27,357 new cases of the coronavirus disease, a day after reporting its largest single-day rise of 27,426 fresh infections, according to a health department bulletin. Related deaths in the state rose by 120, its highest single-day toll since the beginning of the pandemic, the bulletin showed. On Friday, 103 people succumbed to the viral disease. Uttar Pradesh’s Covid-19 tally stands at 821,054, including 641,292 recoveries, 170,059 active cases and 9703 fatalities.Also Read | Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh under lockdown todayThe holy city first elected PM Modi as its Member of Parliament (MP) in 2014, in his very first parliamentary elections. Five years later, Varanasi re-elected him as its representative.The Union ministry of health and family welfare said on Sunday that India witnessed a record 261,500 new Covid-19 cases, making it the fourth consecutive rise of more than 200,000 daily cases. There were 1501 related deaths as well in this period. The country’s infection tally, as per the ministry’s dashboard, currently stands at 14,788,109 including 177,150 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/medical-infrastructure-helped-varanasi-in-fight-against-covid-19-says-pm-modi-101618737140809.html
18-04-2021||India||India becomes first nation to vaccinate 122 million in 92 days: Govt||India achieved the milestone of vaccinating close to 122 million people against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in a span of 92 days on Sunday, according to data released by the Union ministry for health and family welfare. The United States achieved a similar feat in 97 days while China achieved a similar feat in 108 days, the health ministry also said. India vaccinated more than 2.6 million people in the last 24 hours pushing the tally of vaccinated people to 122,622,590 people, it added.The states, which have recorded a daily surge in the number of cases and deaths, also reported high numbers of people vaccinated. Gujarat, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh accounted for 36% of the doses administered. All of these states over the past week reported their highest single-day surges in Covid-19 cases since the onset of the pandemic and the rise in the pace of the vaccination could lead to a curb in infections. These four states along with West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala accounted for 59.5% of the total doses administered, the government said.India began its vaccination drive on January 16 initially administering jabs to healthcare and frontline workers across government and private sectors. Sanitation workers, defence personnel, police and other paramilitary forces were also inoculated in Phase I. The second phase of Covid-19 vaccination programme was launched on March 1 when the elderly population over 60 years of age and people aged 45 and above with comorbid conditions were allowed to be vaccinated. On April 1, India allowed everyone above the age of 45 to get vaccinated irrespective of any comorbidities.Maharashtra, Delhi and Chhattisgarh were among the top three states and Union territories that reported the highest number of deaths in the last 24 hours. India reported 1,501 fresh fatalities on Sunday. Seven other states and Union territories other than these three recorded a surge in the number of deaths over the past 24 hours. Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan reported a surge in deaths. These 10 states accounted for 82.94% of the deaths reported in the last 24 hours.Ten states and Union territories - Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan - accounted for 79% of the new cases reported in the last 24 hours. Sixteen states and Union Territories - Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Gujarat, Haryana, Punjab, Telangana, Uttarakhand, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu and Rajasthan - are witnessing an upward trajectory in daily new cases. The daily positivity rate in the nation doubled from 8.00% to 16.69% in the last 12 days while the weekly positivity numbers increased from 3.05% to 13.54% in the last month.Chhattisgarh with 30.38% reported the highest weekly positivity rate among all the states. India currently has 1.8 million active cases which account for 12% of the total positive cases reported in the country. Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala account for 65.02% of these cases while Maharashtra alone accounts for 38.09% of the total active caseload in the country.India’s recovery rate dropped to 86.62% with the nation reporting 138,423 recoveries taking the tally of recovered people to 12,809,643 on Sunday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-becomes-first-nation-to-vaccinate-122-million-in-92-days-govt-101618733397254.html
18-04-2021||India||Remdesivir production to be doubled in next 15 days: Union minister Mandaviya||Union minister Mansukh Mandviya said on Sunday the production of Remdesivir will be doubled in the next 15 days, amid reports of shortage of the anti-viral drug in several states across the country, battling the spiralling cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19).“The government of India is making all efforts to increase the production of Remdesivir injection in the country and to ensure it is available at a low price. Currently, 150,000 vials of Remdesivir are being produced per day and, in the next 15 days, the production will be doubled to 300,000 vials each day,” Mandviya said in a video message on his Twitter handle.“The existing number of plants in which Remdesivir is being produced is 20 and an equal number of additional plants have been sanctioned as well. We’re making all efforts to ensure that in the next few days, as many injections as possible are produced per day,” Mandviya, the Union minister of chemicals and fertilisers, said.देश में #Remdesivir का उत्पादन डबल यानी की 3 लाख वाइल प्रतिदिन की क्षमता से जल्द ही शुरू किया जाएगा । pic.twitter.com/9Lqnxttne6On the issue of price, the minister said that several pharmaceutical companies have slashed the retail price of the drug from ₹5000 or more to less than ₹3500, which, he said, will be help patients immensely. According to the national treatment protocol, Remdesivir, an injectable drug, is one of the investigation drugs approved for use in treating Covid-19 patients who are under hospitalisation.Also Read | Seven pharma firms slash prices of Remdesivir after govt interventionThe Centre has distributed close to 700,000 vials to various states and Union territories, especially the worst-affected ones, in the last five days. However, despite this, several states have reported an acute shortage of the drug, with long queues being seen outside chemists’ shops in some of the worst-affected cities. The state of Maharashtra, whose infection tally has been the highest since the early days of the pandemic, has even accused the central government of warning companies not to give stock of Remdesivir injections to Maharashtra as it is a state governed by three opposition parties.Also Read | Fadnavis accuses Maharashtra police of harassing Remdesivir supplierIn the last few days, law enforcement agencies have also arrested people for either hoarding Remdesivir injections or selling fake vials across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/remdesivir-production-to-be-doubled-in-next-15-days-union-minister-mandviya-101618731218048.html
18-04-2021||India||RTGS services unavailable till 2pm today: All you need to know||The Real-Time Gross Settlement (RTGS) service will be unavailable for 14 hours on Sunday due to a technical upgrade, according to the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) notice issued earlier this week. However, people can use the National Electronic Fund Transfer (NEFT) service for any transaction which will continue to remain operational as RTGS won't be available between 12am and 2pm on Sunday."A technical upgrade of RTGS targeted to enhance the resilience and to further improve the Disaster Recovery Time of the RTGS system, is scheduled after the close of business of April 17, 2021," the central bank said on Monday.RBI has asked its member banks to notify their customers regarding the service unavailability so that they can plan their transactions accordingly. "Member banks may inform their customers to plan their payment operations accordingly. RTGS Members will continue to receive event update(s) through system broadcasts,” it said in the statement.Last week, the central bank proposed to expand RTGS and NEFT facilities to non-bank payment system firms in a phased manner. The objective of the move is to encourage the participation of non-banks across payment systems.Under RTGS, there is the continuous and real-time settlement of fund transfers individually on a transaction-by-transaction basis without netting. The medium is a safer and secure system for funds transfer without any upper or maximum ceiling. It was made available 24x7 from December 14 last year. India is one of the few countries where the service works on all days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rtgs-services-unavailable-till-2pm-today-all-you-need-to-know-101618730708455.html
18-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Manish Sisodia flags oxygen shortage in Delhi hospitals and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Manish Sisodia flags oxygen shortage in Delhi hospitals, asks Centre for moreDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Sunday expressed concern over shortage of oxygen supply at hospitals in Delhi amid a huge surge in Covid-19 cases and said that the city government has appealed to the Centre to allot more oxygen to the Capital. Read MoreRahul Gandhi suspends all his rallies in West Bengal in view of Covid-19Congress leader Rahul Gandhi cancelled all his public meetings in West Bengal, where voting in three of the eight-phase assembly election is yet to be held, hours after taking a jibe at PM Modi for assembling large crowds at his rallies. Read MoreEast India extremely vulnerable to climate change: AnalysisEight eastern states of Jharkhand, Mizoram, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh, and West Bengal are most vulnerable to climate change and should be prioritised for funding and efforts to capacitate them against the associated risks, a report released by some of India’s top institutes has assessed. Read MoreOfficials in Rajasthan asked to ensure oxygen supply as Covid-19 cases increaseThe Rajasthan health department directed all divisional commissioners and collectors on Saturday to ensure adequate supply of oxygen cylinders to government hospitals, as Covid cases surge in the state. Read More‘SRH medical staff will take the right decision’: VVS Laxman reveals why T Natarajan didn’t play against Mumbai IndiansSunrisers Hyderabad mentor VVS Laxman on Saturday revealed the reason why left-arm pacer T Natarajan was benched for the MI clash in Chennai. Read MoreAnu Aggarwal on life of struggle in Bollywood: 'I was managing a house alone and single. I didn’t have sugar daddies'Anu Aggarwal became a household name after the massive success of her debut film, Aashiqui, which released in 1990. However, her hardships did not end there. Read MoreHere comes the bride..: Woman wears wedding gown to get vaccine after Covid-19 cancelled her receptionA woman from Baltimore, US has grabbed the attention of netizens with her choice of attire to visit a clinic for taking her Covid-19 vaccine. Read MoreWatch | Who's to blame, & the way forward: Harsh Vardhan responds||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-manish-sisodia-flags-oxygen-shortage-in-delhi-hospitals-as-covid-19-crisis-worsens-and-all-the-latest-news-101618730120803.html
18-04-2021||India||Weekend curfews, restrictions across states spell bad news for migrant workers||The recent spike in coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases across India cast its shadow on trade and business with migrant workers bearing the brunt of strict restrictions put in place by states. Hundreds of migrant workers on Sunday were stranded in Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur as the government’s Sunday lockdowns affected public transport. The workers said that the buses were put on election duty due to Uttar Pradesh’s gram panchayat polls.“Two buses go to Azamgarh in the morning but they are fully packed. The officials told us that all buses are on election duty,” a migrant worker was quoted as saying by news agency ANI. He was among 500 others who were waiting in Kanpur for a bus headed towards Azamgarh.Kanpur | Migrant workers stranded as public transport takes a hit due to Covid-induced weekend lockdown. "2 buses go to Azamgarh in morning but they were already full. Officials say all the buses are on election duty. There are at least 500 people waiting here," they say pic.twitter.com/cG7TEEqOUwThe Kaushambi Inter-State Bus Terminal over the past few days saw an increased footfall of migrant workers working in Noida, Ghaziabad and Delhi. Some of those men and women said they were travelling back home to cast their votes in the rural body elections and that their return was being spurred by fears of another lockdown. Migrant workers were also seen with their families waiting for buses at Delhi Meerut Expressway, near Indirapuram.Migrant workers in Gurugram last week also started to leave for their homes after the Haryana government imposed a night curfew in the state. The people returning home to their families in Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Bihar said that fears of a lockdown has led them to arrive at this decision. “There is no such information that we will announce a lockdown. So, (it is not clear) why they are getting this impression and taking extreme steps,” Yash Garg, Gurugram’s deputy commissioner told HT.Key transit points in Delhi like Anand Vihar ISBT and New Delhi railway station also saw large numbers of migrant labourers headed home as they feared that the rise in cases in the Capital would force the city towards another lockdown. “I am noticing the Covid-19 situation closely as it will help me decide when it is best to leave the city. Night curfew has already been imposed, lockdown could be next,” Kumar, a migrant worker told HT.Lockdown like measures introduced by several state governments meant a loss of livelihood for many migrant workers working in India’s major cities. Migrant workers, who form an essential part of any city’s economy, faced difficulties when the Centre imposed its first lockdown in 2020 following the first wave of Covid-19. Most of them were unable to find transport and had to walk home in desperation and many died due to exertion and lack of food.The recent surge in Covid-19 cases has adversely affected these workers in all major cities like Mumbai and Delhi. Migrant workers in Mumbai after noticing the surge in cases started leaving for their native states starting at the beginning of this month. Maharashtra continues to see migrant workers leave as the state remains worst-hit by Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/weekend-curfews-restrictions-across-states-spell-bad-news-for-migrant-workers-101618729366885.html
18-04-2021||India||If required, Govt to respond with fiscal steps: Niti Aayog official on Covid-19||The country needs to prepare for "greater uncertainty" in terms of consumer as well as investor sentiments due to the second wave of coronavirus infections, and the government will respond with fiscal measures as and when required, Niti Aayog Vice Chairman Rajiv Kumar said on Sunday.While acknowledging that the present situation has become far more difficult than it was in the past due to rising coronavirus infections, Kumar remained hopeful that the country's economy will grow 11 per cent in the current fiscal ending March 31, 2022.India is grappling with spiralling number of Covid cases as well as related deaths, forcing many state governments to put in place restrictions on movement of people.According to Kumar, India was on the verge of defeating Covid-19 completely but some new strains from the UK and other countries have made the situation far more difficult this time around."Apart from their direct impact on some sectors like the services sector, the second wave will increase the uncertainty in the economic environment which can have wider indirect effects on economic activities. So, we need to prepare for greater uncertainty, both in consumer and investor sentiments," Kumar told PTI.To a query on whether the government is considering coming up with a fresh stimulus, the Niti Aayog vice chairman said this question has to be answered after the finance ministry analyses both the direct and indirect impact of the second Covid wave."And as you have seen from RBI's response, the expansionary policy stance has been continued and I am sure the government will respond with necessary fiscal measures also as and when it is necessary," Kumar said.Earlier this month, the Reserve Bank left the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 4 per cent but maintained an accommodative stance to boost the economy.In 2020, the Union government had announced the 'Aatmanirbhar Bharat' package to perk up the economy and the overall stimulus was estimated to be worth around ₹27.1 lakh crore, which was more than 13 per cent of the national GDP.Regarding growth in the current financial year, Kumar said that various estimates suggest that it will be around 11 per cent.In its last policy review, the RBI projected a growth of 10.5 per cent for FY'22 while the Economic Survey, tabled in Parliament earlier this year, estimated 11 per cent growth during the year.The country's economy is projected to contract by 8 per cent in 2020-21, as per official estimates.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/if-required-govt-to-respond-with-fiscal-steps-niti-aayog-official-on-covid19-101618727874761.html
18-04-2021||India||Declare national health emergency, Sibal urges PM Modi as Covid-19 cases see record rise||Amid a steep rise in coronavirus cases, senior Congress leader Kapil Sibal on Sunday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to declare a national health emergency.The former Union minister also called on the Election Commission to declare a moratorium on election rallies in view of the sharp rise in COVID-19 cases."COVID-19 infections faster than recoveries. Modiji: Declare a National Health Emergency. Election Commission: Declare a moratorium on election rallies. Courts: Protect people’s lives," Sibal tweeted.COVID-19Infections faster than recoveries Modiji :Declare a National Health Emergency Election Commission :Declare a moratorium on election rallies Courts :Protect people’s livesA record single-day rise of 2,61,500 coronavirus infections has taken India's total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,47,88,109, while active cases have surpassed the 18-lakh mark, according to Union Health Ministry data updated on Sunday.The country has recorded over 2 lakh cases consecutively for the last four days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/declare-national-health-emergency-sibal-urges-pm-modi-as-covid-19-cases-see-record-rise-101618727612723.html
18-04-2021||India||East India extremely vulnerable to climate change: Analysis||Eight eastern states of Jharkhand, Mizoram, Odisha, Chhattisgarh, Assam, Bihar, Arunachal Pradesh, and West Bengal are most vulnerable to climate change and should be prioritised for funding and efforts to capacitate them against the associated risks, a report released by some of India’s top institutes has assessed.Researchers at the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and Indian Institute of Technology at Mandi and Guwahati, funded by the department of science and technology have together done the assessment by defining vulnerabilities of states and districts using the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Fifth Assessment Report (AR5).The AR5 defines the risk of climate change as the interaction of three factors, namely, hazard, exposure and vulnerability, where vulnerability is defined as the predisposition to be adversely affected.“Vulnerability is basically a function of sensitivity and adaptive capacity. All states in India are vulnerable to climate change as per our assessment. But these eastern and central states are more vulnerable because of their poverty levels; lack of irrigation; low forest cover in some cases; low adaptive capacity of the health sector among other drivers,” NH Ravindranath, retired professor, Indian Institute of Science and co-researcher of the assessment said, explaining the rationale for prioritising these states for adaptation fund and also international aid.Sensitivity determines the impact of a climate hazard. The effect may be direct, such as a change in the crop yield due to a change in the mean, range, or variability of temperature; or it could be indirect—damage due to an increase in the frequency of coastal flooding owing to sea-level rise, as per the report.Some key indicators were selected for the assessment through discussions with state governments and scientists. These include-- percentage of population living below the poverty line; income share from natural resources; the proportion of marginal and small landholdings, women’s participation in the workforce; yield variability of food grains; the area under rainfed agriculture, forest area per 1000 rural population; area covered under crop insurance; density of healthcare workers and others. Weights were assigned to each of these indicators to calculate a score and all states were found to cross the threshold, making them vulnerable.“Approximately 90% districts in Assam, 80% in Bihar, and 60% in Jharkhand fall in the category of 153 most vulnerable districts, exhibiting a high level of concentration of vulnerable districts,” says the assessment released on Saturday. According to the study, the least vulnerable states were Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Sikkim, Punjab, Uttarakhand, Haryana, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Nagaland, Goa and Maharashtra.The authors clarify that the vulnerability indicators are relative and the assessment does not imply that Maharashtra is not vulnerable in an absolute sense. “It should also be noted that this vulnerability ranking is based on a set of indicators that were used in this assessment with a specific objective. These indicators predominantly focused on socio-economic drivers as well as those related to primary sector-based livelihood along with some biophysical and institutional factors,” the report said.For Jharkhand, the most vulnerable state as per the assessment, high proportion of BPL population, prevalence of rainfed agriculture, and high incidence of vector-borne diseases are the major drivers of vulnerability.A relatively higher rate of implementation of Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA), high road density and extensive railway network, a greater number of health care workers per 1000 population, and a low prevalence of vector-borne diseases were among the indicators found common in less vulnerable states.The authors have recommended a climate risk index to be developed for all states based on hazards and vulnerability of states.“The study reiterates the need for the 2020s to become a decade of climate action and building climate resilience. As a next step, it is also important to highlight the complexity and non-linearity of climate risks across Indian states. The focus needs to be on climate-proofing of geographies, economies and infrastructure at the state and district level. Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) analysis has already found that more than 75% of Indian districts are vulnerable to extreme climate events. Identification of risks at a granular level via building a climate risk atlas would be crucial,” said Abinash Mohanty, Programme Lead, CEEW said responding to the DST report.Another international study has flagged India’s vulnerability to climate change this week. Monsoon rainfall in India is likely to become stronger and more erratic according to an analysis by a team of German researchers at the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) and Ludwig-Maximilian University in Munich, Germany (LMU) that compared more than 30 climate models. The study published in the journal of Earth System Dynamics predicts more extremely wet years in the future with grave consequences for India’s economy, food systems and agriculture. “We have found robust evidence for an exponential dependence: For every degree Celsius of warming, monsoon rainfalls will likely increase by about 5%,” said lead author Anja Katzenberger from the Potsdam Institute for Climate Impact Research (PIK) in a statement.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/east-india-extremely-vulnerable-to-climate-change-analysis-101618725805562.html
18-04-2021||India||IIT-JEE (Main) entrance exam postponed amid surge in Covid-19 cases||Engineering entrance exam JEE-Mains scheduled to be held from April 27-30 has been postponed in view of the COVID-19 situation, Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal 'Nishank' announced on Sunday."Given the current #covid19 situation, I have advised @DG_NTA to postpone the JEE (Main) – 2021 April Session. I would like to reiterate that safety of our students & their academic career are @EduMinOfIndia's and my prime concerns right now," Nishank tweeted.According to an official order by the National Testing Agency (NTA), "looking at the present situation of COVID-19 pandemic and also taking into account the safety and well being of candidates and examination functionaries, it has been decided to postpone JEE-(Main) April session"."The revised dates will be announced later on and at least 15 days before the examination," the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iitjee-main-entrance-exam-postponed-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101618723825359.html
18-04-2021||India||PM Modi to chair meeting to review Covid-19 surge in Varanasi today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will chair a meeting at 11am on Sunday to review the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) situation in Uttar Pradesh's Varanasi. Senior officials of the local administration and doctors from the city will also take part in the meeting, according to a tweet by the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).Click here for full Covid-19 coverage"At 11 AM, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be chairing a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in Varanasi. The meeting will be attended by top officials, local administration and doctors who are involved in fighting COVID in Varanasi," the tweet said.At 11 AM, Prime Minister @narendramodi will be chairing a meeting to review the COVID-19 situation in Varanasi. The meeting will be attended by top officials, local administration and doctors who are involved in fighting COVID in Varanasi.On Saturday, in a meeting with top officials, the PM reviewed the availability and supply of ventilators, oxygen and medicines and called for utilising the nation's pharmaceutical capacity across private and public sectors to produce vaccines. Adding that there was no substitute the testing, tracking and treatment, he said, “Early testing and proper tracking remains key to reduce mortality and local administrations need to be proactive and sensitive to people’s concerns.”Also Read: PM reviews Covid-19 situation as India logs over 260k casesThe Sunday's meeting comes in the backdrop of the nation recording another highest ever single-day surge in Covid-19 cases. As many as 261,500 fresh infections took the total tally to 14,788,109, while the 1,501 new deaths pushed the country's toll to 177,150.Varanasi, the PM's Lok Sabha constituency, has also witnessed a surge in the cases of Covid-19 like other urban areas of Uttar Pradesh. In view of the rising cases, the state government imposed a lockdown from Saturday 8pm till Monday 7am every week till May 15.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-to-chair-review-meeting-over-covid-19-surge-in-varanasi-today-101618719630259.html
18-04-2021||India||261,500 fresh infections take India's tally to over 14.78 million; 1,501 new deaths recorded in 24 hours||India registered its highest-ever single-day spike with 261,500 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and recorded 1501 fatalities, taking the tally to 14,788,109 and the death toll to 177,150, according to the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Sunday. The number of active cases in the country stands at 1801316, the health ministry’s dashboard at 9am showed.According to the health ministry, 12,809,643 people have recovered from the disease after 138,423 Covid-19 patients were cured in the last 24 hours. India has vaccinated more than 110 million people so far.Several cities, as well as rural areas, have been brought under strict lockdown-like measures. Most of the northern, central and western Indian cities, including Capital Delhi and financial hub Mumbai, will remain under strict weekend curfew as these metropolitan areas struggle to arrest the Covid-19 surge. Delhi reported its highest single-day surge since the onset of the pandemic on Saturday with more than 24,000 cases and Mumbai along with Pune remained among the worst affected urban areas in the nation as well as the world with more than 80,000 active cases. The nation’s largest state Uttar Pradesh also imposed a strict Sunday lockdown which will be followed every week until May 15 in a bid to curb the spread of the pandemic in the state.Along with the spike in the number of Covid-19 cases, India is also seeing a rise in hospitalisations as healthcare systems across several states and cities are buckling under pressure. Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Delhi and other states, which are seeing a surge in cases as well as deaths due to Covid-19, are facing issues like lack of medical oxygen, ICU beds and Remdesivir injections. People have been advised by the government to remain home in order to break the transmission of Covid-19. Experts have also urged people to go back to following the Covid-19 appropriate norms that they strictly adhered to during the onset of the pandemic in 2020 to battle this recent surge in cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-peak-in-india-s-daily-covid-19-count-261-500-fresh-infections-take-tall-101618717546050.html
18-04-2021||India||'I admire the ability...': Justice Chandrachud to lawyer observing Roza||Justice DY Chandrachud, a judge of the Supreme Court of India, has said he admires the "ability to fast for full days without a drop of water" in response to a lawyer's request that a matter he was hearing be listed after the holy month of Ramzan, Live Law reported.A bench of Justice Chandrachud and Justice MR Shah was hearing a Special Leave Petitions (SLP) arising out of a November 29, 2019, judgment of Allahabad High Court confirming the conviction of the petitioner for murder and the sentence of life imprisonment when the council said he needed time to file some documents and requested for the hearing to be listed after Ramzan."Ramzan is going on. The Covid-19 crisis is also going on. Could your Lordships please list this matter after Ramzan? It becomes problematic... I have been waiting the entire day (for the matter to reach)," the council said, according to Live Law.Following this exchange, the bench allowed the petitioner's counsel to take with him a copy of the juvenility report and inspect it, and also permitted him to file an affidavit in response to the report. The bench further directed that this exercise be carried out within three weeks and listed the SLP on May 10, 2021.Responding to this, Justice Chandrachud said, "I am sorry. You should have mentioned this in the morning and we could have adjourned the matter. Please go and relax. I admire the ability to fast for whole days without even a drop of water."During Ramzan, which is celebrated every ninth month of the Islamic calendar, Muslims observe a fast, also known as Roza. They do not eat anything from the time the sun rises to when it sets. Fasting is mandatory for all adult Muslims, unless they are sick, travelling, pregnant, diabetic, elderly, or on their menstrual cycle.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/i-admire-the-ability-justice-chandrachud-to-lawyer-observing-roza-101618716785740.html
18-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: India recorded 190,000 Covid-19 cases on an average this week and all the latest stories||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 9 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 190,000 average daily Covid-19 cases in India this week as infections see record riseIndia is currently in the grip of a deadly second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the country witnessing more than 200,000 daily infections since April 15, when the mark was breached for the first time. Read more here.'Plays a big role in our squad': David Warner comments on Kane Williamson's absence from SRH playing XIOne man everyone is expecting to come in and shore up SRH's middle-order is Kane Williamson. He was again missing from the team sheet on Saturday. Read more here. Covid-19: Uttar Pradesh under lockdown todayUttar Pradesh has announced a lockdown every Sunday across the state till May 15 in order to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Read more here. Rajasthan slashes RT-PCR test rate in private labs to ₹350Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot has directed private laboratories and hospitals to reduce the rate of RT-PCR test to detect coronavirus disease (Covid-19) to ₹350, which he said will be the lowest in the country. Read more here. Kareena Kapoor says she'd cook these dishes for Shah Rukh Khan, Saif Ali Khan; won't give anything to Karan JoharKareena Kapoor Khan reveals her menu for Saif Ali Khan, her sons, and Shah Rukh Khan, Karan Johar, Salman Khan, among many other celebs. Read more here. IPL 2021, MI vs SRH: Boult, Chahar star in MI's 13-run win over SRH﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-india-recorded-190-000-covid-19-cases-on-an-average-101618715791864.html
18-04-2021||India||Over 190,000 average daily Covid-19 cases in India this week as infections see record rise||India is currently in the grip of a deadly second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), with the country witnessing more than 200,000 daily infections since April 15, when the mark was breached for the first time. Since April 14, the number of related deaths, too, have been on the rise, with more than 1,000 people succumbing to the viral disease each day.Here’s a look at India’s Covid-19 numbers from this week, as well as other key points:(1.) The week started with India recording 168,912 new coronavirus cases, as well as 904 deaths, on April 12. This was for the first time since October last year that there were more than 900 fatalities in a single day. A day later, on April 13, India’s new daily cases and fatalities fell marginally to 161,736 and 879 respectively.Click here for Covid-19 updates for the day(2.) However, on April 14, the country saw another record rise of 184,372 infections, while the single-day death toll was recorded at 1027, crossing the mark for the first time since December 2020. On April 15, the 200,000 mark was also breached, as the infection tally rose by 200,739 cases while the related death toll was up by 1038 fatalities. Active caseload also saw a huge jump of 106,173.(3.) There was a record jump of 217,353 on April 16, followed by another record rise on April 17. The number of fatalities on the two days were 1185 and 1341 respectively. According to the Union ministry of health and family welfare’s (MoHFW) dashboard, India’s Covid-19 tally currently stands at 14,526,609, including 126,712,20 recoveries (87.23%), 1,679,740 active cases (11.56%) and 175,649 deaths (1.21%).(4.) India has seen 1,167,804 new daily infections this week, till April 17 or 194,634 cases per day on an average. In the same period, there have been 6374 deaths or 1062 fatalities a day on average. The recovery rate, which at one point was at 98% has also slipped below 90%.Also Read | Seven pharma firms slash prices of Remdesivir after govt intervention(5.) In the wake of the surge in Covid-19 cases, several states have imposed strict curbs, including night curfews, weekend lockdowns etc. Delhi, which saw a record rise of 24,735 Covid-19 cases on Saturday, entered a weekend lockdown at 10pm on Friday until 6am on Monday. The city is already under a daily 10pm-5am night curfew, which began on April 10 and will come to an end on April 30.Also Read | Covid-19 weekend curfews: Cities wear deserted look, businesses bear the brunt(6.) Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray, whose state has been the worst hit since the early days of the pandemic, on Tuesday announced the imposition of Section 144 across the state for 15 days starting 8pm on Wednesday.Also Read | Uddhav Thackeray imposes Sec 144 in Maharashtra amid Covid-19 crisis(7.) Several examinations have been postponed or cancelled due to the record rise in Covid-19 cases across the country. On Monday, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) postponed Class 12 board exams and cancelled those for Class 10. Similarly, the NEET-PG exam has also been deferred. On Saturday, the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) also announced the postponement of its Class 10 and Class 12 board exams.Also Read | CBSE decision on board exams: What states are doing(8.) The Mahakumbh 2021 has also concluded after Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday urged a top seer that the participation in the fourth and last “shahi snan” (royal dip) on April 17 be made “symbolic.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-190-000-average-daily-covid-19-cases-in-india-this-week-as-infections-see-record-rise-101618714525696.html
18-04-2021||India||Covid-19 weekend curfews: Cities wear deserted look, businesses bear the brunt||Several cities across the country are witnessing the second day of the weekend curfew on Sunday. Delhi, Mumbai, Pune, Bhopal, Lucknow and other cities, which have witnessed a surge in cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), imposed weekend curfew or imposed lockdown like restrictions to bring down the rising infections.Most of the shops, barring those selling essential items, medicines, vegetable and fruit vendors, remained closed. Pictures released by news agency ANI of markets in Bhopal and Chandigarh showed bustling complexes wearing a deserted look due to the weekend curfew. Madhya Pradesh, which imposed a coronavirus curfew to curb the spread of Covid-19, extended its duration to April 26. Indore extended the duration of its partial lockdown till April 23. The state recorded its highest single-day surge since the onset of the pandemic on Saturday with 11,269 cases pushing the state's Covid-19 tally to 395,832.Chandigarh's Sector-17 market wears a deserted look as weekend curfew is imposed till 5 am on Monday, essential services exemptedChandigarh reported 481 new COVID19 cases yesterday pic.twitter.com/OxNNO4NFWYमध्य प्रदेश: कोरोना कर्फ्यू के दौरान भोपाल में दुकानें बंद दिखीं। सरकार ने कोरोना के बढ़ते मामलों को देखते हुए 12 अप्रैल से लेकर 19 अप्रैल सुबह 6 बजे तक कोरोना कर्फ्यू लागू किया है। #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/vgUMMcTw0CThe Uttar Pradesh government has imposed a lockdown across the state on all Sundays across all rural and urban areas. The state government has said that the imposition of Sunday lockdown will be implemented till May 15 every Sunday and violators will face strict punishment. Uttar Pradesh also joined Maharashtra and neighbours Delhi and Madhya Pradesh as it recorded 27,357 fresh Covid-19 cases raising the state's Covid-19 tally to 821,054.Delhi, which enters Day 2 of its weekend curfew, saw strict imposition as police cracked down on violators. Delhi Police arrested more than 150 people and registered close to 500 FIRs on Saturday. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said stricter curbs and more weekend lockdowns could be imposed if Covid-19 cases continue to spike.While Delhi registered its highest number of cases recorded in a period of 24 hours since the onset of the pandemic with 24,375 new Covid-19 cases pushing the tally in the Capital to 827,998, financial hub Mumbai recorded a marginal spike in the number of cases 8,811 new cases taking the tally to 571,018.The imposition of Section 144 in the entire state of Maharashtra led to deserted streets in Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. Pune and Mumbai have the highest number of active cases among the districts in the state. Pune is also among one of the worst-hit urban areas in the world.Curfews and measures similar to lockdowns in India’s cities have also come at a cost for people involved in the hospitality sector. Several restaurateurs across the country’s major cities highlighted the loss of business due to these measures. Despite home deliveries being allowed, several restaurants said they witnessed a sharp fall in orders on Saturday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-weekend-curfews-lockdown-mumbai-delhi-uttar-pradesh-sunday-cities-wear-deserted-look-businesses-bear-the-brunt-101618712297368.html
18-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Chhattisgarh reports 12,345 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) stands at 14,788,109 after the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) reported on Sunday morning that the country logged 261,500 fresh infections of the viral disease in the preceding 24 hours. The death toll, meanwhile, is at 177,150 with 1,501 more related fatalities.India saw more than 100,000 cases for the first time on April 5, and, barring April 6, has been witnessing more than 100,000 infections everyday. The 200,000 mark was topped for the first time on April 15.According to the Johns Hopkins University coronavirus tracker, India's caseload is the second-highest globally, after that of the United States, and ahead of Brazil's. In terms of related deaths, India is at fourth, the tracker shows, behind the United States, Brazil and Mexico respectively.Follow all the updates here:Chhattisgarh reports 12,345 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursChhattisgarh on Sunday registered 12,345 fresh Covid-19 cases, 14,075 discharges, and 170 deaths in last 24 hours.Madhya Pradesh logs 12,248 fresh Covid-19 cases, 66 deathsMadhya Pradesh on Sunday reported 12,248 new Covid-19 cases, 7,495 recoveries and 66 deaths in the last 24 hours.UK reports 1,882 Covid-19 cases, 10 more deathsThe United Kingdom's Covid-19 caseload climbed to 4,387,820 after 1,882 cases, 10 more deaths were reported on Sunday, according to official figures. The total Covid-related deaths now stand at 127,270. Maharashtra makes negative RT-PCR test mandatory for passengers from Delhi-NCR and 4 other states; Covid SOP issued tooWith a view to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease, the Maharashtra government on Sunday made negative RT-PCR tests mandatory for passengers arriving from Kerala, Goa, Gujarat, Rajasthan, Delhi and NCR and Uttarakhand. Read moreIndia's Covid figures not looking good, but..: Top doctor gives tips to be safeGripped by the second wave of the deadly coronavirus disease (Covid-19), India is currently witnessing a tsunami of cases and deaths. The number of daily cases topped the 100,000-mark on April 5, a record jump never seen in the country ever before. Read moreBihar reports 8,690 new Covid-19 cases, 27 fresh fatalitiesBihar's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 324,117 after 8,690 new cases and 27 more deaths were reported on Sunday, according to the state health department's bulletin. Patna district reported the highest number of new cases at 2,290, followed by Gaya (753) and Saran (383), the bulletin showed. Maharashtra breaks another grim milestone, records highest single-day spike of 68,631 cases of Covid-19Maharashtra reports 68,631 fresh COVID cases, 45,654 discharges, and 503 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 6,70,388Total discharges: 31,06,828Death toll: 60,473 pic.twitter.com/XqWJytNf0xMaharashtra on Sunday registered 68,631 new Covid-19 disease cases, the highest since the beginning of the pandemic last year, taking the caseload to 3,839,338 according to the state health department's bulletin. As many as 503 people died due to the disease while 45,654 recovered during the same period taking the death toll and total recoveries to 60,473 and 3,106,828 respectively, the bulletin showed. Gujarat's Covid-19 tally crosses 400,000; 10,340 new cases reportedGujarat reports 10,340 fresh COVID cases, 3,981 recoveries, and 110 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 4,04,561Active cases: 61,647Total recoveries: 3,37,545Death toll: 5,377Vaccination: 1,02,88,012 https://t.co/PRR81uAqi5Gujarat's Covid-19 caseload breached the 400,000-mark on Sunday after another single-day high of 10,340 new cases were reported in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin. Nearly 4,000 people recovered and 110 died during the same period. Bihar to observe night curfew from 9pm-5am; Cinema halls, malls to be shut till May 15Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar announced on Sunday a night curfew will be imposed across the state between 9pm to 5am in order to curb the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and no examinations will be held by state-run schools and universities till May 15, according to news agency ANI. Read moreTamil Nadu announces night curfew, Sunday lockdowns starting April 20 to curb Covid-19 spreadFrom April 20, Tamil Nadu will be imposing a night curfew and Sunday lockdowns until further notice to curb the spread of the Covid disease in the state. The night curfew will be between 10 pm and 4 am and public transport, taxis, rental autos and private vehicles will not be allowed to operate during this period. During the Sunday lockdown, essentials such as milk shops and pharamacies will function. Restaurants would be allowed to function from 6am-10 am, 12pm-3 pm and 6pm-9 pm. Covid in Bengal: Mamata Banerjee flags 3 issues to PM Modi, seeks ‘intervention'West Bengal chief minister and Trinamool Congress (TMC) supremo Mamata Banerjee on Sunday wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi where she highlighted three issues which are important with regard to the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India which is leading to a huge spike in number of cases and fatalities. Read moreShortage of oxygen in several Delhi hospitals, says Dy CM SisodiaDelhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia said on Sunday there is a shortage of oxygen in several hospitals in the national capital to treat the Covid disease patients. "Some hospitals have oxygen supply for 3-4 hours while some have oxygen supply for 10-12 hours. Situation is grim so we have requested Central Govt to provide oxygen to Delhi on priority," Sisodia was quoted as saying by news agency ANI after he paid a visit to Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre & Hospital, Radha Soami Satsang Beas in Chhatarpur.Pakistan adds 6,127 new Covid-19 cases; highest single day spike since June last yearPakistan on Sunday added 6,127 new Covid disease cases, the highest single day spike since June 14 last year. The country's caseload has now climbed to 756,285 and the positivity rate is at 8.5 per cent, Dawn reported. Former Haryana CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda, wife test positive for Covid-19Congress leader and former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda and his wife Asha Hooda tested positive for the Covid-19 disease on Sunday. Congress MLA B B Batra told news agency ANI that Hood and his wife are currently in Delhi and will hospitalise themselves in Gurugram as a precautionary measure. Read morePhilippines' Covid-19 tally climbs over 936,000; 10,098 new cases addedPhilippines tally of the Covid-19 disease crossed 936,000 (936,133 exact) on Sunday after 10,098 new cases were reported, according to the Department of Health (DOH). As many as 150 succumbed to Covid-19 on Sunday taking the death toll of the Southeast Asian nation to 15,960 , the DOH added. Delhi govt urges Railways to deploy Covid-19 care coaches at 2 stationsThe Delhi government on Sunday requested Railways to provide up to 5,000 beds by deploying Covid-19 care coaches at the Shakur Basti and the Anand Vihar stations due to the spike in the national capital's cases. Delhi chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev wrote a letter to Railway Board Chairman Suneet Sharma he said private and government hospitals in Delhi "are getting strained and there is an urgent need for more number of bed facilities to cope up with the ever increasing demand of Covid patients who require admissions in hospitals. Maharashtra home minister warns of action against Covid-19 curbsAs Maharashtra continues to be the worst-hit state from the Covid-19 disease pandemic, state home minister Dilip Walse Patil warned on Sunday that strict action will be taken against those Covid related curbs imposed by the government to curb the spread of the disease. "In order to curb the rising number of Covid-19 infections, curfew order and restrictions should be effectively followed. Action will be taken against those who violate orders," Walse tweeted. 8,632 fresh cases push Russia's Covid-19 tally to over 4.7 millionRussia's caseload of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) climbed to 4,702,101 on Sunday after 8,632 fresh cases were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to news agency Reuters. Almost 390 people succumbed to the disease taking the death toll to 105,582. PM Modi reviews Varanasi's Covid-19 situationPM Modi reiterated importance of masks and urged all to ensure 'do gaj ki doori'. He said that as a representative of Varanasi, he takes constant feedback from public and in last five-six years, medical infrastructure has advanced in Varanasi that has helped in the fight against: Prime Minister's Office (PMO)India's Covid-19 vaccination doses top 120 millionIndia has administered 122,622,590 doses of vaccine against Covid-19, with 2,684,956 doses in last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry dashboard.Commonwealth Games village to be used as Covid-19 centre: KejriwalWe will add over 6,000 high-flow oxygen beds will in next two-three days at Yamuna Sports Complex. Commonwealth Games Village and some schools too will be turned into Covid-19 centres and the Covid facility at Radha Soami Satsang Beas will be reopened: Arvind KejriwalAround 25,000 new Covid-19 cases in Delhi in last 24 hours, says KejriwalAround 25,000 new Covid-19 cases reported in Delhi in last 24 hours. There are 10,000 beds in Delhi, including that of central govt, of which, 1,800 beds currently reserved for Covid-19. I request Centre to allot 7,000 of 10,000 beds in view of severe Covid-19 cases: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalDelhi's positivity rate up 30% from 24% in last 24 hours: Arvind KejriwalPositivity rate increased from 24% to 30% in last 24 hours. Less than 100 ICU beds left and there's oxygen shortage. Spoke to Dr Harsh Vardhan yesterday and Amit Shah ji this morning regarding lack of beds and informed them that we're in dire need: Delhi CM Arvind KejriwalLadakh sees highest single-day Covid-19 rise in 2021Ladakh records 362 new Covid-19 cases, its highest in a single day this year, and one death. Infection tally rises to 12,071 including 133 deaths.33 PSA plants out of 162 sanctioned already installed: Health ministryOut of 162 PSA plants sanctioned, 33 already been installed - 5 in MP, 4 in Himachal Pradesh, 3 each in Chandigarh, Gujarat & Uttarakhand, 2 each in Bihar, Karnataka & TL; & 1 each in AP, CG, Delhi, Haryana, Kerala, Maharashtra, Puducherry, Punjab & UP: Union Health Ministry162 PSA (Pressure Swing Adsorption) oxygen plants have been sanctioned by GoI for installation in public health facilities in all states. Out of 162 PSA plants sanctioned, 33 already been installed: Union health ministryBengal forms task force to oversee augmentation of hospital bedsWest Bengal government forms a four-member 'Task Force on augmentation of Covid beds in private hospitals/nursing homes' in response to upsurge in Covid-19 cases in state. Sanjay Bansal, secretary, health and family welfare department to chair task force and act as state nodal officer.April session for JEE (Main) 2021 postponed, says NTAApril session for JEE (Main) 2021 has been postponed. It was scheduled for 27th, 28th & 30th April. Revised dates to be announced later & at least 15 days prior to exam: National Testing Agency (NTA) First two sessions have already been completed in February & March#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/Yz69Ny4r0QApril session for JEE (Main) 2021 has been postponed. It was scheduled for 27th, 28th and 30th April. Revised dates to be announced later: National Testing Agency (NTA)Uttarakhand reschedules exams in view of Covid-19In view of rising Covid-19 cases, state board examinations for Class 10 have been cancelled while deferred for Class 12: Uttarakhand education minister Arvind PandeyColombia records 16,654 new Covid-19 cases and 354 deathsColombia recorded 16,654 new Covid-19 cases and 354 deaths on Saturday, its health ministry has said. The infection tally has risen to 2,636,076 including 67,931 deaths.Andaman and Nicobar's Covid-19 tally up by 42 new casesAndaman and Nicobar Islands' Covid-19 caseload surged to 5,331 with 42 more people testing positive, a health department official said on Sunday. Death toll rises to 64 with one new death.India's active caseload tops 1.8 million, recoveries near 13 millionWith a rise of 121,576 cases, India's active Covid-19 caseload reaches 1,801,316. Recoveries at 12,809,643 with 138,423 more recoveries in the last 24 hours.India sees record rise of 261,500 new Covid-19 casesIndia's Covid-19 tally rises to 14,788,109 with a record spike of 261,500 fresh infections. More than 200,000 new cases for fourth day in a row. Death toll rises to 177,150 with 1,501 new fatalities.Over 266 million samples tested for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/zmuMNwJBok266,538,416 samples were tested up till April 17 in the country, including 1,566,394 samples tested yesterday: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)China records 16 new Covid-19 casesChina reported 16 new Covid-19 cases on April 17, up from 15 cases a day earlier, the country's national health authority said on Sunday. Infection tally at 90,499 while death toll unchanged at 4,636.Delhi makes home quarantine mandatory for Kumbh returneesAll Delhi residents, who visited Haridwar's Kumbh from 4th Apr till today or will be travelling today up till 30th Apr, are required to upload details (viz name, address in Delhi, contact no., ID proof, date of departure from Delhi & arrival here) on link at Delhi govt portal pic.twitter.com/vrzzfxK262All residents of Delhi, returning from Haridwar after attending Kumbh Mela, will have to mandatorily stay in home quarantine for 14 days on arrival to the national capital: Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA)Nearly 120 million vaccine doses administered in India thus farThe number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in India, since the beginning of vaccination drive on January 16, is at 119,937,641, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard.Nearly 3,000 new Covid-19 deaths in BrazilBrazil reports 67,636 new Covid-19 cases and 2,929 related deaths, according to the country's health ministry. Tally tops 13.9 million while death toll reaches 371,678.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-date-april-18-2021-101618709713011.html
18-04-2021||India||Covid-19 tally reaches over 14.7 million after logging 260k cases on Saturday. See tracker||||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-19-tally-reaches-over-14-7-million-after-logging-260k-cases-on-saturday-see-tracker-101618710145089.html
18-04-2021||India||Relax age bar for jabs, says Patnaik||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to expand the Covid-19 vaccine supply chain, and allow the open sale of jabs. Patnaik has also urged the PM to lower the age bar for eligibility for jabs at least in bigger cities, so that the floating population of workers can be taken care of. “Covid-19 vaccines may be made available outside the government supply chain in the open market so that willing citizens who can afford the vaccine can avail them,” he said in the letter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/relax-age-bar-for-jabs-says-patnaik-101618699628971.html
18-04-2021||India||SRCC placement drive concludes||The first phase of placements of the 2020-21 academic session concluded in Delhi University’s Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC). The highest package offered this year was ₹25 lakh and the average package was ₹9.8 lakh, officials said.According to a statement issued by the college’s placement cell, the internship offers received by the students increased 142% in comparison to the 2019-20 academic session.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/srcc-placement-drive-concludes-101618697027574.html
18-04-2021||India||Bypolls held for 2 LS, 12 assembly seats||Bypolls were held for two parliamentary constituencies in Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, and 12 assembly seats spread across 10 states on Saturday.The by-election in Odisha’s Pipili assembly seat was adjourned following the death of Congress candidate Ajit Mangaraj due to Covid-19 on Wednesday. In Nagaland, H Chuba Chang of the Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party, the sole candidate in the fray, was elected unopposed to the Noksen assembly seat, said the Election Commission.In Andhra Pradesh, about 64% turnout was recorded in the bypoll to the Tirupati (SC) Lok Sabha seat. Opposition Telugu Desam, the BJP and the Congress demanded that the bypoll be cancelled forthwith, alleging that the ruling YSR Congress instigated bogus voting. Later, the EC directed the collectors of Chittoor and SPS Nellore districts to ensure fair poll. Tirupati went to the bypoll due to the death of YSRC MLA Balli Durga Prasad Rao last September.In Karnataka, polling was held in Belgaum Lok Sabha seat and Basavakalyan and Maski assembly seats. Bypoll to Belgaum was necessitated after the death of Union minister Suresh Angadi. Bypolls to Madhya Pradesh’s Damoh assembly seat recorded 60% turnout, while 43% turnout was recorded in bypoll to Uttarakhand’s Salt assembly seat. Nearly 70% turnout was recorded in bypoll to Mizoram’s Serchhip assembly seat. Polling was also held for Sahara, Rajsamand and Sujangarh seats in Rajasthan; Pandharpur-Mangalvedha assembly constituency in Maharashtra’s Solapur district; Morva Hadaf (ST) assembly seat of Gujarat’s Panchmahal; Nagarjuna Sagar seat in Telangana and Madhupur seat of Jharkhand.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bypolls-held-for-2-ls-12-assembly-seats-101618691600549.html
18-04-2021||India||Everyone above 25 must be able to get vaccinated: Sonia at CWC||The Congress Working Committee (CWC), in a virtual meeting, on Saturday decided to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reduce the vaccination age to 25 from the current 45 years, even as it slammed the Centre over its “colossal mismanagement” and “gross unpreparedness” in handling the Covid crisis.Also Read | Five killed in blaze at Raipur Covid hospitalCongress president Sonia Gandhi remarked that “despite a year to prepare, we have, regrettably, been caught off guard again” and accused the government of “gross unpreparedness” and “avoidable adhocism”.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi maintained the Union government has no strategy against Covid. “The nature of the government is causing problem,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everyone-above-25-must-be-able-to-get-vaccinated-sonia-at-cwc-101618686874358.html
18-04-2021||India||Former Karnataka CM HD Kumaraswamy admitted to hospital after testing Covid-19 positive||Former Karnataka chief minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader HD Kumaraswamy tested positive for Covid-19 on Saturday. He has been admitted to Apollo Hospital in Bannerghatta Road, according to a statement from his office. “I have tested positive for Covid-19. I request everyone who came in close contact with me over the last few days to isolate themselves and get tested,” the 61-year-old leader posted on Twitter on Saturday. He tested positive after having spent days campaigning in the Basavakalayan assembly constituency for a bypoll. Kumaraswamy experienced fatigue on Friday evening while he was campaigning, following which he returned to Bengaluru. “This morning, he contacted doctors and got tested, the results of which emerged as Covid-19 positive. He wanted to rest at his farmhouse, but doctors did not agree. They asked him to get admitted immediately,” read a statement from his office. According to a statement, Kumaraswamy did not find a bed for treatment at Manipal Hospital. Even Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar’s intervention did not help, the statement claimed. It further added that Kumaraswamy is scheduled to appear before a court in connection with a case on Saturday. “Since he has tested positive for Covid-19, he will not appear in person. He will appear via video conference,” the statement read. His mother Chennamma Devegowda had earlier tested positive, and his father HD Devegowda too was in isolation as a precaution. Earlier on Friday Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa tested positive for Covid-19. Karnataka on Saturday recorded its highest ever single-day coronavirus spike by logging as many as 17,489 fresh cases in the span of just 24 hours. With today’s numbers, the total tally reached 11,41,998, while the active cases touched 1,19,160, the state health bulletin said. Out of the 17,489 cases on Saturday, as many as 11,404 infections were reported from Bengaluru.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-karnataka-cm-hd-kumaraswamy-admitted-to-hospital-after-testing-covid-19-positive-101618686802573.html
18-04-2021||India||Amid spike in Covid-19 cases, lockdown in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur extended till April 26||Owing to a continuous rise in Covid-19-cases in the state capital, the district administration in Chhattisgarh extended the ongoing lockdown till April 26, officials said on Saturday. Earlier, the lockdown was declared from April 9 to April 19 and as per the order issued by the district collector the lockdown will now be extended till April 26. Raipur collector S Bharti Dasan issuing the order stated that the deaths and cases in Raipur are continuously increasing hence it is imperative to extend the ongoing lockdown. During the extended lockdown the borders of the district will be sealed but any movement for medical emergencies will be allowed. On Saturday, in view of the Covid-19 surge and shortage of hospital beds for the treatment of those infected by the deadly virus, the state government decided to reserve 70 per cent of oxygen beds at all private hospitals for Covid-19 patients, a health department official said. The government had earlier said on Thursday that it has distributed another consignment of 8,800 Remdesivir injections to different hospitals amid reports of an acute shortage. “We have placed an order of 90,000 Remdesivir injections, out of which 2000 injections will be received within 2 days & another 28,000 within a week. Thereafter, we will receive 30,000 injections per week,” health minister TS Singhdeo tweeted on Saturday. On Friday, Chhattisgarh recorded 14,912 cases along with 138 deaths. The number of active cases in the state stood at 1,24,303 after 135 people were discharged from hospitals, while 11,672 others completed their home isolation period. The number of people who have recovered from the infection increased to 3,86,529. The worst-hit Raipur and Durg districts accounted for 3,813 and 1,995 of the new cases, respectively, for the day. While the total count of the infection in Raipur has reached 1,10,132, including 1,492 deaths, Durg’s caseload rose to 64,161, including 1,062 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-spike-in-covid-19-cases-lockdown-in-chhattisgarh-s-raipur-extended-till-april-26-101618686082628.html
18-04-2021||India||High turnout in 5th round of polling in Bengal||Polling in West Bengal’s 45 assembly segments in six districts was held peacefully in the fifth phase on Saturday, barring some stray incidents of violence reported mostly from Nadia and North 24 Parganas districts, election officials said.Polling in East Burdwan in south Bengal and the three north Bengal districts of Kalimpong, Darjeeling and Jalpaiguri was held smoothly. Till 5pm, 78.36 % votes were polled in the six districts, the Election Commission (EC) said in a statement.The total numbers of voters and candidates in the fifth phase were 45,756,282 and 1,259, respectively.The Trinamool Congress (TMC) is contesting 291 of the state’s 294 seats this year, leaving the three hill seats of Darjeeling, Kalimpong and Kurseong to the two factions of the GJM that are supporting chief minister Mamata Banerjee in the other constituencies of north Bengal.Unlike the fourth phase held on April 10, in which an 18-year-old youth was murdered and four men were killed in firing by the central armed police force (CAPF) during an alleged attack at Sitalkuchi in north Bengal, there was no report of any death or police firing on Saturday.Of the eight phases, the fifth witnessed the biggest electoral exercise amid rising Covid-19 cases and deaths. EC deployed 853 companies of CAPF on Saturday.Also Read | PM reviews Covid situation as India logs over 260k casesEC thanked voters for following Covid-19 protocols and said women turned up in large numbers at the 15,789 polling stations.Allegations of attacks and intimidation were raised by the TMC and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) at Bidhan Nagar (Salt Lake), Rajarhat-New Town, Kamarhati, Baranagar, Hingalganj and Panihati in North 24 Parganas and Shantipur, Kalyani, Ranaghat North West and Ranaghat South in Nadia district.Of the 45 seats that went to the polls, 21 are reserved for scheduled caste (SC) candidates. Most of the violence was reported from these reserved constituencies. Incidentally, both BJP and TMC are trying to secure the support of Dalit Hindu voters, especially the Rajbanshis in north Bengal and the Namasudras in south Bengal.Gayeshpur in the Kalyani reserved constituency in Nadia witnessed several small clashes between TMC and BJP supporters.BJP Lok Sabha member from Bongaon in North 24 Parganas and leader of the Dalit Matua community Shantanu Thakur visited Gayeshpur and alleged that TMC supporters committed electoral malpractices but the local police looked the other way. “TMC workers also intimidated our voters,” he said.TMC spokesperson Kunal Ghosh said the allegations were baseless.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/high-turnout-in-5th-round-of-polling-in-bengal-101618685361960.html
18-04-2021||India||Five killed in blaze at Raipur Covid-19 hospital||At least five people were killed after a fire broke out at a Covid-19 hospital in Chhattisgarh’s Raipur on Saturday, officials said.According to officials, the fire at the city’s Rajdhani hospital was caused by a short-circuit in one of the fans and eventually spread to the Covid-19 ward.“The fire broke out due to short-circuit in a fan in the Covid ward and spread to other wards. We are investigating why the fire extinguishers were not used on time,” Raipur superintendent of police Ajay Yadav said.There were 34 patients in the Covid-19 ward at the time of the incident, he added.“While one person succumbed to burn injuries, four others died of suffocation,” Raipur superintendent of police Ajay Yadav said.The five were admitted to the hospital for Covid-19 treatment over the last few days, Yadav added.A team of the police and fire fighting personnel were rushed to the spot and 29 patients were evacuated from the hospital, officials said.The patients have been shifted to other centres, they added.A case of negligence will be registered against the owners of the hospitals, the SP said.Meanwhile, chief minister Bhupesh Baghel expressed grief over the deaths and announced compensation of ₹4 lakh each to families of the victims.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/five-killed-in-blaze-at-raipur-covid-hospital-101618685301904.html
18-04-2021||India||Man wrongly declared dead twice by hospital||A 58-year-old suspected Covid-19 patient was wrongly declared dead twice by authorities earlier this week at a hospital in Madhya Pradesh’s Vidisha district. The second time, the patient’s family even prepared for his last rites.Gorelal Kori (58), a resident of Sultania village of Vidisha district, was admitted to the district’s Atal Bihari Medical College Hospital in a critical condition on April 12, after complaining of difficulty in breathing. He was put on a ventilator on April 14.“On the evening of April 15, a nurse informed the family that my father died. We rushed inside the ward and found him alive. The staff nurse said it happened due to some miscommunication. Later, the family was informed that doctors were going to perform a surgery,” said Gorelal’s son Kailash.Also Read | Odisha makes RT-PCR test, 14 days quarantine must for all who attended Kumbh“Later, a nurse again informed us that my father died during surgery and refused to hand over his body, saying that he tested positive for Covid-19 on Thursday night. We reached the crematorium to arrange for his cremation but later got a call from the hospital saying that he is still alive and is being put on a ventilator,” he added.The negligence on the hospital’s part led to panic among the family members. “Strict action should be taken against the hospital staff,” Kailash said.Medical college dean Dr Sunil Nandeshwar, however, attributed the whole episode to “miscommunication”. “Yes, the goof-up happened due to some miscommunication, but once his heart stopped beating, the staff nurse pumped his heart for nearly two hours to revive him. He is alive and on a ventilator in a serious condition,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/man-wrongly-declared-dead-twice-by-hospital-101618685121958.html
18-04-2021||India||Deep Sidhu gets bail, held again hours later||A Delhi court on Friday granted bail to Punjabi actor Deep Sidhu in connection with the violence at Red Fort during the Republic Day farmers’ tractor rally, saying the police’s endeavour to make an example out of him for the entire sequence of events since he is a popular public figure hazards a failure of justice due to “compromised objectivity”. However, the Delhi Police arrested him again hours later, in connection with another case related to the violence during the rally.Sidhu was expected to be released after additional sessions judge Neelofar Abida Parveen granted him bail at a personal bond of ₹30,000, stating that the prosecution is yet to establish the identity of several other members of the unlawful assembly. However, he will remain in jail after his arrest in the second case, which is also being probed by the crime branch. Senior officers said he will be taken into police custody for interrogation and investigation soon.“The protest rally/parade had been authorised subject to restrictions imposed in the interest of law and order, it is the several acts of breach of specific embargoes, the violence perpetrated, the damage caused to public property and national heritage site, nuisance at a restricted site that are the subject matter of the allegations raised in the present FIR. The prosecution seeks to make an example out of the case of the accused-applicant, he being a popular public figure, such an endeavour, however hazards a failure of justice as a result of compromised objectivity,” the court said in its bail order.Also Read | 'India defeated Covid-19 last year, can do it again with faster speed’: PM Modi“The prosecution alleges involvement of thousands of offenders and it would violate and infringe the fundamental right to life and liberty guaranteed to Sidhu if he is denied bail in the present case on such nature of accusations and material only on grounds that the investigating agency is yet to establish the identity of the several other members of the unlawful assembly,” it said.The court, however, said that while in a democracy there is a right to dialogue and dissent, the registration of FIR against Sidhu is not an invasion of this fundamental right.Like the first case, the second was also registered at Kotwali police station, but on a complaint filed by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI). The first case was registered on the complaint of the Kotwali station house officer. Sidhu is the first person to be arrested in the second case, the police said.Sidhu’s counsel advocate Abhishek Gupta said, “The need and timing of the arrest is extremely questionable and is a grave affront to an individual’s personal liberty, and runs foul of the rights guaranteed under Article 21.”Since the Red Fort is maintained by ASI, it filed a separate complaint detailing the damage to the monument.The Delhi Police arrested Sidhu on February 9 for his alleged involvement in the January 26 violence. The agency told the court that Sidhu was the “main instigator” and one of the rioters, a charge which Sidhu’s lawyer Abhishek Gupta vehemently denied.He told the court his client just happened to be at the wrong place at the wrong time and got to know about the flag hoisting at Red Fort from media reports.The court said the facts of the matter cannot be lost sight of and the nature of incriminating material cannot be disregarded at any cost. It said Sidhu was neither part of the tractor rally which broke barricades nor has any specific role been attributed to him in the commission of violence at Red Fort and attacking police officials on duty.The judge said the prosecution voiced a strong apprehension that Sidhu could tamper with evidence, as he also deleted data and formatted his phone apprehending arrest.“However, the prosecution’s case rests largely on the contents of video recordings and footage available and accessible to all on social media sites in public domain, and there is therefore a remote possibility of Sidhu being able to interfere with the content on such platform,” the judge said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/deep-sidhu-gets-bail-held-again-hours-later-101618684794183.html
18-04-2021||India||Central departments, ministries move back to work from home as Covid-19 rages||A number of central ministries and departments have reintroduced work from home for officials at the rank of undersecretary, or below, as Covid-19 cases see a steep rise across the country, with the national capital being one of the worst affected in the second wave, officials familiar with the developments said on Saturday.Among the ministries and departments to bring back the roster system are home affairs, consumer affairs, information and broadcasting and higher education, the officials quoted above said. They, however, added that a pan-ministerial proposal was yet to be considered.“As of now, departments and ministries are individually taking a call,” an official familiar with the matter said on condition of anonymity. “Some already have rolled out work from home for undersecretaries as they do not have individual cabins. Deputy secretaries and above, who have individual chambers will continue to come to work regularly.”India recorded 1,496 deaths due to Covid-19 in a single day on Saturday, setting a new record for daily deaths as bodies poured into cremation and burial grounds, with health care infrastructure across the country overwhelmed by the caseload.DoPT has already written to all ministries to ensure that employees over the age of 45 are encouraged to be vaccinated. There are concerns on part of officials as to the speed of transmission of the virus. “Last year, there were fewer than 10,000 cases and we imposed a lockdown,” said a second central government official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/central-depts-ministries-move-back-to-work-from-home-as-covid-19-rages-101618684762385.html
18-04-2021||India||Seven pharma firms slash prices of Remdesivir after govt intervention||Seven companies producing Remdesivir in India have slashed prices by an average of 39% as the use of the drug shot up amid a surge in Covid-19 infections across the country. The sharpest price cut was by Zydus Cadila which reduced the price of its brand Remdac from ₹2,800 for a 100mg vial to ₹899, followed by Redyx by Dr Reddy’s whose price went from ₹5,400 per vial to ₹2,700, according to the National Pharmaceutical Pricing Authority.“As per the voluntary reduction by the manufacturers on government intervention, these are the revised prices of ‘Remdesivir injection 100 mg/vial’,” the pharmaceutical price regulatory body announced on Saturday.On government intervention, the companies also increased production to meet the rising demand due to a surge in cases of the viral infection in the second wave. The country’s production of the antiviral drug has gone up from 2.8 million to 4.1 million vials per month during the past week, the Union government announced.Also Read | Over 12.25 crore vaccine doses administered in India“On Govt’s intervention, major Manufacturers of #Remdesivir have voluntarily reduced its MRP ranging from ₹5400 to less than ₹3500 by 15.04.2021…,” Union minister for chemicals and fertilizers Sadananda Gowda said in a tweet.The central government has distributed close to 700,000 vials of Remdesivir to various states and Union territories across the country, especially the most affected areas, during the past five days.“Government is taking every necessary step to accelerate the production facilities of #Remdesivir, its capacity enhancement & availability,” Gowda said in another tweet.According to the national treatment protocol, injected Remdesivir is one of the investigational drugs approved for use in treating hospitalised Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/seven-pharma-firms-slash-prices-of-remdesivir-after-govt-intervention-101618684761815.html
18-04-2021||India||Sonia slams govt for ‘gross unpreparedness’||The Congress Working Committee (CWC) on Saturday decided to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi to reduce the vaccination age to 25 from the current 45 years, give financial aid of ₹6,000 to people most affected by the pandemic and bring transparency in allocation of vaccines to states, even as it slammed the Centre over its “colossal mismanagement” and “gross unpreparedness” in handling the Covid crisis.Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh will write to Modi on Sunday to suggest a set of measures to manage the second wave, said party leaders P Chidambaram and Ajay Maken.Congress president Sonia Gandhi said “despite a year to prepare, we have, regrettably, been caught off guard again” and accused the government of “gross unpreparedness” and “avoidable adhocism”. Reminding the government of raj dharma, Sonia said, “Taking on these challenging times as Indians rather than as political opponents will be true raj dharma.”Also Read | Former Karnataka CM HD Kumaraswamy admitted to hospital after testing Covid-19 positiveIn the virtual meeting, Sonia suggested 25 years as the cut-off age for vaccination as more younger people are testing positive in the second wave. Some leaders demanded universal vaccination. Rahul Gandhi maintained the Centre had no strategy against Covid. “This government has no strategy against Covid. It has no proper vaccination strategy and no oxygen strategy. The nature of the government is causing problem,” he said.Senior leaders Digvijaya Singh and Pramod Tiwari backed Rahul. While Tiwari said Rahul “predicted all these Covid-related developments last year”, Singh said, “Every word that Rahul has said since February last has proved to be true.” Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the UP government is hiding the case count but the media is not holding the regime accountable. The CWC meeting — which saw heated exchanges between members on the last few occasions — went peacefully as all leaders focused on the health crisis. A resolution was adopted on the Modi government’s “failure” in 14 areas, including “failure to rapidly scale up production and supply of vaccines”. Chidambaram and Maken later called for proper testing and refused to support another federal lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-slams-govt-for-gross-unpreparedness-101618684701908.html
18-04-2021||India||Inundated, Covid-19 helplines crumble||On April 12, Waheb Hussaini’s 60-year-old mother tested positive for Covid-19. Since then, the resident of Lucknow’s Vikas Nagar has been calling the central helpline to have his mother admitted in a hospital. Till Saturday evening, he was still waiting for admission.Lucknow’s helpline is different from those in other cities because it is part of a command centre that decides who gets admitted and who doesn’t. But even in cities where hospital admissions haven’t been centralised, helplines, like all other parts of the public health infrastructure, have been overwhelmed.That shouldn’t surprise anyone given the sheer volume of cases. Delhi saw 24,375 cases on Saturday; Mumbai, 8,811, and Bengaluru, 11,404. Everything is in short supply: ambulances, remdesivir, oxygen, and ICU beds. And the calls keep coming.“It is a difficult situation and we are trying our best,” said the official in-charge of call centres in Mumbai.Dr Rajinder Rai, in-charge, of home isolation monitoring through call centre at Haryana’s Ambala, said there is so much distress that “people are crying over phone. We are trying our best, but the distress calls are very high.”The result is also long waiting times. “Phones are ringing continuously and eight to 10 people are on wait all the time,” said a volunteer at Delhi Covid helpline, who did not wished to be named. Anuradha Singh, a call centre volunteer in Lucknow, said every call is being attended and answered. “On an average, every person on duty in the helpline is attending around 300 calls a day,” said a volunteer at Prayagraj call centre, Madhu Singh, adding that 20 volunteers are working around the clock. Singh said most operators are working 13-14 hour shifts. According to Delhi government data, till March-end, the 24x7 control room was receiving a maximum of 500 calls a day, a number that has since doubled.Also Read | Every 4th sample in Delhi Covid +ve, Capital adds 24,375 new cases in 24 hoursData from helplines across Delhi, Mumbai, Lucknow and Chennai, shows that the numbers have increased by almost 400% to 1,000 % in the past week, even though the number of volunteers has stayed the same.Most users also have other issues with the helplines, whose volunteers, they accept, are doing their best.Melvin Natesan, a resident of Bengaluru’s HAL, made several calls to get a bed for his aunt and even after the bed was allocated, 30km away from patient’s home, it was not clear whether it was oxygenated. “What is frustrating is that those taking the calls didn’t even ask what her condition was, from what I understood, they were looking at the portal and allotting the hospital. There was no time or option to seek clarifications,” he said.Khyati Chheda, 32, a resident from Mumbai’s Bandra was one of the lucky few who managed to find a hospital bed through a helpline although it took him 36 hours. “I am sure authorities are doing their best, but it is still not enough ,” he said.Different cities have sought to address challenges differently.In Mumbai, for instance, the administration has decided to dedicate separate call centres for each zone in the city. In Bengaluru, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike decided to create an integrated helpline, by pooling call operators from the Bangalore Electricity Supply Company Limited (Bescom) to attend to a flurry of calls.Malini Aisola, a public health expert, said, “...The situation is critical at night when many patients face dip in oxygen levels. We haven’t learnt lessons from the past.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/inundated-covid-helplines-crumble-101618684641863.html
18-04-2021||India||PM reviews Covid-19 situation as India logs over 260k cases||India on Saturday reported more than a quarter million new infections of Covid-19 as nearly 1,500 people lost their lives to the viral disease – both numbers the highest-ever recorded in the country — a development that came on a day Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting with top officials and directed them to ensure real-time supply management to states “urgently”.The devastating expansion of the outbreak continues to overwhelm the health infrastructure, and cremation and burial grounds in most states in the country. A total of 260,813 new cases were reported across the country on Saturday, taking the total number of confirmed infections to 14.78 million.A record 1,496 new fatalities were lodged, taking the national death toll to 177,192, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard.In a meeting with the cabinet secretary and secretaries of pharma and home, Modi was given a briefing on increased production capacity of life-saving drugs amid the second wave. “The Prime Minister directed that use of Remdesivir and other medicines must be in accordance with approved medical guidelines, and that their misuse and black marketing must be strictly curbed,” said an official statement.The PM reviewed the availability and supply of ventilators, oxygen and medicines and called for utilising the entire national capacity across private and public sectors to produce vaccines.The officials said that manufacturing of Remdesivir has been ramped up to provide about 7.4 million vials per month in May, while normal production output in January-February was just 2.7-2.9 million vials per month. “Supplies have increased from 67,900 vials on 11th April going up to over 2,06,000 vials on 15th April 2021 which are being particularly focused on states with high caseload and high demand,” said the statement.The statistics surrounding the outbreak are alarming. Daily cases in India crossed 150,000 for the first time last Saturday – this means it took only one week for the country to start reporting an additional 100,000 cases.While the PM spoke about the “need to utilise the full potential of India’s pharmaceutical industry to meet the rising demand of various medicines”, he said that there was no substitute the testing, tracking and treatment. “Early testing and proper tracking Remains key to reduce mortality and local administrations need to be proactive and sensitive to people’s concerns.”The PM also asked for ensuring coordination with states and all necessary measures to ramp up the availability of hospital beds for Covid-19 patients and that the latter can be achieved through additional supply of beds through temporary hospitals and isolation centres.Modi said that installation of approved medical oxygen plants should be sped up.“162 PSA Oxygen plants are being installed in 32 States/UTs from PM CARES. The officers informed that 1 lakh cylinders are being procured & they will be supplied to states soon,” said the statement.Saturday was the sixth day in a row that India set a new record for the most new cases reported in a day.In the last two weeks, there were only two days that the country’s daily case tally did not break an all-time record – April 5 and April 12, both Mondays, which see daily numbers drop due to low testing the day before (Sunday).The daily average of 203,881 cases registered over the last week was also a record, and was more than twice what India reported during the worst of the first wave in the country – the seven-day average of daily cases peaked at 93,617 for the week ending September 16, 2020, during the first wave.With HTC inputs in New Delhi||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-reviews-covid-situation-as-india-logs-over-260k-cases-101618684581846.html
18-04-2021||India||1k-bed DRDO Covid-19 facility reopens today||The Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) is set to reopen its Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel Covid Hospital in Delhi Cantt to deal with the massive spike in infections as the national capital battles another deadly wave of the disease, officials familiar with the move said on Saturday.The facility was shut in the first week of February after daily Covid-19 cases nosedived and the facility wasn’t being used much, said one of the officials cited above. “We are reopening the hospital on Sunday to provide treatment to patients,” the official said.The 1,000-bed DRDO medical facility got 250 additional ICU beds last November to provide treatment to patients. This took the total number of ICU beds at the hospital to 500 though the total capacity of the centre, spread over 25,000 square metres, stayed the same (1,000 beds).The hospital --- built by DRDO in record time of 12 days with assistance from the armed forces, ministry of home affairs, ministry of health and family welfare and Tata Trust --- became operational in July 2020.The ICU ward in the hospital has been named after Col B Santosh Babu and the other two medical wards have been named after Naib Subedar Mandeep Singh and Naib Subedar Satnam Singh to honour the memory of bravehearts killed in action in the June 15 Galwan Valley clash with the People’s Liberation Army of China in eastern Ladakh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdo-to-reopen-covid-facility-tomorrow-amid-record-spike-in-cases-101618662261796.html
18-04-2021||India||IAF chief to flag off six Rafale jets from France||Indian Air Force chief Air Chief Marshal Rakesh Bhadauria will flag off six Rafale fighter jets from Merignac-Bordeaux airbase in France on April 21, setting the stage for activating the second Rafale squadron at Hasimara in West Bengal, people familiar with the matter said.The IAF chief is scheduled to visit France from April 20 and will be in the country till April 23. It is understood that during his France visit, Air Chief Bhadauria will visit a French Rafale squadron, meet his counterpart Philippe Lavigne and visit the newly established Space Command in Paris.The arrival of the six Rafale jets, flagged by IAF chief Rakesh Bhadauria, will raise the number of the Omni-role fighters with the IAF to 20 of the 36 contracted Rafale jets to India. “The six fighters will fly to Ambala airbase, from where the fighters will be repurposed for the formation of a second squadron at Hasimara,” said a senior air force officer.The formation of a second Rafale squadron at Hasimara will add teeth to India’s aerial capability with Hercules C-130 J airlift squadron based in Panagarh in the northern part of West Bengal. Given the location of both the squadrons on the gates of Siliguri corridor, the IAF will have the power to counter any offensive from the north in the eastern sector, particularly in Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh.According to Dassault Aviation officials, another batch of four Rafale jets will fly to India in May. In addition to these 24, which will be with the IAF in India, the aviation giant has handed over seven more Rafale fighters that are used for training IAF officers in France. By May-end, only five more fighters are to be handed over by Dassault to complete the full package of 36 aircraft.There is a huge potential to strengthen defence cooperation between India and France since Paris does not impose any condition to any military sales or joint development with India. It is also in this context that Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to travel to France after wrapping up the India-European Union Summit in Portugal on May 7.France is the only country with a well-developed military industry that has no defence dealings with Pakistan or China and has bilateral convergence in Indo-Pacific and space cooperation.France’s ties with Pakistan have hit a new low with Islamists groups like Tehreek-e-Labbaik Pakistan seeking retribution for remarks by President Emmanuel Macron they consider “blasphemous”. There have been suggestions that the belligerence of Islamists in Pakistan can force Paris to downgrade ties with Islamabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-chief-rakesh-bhadauria-to-flag-off-6-rafale-fighters-from-france-on-april-21-101618642400474.html
18-04-2021||India||Make rest of Kumbh only symbolic: PM||Following a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday morning requesting only symbolic participation in the fourth and last Shahi Snan (holy dip) on April 27 in the Mahakumbh amid a surging second wave of Covid-19, the Mahamandleshwar or head of Juna Akhada, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, Swami Avdheshanand Giri declared the conclusion of the mega fair.Two Mahamandleshwars have already succumbed to the viral disease, even as the Shahi Snans so far have seen participation by millions.The three Bairagi Akhadas, whose Shahi Snan is scheduled for April 27 said that the Kumbh would continue but promised to follow all Covid-19 guidelines and also restrict the number of seers taking a dip.“Religion and traditions are important but it is more important to protect the lives of people of country in this Covid-19 pandemic. Hence, our Akhada is declaring the conclusion of the Mahakumbh for all of our seers,” Giri said on Saturday afternoon.He also urged pilgrims to come in fewer numbers.Giri said that a large number of seers have already started to leave the Mela : “Traditionally the fourth Shahi Snan is attended mainly by the seers of three Bairagi Akhadas; for the remaining 10 Akhadas including Juna the Mahakumbh ends on the third Sahi Snan of Mesh Sankranti or Baisakhi which was on April 14 this year.”The chief of one of the Bairagi Akhadas expressed “unhappiness over the PM calling the Juna Akhada chief and not” one of the chiefs of the three.Mahant Baba Hatyogi of Digambar Ani Bairagi Akhada who was former national spokesperson of the governing body of all Akhadas, Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parisad,criticised the Niranjani, Atal and Juna Akhadas.Also read: Covid-19 vaccination - 4 suggestions in Odisha CM Patnaik’s letter to PM Modi“Swami Avdeshanand Giri and Mahant Ravindra Puri of the aforementioned Akhadas are not representatives of all the Akhadas especially Baiaragi Akhadas. It would have been better if PM Modi had directly spoken to the Bairagi Akhadas which have the main stake in the last Shahi Snan. For other Akhadas, the Baisakhi Shahi Snan is the main one,” said Baba Hatyogi.However, HT learns that home minister Amit Shah spoke with Mahant Rajendra Das, the head of the Akhil Bharatiya Sri Panch Nirmohi Akhada, one of the three, who said all Covid-19 guidelines will be followed for the Shahi Snan, and numbers kept to a minimum.The Akhil Bhartiya Akhada Parishad also clarified that the Mahakumbh “won’t be curtailed.”“It will be held till the completion of its designated period on April 30 as it has been held traditionally since centuries. However, amid the Covid-19 surge, we seers are committed to adhere to the Covid-19 safety norms,” said Akhada Parishad general secretary Mahant Hari Giri.On Saturday, at least 175 people tested positive in the Mela area with the Haridwar district reporting a total of 617 new cases.Earlier in the day, Kumbh Mela officer Deepak Rawat and Kumbh Mela force officers- inspector general Sanjay Gunjyal and SSP Janmejaya Khanduri met Mahamandleshwar Avdheshanand Giri at his ashram during which they “thanked the seers for their cooperation in the two big Shahi Snans on April 12 and 14.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mahakumbh-should-now-be-symbolic-says-modi-amid-surge-in-covid-19-cases-101618641620129.html
18-04-2021||Today's||The making of a public health tragedy in India||The lessons of the past can hold answers to the crisis we are facing now with the second wave of Covid-19 infections raging across the country. But, for this, our leaders have to be willing and able to learn from history.One particular incident, in my opinion, is illustrative of how lack of judgment and planning can prove costly in terms of health and lives. On September 28, 1918, the Liberty Loan Parade was organised in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to boost morale and economic support for the soldiers of World War I. Many at that time opposed the event. And rightly so, since the Spanish flu pandemic was on in full force, and they felt a crowded event could lead to a spurt in infections.Ignoring all objections, the Philadelphia public health director, Wilmer Krusen, allowed the event to go ahead. He felt that since over 200,000 people had already gathered, this parade would be an apt display of patriotism. As a result, what many feared came to pass. In the next few days, 47,000 people were infected and 12,000 died. The Spanish flu, in the middle of its second wave, took a huge toll on those between the ages of 25-35 years. Around 195,000 people died of the flu in October of that year in the United States.This has similarities with what is happening in India today. Last September, when the pandemic seemed to be losing steam, our leaders were the first to take credit for this. The months which followed brought some hope. Vaccines were in the offing and many hoped for a quick economic recovery. Some states started promoting tourism, while others put their energies into planning for mega events such as the Kumbh. Six states were poll-bound and our netas lost no time in beginning their campaigns in right earnest, holding huge election rallies with most Covid-19 protocols thrown to the winds. The warnings of doctors and scientists that this cavalier attitude carried huge risks were ignored.And so the malevolent genie of the second Covid-19 wave was unleashed, and this time in a more virulent and frightening form. In the first round, it was the elderly who were most at risk, now even young children are getting infected. An already stretched health system is collapsing — there are not enough ventilators, oxygen supplies, hospital beds and essential medicines. Hospitals are packed to capacity and even patients who are in a serious condition are not able to access proper medical care in time.Now we watch in horror at images of long queues at cremation sites. At the Harishchandra Ghat in Kashi, fearing that the long wait would make them susceptible to the virus, relatives of the dead were reported to be paying exorbitant sums of money to cremate their loved ones. In Surat, an overload of cremations led to the chimneys of a furnace melting. The long queue for funerals in Lucknow went viral on social media. To prevent such images from finding their way into the media, the municipal corporation covered the crematorium premises with tin sheets. The wait in the Capital for cremations was anything between five to eight hours. And this is the situation across much of north and west India.We have to hold the political class accountable for this sorry state of affairs. They were so busy with election rallies and religious events that they willfully or otherwise neglected the possibility that a second and more dangerous wave could engulf the country. The lull in the pandemic late last year provided the right opportunity to improve our health infrastructure and increase the number of testing laboratories. If the government was strapped for resources, it could have invited greater private sector participation with proper regulations in place. The Spanish flu underwent three waves. This is something we should keep in mind when tackling the Covid-19 pandemic. What should have been done between September 2020 and February in terms of putting in place the appropriate medical and welfare structures to tackle the challenges the second wave is creating should at least be done now.Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi on Saturday did the right thing in asking for the Kumbh to be kept symbolic. This was crucial given that Uttarakhand recorded a huge increase in cases during the Kumbh. Most Hindu religious leaders have complied with the PM’s request. However, the fact remains that the Kumbh should not have been held in the first place. In contrast, the Election Commission has decided to go ahead with the polls in West Bengal under a predetermined schedule even though infection rates have increased. This is a warning that if decisive steps are not taken right now, we will be repeating the mistake made by Wilmer Krusen all those years ago. Shashi Shekhar is editor-in-chief, Hindustan The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-making-of-a-public-health-tragedy-in-india-101618760010956.html
18-04-2021||Editorials||Covid-19: The nation is at war||One of India’s most respected army chiefs, who led the country to victory in Kargil, General Ved Malik, tweeted on Sunday morning, “Our nation is at war.” On Saturday, more than twice the number of Indians died due to Covid-19 than were killed in action in Kargil. As General Malik said, “Is the nation focused on this war? Election rallies, faith events, farmer agitation, in-fighting over resources going on...wake up India.” The appeal comes in the wake of India confronting an unprecedented second wave of Covid-19 infections — hitting a record number of cases and deaths every day, even as there is an acute shortage of everything from hospital beds to oxygen to medicines to vaccines. Covid-19 has come home to India’s urban centres, to middle class homes, to the elite, to the working class, in ways that diminish what happened last year when the pandemic first struck. There’s a waiting list everywhere and for everything — for tests, admission to hospitals, even at crematoriums and graveyards (with on-ground reports suggesting a disjunction between official fatality figures and these). And there is a shortage of everything — oxygen, ICU beds, and remdesivir. And everywhere and for everything, getting care has become dependent on who you know, as public health systems collapse, automatically excluding the majority. It did not have to be this way. The government may have made an error of judgment in not anticipating the intensity of the second wave, though there were adequate warnings. But, the current situation does highlight a clear policy failure on varied counts — from not using the past year to boost India’s health infrastructure enough to deal with current numbers to slipping into business-as-usual mode when it came to events (including large elections), from a painfully slow rollout of the vaccination (only absolute numbers as a proportion of the population, not relative to the rest of the world, matter here) to the delay in imposing curbs. What’s important now is to fix the crisis, and be prepared in case there is another wave after this one (remember the United State’s third wave was its worst, although it came before the vaccine drive began). This requires the State to pump all its resources into beat the second wave. It is war, and nothing short of a war effort is needed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/covid19-the-nation-is-at-war-101618759772719.html
18-04-2021||Editorials||Monsoon 2021: The good and bad news||In its long-range forecast, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) announced that this year’s monsoon is likely to be “normal” at around 98% of the long period average (LPA). The 2020 and 2019 monsoon were “above normal” at 110% and 109% of LPA, respectively. The monsoon is not just important because it is responsible for a remarkable 80% of the total rainfall in India. It is also essential for the economy, and has been termed India’s real finance minister. Rains are crucial for agricultural productivity, food security, farm employment, and rural income. Additionally, a normal monsoon rejuvenates arid lands, restores water sources, and provides much-needed relief from the summer heat.However, all is not well with the monsoon rains. A study by scientists at the Ludwig Maximilian University shows that the monsoon season will turn stronger and more erratic due to the climate crisis. Apart from damaging crops, the highly wet weather can also impact health, as the season becomes a breeding ground for epidemics and vectors. That its spatial distribution may not be optimal is also clear from IMD’s last week’s forecast that Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, and the northeastern states may not receive adequate rain. If one reads this warning along with a report released last week by Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru and Indian Institute of Technology at Mandi and Guwahati, which says that Assam, Bihar, and Jharkhand are the most vulnerable due to the climate crisis, then the link between the climate crisis, monsoon and economic growth is visible. These are some of India’s poorest regions. The State must strengthen them against associated risks such as drought and floods. India must also develop a climate-risk index based on hazards faced by and the vulnerability of states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/monsoon-2021-the-good-and-bad-news-101618759471974.html
