23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Amid 2nd wave, Himachal’s Kashmiri migrants stare at an uncertain future||Food insecurity, unemployment and economic vulnerability loom large over Himachal Pradesh’s ‘Kashmiri Khans’ yet again, with the government imposing fresh restrictions to control the spread of the pandemic. Last year, when the Prime Minister had suddenly imposed a nationwide lockdown, it had triggered mass exodus of these sturdy workers, known as ‘Khans’. When heavy snowfall and landslides brings life in the hill state to a grinding halt, it is these brawny workers who clear the roads of snow and uprooted trees and ensure uninterrupted supply of essential services. They also lug heavy loads to areas inaccessible by road. Some of these Khans work as scrap and old newspaper collectors, salesmen and porters. Since the British era, these workers, who have been given the sobriquet, camel of the hills, for their unparalleled strength and endurance, have been virtually carrying the state’s economy on their shoulders.A year on, these indispensable workers, have been left in a lurch yet again as the second wave of infections tears through the state, forcing businesses to close and travel to come to a standstill. This year, these migrant daily wagers, who make up the informal sector, are not trudging back home but their means of earning a living have dried up, leaving them vulnerable and their future uncertain. No avenues of earningAt least, 8,000 Kashmiri workers are employed in the capital city of Shimla, most of whom are porters and labourers. “The Khans are the lifeblood of the capital, but their avenues for earning have shrunk,” says Inderjeet Singh, president, Shimla Beopar Mandal.“Many of them, who had returned home, have not come back this year. Though migrant labourers from different areas flock to Shimla but we implicitly trust the Khans as we have a long history with them,” he says.With restrictions adversely impacting tourist influx in Shimla at the peak of the tourist season the Khans are worried about their livelihood . “I searched for jobs after graduating, but did not get any. So, I came to Shimla two years ago and started working as a labourer with a local contractor,” says Imitiaz, 28, of Watnarh village in Anantnag.“I was to get married but I had to defer the plan as our income has dried up,” he adds.Tourism, the mainstay for many“We are keeping tabs on the situation and advisories are being issued by the government from time-to-time. Last year, too, we faced great difficulty though the administration had arranged for us to the go home,” says Fiaz Ahmad, president, Masjid Intijamia Committee.‘Many Khans had just returned after a year looking for avenues to earn a livelihood. Now, they are unsure if they will be able to fend for their families in the coming days,” he said. Many youngsters from the Valley are employed as tourist guides with local hotels and also bring guests . A few of them work as commission agents.n However, tourist inflow to the town has drastically declined after the government has imposed restrictions in wake of surging Covid cases. Almost 100% booking have been cancelled.“ I used to work as a tourist guide but now I work at the local saw mill in Lakkar Bazaar. However, I am not sure how long it will last,” says one of the labourers. With numerous Kashmiris rendered jobless, many are keen to return home.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/amid-2nd-wave-himachal-s-kashmiri-migrants-stare-at-an-uncertain-future-101619201458106.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi reports record 348 Covid-19 deaths, 24,331 cases||Delhi reported 348 Covid-19 deaths, in the highest-ever daily jump in fatalities, 24,331 new cases of the coronavirus disease, and 23,572 recoveries in the last 24 hours, the health bulletin showed on Friday. According to the bulletin, 980,679 people have been affected by and 13,541 have succumbed to the coronavirus disease in the Capital, one of India's worst hit cities, which has imposed a lockdown in an attempt to stem the transmission of the surging infections. The national capital on Thursday registered 26,169 Covid-19 cases and 306 related deaths.There are 92,029 active cases of the coronavirus disease and 875,109 Covid-19 patients have recovered so far, according to the bulletin. The Capital’s cumulative positivity rate—the proportion of samples returning positive for Covid-19—was at 5.9 per cent and the case fatality rate was at 1.38 per cent, the bulletin showed.Also watch | PM Modi rebukes Kejriwal during Covid meeting; Delhi CM raises oxygen crisisAlso read | On oxygen shortage plea, HC tells Delhi hospitals to first contact nodal officerSeveral hospitals, including Shanti Mukand in the west Delhi and Max Hospitals, have reported a dire shortage of oxygen—essential for critical Covid-19 patients—with chief minister Arvind Kejriwal raising the issue in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Kejriwal sounded an alarm, saying a "big tragedy" may happen due to oxygen shortage in hospitals as the Capital reported record cases and deaths in the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Also read | 'Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if...': Kejriwal asks PM Modi in Covid meet"People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. Despite being a CM, I am not able to help the people of Delhi. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi," the Delhi chief minister said during the meeting. "We need a national plan to deal with the crisis. The central government should take over all oxygen plants through the army and every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an army escort vehicle," he said.Authorities have conducted 16631245 tests to detect the coronavirus disease, including 43,711 RTPCR/CBNAAT/True Nat tests and 31,326 Rapid Antigen Test in last 24 hours. As many as 67,424 people were vaccinated against Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, which have pushed the cumulative figure to 2,844,055. There are 23,561 containment zones in the city.Also read | Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid Covid curbsIndia recorded 332,730 Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year, which have pushed the country’s infection tally to over 16.2 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-reports-record-348-covid-19-deaths-24-331-cases-101619199815939.html
23-04-2021||Lucknow||UP’s tally of Covid-19 cases crosses million mark in 418 days||Uttar Pradesh added one lakh Covid-19 infection cases in just three days for the second consecutive time on Friday. This grim milestone came as the total caseload crossed the 10-lakh (one million) mark in the state in 418 days since the first case was reported on March 2, 2020.On an average, there were 2,424 cases per day in over 13 months, a statistical analysis reveals. As the surge continued, the state reported another single-day high on Friday with 37,238 fresh Covid-19 cases and 199 deaths, according to state health department data. The total number of cases now stands at 10,13,370 and the death toll has reached 10,737.Currently, the state has 2,73,653 active cases, including 2,18,000 patients in home isolation, official data showed. While 22,566 patients were discharged during the day, 7,28,980 patients have recovered so far.“During the last 24 hours, 225,236 Covid-19 tests were conducted. Efforts are being made to take the daily test figure up to 2.50 lakh with at least one lakh RT-PCR,” said additional chief secretary (information) Navneet Sehgal at a press conference. Till now, 39,314,905 tests have been conducted.Uttar Pradesh’s tally of cases crossed the one-lakh (100,000) mark on August 4, 2020 and the two-lakh (200,000) mark on August 26, 2020.The state’s Covid-19 case tally reached 305,831 on September 12, 2020. It crossed the four-lakh (400,000) mark on October 1, 2020, the five-lakh (500,000) mark on November 10, 2020 and the six-lakh (600,000) mark on January 01, 2021. The seven-lakh (700,000) mark was reached on April 12, 2021. The state’s caseload had crossed the eight-lakh (800,000) mark on April 17 and the nine-lakh (900,000) mark on April 20.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/ups-tally-of-covid-19-cases-crosses-million-mark-in-418-days-101619199236534.html
23-04-2021||Other||Yogi launches 24x7 digital oxygen supply monitoring system||Chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday launched a digital platform for 24x7 live monitoring of the oxygen supply system across Uttar Pradesh to deal with the current shortage of the medical gas in government and private hospitals.He noted that a large number of Covid-19 positive were staying in home isolation and added that oxygen should be supplied to the needy at home as well. Besides, the state government will conduct oxygen audit to maintain a balance between the demand and supply chain, he said.The installation of oxygen plants should be expedited in private medical colleges, he added. Along with the Covid care fund, the CSR funds should be utilized for the purpose, he said. The chief minister asked the medical education department to play a pivotal role in the installation of oxygen plants.Additional chief secretary (Home) Awanish Kumar Awasthi said the digital platform had been established in coordination with the Food Safety and Drug Administration (FSDA), medical education, medical health and family welfare, transport and home departments by Rodic Consultants Private Limited.The representatives of the company would be present in government and private hospitals to ensure smooth supply of oxygen in a timely manner, he said.The monitoring system will have live information on the demand of oxygen by hospitals in various districts, allotment, loading of oxygen in the vehicles, live location of vehicles moving on the highways, the supply of the oxygen and utilization, he said.A web portal link has been created for the supply of the oxygen. It can be used by officers and employees associated with the oxygen supply chain. Representatives of the company will upload the oxygen requirement details of the hospital on the portal. While tracking the online presence of the vehicles engaged in oxygen supply on the portal, the nearest vehicle will be sent to the hospital that required immediate supply, he saidVehicles engaged in oxygen supply work will be connected to this platform. Representatives of the company will be also present at the refill stations to expedite oxygen supply. Efforts were also being made to ensure availability of drivers in every oxygen vehicle for their regular movement, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-launches-24x7-digital-oxygen-supply-monitoring-system-101619198876533.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Brigadier among 4 booked for abetment to suicide of fellow officer in Pune||PUNE A case of abetment to suicide was registered by Pune Government railway police (GRP) against four officers of the Indian Army, including one Brigadier-rank officer, for allegedly driving another Brigadier-rank officer to suicide.The now-deceased Brigadier, who worked at the Armed Force Medical College (AFMC), had died by suicide at Pune railway station on Sunday morning.When asked about whether the four have been arrested, Sadanand Vayse-Patil, superintendent of GRP Pune said, “Not yet as we have to follow central government procedures.”The deceased’s son was called upon from Bhubaneswar, Odisha by the police. Based on his complaint, a case was registered. A case was registered under Sec 306 (abetment to suicide) and 34 (common intention) of IPC at GRP Pune police station.A suicide note allegedly signed by the now-deceased officer was found at his quarters in Pune Cantonment, according to the complaint. In the letter, the officer blamed the character assassination caused by an allegedly false complaint of sexual harassment against him as the reason for his drastic decision.The accused include a Brigadier, a Lieutenant Colonel and two Major-rank officers. Of the two Major-rank officers, one of them had alleged sexual harassment by the now-deceased Brigadier. However, the deceased - who has earlier been acquitted in another sexual harassment charge - has claimed in his letter that the false allegations were made against him due to the warning that he issued to the female officer for meeting with a male officer during late hours of the night, according to the complaint. The male officer is the second Major-rank officer booked in the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/brigadier-among-4-booked-for-abetment-to-suicide-of-fellow-officer-in-pune-101619198636476.html
23-04-2021||Other||All industries to remain operational in corona curfew: UP govt||All industrial units across the state will remain operational even during night curfew, weekend corona curbs or any order related with restrictions in future to ensure industrial production is not hampered during the Covid-19 pandemic. The state government issued a government order (GO) in this regard, making it clear that production will not be stopped in any industry and neither any industrial units will be closed. Issuing the order, chief secretary RK Tewari also made it clear that staff of all industries across the state must be allowed to move without any hindrance even during the night curfew. The GO further directed all district magistrates across the state that identity cards issued by industrial units to their staff will be valid for their movement. The chief secretary has also directed all industries to impose Covid-19 protocol rules in their respective units. In addition, the state government has directed all district magistrates to ensure RT-PCR and antigen tests of all industrial staff in their respective districts with the help of the chief medical officers. For the industrial units manufacturing essential medical items like masks, sanitizers and medicines among others, the DMs must ensure that they are provided uninterrupted power supply and have hassle-free transportation of their goods. All district magistrates have also been instructed to make sure that there is no hindrance in packaging and transportation of essential goods like food grains, breads, milk, biscuits and other food products. The state government has also made it clear that farmers must not be stopped from ferrying vegetables, food grain, and other items to the mandis (markets). The government has emphasised in its order that there should be no hindrance in the procurement of wheat from farmers at procurement centres. Data bank of migrant workers to be prepared The state government has directed all district industries centres to prepare data bank of migrant workers with details, including contact numbers and address. The directive has been issued in anticipation of the return of a large number of migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh from across the country due to the pandemic. The government has directed the authorities concerned to carry out skill mapping of workers so that they could be provided jobs according to their expertise.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/all-industries-to-remain-operational-in-corona-curfew-up-govt-101619198576463.html
23-04-2021||Other||Yogi briefs PM on Covid situation in UP||Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Friday briefed Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in UP.He thanked the prime minister and the central government over the oxygen quota and help with medical supplies. Adityanath was among the chief ministers of the high Covid-19 burden states with whom PM Modi held a virtual meeting.Yogi informed PM about the measures such as weekend corona curfew and night curfew in the state to contain Covid-19.The UP government’s focus was to contain Covid-19 without hampering livelihood, the chief minister added. He also informed PM about the state’s preparations to make the next phase of the vaccination drive from May 1 successful. UP CM hits out at AAP govtIn a tweet in Hindi, Yogi Adityanath hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government in Delhi over its allegation that other states were disrupting oxygen supply. Without taking the name of anyone or mentioning oxygen, Adityanath said: “Delhi’s AAP government was levelling baseless allegations on others to hide its own failures and was trying to divert public attention. Such behaviour is indecent and we criticise it.”In another tweet in Hindi, Yogi, without taking Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s name, said: “Another deed of AAP government came to be witnessed at the high-level meeting of several chief ministers and central ministers, presided over by the prime minister. They (AAP) violated the confidentiality of the meeting to gain cheap publicity.”At the meeting, PM Modi was seen reprimanding the Delhi chief minister for going live with his part of the interaction with the prime minister. Kejriwal immediately apologised.Food scheme welcomedIn a statement, the UP chief minister hailed PM Modi for reintroducing Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojna (a ration scheme for poor) for May and June. He said beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act will get extra 5 kg grain. In the present circumstances, the PM’s initiative will provide relief to a large number of people, the chief minister observed. He said that UP government was committed to implementing the scheme successfully in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/yogi-briefs-pm-on-covid-situation-in-up-101619198397905.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Over 11,000 fresh Covid cases, 60 deaths reported in Haryana||Haryana on Friday reported 11,854 new coronavirus cases with Gurugram and Faridabad collectively accounting for 41% of them.The two districts also have the highest number of active cases collectively accounting for 44% of total active case in state on Friday.The new cases pushed the number of active cases to 64,057. The state also reported 60 Covid-related deaths from 12 districts.As per the medical bulletin, the sample positivity rate on Friday increased to 5.72% from 5.59% and the recovery rate came down to 83.19 % from Thursday’s 84.10%.There are 1,814 critical patients in state including 1,634 on oxygen support at 60 hospital and 180 on ventilators at 34 medical facilities across state.Of the 60 dead, nine were from Gurugram, eight from Faridabad, seven each from Hisar and Panipat, six each from Jind and Sonepat, five from Panchkula, four from Bhiwani, three from Fatehabad, two each from Kurukshetra and Yamunanagar and one from Nuh.Gurugram with 4,319 cases, Faridabad 1,450 and Sonepat 915 were the leading districts in terms of new cases reported on Friday. They were followed by Hisar 885, Karnal 616, Panchkula 453, Yamunanagar 420, Sirsa 408 and Panipat 396.‘APPOINT NODAL OFFICER TO DEAL WITH OXYGEN SUPPLY’Haryana ACS (revenue) Sanjeev Kaushal on Friday directed the Faridabad administration to appoint nodal officers to ensure oxygen availability in all government and private hospitals. Reviewing Covid preparations in district through video conferencing, he directed the officers to ensure adequate stock of oxygen. The hospitals will contact the nodal officer for oxygen supply related matters, he said. He added that these officers will have to maintain oxygen requirement of three days in district. He said facilities of 100-150 beds with oxygen will soon be provided in Faridabad by Escort Company.DCs CAN CLOSE SHOPS AFTER 6PM IN CROWDED PLACESThe Haryana government on Friday authorised DCs to take decisions regarding closing of shops in crowded markets after 6pm as a precautionary step in view of surge in Covid cases. As per an order by Haryana chief secretary Vijai Vardhan DCs are allowed to take necessary decision regarding closing of shops in crowded areas in their districts. The state government has decided to implement this measure from Friday. The DCs have been directed to ensure adequate number of chemist and grocery shops remain operational after 6pm so that citizens do not face any inconvenience. Restaurants, eateries will be allowed to home deliver food after 6pm.NEW COVID CARE CENTRE SET UP IN KARNALThe district has reported the biggest single-day surge of 617 Covid cases in the past 24 hours taking the number of active patients in district to 4,065. Four more people have died due to the contagion taking the district’s death toll to 215. With cases on the rise, the administration has decided to set up a separate Covid care centre at Phoonsgarh village community centre. Karnal DC Nishant Kumar Yadav said the centre will have a capacity of 250 beds. He said the people should not panic but follow guidelines. There are 396 beds in different hospitals in district and 264 are occupied.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/over-11-000-fresh-covid-cases-60-deaths-reported-in-haryana-101619198284882.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Those not wearing masks properly to be challaned too: HC||Those not wearing masks properly are going to challaned too in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh from now.Both the state governments and Chandigarh administration on Friday assured court that people, who wear masks, leaving their mouth and/or nose exposed, will be treated on the same footing as those not wearing masks at all and will be liable to the same punitive action.The assurance was given in a suo motu plea initiated by the high court in view of surge in Covid-19 cases in both the states and the UT. The court has now disposed of the plea.During the hearing on Friday, the Haryana government submitted that nodal agencies in every district headed by the deputy commissioner are functional. It was also informed that secretary, legal services authority in every district will also be a member of the said committee as he receives a number of complaints. The committee will meet every day, the government told the court.Punjab too assured that a committee on similar lines will be constituted to consider grievances of the public. As of Chandigarh, it said that a war room has been constituted for this purpose.To the submissions that certain private hospitals are charging exorbitant fee and are fleecing the public, both the governments and the UT assured the court that such grievance will be promptly looked into and punitive measures will be taken against such private hospital and medical institutions.Further, assurance has been given that surprise checks will be conducted on private facilities. More personnel will be deputed to attend such calls and PCRs/beats in the nearby vicinity will be activated and helpline numbers will be widely publicised, it was assured.It was also undertaken that authorities will depute officials of the municipal bodies/health authorities to ensure that mask etiquettes are followed by the general public.Heads of the public as well as private institutions will sensitise the employees to wear masks in an appropriate manner, it was submitted.The court has asked the authorities to file daily reports to district and sessions judges’ every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/those-not-wearing-masks-properly-to-be-challaned-too-hc-101619197980459.html
23-04-2021||Other||Mass sanitisation to be done during weekend curbs||The state government will carry out an intensive sanitisation drive during the weekend corona curfew, urban development minister Ashutosh Tandon ‘Gopal’ said on Friday. The minister said the drive would also be carried out in lanes and by-lanes of the cities to signal a committed campaign to sanitise the state, especially containment zones, dense localities and ones where the virus surge is more.The minister gave the directions at a virtual meeting on Friday attended by officers and staff of various urban local bodies in the state.He said the weekend corona curfew would also be used to spread awareness about the need to strictly follow the Covid-19 protocol. The minister also directed the state municipalities to set up control rooms to quickly tackle complaints regarding sanitisation, cleanliness and others.Directive to take proper care of sanitation staffThe minister said those who are part of the cleanliness campaign – the sanitary workers – were among the frontline workers in the fight against Covid-19 and ordered that they should be well looked after.“From ensuring that they get their jabs, to settling all their payment in time and ensuring that they are provided with sanitisers, gloves and masks in the fight against Covid-19, everything should be done for their well-being,” the minister ordered.Provide essential services at doorstep: ACSAdditional chief secretary (Information and MSME) Navneet Sehgal said movement should be restricted during the weekly closure and essential services should be provided at the doorstep of the people.He too said an intensive sanitization and cleanliness drive will be launched in the urban and rural areas of the state. Except the essential services and industrial activities, all the activities will remain closed. The employees working in the government offices and industrial units can move with identity cards. The movement of vehicles for the essential services will be permitted, he said. Sehgal said people should not pay heed to rumours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/mass-sanitisation-to-be-done-during-weekend-curbs-101619197916495.html
23-04-2021||Indore||Madhya Pradesh: 15,000 Remdesivir vials airlifted to districts from Indore||The Madhya Pradesh government deployed a plane and a helicopter to airlift 15,000 vials of Remdesivir medicine to different districts from Indore on Friday, an official said.The vials arrived at Devi Ahilyabai Holkar Airport here in 312 boxes, of which 67 boxes were sent to Bhopal, 45 each to Jabalpur and Ujjain, 33 to Gwalior, 27 to Rewa, 26 to Sagar, he said.A total of 69 boxes have been kept in Indore, the state's worst coronavirus-hit district, he added.Such consignments had arrived in Indore on April 15, 18 and 20 as well for distribution to districts across the state, the official said.Amid a surge in Covid-19 cases, the demand for Remdesivir, among the medicines used in the treatment of the infection, has increased rapidly, leading to a shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/madhya-pradesh-15-000-remdesivir-vials-airlifted-to-districts-from-indore-101619197270322.html
23-04-2021||Jaipur||Over 15,000 fresh Covid-19 cases reported in Rajasthan||Rajasthan recorded 15,398 fresh Covid-19 cases and 64 deaths on Friday, taking the state’s infection tally to 4,83,273 and the death toll to 3,453.The number of active cases in the state increased to 1,17,294, according to an official report.The latest deaths due to the disease were reported from Jodhpur (14), Jaipur (13), Udaipur (nine), Kota (five), Ajmer, Alwar, Bikaner (three each), Bhilwara, Chittorgarh (two each), Baran, Bharatpur, Dholpur, Dungarpur, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhalawar, Karauli, Nagaur and Rajsamand (one each), it said.A total of 3,62,526 coronavirus patients have so far recovered in the state, the report added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/over-15-000-fresh-covid-19-cases-reported-in-rajasthan-101619197064970.html
23-04-2021||Ranchi||State logs highest spike with over 7,500 cases in a day||Jharkhand reported its highest-ever single-day spike in the number of Covid-19 cases and deaths after registering 7,595 new cases and 106 deaths from across the state till Thursday night, according to the state health department’s bulletin released on Friday morning (April 23).These new cases were detected after testing 73,903 samples, registering a positivity rate of over 10%. This means that out of every 100 samples tested, 10 returned positive.The state, that was testing around 35,000-40,000 samples every day, cleared its backlog of untested samples on Thursday, resulting in the steep surge in positive cases.Jharkhand, till Friday morning, was yet to test 15,772 samples piled up at seven different laboratories across the state. The maximum 3,552 samples were pending at Hazaribag Medical College and Hospital, while only 633 samples were pending at Ranchi’s Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS).According to the health department’s April 23 morning bulletin, state capital Ranchi reported the maximum 1,467 cases and 53 deaths. Hazaribagh, however, registered an unprecedented growth after detecting 1,065 new cases. East Singhbhum, with its headquarters in Jamshedpur, unearthed 729 cases and reported 14 deaths.Five other districts--Ramgarh, Deoghar, Koderma, Bokaro and Palamu--too reported high number of cases with each discovering more than 400 cases.According to experts, the state’s biggest cause of concern was the high number of deaths. Jharkhand has reported 602 Covid-19 deaths so far in April alone.“We have been caught unprepared this time, as we did not care to strengthen the health infrastructure at all, presuming that the pandemic was over. Indications of scientific community were grossly ignored. The measures taken to contain the first wave were also undone at many places this time and the result is before everyone to see,” said Dr RK Jha, former professor and head of department of medicine, RIMS.He added, “This wave came just like a sea tide. It contains a new virus strain, that is either a double mutant ‘Indian variant’ or ‘UK variant;’ or even recently discovered triple mutant ‘West Bengal variant’, which is much more infectious. It is infecting children and young generation of both genders equally in larger numbers.”Recently published reports underline that the average hospital stay of admitted patients was getting longer, suggesting more complications and, therefore, more deaths, he said.The daily spike in positive cases also pushed the number of active cases to over the 40,000-mark, posing a big challenge for health mandarins in effective management of cases. In Ranchi, almost all hospitals, both in government and private sectors, were running at full capacity with all Covid-19 beds occupied. To make things worse, there was a huge scarcity of oxygen supported beds and ventilators. People, observing home isolation, have also been wandering in search of oxygen cylinders.According to the bulletin, Jharkhand has so far reported 184,951 cases, including 142,294 recoveries, 40,942 active cases and 1,715 deaths. BoxDaily detection of cases and deaths in last 10 daysDate. Cases/DeathsApril 22:. 7595/106April 21:. 5041/62April 20: 4969/45April 19:. 4401/46April 18:. 3992/50April 17:. 3838/30April 16:. 3843/56April 15:. 3480/28April 14: 3198/31April 13:. 2844/29||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/state-logs-highest-spike-with-over-7-500-cases-in-a-day-101619195997132.html
23-04-2021||Ranchi||Free vaccination for all above 18||Jharkhand residents above 18 years of age will be administered Covid-19 vaccine free of cost. Chief minister Hemant Soren announced the same through his official Twitter handle late on Thursday night.According to officials in the state health department, the decision was made to waive off financial burden of people during the pandemic. Soren said, “The government is working day and night to help people during this period of drastic transition. I believe we can beat coronavirus with cooperation from all.”Earlier, the state government urged the central government to reduce the previous age limit of 45 for vaccine beneficiaries in light of the rapidly spreading infection among younger people.The Union government recently on Monday announced that all persons above 18 years of age will be eligible for Covid-19 shots from May 1. The registration for the same will begin from April 28.The Covid-19 vaccination drive started in Jharkhand from January 16. As per a bulletin of the state health department, more than 25.15 lakh people were administered the first dose of the vaccine till Thursday, while over 3.93 lakh people received their second dose.However, a decline in footfall of first dose seekers was witnessed on Thursday, that some health experts blamed on the confusion arising due to the ongoing week-long lockdown in the state that began April 22. However, no major change was witnessed in the case of second dose beneficiaries.Even though state nodal officer (vaccination) Dr Ajit Prasad expressed his inability to comment on the matter, as he was also suffering from Covid-19 infection, officials at a vaccination office said the drop in footfall of first dose seekers was witnessed, while it partially increased in case of second dose.“There are many reasons behind the slight fall in case of first dose. There may be confusion over lockdown, while some may be scared of visiting vaccination centres due to the sudden case surge. However, we are working to address the issue and we hope it will increase soon,” a senior official said, requesting anonymity. He said vaccination awareness vehicles were being flagged by many districts to educate people about its importance.Jharkhand on Thursday recorded its highest ever single-day spike with 7,595 new cases, while as many as 106 people died due to the disease. The state registered 64,536 cases in between April 1 April 22, while 601 people died during the period due to the virus.Vaccination progressDate First Dose Second doseApril 22 12,439 8,783April 21 16,393 8,263April 20 22,381 12,656April 19 18,758 7,622April 18 28,067 7,788||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/free-vaccination-for-all-above-18-101619195996444.html
23-04-2021||Other||2 killed in as bus collides with truck at Darbhanga||DARBHANGATwo persons died and six others were injured when a passenger bus they were travelling in collided head-on with a truck on NH-57 near Darbhanga College of Engineering on Friday. In-charge of local Mabbi outpost, Manish Kumar, said one of the victims, identified as Indrajeet Yadav (45), a native of Begusarai district, died on the spot. Another victim, a woman from Madhubani, later succumbed to injuries during treatment.The SHO said the bus was coming from Begusarai and was bound for Darbhanga. The accident took place 2 KM away from Dilli More bus stand when a truck laden with food grain from FCI, coming from wrong side, collided head-on with bus. The trapped bus driver was rescued by the police with the help of local people.The injured passengers were immediately rushed to Darbhanga Medical College and Hospital (DMCH) for treatment.“The impact of the collision was so strong that the front portions of the two vehicles were mangled beyond recognition,” said an eyewitness, Suraj Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/2-killed-in-as-bus-collides-with-truck-at-darbhanga-101619195818325.html
23-04-2021||Patna||Bihar presents its oxygen plan in HC||The Patna High Court on Friday said there is deficiency in supply of medical oxygen for treating Covid-19 patients in Bihar and directed that the shortfall be met through proper coordination between the state and the Centre at the earliest.Presenting its action plan, including status of oxygen supply before the court, the Bihar government’s senior counsel, Ranjit Kumar, told the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah that adequate oxygen was available as per the requirement of existing oxygenated beds, while it is striving for more in view of increase in demand due to spike in Covid-19 positive cases.Additional solicitor general KN Singh said the Centre has allocated 194 metric tonnes (MT) of medical oxygen to the state, which the state would require to lift. “However, so far the state was getting less supply, may be due to logistics problems,” he said.The counsel for the state government said the state was also planning to augment oxygen availability, including by installing pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plant and a proposal for this has also been sent to the Centre. Earlier, the state government had demanded 300 MT from the Centre.“At present, PMCH and NMCH plants produce oxygen at the rate of 300 litres per minute, while Darbhanga, Muzaffarpur, Bettiah and Madhepura medical college and hospitals have a capacity of 280 liters per minute. Besides, Pawapuri hospital will have its functional from May 1, while those at Gaya and Bhagalpur will get operational from May 21. Together, the capacity will go up to 2620 litres per minute,” he said.The bench, however, told the state counsel to let the people know what the state has and what it does not have in the public domain through portal and newspaper advertisements. It also sought to knwo why the state suffered shortage mid-April when it claims no shortage today.The court had earlier sought to know the state action plan, including availability and the mode and manner in which the state planned to supply to different dedicated Covid hospitals and dedicated Covid healthcare centres, as also private hospitals. The shortage of oxygen was also corroborated by the report of the registrar general of the HC on the death of Gagan Mishra, an HC officer, reportedly, because of unavailability of oxygen in various hospitals in the city of Patna. The court had asked for a report.Taking serious note of the facts mentioned in the report regarding the paucity of oxygen in the State, which is a crucial medical requirement and an essential critical component for treatment of COVID-19 patients, the bench had requested Ranjit Kumar to seek detailed instructions from the State of Bihar in respect of the effective steps which have been taken and are proposed to be taken to tide over the situation arising out of reported acute shortage of medicinal oxygen in the state of Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-presents-its-oxygen-plan-in-hc-101619195817670.html
23-04-2021||Other||NMCH doctors strike work for 2nd time in 12 hours||PATNABarely 12 hours after returning to work, junior doctors at Patna’s Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) again went on strike after two of the doctors were allegedly manhandled at the ENT ward by the attendants of patients on Friday afternoon.Earlier on Thursday night, the doctors boycotted Covid duties after they were allegedly attacked by attendants following the death of a patient at the hospital. The incident took place around 11 pm.“Junior doctors have gone on strike after joining duty at 11 am on Friday as they were at the receiving end of attendants’ anger again. The Patna district administration is not providing adequate security to prevent such incidents,” NMCH superintendent Dr Binod Kumar Singh alleged. Junior Doctor’s Association president Ramchandra Kumar said they would continue to boycott work till proper security arrangements are made on rge campus. The attendants allegedly ransacked the hospital premises as well as ICU of the Covid hospital, a dedicated unit of NMCH, on Thursday night in which some junior doctors received minor injuries. Association president Kumar said it all began when a woman from Buxar district, admitted on April 11, died during the treatment. Her attendants were informed about her critical condition and two of them were allowed into the hospital. When the doctor declared her death, the attendants allegedly attacked the junior doctors there. It remained unclear whether there was any argument before the assault. “The attendants attacked the doctors plastic chairs and iron stool. They also tore curtains and damaged trollies,” said an eyewitness. On getting information, the hospital superintendent, deputy superintendent Dr Saroj Kumar and other officials reached the spot and tried to pacify the doctors. One of the attendants who had indulged in violence was detained by the police. On the other hand, attendants alleged the woman died due to negligence of doctors. A senior official of health department said the government would take all steps to ensure doctors’ security and urged them to return to work immediately. Meanwhile, Patna district magistrate Dr Chandrasekhar Singh asked senior superintendent of police Upendra Sharma to deploy at least 60 police persons in the premises of NMCH, where 371 Covid patients are currently being treated.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nmch-doctors-strike-work-for-2nd-time-in-12-hours-101619195816352.html
23-04-2021||Other||Nine of family die as vehicle falls into Ganga||DANAPURAt least nine members of a family, of them four women and three children, died and six others were missing after a vehicle carrying 15 passengers fell into river Ganga at Danapur in the state capital Friday morning.The incident took place at Purani-Panapur ghat under Danapur subdivision around 7:30 am. Police said the vehicle, a jeep, coming from Akilpur village to Chitrakoot Nagar in Danapur, plunged into the river from the dilapidated pontoon bridge when the driver, said to be inebriated, lost control.The occupants of the vehicles were returning after attending wedding ceremony of one Rakesh Kumar Singh.“Nine bodies have been fished out of the river. Search and rescue operations are under way to rescue five to six persons reported to be missing. The rescue operations are on with the help of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) and the State Disaster Response Force (SDRF) teams,” said Sonepur’s deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Anjani Kumar. Patna district magistrate Chandasekhar Singh said two persons, including the jeep driver, swam to safety. He also announced an ex-gratia of ₹4 lakh each for the next of kin of the dead. The DM has ordered a probe and sought a report from Danapur administration.Patliputra MP Ram Kripal Yadav, former BJP MLA Asha Sinha and RJD MLA Ritlal Yadav also reached the accident spot and supervised rescue operations. Ram Kripal Yadav said he was at the spot for nearly two hours to oversee rescue efforts being carried out by an NDRF team. NDRF’s 9th Battalion assistant commandant (Bihta) Binay Kumar said the vehicle had been pulled out of the river with the help of a crane. Meanwhile, chief minister Nitish Kumar expressed grief over the incident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/nine-of-family-die-as-vehicle-falls-into-ganga-101619195816981.html
23-04-2021||Other||IAS officer among 54 dead in last 24 hours State announces free Covid treatment at IGIMS, IMA pushes for emergency hiring of medicos||PATNAAn IAS officer was among 54 people who died of coronavirus during the last 24 hours when Bihar reported 12,672 cases new cases, of them 2,801 in Patna alone. The deceased officer, Ravi Shankar Chowdhary, posted as additional secretary in health department The state has reported 59 deaths on April 22 and 56 on April 21. What is causing concern is the steady fall in recovery rate, which came down to 79.28% on Friday from 85.62% on April 18. Bihar has seen a more than three -fold increase in death cases since April 16, when it reported 16 deaths. The number of active cases stood at 76,419. Gaya reported 816 new cases, Aurangabad 748, Muzaffarpur (704) and Saran (617).Meanwhile, the state government announced free treatment for Covid patients at the Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS). Chief minister Nitish Kumar made this announcement through a tweet on Friday evening. “The government will bear the cost of treatment and medicines as well,” he tweeted. The chief minister also instructed officials to set the ventilators in all districts to order. “This should be done either through government efforts or in collaboration with private players,” he said. Meanwhile, Indian Medical Association, Bihar, has written a letter to chief minister asking him to appoint doctors as an emergency measure. “There is a provision of quick appointment of doctors and others in times of an epidemic. All such people who are ready to join can be recruited on contract,” said Dr Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the IMA’s Bihar chapter.“This war needs a big army of doctors, paramedics, nurses and support staff more than what we need in normal times. Situation, if not corrected, can be disastrous,” the IMA said in the letter. Dr Kumar said doctors and health care workers (HCWs) have been working continuously for the last 14 months without any leave. “They are exhausted and need some rest on intervals. More than 15% of them are infected. Many have died. It is the demand of time in public interest,” said Kumar.The IMA lauded the government efforts and said that In first wave of Covid-19 last year, Bihar government did meticulous planning and fought successfully the dreaded Covid-19 mobilizing its medical human resources. “IMA expresses its gratitude to the government of Bihar. This second virulent wave of Covid-19 has proved that humanity will have to fight it for long. IMA Bihar will always with the government with all its strength in this war against Covid-19,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ias-officer-among-54-dead-in-last-24-hours-state-announces-free-covid-treatment-at-igims-ima-pushes-for-emergency-hiring-of-medicos-101619195756398.html
23-04-2021||Pune||9,863 fresh Covid cases, 30 deaths reported in Pune||Pune district reported 9,863 fresh Covid-19 cases and 30 deaths on Friday, as reported by the state health department. The total count of the infection went up to 0.776 million in Pune district, of which 0.650 million have recovered.The death toll in Pune has now gone up to 8,983 and currently 1,16,602 cases are active, undergoing treatment in hospitals or in home isolation.Pune city reported 4,536 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 0.401 million. With 14 deaths, the toll is now at 5,100.Pune rural reported 2,930 new Covid-19 cases which takes the progressive count to 0.183 million. With 13 more deaths the toll is now at 2,370. PCMC reported 2,397 new Covid-19 cases, which takes the progressive count to 0.190 million cases. With three more deaths the toll went up to 1,458.Also 56,815 people got the vaccine on Friday, of which 31,149 were from Pune rural; 16,144 from Pune city and 9,522 from PCMC. Of the 56,815 vaccinations, 4,522 were of Covaxin and 52,293 of Covishield.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/9863-fresh-covid-cases-30-deaths-reported-101619195696317.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Khalsa Aid to provide free oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients in Delhi||Khalsa Aid India on Friday said it will provide oxygen concentrators to Covid-19 patients in Delhi free of cost.Delhi is facing a severe oxygen shortage for the past few days with several hospitals scrambling to shore up their oxygen supplies.The NGO, which has recently procured 65 oxygen concentrators, said to avail the service people would have to fill up a registration form, and that patients with "low oxygen saturation levels" would be given priority.The volunteers will be delivering oxygen concentrators in all parts of the capital, it said."There is a huge gap between the demand and supply of oxygen, we want to play a miniscule part to bridge that gap. Though our effort is like a drop of water in an ocean, it was much needed. We were getting requests for oxygen so we managed to procure concentrators for the needy under-privileged patients," said Amarpreet Singh, director of Khalsa Aid Project (Asia Chapter).Singh said his organisation will procure more oxygen concentrators in the coming weeks, taking the number from present 65 to 100.Oxygen concentrators, witnessing a massive surge in demand amid the crisis in Delhi, is a portable medical device used for delivering oxygen to individuals with breathing-related disorders. It filters the surrounding air, compressing it to the required density, and then delivers purified medical-grade oxygen into a pulse-dose delivery system or continuous stream system to the patient."Seeing the present situation we are trying to procure more machines to serve maximum (number of patients). The organisation has set up an online Whatsapp registration process to avoid physical contact. We are also trying to procure oxygen cylinders to fight this situation more efficiently," said advocate Puneet Singh, a trustee of Khalsa Aid India. The national capital on Thursday logged a record 306 Covid-19 deaths and 26,169 cases with a positivity rate of 36.24 per cent, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/khalsa-aid-to-provide-free-oxygen-concentrators-to-covid-19-patients-in-delhi-101619193639633.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Covid outbreak at old age home: 47 infected, two dead||In the remote taluka of Velha, a retirement home run by the Janseva Foundation reported a Covid-19 outbreak on April 9, which saw 47 senior citizens infected. Of the 180, 47 tested positive and 30 needed a doctor’s attention.While most have recovered, two deaths were reported, despite the age factor and reported comorbidities.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here All the senior citizens had got their first shot of the vaccine.Vishal Shinde, block development officer of Velha, said, “We had reported 47 positive cases from this home and two deaths. Since most of them had got on vaccine shot they did not report any severe symptoms. They also tested positive on April 9 and now most of them have already recovered.”Dr Vinod Shah, himself a septuagenarian and one of the first recipients of Covishield under the healthcare workers category, runs the home. He said, “I have received both the shots of the vaccine and had tested positive for the infection just two weeks ago. However, despite my diabetic condition for which I have been taking insulin for the past 45 years, I only had body ache and weakness. I did not even require oxygen treatment and now my 14-day quarantine will be over soon. The vaccine has proven quite effective among senior citizens. The deaths also happened when the patient was being transported from our hospital to the Velha primary health care centre and then was being brought to Poona hospital. In the other case, the patient had an oxygen saturation of 95 in the night and in the morning died, possibly because of cardiac arrest or another reason.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-outbreak-at-old-age-home-47-infected-two-dead-101619193956341.html
23-04-2021||Pune||PMC staffer, 3 of his family succumb to Covid infection||The second wave of Covid-19 claimed four members of a family within a span of 10 days. Shyamsundar Kuchekar, 45, working at the Pune Municipal Corporation Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward succumbed to the virus on Thursday afternoon. His brother Vijaykumar Kuchekar passed away due to the infection in the evening.Shyamsundar had lost his mother, father and brother because of the complications developed after contracting Covid infection in the last 10 days.“Shyamsundar was a permanent employee of PMC. He was hospitalised at a private hospital on April 4,” said Somnath Bankar, assistant municipal commissioner and Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward officer.The Kuchekar family resides at Swami Vivekanand Society in Hadapsar.Shyamsundar is survived by two daughters and a son.“He was a soft-spoken and helpful person. The virus wiping out a family within two weeks is devastating. He was admitted to Noble hospital. This second wave has taken many families. People recovered from the virus when it was at its peak last year, but the present form of virus is more deadly and claiming more lives. The present wave is out of bounds for anyone. People need to realise the severity of the situation and strictly follow the Covid norms,” said Rajendra Tidke, PMC engineer, Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward office.Shyamsundar’s mother Suman Kuchekar (70) was hospitalised on April 1 in Jehangir hospital. His father Laxman Kuchekar (75) was admitted to Jumbo Covid centre at College of Engineering, Pune (COEP) on April 7 and brother Vijaykumar was admitted to the same centre on April 9. Shyamsundar’s parents died a week ago.“Shyamsundar was directly admitted to ICU at our hospital on April 4 as his condition was critical and he put on ventilator. He was in ICU for 19 days and his condition did not improve. He died on April 22 noon,” said Dr HK Sale, executive director, Noble Hospital.The relatives of Kuchekar family are in a state of shock. “We thought that they were being treated at a good hospital and will recover, but the virus claimed them,” said Ganesh Bhise, brother-in-law of Shyamsundar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-staffer-3-of-his-family-succumb-to-covid-infection-101619193236175.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Malavika’s Mumbaistan: Of Quiet Rage and Silent Screams||Let’s face it, there have been times during these harrowing past few days, weeks and months when you have felt, as if like Alice, you’ve fallen into a bottomless rabbit hole from which you may never emerge. Or as if you are trapped in an endless re-run of a dystopian science fiction series such as the Twilight Zone or Black Mirror, where dark irony, morbid suspense and mounting horror lurk behind the most ordinary and everyday aspects of our lives. After all what else can you say about a time in which ‘being negative’ is the best piece of news you can receive; in which the constant wail of ambulance sirens convey profound despair, rather than hope; in which oxygen cylinders, meant to save lives, become the cause of mass deaths; in which doctors, nurses and other medical personnel face breakdowns and sickness and critical exhaustion; and above all, in which the leaders we put our faith in are the very ones who let us down? Today, the world as we know it, in the vice like grip of the Covid-19 pandemic, seems as if it’s been placed wrong side up or inside out. As if we woke up on January 1, 2020 to a parallel universe, one where the rules had been changed overnight and all that we once took for granted, suddenly seemed distorted, awry … set asunder. So how else to describe these strange times except in oxymoron, those figures of speech that combine two seemingly contradictory or opposite ideas, to cunningly reveal a deeper truth, through their quirky nuance? In fact, could there be another time which would lend itself so gloriously to the confounding polarity of the oxymoron? To begin with, consider the ‘fine mess’ we’re in, locked as we all are, ‘alone together’, like the ‘living dead’, surrounded by a ‘deafening silence’ as we attempt to carry on with our lives and ‘work from home’, while constantly worrying in our ‘wakeful sleep’ about everything, including if our test results the next day will turn out to be ‘false positive’. How else to describe ‘ feeling numb’ at the sight of endless queues of ‘anxious patients’ outside hospitals and the crush of bodies ‘packed loosely’ outside morgues, waiting their turn? And above all else, what are we supposed to do when it’s an ‘open secret’ that our leaders are ‘clearly confused’ and ‘definitely undecided’ about how to save lives, and that the situation from the ‘ground up’ appears to be getting ‘progressively worse’? Meanwhile, solutions appear to be ‘growing smaller’ by the hour and we seem ‘far closer’ to the real and present danger. Who will know of the ‘quiet rage’ we feel at the ‘foolish wisdom’ of banging pots and lighting diyas to ‘flatten the curve’? Who will hear our ‘silent screams’ at the sight of ‘small armies’ of ‘barely dressed’ men congregating at the Kumbh or unmasked multitudes gathering at political rallies, which ‘any one’ will tell you is a ‘sure bet’ of spreading infection. Indeed, the ‘true story’ of this ‘tragi- comedy’ is that ‘almost exactly’ a year after it began, it’s as if life has played a ‘cruel joke’ on us and ‘once again’ it seems as if we are forced to go back on a ‘working vacation’, with hand washing and ‘social distancing’ becoming ‘one more’ ‘unusual routine’ and ‘new tradition’ in our daily lives. As the dangers of disease and death seem ‘incredibly real’, the ‘only choice’ we have is to lump it (which, in my ‘unbiased opinion’, is an ‘unacceptable solution’). After all, it is ‘hardly easy’ in ‘human nature’ to remain ‘hopelessly optimistic’ and say the glass is ‘half full’ in the face of ‘increasing losses’ and ‘negative growth’ ( Not forgetting the ‘additional reduction’ in the country’s GDP). ‘Good grief’, how on earth are we expected to ‘act natural’ at a time of such ‘controlled chaos’? ‘Small wonder’ then that we feel a ‘conspicuous absence’ of empathy when our leaders appear on ‘live recordings’ mouthing ‘essentially useless’ platitudes and ‘false truths’, which only convey to the general public that they do not have any ‘action plan’ for ‘disaster relief’; and as if this were not ‘seriously funny’, we find ourselves ‘crash landing’ into a ‘pretty ugly’ situation where nearly every one we know is ‘highly depressed’, and the only ‘unsung heroes’ are the ‘extra-ordinary’, ‘back room, front line’ workers, and the ‘uncrowned king’ through it all is none but the ordinary long-suffering ‘private citizen’. How much more can we take? After all, even the most ‘painfully beautiful’ sunsets cannot distract from the fact that we are now the ‘waking dead’ and that ‘modern history’ will record that a cosmic ‘practical joke’ seems to have been played on us, with an ‘apparently invisible’ virus upending our lives; and that there’s ‘nothing much’ to do but ‘scale down’ our expectations, because in the end, there is ‘very little’ accountability and it is ‘quite unlikely’ that any one will ‘stand down’ or display a ‘little more’ empathy or even some ‘conventional wisdom’ during the course of this dystopian, ‘virtual reality’ ‘war game’ we are currently experiencing. What else to do in such times but try and hold on to our ‘forgotten memories’ of the bad old good days, when going viral was an aspiration and when being positive was a virtue?||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/malavikas-mumbaistan-of-quiet-rage-and-silent-screams-101619192161344.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra reports record 773 Covid-19 deaths, 66,836 cases||Maharashtra on Friday reported 773 deaths due to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), in the highest-ever daily spike, and 66,836 cases, according to the health department’s bulletin, which have pushed the tally to 41,61,676 in the state, which is under strict restrictions to stop the transmission of the infections. Maharashtra currently has 691,851 active cases of the coronavirus disease, the highest in the country, and 74,045 patients recovered from the Covid-19, according to the bulletin. There were 67,013 Covid-19 cases and 568 people succumbed to the viral disease on Thursday in the state, which is the worst-hit by the pandemic. Maharashtra so far has reported 41,61,676 cases and 63,252 deaths due to the coronavirus disease, the bulletin showed.Maharashtra’s capital city of Mumbai recorded 7199 Covid-19 cases and 72 deaths after registering 7367 infections and 75 fatalities a day before, the bulletin also showed. The new infections and fatalities have taken Mumbai's tally to 616,279 and its death toll to 12,655, according to data.Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate is at 81.81 per cent and its fatality rate 1.52 per cent, according to official data. The state's positivity rate is 16.53 per cent, it also showed.During a virtual meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi earlier in the day, Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray demanded additional medical oxygen for the state, adequate supply of vaccines and permission to import Remdesivir to tackle the surge in Covid-19 cases. Thackeray also demanded that oxygen be airlifted if possible, an official release said.The Maharashtra government has imposed stringent regulations to curb the spread of the Covid-19 disease, including restrictions on inter-city and inter-district travel and attendance in offices and weddings. The new restrictions under the government's “Break- the-Chain” programme came into force at 8pm on Thursday and will remain effective till 7 am on May 1.Also read | Mumbai locals step up checking as stricter curbs come into forceThe government said inter-city and inter-district travel is only permitted for essential services, medical emergencies and funerals. Under the new order, only 25 people cans attend wedding ceremonies, which cannot extend beyond two hours. Prohibitory orders, banning the assembly of five or more people at one place, are in force till 7am on May 1 and non-essential activities are not being allowed. Essential services, including grocery stores, are permitted to operate only between between 7am and 11am.Also read | Five districts in Maharashtra report highest Covid CFRThe latest curbs came after several ministers demanded a total lockdown for 15 days to curb the rising Covid-19 cases in Maharashtra. Maharashtra, facing an unprecedented surge in coronavirus disease cases as the pandemic’s second wave, is already under severe restrictions since April 14.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-records-66-836-covid-19-cases-773-deaths-101619187822396.html
23-04-2021||Pune||The fight for Remdesivir continues||A total of only 250 doses of Remedesivir were supplied to Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC)-run hospitals, whereas as per the civic body’s health department, there are 1,328 critical patients in the city. The shortage of Remdesivir injection has left families of critical Covid positive patients in distress. Speaking on the condition of anonymity, the wife of a 38-year-old Covid patient who is admitted at a PMC-run hospital said that the first dose of Remdesivir was administered to the patient on Tuesday. “The second dose was given on Thursday, and there is no supply as of now of the injection. In the open market, the drug is not available, and the hospital doesn’t have the injection either. As there were plenty of cases found wherein paracetamol was supplied in the bottles of Remdesivir, we cannot even try to find the medicine in the open market. My husband is critical. I don’t know what to do,” she said. Dr Madhuri Gare, in charge at Dalvi Hospital in Shivajinagar said that the injection is administered to a critical patient based on various factors. “The injection is supplied to the hospital by the PMC and until 2 pm, there was no supply. By evening, 40 doses of Remedesivir were allocated to the hospital. There are around 162 patients on oxygen supply and around 10 patients in ICU as on Friday,” said Dr Gare. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief at the health department of the PMC said that there is a shortage of the medicine. “We have over 1,300 critical patients in PMC and the supply we received on Friday was just 250 injections. As we are getting less doses, we are sending less doses to the hospital as well,” said Dr Wavare. Due to the acute shortage of the injection that has continued from last few weeks, the district administration has made it mandatory for hospitals to provide the injection to the patient so that the families of the patient do not hunt for the medicine. As per the district administration, the drug is supplied to the PMC, which in turn allocates the drug to hospitals. On Thursday, 6,400 injections were allocated to hospitals in PMC and Pune rural with a total bed capacity of 10,874. This allocation does not include PMC-run hospitals. Ahead of the shortage, many cases of selling fake Remdesivir injection also came to the forefront.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/the-fight-for-remdesivir-continues-101619190656199.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Experts suggest vaccinating children below the age of 18 to control cases in that age group||In the deadly second wave of Covid-19 that has hit India, a large number of children below the age of 18 are getting infected, with some even having severe symptoms. In an attempt to control this trend, doctors and experts have suggested that vaccination among children will help keep the numbers low. Of the total cases, around 3.03 per cent positive patients are below the age of 10 years whereas 6.73 per cent of the total positive cases are between the ages of 11 years to 20 years. Dr Pradeep Suryavanshi, head of neonatology and paediatric, Sahyadri Hospitals said that the infectivity rate in children is more, fever presentation is more and is resulting in the infection spreading to families including grandparents. “Therefore, vaccination in children especially in the age group of 10-18 years will help. This is because this is the most active age group where children play and mix with their friends and families. While most of the trials worldwide have happened in the adult age group, the knowledge should be extracted and seen whether it can be applied in paediatrics,” Dr Suryavanshi said. Dr Ganesh Badge, consultant paediatrician at city-based Columbia Asia Hospital said that vaccinating children is under trial in the U.S. “The results of this trial by Pfizer-BioNTech are very encouraging as the phase three trials of adolescents between 12 and 15 years with or without prior evidence of Covid infections, demonstrated 100 per cent efficacy and robust antibody responses. Moderna has also begun a phase 2/3 study of children aged between six months and 11 years. However, it is important that a separate clinical trial is held in India before approving any such vaccine. Improving the vaccine coverage of the adult population in India will also help protect children,” said Dr Badge. Dr Aarti Kinikar, head of the paediatric ward at Sassoon General Hospital said that during the second wave many children are testing positive. “Some children are also critical with severe symptoms of Covid-19. Isolating a child from Covid positive patients is important to ensure the safety of the child,” said Dr Kinikar. Dr Suchit Tamboli, a paediatrician said that vaccination for children below the age of 18 years is expected to start in July or August. “India should start a trial of vaccines for children below the age of 18 years. We need to take care of the children by using masks, hand wash, sanitizer, and social distance till the vaccine arrives. Parents should report to paediatricians if the child has fever, cold, cough, loose motions and is not responding to usual treatment and also if has a history of contact with Covid positive patients,” said Dr Tamboli. Dr Suryavanshi added that isolation of children below the age group of 14 is particularly difficult as they always want to be with their parents. “In such a case the one with better immunity should get involved and take care of the child during the isolation period. It is also important to ensure the child wears a mask during isolation at home,” said Dr Suryavanshi. Box April 23, 2021 Positive cases under the age of 10 years in Maharashtra—1,22,522 Positive cases between 11 to 20 years in Maharashtra—2,72,410 Total positive cases in Maharashtra: 4,041,010 *March 4, 2021 Positive cases under the age of 10 years in Maharashtra—91,054 Positive cases between 11 to 20 years in Maharashtra 1,93,253 total cases in MH: 2,917,285 *December 17, 2020 Positive cases under the age of 10 years in Maharashtra—65,850 Positive cases between 11 to 20 years in Maharashtra 1,26,584 Total positive cases in Maharashtra: 1,889,366 Source: Medical Education and Drugs Department, Public Health department||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/experts-suggest-vaccinating-children-below-the-age-of-18-to-control-cases-in-that-age-group-101619190536064.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Those not wearing masks properly to be fined too in Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh||From now on, those not wearing masks properly will be fined too in Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh. Both the governments and Chandigarh administration on Friday assured the high court that people not covering their mouth or nose properly with face masks will be treated on par with those not wearing them at all and will be liable to same punitive action. The assurance was given in a suo motu plea initiated by the high court in view of surge in Covid-19 cases in both the states and the UT. The court has now disposed of the plea. During the hearing on Friday, Haryana government submitted that nodal agencies in every district headed by the deputy commissioner are functional. It was also informed that secretary, legal services authority in every district will also be a member of the said committee as he receives number of complaints. The committee will meet daily, the government had told the court. Punjab too assured that a committee on the similar lines will be constituted to consider the grievances of the public. As of Chandigarh, it said that a war room has been constituted for the purpose. To the submissions that certain private hospitals are charging exorbitant fee for their services, both the governments and UT assured the court that such grievance will be promptly looked into and punitive measures shall be taken against such medical facilities. Further, assurance has been given that surprise checks will also be conducted on such private facilities. More personnel will be deputed to attend distress calls and helpline numbers will be widely publicised, it was assured. It was also undertaken that authorities will depute officials of the municipal bodies/health authorities to ensure that mask etiquettes are followed by the public. Heads of the public as well as private institutions will sensitise the employees to wear masks properly, it was submitted. The court has asked the authorities to submit daily reports with the respective district and sessions judges’.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/those-not-wearing-masks-properly-to-be-fined-too-in-punjab-haryana-chandigarh-101619190476112.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Cops irked by commuters’ false reasons to venture out||According to police posted at various check posts across Pune, commuters are giving false reasons in order to venture out during the strict lockdown imposed by the state government to control the surge in Covid-19 cases. “I am going out to feed pigeons”- is one reason which people tell the cops. “Since morning, there have been four people who have given the exact same reason we allowed two of them go as it was 8 in the morning, however, we had to turn back the other two since it was 11am,” said Sunil Kumar, traffic police constable who was on duty at the University Road police check post. From April 22, the government has only allowed essential service vehicles to ply on the streets of the city. “The order is strict for all; we need to confirm the commuter’s genuine reason or an essential service ID card. Many people are still needlessly coming out. We are imposing a fine on them,” said Kumar. Traffic police at Aundh check post caught 10 people who came out without any essential reason until 12 noon. “Only home delivery is allowed but still people are coming out to get food parcel. We consider some of them by giving a warning but next day again people make the same mistake,” added Vishal Those, traffic constable. Aditya Kadgale who paid a fine of ₹500 said, “I did not come out without a purpose. I stay where the map does not show the proper location to the delivery apps, hence I had to get my food parcel.” Rahul Shrirame, deputy commissioner of police (traffic) said, “Many people are still not taking the orders seriously. In the coming days more check posts will be installed across the city. The situation is grim that’s why there are so many restrictions in place. People should stop coming out unnecessarily.” “If people continue to flout the rules, the administration will be left with no option but to impose restrictions like last year,” added Shrirame.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/cops-irked-by-commuters-false-reasons-to-venture-out-101619190416119.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Seven days into infection, nasopharyngeal sample may lead to false RT-PCR negatives: NIV director Dr Abraham||During a public seminar on genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-19 which was attended by the national laboratory heads from across the country including the National Institute of Virology (NIV) director Dr Priya Abraham, it was revealed that despite severe Covid-19 symptoms, a person may test negative for the infection through RT-PCR. Dr Abraham said that there have been multiple reports in the media about RT-PCR negative individuals unable to get admission into hospital even though they are gasping for breath and are unable to get access to the oxygen because of the negative report. “There are multiple factors which could lead to this. Due to the extreme stress due to the situation in a clinical setting, the sampling could be inappropriate; individuals may be appearing late for sampling and typically if they come after seven days into the infection the sampling from the Nasopharyngeal area may reduce sensitivity of the nucleic acid leading to a false negative of the RT-PCR. The other factors could be efficiency of the acid kits being compromised as they were not stored or transported properly and so the reverse transcription enzyme or the polymerase enzyme may lose the integrity. Also the added pressure on the laboratory staff due to the current situation as they are also being infected differs from the ideal situation,” Dr Abraham said. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomic Consortia (INSACOG) members also said that in Maharashtra they sequenced around 4 per cent or 71 sequenced samples that detected with Variants of Concern (VOC) of the 1,779 samples sequenced. Of these 1,723 were community samples and 56 were from travellers.The INSACOG is a 10-member group which was formed by the Government of India for large scale sequencing of genome sequencing. Dr Abraham said, “To identify the variants we have to first sequence them, then detect them, which is done through amplification process most commonly known as RT-PCR tests. Since the pandemic RT-PCR has been the gold standard for diagnosis and detection of the infection since the beginning of the pandemic. Over 99 per cent of the times, we are able to identify the virus and are able to allow us to then go on to sequence and identify the variants which are being discussed.” She further added that normally an RT-PCR picks up variants of every kind and today the acids are approved and validated by the government are fully capable of picking up the UK variant, the double mutation variant, the Brazilian variant and also the South African variant. The webinar was arranged by the department of biotechnology, ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India on Friday on genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-19 to highlight the importance of sequencing genome of SARS-CoV-19, and the work done by the Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium (INSACOG) in ascertaining the current status of the new variant of SARS-CoV-2, establishing a sentinel surveillance for early detection, and determining the genomic variants in the unusual events/trends. Research laboratories across the country had started sequencing of the SARS-CoV-2 genome from April 2020, however these were mostly samples collected randomly across the country. The first report of a UK variant of concern was published in December 2020 and the government immediately established INSACOG which is a national multi-agency consortium for large-scale sequencing of viral genome collected in a systematic manner with complete metadata. Ten laboratories of the department of biotechnology, CSIR, ICMR and Ministry of health and family welfare, were brought together. The National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), MoHFW was given the responsibility to correlate the clinical aspects and coordinate collection of samples from the states. So far about 20,000 samples have been sequenced and about 1,500 variants have been identified across the country. These are mainly the UK and South Africa variant and a small number of Brazil variants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/seven-days-into-infection-nasopharyngeal-sample-may-lead-to-false-rt-pcr-negatives-niv-director-dr-abraham-101619190356112.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||On oxygen shortage plea, HC tells Delhi hospitals to first contact nodal officer||Delhi High Court on Friday directed hospitals and nursing homes in the city to get in touch with the nodal officer of the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government if they face a shortage of oxygen for Covid-19 patients before approaching it. A bench of justice Vipin Sanghi and justice Rekha Palli was hearing separate pleas of two private hospitals, Bram Healthcare Private Limited and Batra Hospital and Medical Research Centre, flagging the scarcity of oxygen and the condition of seriously ill Covid-19 patients.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereIn its plea, Batra Hospital said that it has currently admitted 352 Covid-19 patients. “The conditions of some of the patients are extremely critical and life-threatening and if they are not provided with a continuous supply of oxygen, it could turn out to be fatal for the patient,” it said. The hospital said that as of Friday 8:30am, the available stock of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) was 1900 litres and said it will last only five to six hours with the present consumption rate. The hospital has been discharging stable patients and has stopped new admissions.The city’s Bram Hospital said it is occupied with more than 150 patients of which more than 100 are on oxygen support. According to the hospital’s petition, they require 125 oxygen cylinders per day but now are left with only 35 cylinders. The hospital informed the court that it has tried to get oxygen everywhere but could not get any response either from the administration or police. “Even the filling station does not have the oxygen,” the hospital claimed and said that in this scenario the oxygen they have will last only for three to four hours.Following this, the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, submitted that control rooms have been set up to coordinate with the nodal officers of state governments for the management of oxygen supply. The control room has officers from all departments and hospitals can contact the nodal officer, the Centre told the court. Udit Prakash is the nodal officer in Delhi. “This is done so that the Centre can intervene whenever there is any obstruction of oxygen transportation by local authorities,” he said.The bench said if the requirements are not met even after contacting the nodal officer, the hospitals shall contact senior advocate Rahul Mehra and lawyer Satyakam, before approaching the court.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/on-oxygen-shortage-plea-hc-tells-delhi-hospitals-to-first-contact-nodal-officer-101619182209116.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Amid Covid crisis, Mumbai Dabbawalas call for help; raise over ₹20 lakh in 4 days||Hit hard by yet another coronavirus pandemic-induced lockdown and struggling to make ends meet, Mumbai’s iconic Dabbawalas reached out for help. And, their appeal was met with equal enthusiasm. The dabbawalas have raised over ₹20 lakh in just four days with the help of a fundraiser organisation as more than 1000 people have donated so far through Milaap.“When I first spoke to the dabbawalas, I got to know that more than 2000 of them are struggling to make ends meet. I sensed the urgency of their appeal and felt that a campaign on Milaap can be of great help for them. The response has been great so far with more than 1000 donations in less than a week,” Debosmita De, a marketing operations associate with Milaap, said.Ulhas Shantaram Muke, the president of the Mumbai Tiffin Box Suppliers Charity Trust, thanked everyone who came forward and showed their support. “The campaign on Milaap has raised over ₹20 lakh in just 4 days. This is a great ray of hope for us to procure ration and pay off our rents in this challenging time,” Muke added. “We have worked hard every single day to build this system. Dabbawalas are in a lot of trouble now. The situation is such that a 100 ₹note is equivalent to ₹10,000,” Sopan Laxman Mare, a Dabbawala, said.As the 130-year-old delivery network has seen the business plunge by nearly 90% with many offices in Mumbai still closed, the Dabbawalas have also urged the Maharashtra government for financial help. “Out of the 5000 Dabbawalas, only 400-500 were working. With new lockdown restrictions, only 200-250 are now left. We are again urging the government for financial help,” Vishnu Kaldoke, Mumbai dabbawala spokesperson, told news agency ANI earlier this month.The Maharashtra government on Wednesday announced fresh restrictions on travel, attendance in offices and wedding functions to check the Covid-19 spread. The effect came into force from Thursday night.Maharashtra, facing an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases, is already under severe restrictions since April 14. On Thursday, Maharashtra recorded 67,013 fresh coronavirus cases and 568 fatalites, taking the tally to 40,94,840, said a health department official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/amid-covid-crisis-mumbai-dabbawalas-call-for-help-raise-over-rs-20-lakh-in-4-days-101619181348820.html
23-04-2021||Pune||PMC understaffed for Covid check on passengers coming in at Pune railway station||PUNE To stop the spread of Covid-19 the district administration has made it mandatory to check the “Covid negative” report of all passengers in to Pune by train from outside.The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) with the help of the Pune railway division, have started thermal scanning passengers, and if required, rapid antigen tests of passengers are done at the Pune railway station. However, over the past last two weeks, passenger traffic at the Pune railway station has increased dramatically. For better movement of passengers, entry to the station premises is from the front end of the railway station. Staff deployed by the civic body is not enough for the large number of passengers coming in. A maximum of five PMC staffers are on duty to check hundreds of passengers. Harsha Shah, president, Railway Pravasi Group, said, “Passengers coming in from outside the state is huge and practically, it is not possible to check each and every one. PMC health department needs to increase staff deployed for checking exit at the station premises.”The exit gate for all the incoming passengers is from the Raja Bahadur Mill road gate, using the newly built foot overbridge (FOB). Passengers are checked on this FOB by staff from the PMC health department. “We are checking passengers coming in from other states to Pune. We are checking the RTPCR test reports of passengers. Those passengers who do not have the reports have to undergo a rapid antigen test at the station. Each and every passenger’s contact details are with us,” said Chandrakant Walemad, a PMC health department official. Manoj Jhawar, Pune railway division spokesperson said, “Pune railway division is always prepared to help the civic administration. All needed help and support is provided to them, whether for thermal checking or Covid test reports.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pmc-understaffed-for-covid-check-on-passengers-coming-in-at-pune-railway-station-101619180456185.html
23-04-2021||Bhopal||500-bed Covid-19 care centre set up in Bhopal district||Considering the rise in Covid-19 cases, the administration in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal district has set up a 500-bed Covid-19 care centre in collaboration with a private company in Ratibad, an official said on Friday.Asymptomatic patients and those suffering from mild symptoms will be admitted to the centre, which has been set up in collaboration with Sagar Public Group, the official from the public health department stated.Paramedical facility will be provided at the centre with the help of the government-run J P Hospital, he said, adding that a yoga teacher and a psychologist will also be stationed to help patients.Oxygen generators have been set up for emergencies and to ensure that if patients turn critical, they can be shifted safely to dedicated hospitals, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/500bed-covid-19-care-centre-set-up-in-bhopal-district-101619180097704.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||No Covid-19 patients yet at isolation coaches at 2 Delhi railway stations: Official||No Covid-19 patients have been admitted at the isolation coaches at two railway stations in Delhi days after the request was made by the Arvind Kejriwal government, Railway Board chairman Suneet Sharma said on Friday. “Delhi asked us for 50 coaches (800 beds) which have been placed at Shakur Basti. Twenty-five coaches (400 beds) have been placed at Anand Vihar. However, so far, patients have not come,” the top railway official was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government hasn't commented whether people are being admitted to those coaches. The Delhi government on Sunday urged the Railway Board to make special Covid-19 care coaches available at two railway stations like last year as cases of the viral disease were increasing at a rapid pace in the city. Emphasising that facilities at government and private hospitals available in the national capital were getting strained due to the “tremendous” increase in Covid-19 cases, Delhi’s chief secretary Vijay Kumar Dev wrote to Suneet Sharma. “…request you to kindly arrange Covid bed facilities at Anand Vihar and Shakur Basti Railway Stations with full logistical support, requisite medical and para-medical staff and oxygen facilities etc on an emergent basis,” Dev said in his letter.The request was approved by the Centre within a few hours. Union minister for railways Piyush Goyal assured support to the Delhi government and said that over three lakh isolation beds can be arranged if the states demand. “Govt under PM @NarendraModi leading the fight against COVID-19: 50 COVID-19 isolation coaches with 800 beds ready at Shakur Basti Station & 25 coaches will be available at Anand Vihar Station in Delhi. Railways can setup >3 lakh isolation beds across the country on States' demand,” Piyush Goyal wrote on Twitter.As Delhi faces an “extreme” shortage of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the government has also put in a request to the railways to operate 'Oxygen Express' to meet the demand. "We have received a request from Delhi just now, and we are still planning its movement. We will likely get the oxygen from Rourkela," the Railway Board chairman was quoted as saying PTI.On Thursday, Delhi reported a single-day spike of 26,169 cases and 306 fatalities, according to data the latest data provided by the chief minister’s office.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-covid-19-patients-yet-at-isolation-coaches-at-2-delhi-railway-stations-official-101619179290885.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Spring snow causes extensive damage to apple orchards in Himachal||Widespread rain, intermittent snow and heavy hail caused extensive damage to apple orchards in Himachal Pradesh on Friday. The state department of agriculture and horticulture has instructed field officials to assess the damage to cash crops. The worst-affected orchards are in Kumarsain, Kharapathar, Jubbal, Rohru and Chopal in Shimla district. “The state horticulture department said that a large number of fruit-laden apple trees were either uprooted or their branches broken due to the snowfall. “The unprecedented hail and snowfall has caused immense damage to the apple and other fruit crops in the state, particularly in areas above 7,000 ft where orchardists have lost around 1 crore apple boxes. Trees where anti-hail nets were in use were severely damaged. The state and Centre should recognise this as a natural disaster, assess the damage and provide assistance to fruit growers at the earliest,” Lokinder Singh Bisht, president, Progressive Growers’ Association (PGA). Horticulturists say such heavy snowfall in April is unprecedented. “I have never seen such heavy snowfall in April. The damage to the apple crop will be immense,” says Mahijit Rathore 44, president, Nawar Valley Apple Association. The ₹60,000 crore apple economy is the mainstay for over 2 lakh farming families in Himachal Pradesh. Apples are mainly grown in Shimla, Mandi, Kullu, Kinnaur and a few regions of Chamba , Sirmaur and Lahaul and Spiti . “Earlier, we suffered because of the drought-like situation. Now, untimely snow has dealt a severe blow to the apple economy. The government should provide relief to growers,” says former parliamentary secretary Rohit Thakur . The snow has also damaged other cash crops in Himachal Pradesh. “We have requested the government to provide relief to farmers,” said former state Congress chief and Nadaun legislator Sukhwinder Singh Sukhu. Roads blocked, power supply hit The inclement weather disrupted road transport in the remote regions of Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts. As many as 423 electricity transformers were damaged due to thunder and lightning in Chamba, Kinnaur and Lahaul-Spiti districts, while 178 main and lateral roads were blocked on Friday. According to the state disaster management authority, 140 roads were closed in Lahaul and Spiti district. Traffic was affected on seven routes in Kullu, nine in Pangi and one in Salooni and five in Bharmour in Chamba district. Power supply was affected by damage to 35 transformers in Pangi, 93 in Pooh, 53 in Kalpa, three in Nichar, six in Kullu, 166 in Lahaul and 67 in Kaza. Temperature dips across the state The minimum temperature in Shimla town was 5 degrees Celsius, while it received 32.7mm of rainfall. Kalpa recorded a low of -0.5 degree Celsius. It received 15cm of snowfall. Keylong was the coldest place in the state with the mercury plummeting to -1.4 degrees Celsius.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/hail-snow-damage-apple-trees-in-himachal-101619179616405.html
23-04-2021||Gurugram||Medical oxygen demand shot up three times due to Covid-19 surge: Medanta chief||Amid the shortage of liquid medical oxygen in the country, Medanta Chairman Dr Naresh Trehan said that the demand for medical oxygen demand shot up by three times due to the spike in the Covid-19 cases.Speaking to ANI, Dr Trehan said that the issue is related to oxygen transportation."The demand for the medical oxygen has gone up due to the spike in the Covid-19 cases. The demand for oxygen has gone up by three times. This is a challenge. The steel industries, which are the biggest manufacturers of oxygen for their own consumption, offered to provide oxygen. But the issue is related to oxygen transportation. For this, special tankers have been ordered and the government is helping them in transportation. The supply chain can improve in 5-7 days," he said.He also said doctors should ensure that the oxygen should be used in a judicious manner.Regarding the hospitalisation of the Covid-19 positive patients, Dr Trehan said, "Patient's lungs' condition, blood test reports, comorbidities, and age create a scenario under which we can say if it is right for them to be hospitalised...I did like to tell doctors to keep in mind that who has to be recommended to hospital.""Anyone who gets an RT-PCR positive report should not immediately start thinking that they have to be hospitalised. They should first contact a doctor. Hospitals have a COVID app. At Medanta, we have such an app too, you fill in the details and get a call from a doctor," he added.The Medanta chairman said that there is no need to panic. "The understanding of patients, wastage of oxygen and judicious use of oxygen by the hospitals can bridge the supply of oxygen. We have to use the resources carefully," he said.Tehran further said, "The balance between COVID care centres run by hospitals and hospitals must coordinate. This will rationalise the use of oxygen, increase the availability of beds and the public will not panic.""We can win the war if the public will support us. The government is responding to the demands. Remdesivir injection should not be used unnecessarily," he added.India recorded 3,32,730 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year. India has crossed the mark of 3 lakh Covid-19 cases for two consecutive days now. This has taken the cumulative count of the COVID infection in the country to 1,62,63,695.The country has recorded 2,263 new deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours. As many as 1,86,920 people have succumbed to the viral infection in India so far. There are 24,28,616 active Covid-19 cases in the country now.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/medical-oxygen-demand-shot-up-three-times-due-to-covid-19-surge-medanta-chief-101619178529855.html
23-04-2021||Kolkata||Mamata Banerjee skips Centre's Covid-19 meeting with CMs||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee skipped Friday's meeting of CMs with Prime Minister Narendra Modi over the Covid-19 situation, sources said.Chief Secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay represented the state at the review meeting, which was held via video conference, they said.Banerjee had earlier skipped a few similar meetings as she was busy campaigning for the ongoing assembly elections.Meanwhile, the West Bengal government has constituted a six-member apex task force under Bandyopadhyay to supervise activities of coordinators and observers overseeing the Covid-19 situation in the state, an official said.Till Thursday, the state's coronavirus tally stood at 7,00,904 and the death toll at 10,766.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/mamata-banerjee-skips-centre-s-covid-19-meeting-with-cms-101619177330629.html
23-04-2021||Patna||HC raps state govt, orders to make public available Covid beds at NMCH||The Patna High Court has directed the state government to make it public that all the 500 beds at the state’s first dedicated Covid hospital, Nalanda Medical College Hospital (NMCH) in Patna, are open for Covid-19 patients. Just two days ago, the court was told that he NMCH had 160 beds and that the hospital found it tough even to manage that number due to shortage of oxygen supply. Its acting superintendent even threatened to resign on the issue. However, the Bihar State Human Rights Commission (BSHRC), which was directed by the HC to get an inspection of the NMCH done, told the court Wednesday evening that there were 500 beds, including 400 with oxygen facility and 70 ventilators, available at the hospital, as all the non-Covid patients had left, while 175 were occupied with Covid patients. Surprised, the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah asked as to why there was bed shortage when the NMCH alone had 500 beds available. “Telling the court that 325 beds for Covid patients are vacant at NMCH is farce, absolute farce. If 325 beds are vacant, make it public It will be a big help. People don’t know if it is really so,” the court said and the state government’s counsel Ranjit Kumar to ensure information about vacant beds at the NMCH was made public and the status of oxygen supply was provided. The court was also informed by another counsel that on April 17, NMCH had shown a total capacity of 160 beds for Covid-19 patients, 146 general 146 and 14 ICU beds. The next hearing in the case is again scheduled for Friday. During the course of previous hearing, the court was also informed that two hospitals, namely Medanta and Rajendra Nagar Eye Hospital in Patna, are going to be utilised for admitting and treating Covid patients. ESIC Hospital at Bihta will also be fully equipped to deal with Covid rush. On Monday, the court had observed that “in the wake of this extraordinary and alarming situation prevailing in the State, different organs are required to act in unison to meet the present challenge posed by the outbreak of second wave of Covid-19 pandemic”. “Serious issues have been raised about deaths taking place in various government and private hospitals because of lack of supply of oxygen. This court cannot overlook such aspects. If the court reaches a conclusion that Covid patients have been or are being allowed to die because of lack of oxygen supply, it will surely intervene and pass appropriate orders in this regard,” the HC said. The court also took note that an officer of HC succumbed to Covid for want of oxygen supply in the hospitals. “We direct the Registrar General, Patna High Court, to submit an exhaustive report to this Court explaining in detail the circumstances in which the said HC officer died,” it said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/hc-raps-state-govt-orders-to-make-public-available-covid-beds-at-nmch-101619177275523.html
23-04-2021||Bangalore||Karnataka minister hits out at those criticising govt for Covid-19 management||Karnataka Health Minister Dr K Sudhakar on Friday hit out at those criticising the state government for the poor handling of the Covid-19 situation."We are in this situation after giving permission to various economic activities. Is it magic to contain the spurt in cases after letting all the economic activities take place?" Sudhakar told reporters here.The minister said there was a health emergency in the country, which is not limited to Karnataka alone.Sudhakar stressed on the fact that the virus which has hit the world was new where there is genome sequencing happening."We don't have the (authentic) reports about it (virus). We are taking some steps founded on scientific principles that too on an experimental basis, which we don't know what we are doing is right or wrong," he pointed out.He also said that there was no point in making personal comments when the issue has thrown a challenge before the medical world."There indeed are some shortcomings which I won't deny. When a pandemic hits the society, all arrangements crumble," Sudhakar said.He said even the United States of America and Europe, which are way ahead in terms of medical science and healthcare, were rattled by the outbreak of pandemic.The Congress and the JD(S) have been criticising the government for the poor handling of Covid with cases surging in the state.The state witnessed new 25,795 cases on Thursday and 123 deaths.There are close to two lakh active cases in the state including 985 in ICUs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bengaluru-news/karnataka-minister-hits-out-at-those-criticising-govt-for-covid-19-management-101619176570683.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Slam dunk: Staying fit through peaks and valleys of NBA season all about “periodisation’||Diving into the preparation of a player for the gruelling competitive NBA season gives a behind-the-scenes look into what it takes to prepare for the rigors of the highest level of competitive basketball. With the NBA playoffs (and the new play-in format) fast approaching, the past few weeks have seen a number of NBA stars beset with serious injuries, which could have major implications on their team’s hopes of winning the NBA championship. Particularly notable were the injuries to Jamal Murray, Donovan Mitchell, Trae Young and Kevin Durant. In some cases, particularly for teams in smaller media markets, the injuries can have major implications beyond just the current season, being that it takes a huge amount of patience to build and develop players through the NBA draft, compared to luring free-agent superstars to join a team. With such huge consequences on the line, this brings us to the next part of our series. How is it possible to navigate and adapt a player’s training and preparation throughout the course of an NBA season to keep them at their peak physical levels during the playoffs?Coming off a preseason and training camp, players have to be ready to handle playing approximately three games each week from October until the middle of April. In fact, other than a week for the NBA All-Star break, NBA players get no time away from late September until the middle of April. The best players usually need to then be at their peak performance and physical levels from April until June, when the NBA Finals are played. In planning a player’s training, it is therefore, important for a player to understand how much they will be playing throughout the season. Players that are not playing in games will undoubtedly have to do more practice and physical conditioning in order to keep themselves ready to handle the intensity and competition of an NBA game. Breaking up the season into periods of high and low-game and travel density allows a player to understand whether to focus on recovery or building themselves up at a particular point in the season. For players who are playing a large number of minutes, it may be necessary to train with heavier weights less, than players who are playing once every five or six games. Players playing a large number of minutes may be better served focusing on recovery in order to be primed and ready to play the next game. Dividing the season in this manner allows trainers and players to focus on a specific goal in a small window of time, and after this goal has been accomplished, they can then review the results and set the goals for the next time period of the season, deciding whether to increase or decrease the intensity of their workouts according to what is being required of a player during the game. This planning strategy is usually referred to as “periodization”. Countless times throughout NBA history, the health of players during the NBA playoffs has been a deciding factor and resulted in a “what-if” scenario. Most recently, one can recall the importance of Chris Paul missing Game 7 for the Houston Rockets due to a hamstring injury, as their bid to topple the Golden State Warriors dynasty was unsuccessful. By following a periodisation plan through the competitive NBA season, training staffs can ensure that players stay healthy for the entire duration of the year and are performing at their highest possible physical condition during the NBA playoffs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/slam-dunk-staying-fit-through-peaks-and-valleys-of-nba-season-all-about-periodisation-101619176496221.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19: Mumbai civic body frames procedure to prevent oxygen-related emergencies||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Friday announced that it has fixed a procedure to prevent any emergencies due to oxygen supply amid the Covid-19 pandemic.The BMC has asked all hospitals in the city and various departments of the civic administration to strictly follow the protocol, an official release stated.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here As per the procedure, chief engineers of the mechanical and electric departments will prepare a data sheet containing ward-wise details of all private Covid-19 hospitals, their oxygen suppliers and types of cylinders they have.The release further stated that the information will be made available to the BMC's ward controls and the Food and Drugs Administration (FDA).Hospitals will have to register their demand for oxygen at least 24 hours before or as per their agreement, whichever is the earliest, it was stated."Hospitals will have to inform ward control rooms if the oxygen supply is not made available within 16 hours," the release stated.The procedure also contains detailed information about what needs to be done if suppliers failed to deliver oxygen well within the stipulated time, it was stated.The administration has also asked all ward offices, the public health department and hospitals to strictly follow this procedure.The move has come after the civic body encountered two oxygen-related emergencies in a week's time, when it had to arrange for cylinders for a private hospital in Ghatkopar and shift 168 Covid-19 patients from six civic hospitals due to supply issues.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-mumbai-civic-body-frames-procedure-to-prevent-oxygen-related-emergencies-101619175530361.html
23-04-2021||Jaipur||Amid rising Covid-19 cases, nearly 10,000 flout norms daily in Rajasthan||While the number of active Covid-19 cases continue to rise in Rajasthan and other parts of the country, officials say there is no end to people flouting Covid-19 norms. At least 10,000 people are violating norms daily in the state, official data shows. “Effective action is being taken by the Rajasthan Police under the provisions set for prevention from covid. In order to contain the virus, it is necessary to wear masks, maintain the prescribed physical distance and take other precautions including cleaning of hands,” Director General of Police (DGP) ML Lather said, adding that Covid-19 guidelines must be followed strictly. Data from the state police department reveals that between April 1 and April 22, as many as 2.21 lakh people were fined for violating Covid-19 norms. Fine worth ₹3.38 crores have been slapped on the violators for the given time.Those consuming liquor in public places are fined ₹500. While shopkeepers and vendors selling products without wearing masks are fined ₹500 and the same amount of fine is collected from people seen without masks in public places. Those found not maintaining a distance of six feet from another person and spitting in public are fined ₹100. The official figure of the state revealed that during this period 1,322 preventive arrests were made under section 151 of CrPC, 171 were arrested for risking contagion and two were arrested for spreading fake messages. Most of the people arrested under section 151 of CrPC were roaming in the markets without any reason in the lockdown or areas where curfew has been imposed. The people held for risking contagion were booked under section Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and relevant sections of the Disaster Management Act. According to official data of the state health department, the number of active Covid-19 cases in Rajasthan till March 31 was 8,663 which rose to a whopping 107,157 by April 22. The positivity rate of Covid-19 cases in the state increased from 18% to 24.67% on Thursday as compared to Wednesday. A total of 58,635 samples were screened in the state on Friday, in which every fourth sample was found positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/amid-rising-covid-19-cases-10-000-flout-norms-daily-in-rajasthan-101619172476079.html
23-04-2021||Indore||'Heavily edited': Prahlad Patel's office issues clarification on his viral '2 slap' video||Union minister Prahlad Patel's office on Friday clarified that his response to the aggrieved patient, where he said that he would slap him, was a cropped version "to portray him in a bad light". On Thursday, a video surfaced on social media purportedly showing the minister telling a man at a hospital in his constituency Damoh in Madhya Pradesh that he would get "two slaps". The man was seeking an oxygen cylinder for his ailing mother, a Covid-19 patient.In the full video, which was released by the minister's office on Friday, the minister can be seen asking the man to not use abusive language. "Aisa bolega toh do khayega (If you keep on abusing, you will get two slaps)," he said. The man, as seen in the full video, replies that he is ready to accept the slaps. "Tell me what to do," he said.Damoh saw a surge in Covid-19 cases as it recorded 169 cases on Thursday. It’s the highest single-day surge since the onset of the pandemic. A hospital in the district earlier this week also reported oxygen cylinder theft.With 12,384 fresh coronavirus cases, Madhya Pradesh is among the 10 states that contributed the highest number of fresh infections to the country's daily rise in cases. Private hospitals in two of the state’s largest cities Indore and Bhopal hung posters announcing that they are running out of oxygen. Aurobindo Hospital, one of Indore’s biggest hospitals, also claimed to have run out of oxygen on Thursday.Nirvana Multispeciality Hospital in Madhya Pradesh's Bhopal on Thursday said it was facing an oxygen shortage since Tuesday. On Thursday, they said that their supply will last for an hour, according to a report by ANI.A health department official familiar with the developments in the state told HT that the 405 metric tonnes of oxygen that the state will receive will not be adequate to cater to the needs of the state. He said that the state needs at least 553 metric tonnes of oxygen. The state government is also setting up four oxygen plants to meet the needs. Bina refinery will provide oxygen for Covid-19 patients and has started setting up a 1,000-bed temporary hospital near its plant in Sagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/indore-news/heavily-edited-prahlad-patel-s-office-issues-clarification-on-his-viral-video-101619172101828.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||No instructions, says Kejriwal’s office as it ‘regrets’ live appeal to PM Modi||Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Friday issued a clarification after a row erupted over his address during the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, telecast live for some time, during which the Aam Aadmi Party (leader) raised alarm about “a big tragedy" that could happen because of the oxygen shortage in hospitals during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic. “Today, the CM’s address was shared live because there has never been any instruction, written or verbal, from the central government that the said interaction could not be shared live,” Delhi chief minister’s office said, according to news agency ANI. “There have been multiple occasions of similar interactions where matters of public importance, which had no confidential information, were shared live. However, if any inconvenience was caused we highly regret that,” it added.Also watch: Heartbreaking scenes outside Delhi hospitals amid deadly Covid wave﻿Prime Minister Modi held a virtual meeting with the chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases even as India reported the world's highest daily tally of infections for a second day on Friday. The country, the second worst-affected after the United States, surpassed 330,000 new Covid-19 cases as its health system was overwhelmed by patients and shortages of medical oxygen and drugs. Chief ministers of Delhi, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Kerala, Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh were among those who attended the meeting.Also read | Centre says Kejriwal used PM meet with CMs on Covid-19 to play politics: ReportDuring the meeting, Kejriwal also said the Centre should take over all oxygen plants through the Indian Army and requested PM Modi to direct chief ministers of all states to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to the national capital. "People in major pain due to oxygen shortage. We fear a big tragedy may happen due to oxygen shortage and we will never be able to forgive ourselves. I request you with folded hands to direct all CMs to ensure smooth movement of oxygen tankers coming to Delhi," he said during the meeting."We need a national plan to deal with the crisis. The central government should take over all oxygen plants through the army and every tanker coming out of the oxygen plant should be accompanied by an army escort vehicle… The oxygen supply scheduled to come to Delhi from Odisha and West Bengal should either be airlifted or brought through the Oxygen express started by the Centre," he said.Also read | 25 dead in 24 hours, 60 at risk: Sir Ganga Ram hospital sounds alarmThe Centre, according to ANI, later accused Arvind Kejriwal of using the review meeting as a platform to play politics. They said Kejriwal raised the point of airlifting oxygen but was unaware that it was already being done. "(He) chose to spread lies on vaccine prices despite knowing that the Centre does not keep one vaccine dose with itself and shares with states only," ANI quoted a source as saying. "Kejriwal has descended to a new low. For the first time, the private conversations of the Prime Minister's meeting with Chief Ministers were televised. His entire speech was not meant for any solution but for playing politics and evade responsibility,” the source also said, according to ANI.Union home minister Amit Shah, railways minister Piyush Goyal, Union health minister Dr Harsh Vardhan and officials of the the health ministry were present at the meeting.Also read | Delhi’s health infra on brink of collapseIndia reported more than 300,000 cases of the coronavirus disease—the world's highest daily tally of infections—on Friday for the second straight day in a row. According to the health ministry, 332,730 Covid-19 cases and 2263 related deaths were reported in the country in the last 24 hours in the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/no-instructions-says-kejriwal-s-office-as-it-regrets-live-appeal-to-pm-modi-101619170670854.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Passes for inter-state, inter-district travel available at local police stations’: Maharashtra Police||The Maharashtra Police on Friday said that those who wish to undertake inter-state or inter-district travel for any medical emergency or other unavoidable work can get a pass from the local police stations besides getting it online. Director general of police, Sanjay Pandey, on Friday said that besides getting passes online, citizens can also get them from local police stations. “The basic idea is that those who do not have internet access can also get it by just visiting the nearest police station. Policemen will help them in filling the form and get the pass. This arrangement will help people from the lower strata of the society,” Pandey said.For inter-state and inter-district emergency travel, one can apply for an e-pass at https://covid19.mhpolice.in. The applicant while visiting the police station must take along the relevant and supporting documents to justify their reason for the emergency travel. After the verification, the police will issue a pass to those who wish to travel.The applicants will have to also furnish details of their destination, vehicle details, number of passengers, etc., and follow Covid appropriate behaviour during their travel, the police said. Maharashtra is under a strict lockdown from Thursday 8 pm till 7 am on May 1.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/passes-for-inter-state-inter-district-travel-available-at-local-police-stations-maharashtra-police-101619168695898.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai locals step up checking as stricter curbs come into force in Maharashtra||As stricter restrictions came into force in Maharashtra from April 23, local train services of Mumbai were shut for the general public and checking for identity cards was intensified on Friday. According to the new restriction that came into effect from 8pm on Thursday, only government officials, health workers, people requiring medical treatment and disabled persons are allowed to travel by local trains. People who were earlier considered as essential workers in previous orders of the government has not been included in the modified list under the Maha Vikas Aghadi government's 'Break-the-Chain' programme. This restriction will be in place till 7am on May 1.Accredited media personnel were also excluded from the list.Maharashtra imposes full lockdown from todayAs announced before, the railways limited the number of entry and exit points at stations to prevent crowding. Preparing for the new restrictions, the Central Railways earlier said that train tickets will be issued only at ticket counters during this period. All other modes of bookings like ATVMs, JTBS (Jan Sadharan Ticket Booking Seva) and UTS will remain disabled till future orders.Travellers coming from outstation trains are also not being permitted to travel in local trains.This is the first time after February 1 that Mumbai local services have been curtailed because of the rise in the number of Covid-19 infections in Maharashtra. After being partially suspended for 10 months since March 2020, the suburban railway services resumed from February 1 and since mid-February, the cases started rising.As Mumbai Police came to the rescue of Mumbaikars finding themselves in a quandary because of the fresh restrictions on Twitter, it received several queries on Mumbai local services.Sorry but it’s not allowed. According to govt notification, only govt officials and medical officials/medical emergencies are allowed to use local train. Long distance trains can be used by others subject to conditions given in the notification. https://t.co/DYULTE28pDSince February, the state government has been trying to avoid a lockdown in the state as it endangers the livelihoods of people. In March-April, as Covid-19 cases in the state spiralled, the state started taking containment measures by gradually announcing night curfew, weekend lockdown, the imposition of Section 144 etc.In its latest order, which is officially not being called a lockdown, the government has mandated that Mumbai local tickets will be issued only to government staff, medical staff, people needing medical treatment and disabled after checking their documents. Public buses too are plying at 50 per cent of their capacity with no standing passengers from today.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-locals-step-up-checking-as-stricter-lockdown-begins-in-maharashtra-101619166485492.html
23-04-2021||Kolkata||West Bengal home secretary to hold meeting over Covid-19 situation in state||Amid rising cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) across the country, West Bengal home secretary HK Dwivedi is scheduled to hold a meeting on the Covid-19 situation in the state later today, with a special focus on oxygen supply chain management."West Bengal home secretary to hold a video conferencing with the District Magistrates today regarding emerging issues related to Covid-19, with a special focus on oxygen supply chain management," said the state government source.According to the Union health ministry, West Bengal is among the twelve states displaying an upward trajectory in daily new cases.As per the ministry, the state reported 11,948 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours.India recorded 3,32,730 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike since the pandemic broke out last year. India has crossed the mark of 3 lakh Covid-19 cases for two consecutive days now.This has taken the cumulative count of the Covid-19 infection in the country to 1,62,63,695.According to the official data issued by the Union health ministry, the country has recorded 2,263 new deaths due to Covid-19 in the last 24 hours.As many as 1,86,920 people have succumbed to the viral infection in India so far. There are 24,28,616 active Covid-19 cases in the country now.As many as 1,36,48,159 recoveries have been reported so far, out of which 1,93,279 were reported in the last 24 hours.According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 27,44,45,653 samples have been tested for Covid-19 up to April 22. Of these, 17,40,550 were tested yesterday. Meanwhile, the total number of vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 13,54,78,420.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/west-bengal-home-secretary-to-hold-meeting-over-covid-19-situation-in-state-101619166030020.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Police braving the odds to help Delhiites fight back Covid||“Anyone can hold the helm, when the sea is calm, it takes khaki to weather a storm,” tweeted Sanjay Kumar Sain, DCP, North-East. He dedicated this to assistant sub inspector (ASI) Sushil Kumar, who performed the last rites for a man whose family refused to accept his body. But this, is just one of the brave acts, in the face of adversity, of Delhi Police. Since the pandemic erupted, the cops in khaki have been on their toes. Right from attending distress calls for medicines to arranging injections and oxygen cylinders for hospitals and individuals, the cops are going an extra mile to make the Capital’s residents win the battle against the second wave of Covid-19.Like Sushil Kumar, Sub Inspector Dharmender Sharma helped cremate a 93-year-old Covid patient, Gangawati Sharma, in Dwarka. He says, “This is my responsibility.” Intimation was received at PS Dwarka, North regarding her death and the cop arranged an ambulance. “The body was shifted to RTRM Hospital for further procedure, and later for cremation. Since it was difficult for her family members to come, to perform the last rites became my call of duty. Weekend curfew tha toh kisi ko pata nahin tha kaise karna hai. Maine pehle procedure check kiya toh dispensary ke number mile. Then I send all her documents including Covid report and Aadhar card to RTRM hospital, and contacted an ambulance service, after which the cremation could take place. I feel proud that in such circumstances my service gave me this opportunity to help someone in need!”In another incident, Yogender Dhaka, a 49-year-old head constable stationed at Mayur Vihar, timely helped a Covid patient get access to Remdesivir injection. “Mere paas phone aaya ki patient bahut pareshan hai. Maine ek dost ko phone kiya aur arrange karwa diya. It felt really good to help them, and we are trying our best to help as many people we can,” says Dhaka. The families of Covid patients are grateful to Delhi Poilce for their constant support. Anjana Goswami, a resident of Vasant Kunj, says, “I’m extremely thankful to Shukhdev Singh Mann, SHO, Kalindi Kunj who went out of the way to arrange an oxygen cylinder for my 78-year-old mother. She was very serious, and Mann did a wonderful job! The manner in which the Police are saving our lives, and risking their lives for us, is commendable. We salute such people!” Appreciating the efforts of cops on social media, Dr Anil Goyal, a urologist, recently tweeted: “On behalf of Goyal Hospital & Urology Centre, I extend my sincere thanks to Joint CP Shri Alok Kumar and his team for helping on tidying over oxygen crisis today. Together we shall be able to defeat the corona.” Chinmoy Biswal, DCP Crime and PRO, Delhi Police says, “During the first wave of coronavirus, we provided food, dry ration and other essential help to the migrant labourers and those in need. This time also we haven’t failed yet to help with medicines, oxygen cylinders and other requirements for hospitals and individuals. We are going beyond our call of duty to help in this critical situation, but I feel there should be a system in place to take care of all these arrangements.” For more stories follow Facebook and Twitter||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-braving-the-odds-to-help-delhiites-fight-back-covid-101619166236326.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sidhu steps up attack on Capt, questions role in sacrilege case||Sharpening his attack on Captain Amarinder Singh on the 2015 sacrilege incidents and drug trade, Congress MLA Navjot Singh Sidhu on Friday questioned the role of the chief minister, accusing him of making the advocate general a scapegoat for the setback to the state government in the Punjab and Haryana high court. In a tweet, Sidhu said, “Is the sacrilege case not the top priority for the (state) home minister? Evading of responsibility and making only the advocate general (AG) a scapegoat means the executive authority has no supervisory control. Who controls the AG? The legal team is just a pawn in this game of shifting responsibilities?” Also read: Sidhu shares old posts, says one man responsible for 2015 sacrilege incidentsOn April 9, the high court quashed the Kotkapura police firing probe conducted by a special investigation team (SIT), led by Punjab Police inspector general Kunwar Vijay Partap Singh. The SIT was constituted by the state government, but the court asked the government to reconstitute it without Kunwar Vijay Pratap on board. Kunwar Vijay Pratap opted for voluntary retirement but not before hitting out at Punjab advocate general Atul Nanda, alleging that that the legal team led by him did not strongly defend the Kotkapura police firing case in the court. Sidhu, the Amritsar East MLA, has joined the issue with this tweet and held the chief minister, who also holds the home portfolio, responsible for the failure to defend the probe in the court. This is the fifth attack the former state minister has launched on the chief minister in a week. On Wednesday, he blamed “one person” for having colluded with the culprits, while sharing his old clips against the sacrilege issue on social media. He, however, neither disclosed the name of the person, nor did he clarify about the culprits he was talking about. Responding to a letter by lawyer and former Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA HS Phoolka on April 19, Sidhu said they should shake the chief minister to make him perform his duties and act against the accused in the sacrilege and police firing incidents. The sacrilege of a bir (cop) of Guru Granth Sahib took place in Bargari village of Faridkot district in 2015. During post-sacrilege protests, two Sikh protesters were killed in police firing at Behbal Kalan village. Protesters were also injured in the police firing at Kotakapura during the SAD-BJP rule. The Congress came to power in 2017, assuring voters of justice in the sacrilege incidents besides ending drug abuse.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sidhu-steps-up-attack-on-capt-questions-role-in-sacrilege-case-101619165875724.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra brings back Covid-19 e-pass for inter-state, inter-district travel: Here's how to apply||In view of a recent surge in Covid-19 cases, Maharashtra has reintroduced its e-pass system for inter-state and inter-district travel amid the ongoing coronavirus disease-necessitated curfew restrictions. According to the Maharashtra Police, the e-pass will be necessary only for travel in "extreme emergency" situations and citizens can apply for the e-pass with from the government portal with relevant documents related to the purpose.Maharashtra recorded 67,013 new cases on Thursday, taking its total tally to over 4 million. The Uddhav Thackeray-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government in the state announced stringent restrictions, along with Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs), on Wednesday night, which will remain in effect till 7am on May 1. No travel is allowed by public or private transport, unless for essential services, medical reasons or vaccination, according to the government order.The Maharashtra Police, in a tweet from its official account on Friday, said that citizens can apply for an e-pass at covid19.mhpolice.in for inter-state and inter-district emergency travel. Citizens can also walk in to the nearest police station for assistance, the post detailed. "We urge all citizens to apply for an e-pass only in the case of extreme emergencies," the police said.For interstate and inter-district emergency travel, you can apply for an E-Pass at https://t.co/jR6ROcBcPUYou can also walk in to your nearest Police Station for assistance.We urge all citizens to apply for an E-Pass only in the case of extreme emergencies.#EPassForTravelHere's how to apply for an e-pass in Maharashtra, in five steps:It is to be noted that the Covid-19 e-pass will only allow travel under "extremely emergency" circumstances for citizens not involved in essential work or emergency response. Essential service providers shall not require the travel pass either for inter-state or intra-state travel.The authority for approval or rejection of the application for the Covid-19 curfew pass will reside exclusively with the respective district superintendent of police office and the zonal deputy commissioner office in the cities.Once verified, the e-pass will contain the individual's details, vehicle number, validity, and a QR code. A hard or soft copy of the e-pass should be kept while travelling and presented to the police when asked. The Maharashtra Police has warned that it is a punishable offense to copy, misuse or use the pass after the valid date without proper authorisation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-brings-back-covid-19-e-pass-for-inter-state-inter-district-travel-here-s-how-to-apply-101619161303652.html
23-04-2021||Other||Rajinikanth has no evidence to back remarks on Thoothukudi violence: Lawyer||Actor Rajinikanth has told a judicial commission that he has no evidence to back his 2018 statement in which he blamed “anti-social elements” for the violence during anti-Sterlite protests in Tamil Nadu Thoothukudi, the panel’s lawyer said.The Justice (retired) Aruna Jagadeesan commission is probing the killing of 13 people in police firing during the protests for the closure of Vedanta Group’s Sterlite copper smelting plant over environmental concerns. Arul Vadivel, the lawyer, said the commission asked Rajinikanth 15 questions over his statement and the actor submitted his responses a month ago.“In his reply, he says that he just made a statement. He has no proof, no documents, and no videos. He has nothing available,” said Vadivel. “We need some more clarifications from Rajinikanth, but we will ask him to appear later. We do not want him to come now due to the pandemic situation.”Rajinikanth was unavailable of comments.Also Watch | An Award for Rajinikanth: Political or larger messaging?The commission in December and February issued summons to Rajinikanth, who sought to appear before the panel via videoconferencing citing health concerns.Rajinikanth, who visited Thoothukudi after the firing, claimed anti-social elements infiltrated the protest, turned it violent, and forced police to fire. He added Tamil Nadu would turn into a graveyard if people protested for everything.Rajinikanth, who gave up his plans to float a political party ahead of the assembly elections in Tamil Nadu in April, faced flak for the statement and the commission took note of it.The commission has so far examined over 600 witnesses and its next sittings will be held between May 17 and 21. Its probe was paused last year between April and October during the pandemic. The opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has blamed ruling All India Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam for the firing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/rajinikanth-has-no-evidence-to-back-remarks-on-thoothukudi-violence-lawyer-101619161195987.html
23-04-2021||Other||14-day quarantine mandatory for people coming to Odisha from West Bengal||With reports of a triple mutant variant of Covid-19 being detected in many people in West Bengal and other states, the government of Odisha on Thursday declared a 14-day quarantine for people coming from West Bengal.Odisha chief secretary Suresh Chandra Mahapatra said anyone coming to Odisha from West Bengal by personal or hired vehicles, or entering the state by any other mode, shall undergo mandatory institutional or paid quarantine for 14 days at cluster temporary medical centres to be managed by block development officer or executive officer of urban areas.However, anyone coming from the neighbouring state with a certificate of successful vaccination (two doses) or a negative RTPCR report not more than 48 hours old will be allowed a 14-day home quarantine.“People travelling from West Bengal to other states through Odisha shall be allowed without disembarking from the vehicle,” the chief secretary said. He added that all passengers coming from West Bengal to Bhubaneswar or Jharsuguda airports would be mandatorily subjected to institutional quarantine or paid quarantine for 14 days at facilities identified/ordered by district magistrates/ municipal commissioners.From Friday morning, district collectors of Balasore and Mayurbhanj set up border check posts on all inter-state roads including national highways along the West Bengal border.The triple mutant variant (B.1.618) is a new lineage of SARS-COV-2 that has been formed by a combination of three variants of the virus. It, apparently, can evade the human immune system, experts say. West Bengal, which reported a total of 11,948 Covid-19 cases on Thursday with 23 per cent positivity rate, is believed to have its cases driven by the triple mutant. On Friday, Odisha reported 6,215 cases, its highest single-day surge, while 8 people lost their lives to the deadly virus.The quarantine order for people from West Bengal came as beds across various Covid hospitals in the state neared exhaustion. At VSS Institute of Medical Sciences and Hospital in Sambalpur, where cases are surging, the 225-bed Covid hospital has run out of beds. “All 225 beds, including the 50 bed ICU wing, are fully occupied. We are trying to add 300 more beds including 50 ICU beds in the next few days,” said VIMSAR principal Lalit Meher.Similarly, the situation in Sundargarh district, which has the highest number of 5,055 active cases among the 30 districts, is no better. All 520 beds in three Covid hospitals in the district are full.In Bhubaneswar, all 771 beds in SUM hospital were reported full while all 150 beds in Aditya-Ashwini Covid hospital were occupied. Similarly, no ICU beds are available at Hi-Tech hospital while all 50 beds in Nilachal hospital have been occupied.With Covid beds almost exhausted, the state health department ordered that all private hospitals with 30 beds or more must ensure the provision of a minimum 50 per cent of general beds and 50 per cent ICU/HDU beds for the treatment of Covid patients.“It is observed that the private hospitals are treating the non-Covid cases but when they find such patients to be Covid-19 positive during the treatment they immediately request the government machinery to shift such patients to a government Covid facility. It is observed that the private hospitals are also not admitting Covid-19 positive patients with a plea that they do not have Covid beds. This has resulted in an increased load on government Covid facilities,” a health department order said.Meanwhile, chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday assured the Centre of providing all cooperation as lack of medical oxygen crippled the fight against Covid-19 in Delhi and elsewhere in the country,“It is a war-like situation and Odisha will extend all cooperation in the fight against Covid at the national level including ramping up oxygen production to assist other states in this emergency situation,” said Patnaik during his discussion with PM Modi.Patnaik’s assurance came in the backdrop of the acute shortage of oxygen faced by Delhi and many other states in the country at present. As per the allocation made on April 21, Delhi will get 70-tonne of liquid medical oxygen from Odisha. Rourkela Steel Plant will provide 40 tonnes a day while Tata Steel plant at Kalinga Nagar will provide 30 tonnes daily.Additional chief secretary, Odisha health department, PK Mohapatra said the current oxygen manufacturing capacity of the state is three times that of oxygen consumed during the peak first wave of Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/14day-quarantine-mandatory-for-people-coming-to-odisha-from-west-bengal-101619161137184.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Parts of Delhi receive light rains||Several parts of Delhi received light rains on Friday morning, with the minimum temperature settling at 22 degrees Celsius, the India Meteorological Department said.The weatherman has forecast thunderstorms with light to moderate rains over isolated places of north Delhi, southwest Delhi, south Delhi, New Delhi, central Delhi, northwest Delhi and IGI Airport among other areas during the day.The maximum temperature is likely to hover around 34 degrees Celsius, four notches below the normal.The relative humidity was recorded at 54 per cent at 8.30 am.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/parts-of-delhi-receive-light-rains-101619156937668.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Antilia bomb scare, Hiran murder case: Another Mumbai Police officer arrested||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested one more Mumbai Police officer in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case.An NIA officer said they had called in police inspector Sunil Mane for interrogation in connection with the cases and placed him under arrest late Thursday night. Mane will be produced before the special NIA court for remand on Friday.Mane, a 1995-batch Maharashtra police service officer, was in-charge of Unit 11 of the Mumbai Police crime branch in Kandivli. NIA officials said he was under the cloud of suspicion since March 13, when controversial Mumbai cop Sachin Vaze was arrested in the case, so much so that the team had inspected several official vehicles assigned to the Unit 11.Also Read | Hiran murder: Naresh Gor applies for bail, claims he was never contacted by VazeIncidentally, the caller who had contacted Hiran on March 4, had also identified himself as crime branch officer Tawde from Kandivli, and drawn him out of his Thane residence for a meeting along Ghodbunder Road.Hiran went missing after he stepped out at about 8.30pm on March 4. The next day, his body was found dumped in a creek at Reti Bunder near Mumbra with six handkerchiefs stuffed in his mouth and his face covered with a scarf.NIA suspected Mane was involved in the murder. Sources said he was present at the Criminal Intelligence Unit, which was then headed by Vaze, along with one more police officer on March 3, when the plan to eliminate Hiran, linked to the explosive-laden Mahindra Scorpio found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence on February 25, was allegedly hatched.NIA, which is investigating both the cases, has so far arrested Vaze, his former colleague at CIU, assistant police inspector Riyazuddin Kazi, former policeman Vinayak Shinde and cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/antilia-bomb-scare-hiran-murder-case-another-mumbai-police-officer-arrested-101619158015369.html
23-04-2021||Kolkata||Bengal’s Covid Warrior Club back in action as cases continue to soar||It is 8am on Friday and there is a flurry of activity at the Vivekananda Yuba Bharati Krirangan in Salt Lake, one of the largest stadiums in India. A group of young people, who had survived the first wave of Covid-19 last year, are getting ready to join their duty at various state-run hospitals in the city after a gap of almost four months. “It was on January 20 this year that I had last been attached to any hospital treating Covid patients. Thereafter, I was asked to go home as Covid-19 cases had declined. Now that cases have shot up again, I was asked to join from April 20,” said Tohidul Mollah, 19, member of the Covid Warrior Club and attached to Sambhunath Pandit Hospital. It was in June 2020, when the first wave of the pandemic had struck, that the West Bengal government started Covid Warrior Clubs which comprised mostly young people who had survived Covid-19. They were stationed as attendants in various hospitals to help doctors and nurses in the treatment Covid-19 patients. There were around 680 of such warriors from across the state. However, once the number of cases began dropping, their services were not needed anymore. “Most of us were asked to go home when the cases dropped from around 4,000 per day in October last year to less than 200 early this year. The state-run hospital, where I was stationed along with a few others, even stopped giving us lunch. Dinner and breakfast were, however, served at Salt Lake stadium where several such warriors were staying,” said Bapan Dewan, a club member from Murshidabad district. Also Read | PM Modi to address rally virtually in Bengal due to Covid surgeThe daily count of Covid-19 cases in the state shot up to 11,948 on Thursday and the government is more than willing to have the volunteers back. “Covid Warriors were engaged on a contractual basis against a monthly remuneration of ₹15,000. Now that cases have surged, their contracts have been renewed till May 31,” said a senior government official. The state had around 63,500 active cases till April 21 out of which around 6,700 patients were admitted in various government-run and private hospitals. Members of the club are mostly deployed in the city-based hospitals where the rush of patients is higher. “We are back in action to help in the fight against the second wave. When the first wave had hit and people were scared to go near Covid-19 patients, we attended to them; helping them with food and medicines, sometimes taking them to the toilet and at times, boosting their morale as we had survived the disease ourselves,” said Mukhtar Sk, a 34-year-old member of the club attached to the Covid ward in the state-run NRS Medical College and Hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/bengals-covid-warrior-club-back-in-action-as-cases-continue-to-soar-101619157295318.html
23-04-2021||Other||Researchers at IIT Bombay design hand-held device that can detect explosives||Researchers at the National Center of Excellence in Technology for Internal Security (NCETIS) of the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Bombay, have designed a hand-held explosive detection device that can detect explosives. Director, Subhasis Chaudhuri, on Tuesday, announced that some units of the device were now being used by the Travancore Devaswom Trust in Sabarimala, Kerala. “We have been asked by the Trivandrum Police to give a live demonstration for the department procurement,” said Seema Periwal, a senior programme manager for NCETIS. Six units of BEAGLEZ are also in use by three departments of the Indian Army. BEAGLEZ is a light-weight hand-held device that can detect Trinitrotoluene (TNT), hexahydro-1,3,5-trinitro-1,3,5-triazine (RDX), Pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN), Semtex and other plastic explosives used in home-made, military explosives and improvised explosive device (IED).The device can find application in screening people, checkpoints, post-blast search, vehicles, buildings, terrorist hotspots, places of importance, crowded establishments and environment.BEAGLEZ was designed and commercialised by a team of researchers led by Anil Kumar, professor in the department of chemistry at IIT Bombay, in collaboration with Bigtec Labs, a Bengaluru-based science and technology company. The device has sensitivities that can be at par with canines. The first two units of BEAGLEZ were donated by Bigtec to the temple trust in Sabarimala which has now shown interest in buying the product.The device uses Amplifying Fluorescent Polymers (AFP) for detection. AFPs are conjugate polymers that exhibit solid-state fluorescence when excited by light of a particular wavelength. “There’s a polymer coating on the sensor of the device. A capillary unit sucks air in and when the air passes over this coating, the coating glows. However, if there is an explosive in the air, the polymer will stop glowing,” said Kumar.While the device has a worldwide patent for its technology, it also has three device other design patents to its name. “We are constantly working on improving the design and we are adhering to global standards for the same,” said Kumar.Bigtec is the only indigenous manufacturer of the hand-held explosive detector. “BEAGLEZ is the smallest and lightest in its category and doesn’t require any extra accessories. While an import brand of the hand-held detector can cost approximately ₹18 to 22 lakhs, the selling price of BEAGLEZ is priced in the range of ₹12 to 15 lakhs depending on the volumes,” said Periwal.“We believe that BEAGLEZ will play a catalytic role towards the ‘Make-in-India’ and ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiatives. We look forward to seeing the use of this product at various strategic places,” said Chaudhuri.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitb-researchers-design-hand-held-explosive-detection-device-101619157174737.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||JJP shuts party office in Chandigarh for 2 weeks over Covid-19 situation||The ruling Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) in Haryana on Thursday decided to close the party office and deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala’s residence in Chandigarh to visitors for the next two weeks after some of the staff tested positive for Covid-19.The party's Haryana unit chief Nishan Singh said some staff of the deputy CM and employees at the JJP office had contracted the disease.He appealed to the people to follow all Covid-related guidelines to protect themselves and others from the infection, a party statement said.Singh said the general public or party workers can get in touch with district offices of the Jannayak Janta Party in case of any work of emergent nature.He said the party's district unit chiefs will issue a helpline number for the public who may require any help amid the raging pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/jjp-shuts-party-office-in-chandigarh-for-2-weeks-over-covid-19-situation-101619152358992.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||25 patients dead at Delhi’s Ganga Ram Hospital in 24 hours||Twenty-five patients died over 24 hours at New Delhi’s Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, the hospital’s medical director said in a statement on Friday morning, hours before it was clarified that none of the deaths was due to oxygen shortage.“They were natural deaths; the patients were very serious,” said DS Rana, the hospital’s board of management chairman, in a statement. “But the oxygen situation is such that we did have to switch to manual ventilation in the ICU [intensive care unit] day before when our oxygen supply was depleting because the pressure was less. There is an acute shortage of oxygen across the city but for now, the crisis has been averted.”Hospitals in the National Capital have issued distress messages about dwindling oxygen supply. The crisis prompted the Centre to invoke the Disaster Management Act to ensure its unrestricted supply after Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday blamed police forces of the two neighbouring states for preventing inter-state movement of oxygen tankers.Earlier on Friday morning, the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital said in an SOS: “Oxygen will last another 2 hrs. Ventilators and Bipap [non-invasive ventilation] not working effectively. Resorting to manual ventilation in ICUs [intensive care units]... Major crisis likely. [The] lives of another 60 sickest patients in peril. Stop catastrophe. Need Oxygen to be airlifted urgently. Governments please help. We have warned.”Also Read | AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of exposed medicsPolice said no oxygen contingency arose in the hospital and that there was no dearth of it. The hospital had oxygen stock that would have lasted for three hours, they added. It received 2,000 cubic metre supply in a tanker that arrived there at 9:20 am on Friday. The hospital requires between 9,500 to 11,000 cubic metres daily, the police said.An oxygen tanker was earlier stuck in Rohini as the driver did not know the route and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital staff later escorted it.Deputy police commissioner (central) Jasmeet Singh said the hospital did not make any distress call seeking a green corridor.Police said the hospital informed them they had at least three-hour stock and also one container was on its way.To be sure, a green corridor is not provided to every vehicle. Police provide it only after receiving distress calls. Oxygen vehicles are not stopped in any case.Police stationed a liaison officer at the hospital. One officer from the district administration will also remain in touch for any such emergency situation, police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/25-patients-dead-at-delhi-s-ganga-ram-hospital-in-24-hours-101619152735131.html
23-04-2021||Lucknow||Women in UP villages back to mask-making amid Covid-19 surge||With Covid-19 infection rising with the second wave and the Uttar Pradesh government turning stricter on mask-wearing in public places, the demand for face masks has risen again. To meet the rising demand and also create livelihood, the national rural livelihood mission (NRLM) has, yet again, given the task of mask making to women in villages.Several women self-help groups (women SHGs) are now engaged in mask-making while some are involved in the production of sanitisers and PPE (personal protection equipment) kits as well.“Mask is considered an important tool in safety against Covid world over. Under the circumstances now, women SHGs in many districts are engaged in cotton and khadi double and terrible-layer masks. Currently, women in a total of 1,208 SHGs across the state are engaged in mask-making,” said UP state rural livelihood mission (Upsrlm) director, Sujeet Kumar, in a government statement.Kumar said that till April 18, these 1,208 women SHGs made 9.39 lakh masks while 17 women SHGs made 1,248 PPE kits.“We are supplying cloth, cotton and khadi, to the SHGs and also the design for the mask-making,” he said in the statement, adding, “arrangements have already been made for procurement of these masks made by the SHGs. A system has been created to make these masks available at reasonable rates to departments like health, panchayati raj, food along with the police administration.”Talking about last year’s work, Kumar said that the women with SHGs produced 1.02 crore masks, 50,714 PPE kits and 13,675 litres of sanitiser during the first wave of the infectious disease.Last year, during Covid-19 time, the women SHGs also worked for the distribution of ration in eleven districts (Sultanpur, Sidharthnagar, Mainpuri, Mahoba, Kanpur Nagar, Basti, Banda, Bahraich, Bagpat, Barabanki and Aligarh). At that time, more than 125 SHGs distributed ration and cooked food for the needy. Now, there is a focus on providing masks to people in villages also, the mask-making work has been stepped up, said Kumar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/women-in-villages-back-to-mask-making-with-renewed-vigour-amid-covid-19-surge-101619150755373.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi to see another clear sky day; AQI in moderate category||Delhi is likely to see a generally cloudy sky with light rains or drizzle on Friday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. The Met department has also predicted that the minimum temperature is likely to be 22 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is expected to remain around 33°C, providing some respite from heat. The previous week the maximum temperature had crossed 40°C.According to the IMD, the minimum temperature on Thursday was 18.7°C, four notches below normal and the maximum temperature was 34°C -- four degrees below normal.Also Read | AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of exposed medicsDelhi’s air quality remained in the moderate category on Friday morning. Data from Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 9am stood at 116, which is in the lower end of the moderate category. On Thursday, the average 24-hour AQI had been 140, which is in the lower end of the moderate category.An AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Friday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the moderate category. Surface winds are high and easterly, high ventilation is forecasted for next two days. AQI is forecasted to stay improved in the moderate category for the next two days.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-to-see-another-clear-sky-day-aqi-in-moderate-category-101619147514955.html
23-04-2021||Other||13 Covid patients killed in fire at ICU of Maharashtra hospital||At least 13 patients lost their lives after a fire raged in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of private-owned Vijay Vallabh Covid Care hospital in Maharashtra’s Virar (W) on Friday at around 3:15 am. A short circuit in the air conditioning unit of the hospital is said to be the preliminary cause of the fire according to people aware to the development in Vasai Virar civic fire brigade.Around 13 patients have been confirmed dead, said Dilip Palav, chief fire officer, Vasai Virar Civic Fire Brigade. The number of casualties is likely to rise.“We cannot identify the gender of the patients as they have been charred beyond recognition,” said Palav. There were 17 patients in the ICU for Covid-19 treatment when the fire took place, he said.As per the list of the deceased released by the fire brigade department,Vasai Virar municipal corporation, there were five women among the thirteen patients who lost their lives in the fire. While the youngest victim was a 23-year-old boy, the oldest was a male patient ageing around 68 years.The hospital is in the process of shifting other patients to the nearby hospitals, he said.“Around 10 fire tenders were pressed into service after we received a call and the fire was controlled within 10 minutes,” said Palav.According to Avinash Patil, an eyewitness, the hospital did not have any fire safety measures like water sprinklers and the few fire extinguishers were not being used to control the big fire.“There were no doctors present and only two nurses were standing before the hospital when the incident took place. I could see the ICU ward completely in smoke and the charred bodies,” said Patil, adding, “I had come to the hospital to admit my friend’s mother on Friday morning and saw the fire”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/fire-at-icu-of-virar-hospital-in-maharashtra-13-covid-19-patients-dead-101619146134793.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to Covid-19||The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi informed on Thursday that the hospital is discontinuing the practice of risk assessment and contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the wake of insufficient resources and shortages of staff to do so amid the pandemic, according to a notice shared by news agency ANI. Moreover, the quarantine of asymptomatic contacts should be discontinued as well, the hospital informed, adding that from now onwards, only the symptomatic healthcare workers should be tested and only those testing positives are to be isolated and managed as per clinical protocols.In view of the current situation of COVID19 leading to insufficient resources for contact tracing & shortage of staff...Only symptomatic health care workers should be tested & only testing positive be isolated& managed as per the clinical condition: AIIMS, Delhi (22/4) pic.twitter.com/UVEqbsWR19India recorded the world's highest daily tally of 314,835 coronavirus infections on Thursday, with the second wave of the pandemic crushing its weak health infrastructure. In Delhi alone, where hospitals are running out of medical oxygen supplies, the daily rise was over 26,000. As many as 306 people were reported to have died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours in the national capital and overburdened healthcare resources are forcing people to turn to makeshift facilities.AIIMS Delhi held a Covid-19 review meet at 8:30am on Thursday, under the chairmanship of its director Randeep Guleria, in which the new directives for healthcare workers were issued, as per the notice shared by ANI. "In view of the current situation of Covid-19 leading to insufficient resources for contact tracing, and shortages of staff, the risk assessment and contact tracing of exposed HCW and quarantine of asymptomatic contacts should be discontinued. Only the symptomatic HCW should be tested and only those testing positives be isolated and managed as per the clinical condition," the notice reads.The notice further details prerequisites for the healthcare workers who test positive to rejoin work, once their conditions improve. "HCW who test positive may be able to join work after 10 days' period from the onset of symptoms, provided that they are afebrile for at least the last 24 hours without the use of antipyretics and symptoms (e.g. cough, shortness of breath) have improved. Those who are asymptomatic may join work 10 days from the date of the first positive test," the letter adds.The Covid-19 task force at AIIMS Delhi on Thursday also requested colleagues from other departments to provide 80% of the resident doctors and faculty members for the coronavirus disease management, in view of the rising number of Covid-19 patients and the opening of multiple Covid-19 facilities in the hospital, noting that the need for manpower has increased multi-fold.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/aiims-delhi-faces-staff-shortage-stops-contact-tracing-of-medics-exposed-to-covid19-101619143565144.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana records 9,742 new Covid-19 cases, highest single-day spike yet||Haryana on Thursday recorded the biggest single-day jump of 9,742 Covid-19 cases and 55 fatalities that pushed the state's cumulative tally to 3,90,989 and the death toll to 3,583, a health department bulletin said.On Wednesday, the state had recorded 9,623 fresh cases and 45 deaths.Among the districts that reported a big spike in cases on Thursday are Gurgaon (3,553), Faridabad (1,342), Sonipat (850), Karnal (530), Hisar (580) and Panchkula (459).The latest deaths include 10 each from Gurgaon and Faridabad districts, six from Jind, and five each from Panipat and Karnal.The number of active Covid-19 cases in Haryana stands at 58,597. So far, 3,28,809 people have recovered and the state has a recovery rate of 84.10 per cent, the bulletin said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-records-9-742-new-covid-19-cases-highest-single-day-spike-yet-101619142136722.html
23-04-2021||Ranchi||Jharkhand to provide free Covid-19 vaccine to all above 18 years of age: CM||All residents of Jharkhand above 18 years will be given free vaccination for Covid-19, state chief minister Hemant Soren has announced. "In Jharkhand, the coronavirus vaccine will be provided free of cost to people above the age of 18 by the state government," Soren said in a tweet on Thursday night."The government is working day and night to help people in this drastic transition. I am confident that with the cooperation of all, we will beat corona again. Corona will lose, Jharkhand will win," he added.The governments of Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh and Kerala have also announced that everyone above 18 years of age would be provided with a free Covid-19 vaccine.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ''liberalised'' policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers.As per the central government, manufacturers of Covid-19 vaccines will be free to supply 50% doses to state governments and in the open market, for which they will have to make an advance declaration of the price before May 1.India had started the Covid-19 vaccination drive on January 16 with two vaccines -- Covishield (Oxford-AstraZeneca's vaccine manufactured by Serum Institute of India) and Covaxin (manufactured by Bharat Biotech Limited).India commenced its second phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive to inoculate people above 60 years and those over 45 with comorbidities against the coronavirus from March 1. The third phase began on April 1 for all above 45 years of age.Recently, Russia's Sputnik V also got approval from the Subject expert committee (SEC) for Emergency Use Authorisation (EUA), making it the third Covid-19 vaccine to get clearance in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/ranchi-news/jharkhand-to-provide-free-covid-19-vaccine-to-all-above-18-years-of-age-cm-101619141650467.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Tug-of-war for oxygen keeps Delhi on brink||Several hospitals in the national capital issued new distress messages about their dwindling oxygen supply as the crisis continued on Thursday, prompting the Delhi government to hit out at what it described as “jungle raj” by neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.The Union government, too, made new interventions, invoking the Disaster Management Act to remind all states that anyone restricting supplies will face punitive action under the law, while the Delhi Disaster Management Authority appointed two senior bureaucrats as nodal officers to ensure smooth movement of tankers and directed the Delhi Police to provide security logistics from manufacturers’ sites to various health facilities.Throughout Thursday, however, hospitals continued to issue SOS messages saying they were short on supply, with some blaming states for supplies being halted there. “This jungle raj has been going on for three days,” said Delhi’s deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, referring to the alleged blockades by the police forces of the two neighbouring states.“Some hospitals in Delhi have run out of oxygen completely. They don’t have any option available. I have been receiving calls, messages, e-mails. We have been making internal, makeshift arrangements, but this cannot continue for long,” he said.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, too, spoke on the issue of oxygen crisis, asking states to come down heavily on hoarding and fix responsibility with local administration in cases of obstruction. He told officials to ensure a “smooth, unhindered” supply of oxygen to various states at a review meeting on Thursday.The problem came into focus early on Tuesday when several hospitals in the Capital said they were on the verge of supplies running out, which would end oxygen support to critically ill patients. The problem recurred on Wednesday and Thursday, with close to 1,000 patients being in danger on both days.On Thursday, multiple hospitals -- including Sir Ganga Ram, Saroj, Holy Family, Aakash, and Rajiv Gandhi Super Specialty — said they had either run out of their liquid medical oxygen and had switched to back-up cylinders, or were soon in danger of running out. Some even discharged patients and asked them to go to other facilities.“Our officials and even the Central government officials have tried to talk to officials in these states, but the situation on the ground has not changed. Our tankers are still waiting outside the plants. In the plants located in Haryana, only tankers from that state are being allowed to go in for refilling,” said Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 in Delhi.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal later raised the issue with his Haryana counterpart.The Union government increased Delhi’s quota of daily oxygen supply from 378MT to 480MT on Wednesday, but officials said even this may not be adequate and the additional capacity was likely to take time to arrive.“The Centre decides the companies from which we get oxygen. The revised quota that the Centre has allotted to us, a substantial part of it is to come from Odisha. But it will take several days to bring oxygen from Odisha to Delhi by road. We are exploring if bringing oxygen from there by air is possible. We are trying for that,” Kejriwal said.A government spokesperson said supplies may reach the city too late. “What remains a matter of grave concern is that of the 480 metric tonnes, 100 MT oxygen from Odisha (70 MT) and West Bengal (30 MT) will take almost 72 hours to reach Delhi. Our citizens, our hospitals, our city are running out of time. Meanwhile, the 140-metric tonne which Haryana has to supply is yet to leave for Delhi,” said the spokesperson.On Friday, PM Modi is also scheduled to meet chief ministers of regions with a high Covid-19 burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/tugofwar-for-oxygen-keeps-delhi-on-brink-101619127460474.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Women’s safety, proper drainage on top of my mind: Raman Goyal||Bathinda’s first woman mayor, Raman Goyal of Congress, is scheduled to assume office on Friday. This will be for the first time that the Congress party will be ruling the municipal corporation. Goyal had defeated BJP’s Seema Arora by 1,134 votes from Ward 35. She belongs to a known business family of the city. Goyal is a graduate in humanities and education and was a homemaker before she started delving into politics. She enjoys singing ‘bhajans’. Vishal Joshi spoke to her to know what her vision for the development of the city. Excerpts of an interview: What are your immediate priorities for the city? Installing a web of close circuit television (CCTV) cameras to curb crime against women and to have a proper drainage system are my top priorities. There is a need to streamlining city’s traffic management with a long-term perspective. I will make sure to take the police department on board to make city safe for the women. How do you see the financial health of the civic body? I will join the mayor’s office on Friday and I do not have exact details. But the finance minister and Congress legislator from Bathinda Manpreet Singh Badal has assured liberal financial support for pro-people works. Have you set any timeline for ongoing city projects? Poor drainage system is a blot on Bathinda city. Even a moderate rainfall inundates the city and administration has to take out boats. Work to strengthen stormwater is underway and it will be ensured that work gets completed before the monsoon sets in. Any plan to expedite pending development projects? I will expedite works of shifting bus stand to a new location on the National Highway-7. Multi-level parking near fire Brigade Chowk will mitigate traffic nuisance to a large extent in the old locality of the city. To improve Swachh Survekshan ratings, more public participation will be ensured. Your election as mayor led to an open opposition by a party colleague. It was a unanimous decision with the consent of the party leadership. Jagroop Singh Gill Ji is the senior-most councillor and I will keep seeking his guidance on various issues of the corporation. There are no groups among Congress councillors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/womens-safety-proper-drainage-on-top-of-my-mind-raman-goyal-101619125013511.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi’s health infra on brink of collapse||At 9pm on Thursday, there were a mere 15 ICU beds – of them only four with ventilators – remaining for Covid-19 patients in India’s national capital, the Delhi government’s hospital resource reporting app showed. The vacant beds accounted for 0.32% of the 4,663 ICU beds for Covid-19 cases.Of the 20,443 regular hospital beds for people with the coronavirus, only 10.5% -- or 2,141 – were available at the same time on Thursday.These numbers illustrate the near-collapse of the health infrastructure under the burden of a record number of infections. While these numbers are dependent on how frequently and accurately hospital staff updates them, HT’s monitoring of the Delhi Corona website showed vacanacies at hospitals have significantly dropped in the past two days.In the case of ICU beds, there was a peak of 34 vacancies that was reported on Wednesday morning before the number dropped soon after. For most of Thursday, there were fewer than 20 ICU beds available.The number of vacant beds has followed a clearer fall, dropping from roughly 2,700 available on Tuesday evening to a little over 2,100 late on Thursday.As on Thursday, there were 91,618 active cases in Delhi – the first time this number was above the 90,000 mark. The city added 26,169 new cases in the past 24 hours and recorded 306 more fatalities.Experts say the numbers capture a crisis that has been unfolding for several weeks now and could drive up mortality as lives that can be saved with medical attention are lost.“The situation in Delhi is very bad; it is turning out to be a Brazil-like situation. People are going from hospital to hospital for the want of beds. When hospitals are full and we can’t take care of patients, the number of deaths will go up. I believe they have set up a system in Maharashtra where a centralised helpline takes patients information such as name, age, oxygen saturation, reports of X-ray or CT scans and direct people to hospitals accordingly. There should be a similar system in Delhi,” said Dr Lalit Kant, former head of the department of epidemiology at the Indian Council of Medical Research.A doctor from one of Delhi’s big private hospitals, which is finding it difficult to refer patients out of its emergency department, too, said a centralised system was needed to cut down on the number of deaths.“Every day there are patients who are brought dead to our emergency department. They have been going from hospital to hospital looking for beds. We lose patients because they are lying on the floor instead of the ICU they need. We have more patients than we have oxygen points. A solution would be for the government to take stock of the number of beds across the city and refer patients wherever beds are available. Hospitals such as the one built by the army should be meant for such referral patients,” the doctor said, asking not to be named.“So far, there was hardly any difference in the mortality during this wave and the previous one, proving that the virus is not more fatal. However, the deaths may be higher now because the health system has been overburdened. And, we keep on adding more cases every day for which we need to add more infrastructure every day,” said Dr Jugal Kishore, head of the department of community medicine at Safdarjung hospital.The situation could ease by a small degree later this week as the Union government decided to revive the Covid-19 case facility in Chattarpur, which will have 500 beds with oxygen support to begin with.The facility, set up during the waves of infection recorded last year, was closed on February 23 when the outbreak appeared to have receded. It is now expected to be opened in three days’ time with the Indo-Tibet Border Police managing operations.“Delhi government has assured us they will set-up the infrastructure in maximum three days and hand over the facility to us. Our team of doctors and paramedics is ready. It will be operational in two-three days,” director general of ITBP, SS Deswal, told HT.The facility, named Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre, is at the Radha Soami Beas grounds.“The Delhi government had sought medical officers and para-medical staff from the ministry of home affairs to man the Sardar Patel Covid Care Centre at Chhattarpur, which is being re-operationalised. The Ministry of Home Affairs has designated ITBP as the nodal force for operating the facility,” a home ministry spokesperson said.“It has been decided to provide an adequate number of medical officers and para-medical staff to man 500 oxygenated beds to Sardar Patel Covid centre, Chhattarpur in Delhi,” said an MHA letter reviewed by HT.An officer, who didn’t want to be named, said they are hoping to increase the number of beds to 1,500 by the first week of May.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhis-health-infra-on-brink-of-collapse-101619124867420.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||SGPC to open free coaching academy to prepare Sikh youths for competitive exams||The Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) on Thursday announced to open an institute in Patiala to prepare the Sikh youths for civil services and National Defence Academy (NDA) and grade-A central or state service examinations. The coaching, training and other facilities will be provided to the candidates for free. The decision was taken in an executive committee meeting chaired by gurdwara body president Jagir Kaur in Amritsar. Kaur said the academy named ‘Sri Guru Tegh Bahadur Institute of Competitive Studies’ will be dedicated to the 400th birth anniversary (parkash purb) of the ninth Sikh master.“A sub-committee constituted for the purpose recommended that the institute should be set up at the Tohra Institute of Advanced Studies in Sikhism, Bahadurgarh, in Patiala. The Sikh candidates with unshorn hair and beard will be eligible for admission at the institute,” she said. “Besides, it was decided to use a sarai at Gurdwara Ber Sahib, Sultanpur Lodhi, as a hostel to encourage girls to join sports. The girls selected for the sports academy set up by the SGPC will be provided good coaches, sports kits, food, etc along with their education by the SGPC,” Kaur added. Also, no money will be charged from pregnant women admitted for delivery to the Sri Guru Ram Das Medical College Hospital, Amritsar, she said. Gurinderveer Singh, a student of Khalsa College, Jalandhar, who recently broke national record in athletics, was also honoured by the SGPC president and was givcn a cash award of ₹2 lakh. Gurinderveer set a record of 10.5 seconds in 100 metre under-18 and -20 categories.Kaur announced that the expenses for Gurinderveer’s education will also be borne by the SGPC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sgpc-to-open-free-coaching-academy-to-prepare-sikh-youths-for-competitive-exams-101619124658441.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||BSF foils intrusion bid along Indo-Pak border in Pathankot||The Border Security Force (BSF) troops claimed to have thwarted an intrusion attempt by three persons who allegedly crossed over to the Indian territory from the Pakistan side in Pathankot district on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday.BSF officials said the suspects, who entered the Indian side but were yet to cross the Ujh, a tributary of the Ravi river, managed to retreat after the security personnel opened fire at them. “Around 10pm, the troopers of the 121 battalion noticed the movement of three persons across the Ujh. The vigilant troopers responded with fire and the suspects managed to flee taking advantage of the darkness and standing wheat crop in the fields,” a senior BSF official said. “Though its seems to be an infiltration attempt, we are also looking at the possibility of an attempt to sneak in drugs or weapons into the Indian territory. A search operation in the area is still on,” he added. In July 2015, three gunmen dressed in army uniform opened fire on a bus and then attacked the Dinanagar police station in Gurdaspur district. The attack resulted in the death of three civilians and four policemen, including a superintendent of police (SP).The investigation after the attack had suggested that the three militants, who were killed during the siege at the police station, had come from Pakistan after crossing the Ravi.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bsf-foils-intrusion-bid-along-indo-pak-border-in-pathankot-101619124594097.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||International drug cartel: ED books ex-Ludhiana village sarpanch, 7 others for money laundering||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has registered a case of money laundering against Gurdeep Singh Rano, former sarpanch of Rano village in Ludhiana district, and seven other persons in the high-profile international drug cartel case. The other accused are Ravez Singh Dhillon, Akashdeep Singh, Babaljit Singh, Iqbal and Ramneek Singh, all from the Khanna area of Ludhiana district, and NRIs Simran Sidhu (based in Italy) and Tanvir Singh Bedi (based in Australia). The agency has filed an enforcement case information report (ECIR) under sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of probe details shared by the Punjab Police’s special task force (STF) headed by additional director general of police (ADGP) Harpreet Singh Sidhu and other documents. The ED started its probe looking into the money trail in the case with links in Australia and Pakistan. “We will investigate as where the drug returns were invested and will start the attachment process of properties bought from the money. The role of Punjab Police officials and others whose name cropped during the STF probe is also under lens. We will proceed according to evidence,” said a senior ED official. The ED in its probe found the accused used to smuggle heroin and other narcotic substances from Pakistan and other countries through shipping containers. Then they used to stock the contraband in the various parts of the country and sell it in Punjab and elsewhere. The probe also established that Rano and other accused had close ties with police officials and many gangsters. The STF had arrested Rano in November last year and seized eight cars, including a Jaguar, a Q7 Audi, a Toyota Fortuner and a BMW, from his palatial house. It had also recovered 5.39 kg heroin and illegal arms from him in a special operation. Rano, who owned only a scooter till 2015, allegedly amassed property of ₹50 crore in a span of four years. Also, he used to move around with police security. In March this year, the Punjab government suspended five senior police officers, including inspector general (IG) Paramraj Singh Umranangal who is already facing suspension in the 2015 police firing cases; assistant commandant (4th battalion) Pathankot, Varinderjit Singh Thind; Faridkot superintendent of police (detective) Sewa Singh Malli; and DSPs Parminder Singh Bath and Karansher Singh for their alleged complicity with Rano.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/international-drug-cartel-ed-books-ex-ludhiana-village-sarpanch-7-others-for-money-laundering-101619124593029.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Punjab, Covid fatality rate lower among youngsters this year||The rate of youngsters succumbing to Covid-19 in Punjab has gone down this year when compared to the first wave in 2020, an analysis of the state health department’s figures till the week ending April 18 shows.The trend is contrary to the claims that causalities have increased this time around. Those aged above 50 in the state continue to remain the most vulnerable in 2021 as well with data showing that 82% of the total fatalities were from the age bracket in the second wave.Last year, 77% of the total deaths were from the age group.So far, Punjab has witnessed 8,189 deaths of which 5,341 took place last year.While the state’s case fatality ratio (CFR) in 2020 was 3.2%, it has come down by 1.8% in the second wave to 2.6%.The trend of fatalities also remains almost the same during the second wave with 30.2% of those succumbing to the infection from the 61-70 age group compared to 28.3% last year. The rate among those aged above 70 is 29.8% as compared to 24% last year.In the 51-60 age group, the fatality rate is 22.6% against 24.7% in 2020.The health department’s figures show high positivity rate in the 15-50 age group even as fatality rate in this bracket came down to 17.5% compared to 22% during the first wave. The death rate in the 15-30 age group is 1.4% against 3.4% last year, 4% in the 31-40 (5.8% last year) and 12% in the 41-50 bracket as compared to 13.4% the first wave.Punjab Covid-19 nodal officer Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state’s CFR in the second wave is less but the pattern of deaths is almost the same. “There is no trend that shows the deaths are more among the youngsters,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-punjab-covid-fatality-rate-lower-among-youngsters-this-year-101619124534556.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Safer policing: None over 58 on PCR van duty, only virtual meets||With the Covid-19 pandemic further tightening its grip on the national capital, the Delhi Police on Thursday removed all personnel aged 58 years and above from the police control room (PCR) van duty, besides advising all station personnel to have only virtual interactions with the public. The force’s in-house meetings are now being held in open spaces within police stations, officers aware of the developments said.Over 8,000 police personnel have tested positive for the virus and 38 have succumbed since the beginning of the pandemic. At least 432 personnel have contracted Covid-19 until Thursday since the current wave of infections started.Given that one in every three people who get tested for the coronavirus disease are turning positive in Delhi, and in view of the week-long curfew to contain the virus spread, police personnel are now acting as frontline workers. They are managing containment zones, enforcing curfew norms , arranging oxygen cylinders and rushing Covid-19 patients to hospitals, apart from maintaining law and order.A senior police officer said, “For now, we have ordered that all persons aged 58 years and above should not be posted on PCR van duty. Compared to other units, the personnel with PCR vans are testing positive for the disease more. The PCR van is the first responder at every spot -- its personnel visit homes when people call 112.”After a meeting of the police brass on Saturday, all personnel were told to keep sufficient stock of PPE kits because police vehicles are also doubling up as ambulances. The 112 number (police control room) is getting over 150 calls requesting ambulances. In the past 48 hours, there were six cases of police vans rushing Covid-19 patients to the hospitals.A station house officer of a south Delhi police station said, “Our meetings with complainants are virtual now. This is being adopted by other police stations, too, and it is safer for complainants as well. All they have to do is to inform one of our designated officer at the station gate. They will get a time and phone number for the video call.This is better than visiting the station, which is a closed space. In-house meetings are now being held on the lawns.”A second senior police officer said that, at the New Friends Colony police station in south-east Delhi, tents have been erected outside the station for visitors. “There is an audio-video system at the gate for the visitor to connect with the station. Every paper (copies of complaints brought by visitors) is disinfected before it is taken inside or handed back to the visitor. Apart from PPE kits, we have also given our personnel, protective eye gear that health care professionals use to shield themselves from the virus,” the second officer said.Delhi Police spokesperson Chinmoy Biswal said police stations across the city are “adopting different measures to remain safe on the job”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/safer-policing-none-over-58-on-pcr-van-duty-only-virtual-meets-101619124017210.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhiwale: Prayer, witnessed||It is morning and the newspaper vendor, passing on his bicycle, is carrying front pages filled with dreadful news on Covid-19. The narrow lane is otherwise empty, more or less — it goes past Jama Masjid’s gate no. 2, in Old Delhi. The entrance to the mosque is locked. The popular tea stall nearby is closed. But then the city is under curfew due to the pandemic. The only people to be seen are a few families sleeping on the pavement — they’ve been living here for years. The only other living being around is a brown dog snoozing on a manhole.Now a rickshaw puller enters the scene. He stops his carriage in front of the twin Sufi shrines of Hazrat Sarmad Shahid and Hazrat Hare Bhare Shah, which stand in front of the Mughal-era mosque. The puller is wearing a check lungi, his head covered in a white gamcha. The shrine’s door is open and, inside, a rose seller is perched on his stall. But the puller doesn’t seem like he wants to enter the dargah. He gets off the rickshaw, stands in front of the marble screen of the shrine, and raises his arm as if in supplication. He closes his eyes, his lips moving soundlessly. The man stays in this posture for about five minutes — each passing second feels like a sea wave, coming quickly and receding the next moment, its impact lingering on.The lips finally stop moving. The eyes open. The palms reverently touch the forehead. And the rickshaw puller looks around absentmindedly.Responding to his interlocutor, he reveals that he was praying.For himself?He shakes his head.For his family?I have no family, he says.Then?“I was praying to Baba to take back the bimari,” he says in a low voice. He means the coronavirus.Has he got symptoms?He shakes his head again. “I was praying for all of us.”Reluctant to give away his name, he excuses himself politely, sits back on his seat and pedals away towards Urdu Bazaar. The lane is lifeless again. The homeless families who were sleeping on the pavement continue to sleep. The dog hasn’t stirred a bit. The rose seller is as still as a statue. It is as||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhiwale-prayer-witnessed-101619123448967.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Property tax: MC slaps ₹7.5 crore dues notice on Panjab University||The Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has served a ₹7.5 crore notice on Panjab University (PU) for non-payment of outstanding property tax dues.Earlier, the MC had served a ₹13.61 crore property tax notice. But, after reconciliation meetings between the two authorities, the revised figure of ₹7.5 crore was reached.The MC had stated that four property IDs referred in the earlier letter have been raised on the basis of area details submitted by the university. After going through a survey conducted by Punjab Engineering College (PEC), it has been found that the PU has not submitted the detail of the full area.“However, after fresh communication with the PU officials, it was decided to exclude some of the properties which were earlier considered part of the university in calculating property tax,” said an MC official dealing in the matter.The commercial properties in the PU, and some other buildings like school have now been excluded from the calculation of property tax. PU will not pay for these buildings now. Notices to these building will be served separately for payment of their outstanding tax dues.“PU claimed that some buildings were constructed after 2004 and the commercial areas are under private persons. So, we have excluded these buildings,” said the official.The university, it is learnt, has agreed to pay the full revised amount of the pending dues. “At present, we have not set any deadline for the payment. The MC is offering a rebate to the property tax payers depositing it for the current financial year (2021-22) by May 31. PU can also use this opportunity,” said the official.The residential property taxpayers can avail a rebate of 20% and commercial property taxpayers 10%. After May 31, the MC will impose a penalty of 25% and 12% interest on the tax dues.Notably, the MC had earlier issued a notice of ₹27 crore for recovery of property tax dues from the UT administration.There are 1.06 lakh residential and commercial taxpayers in the city. In the current fiscal, the MC has so far collected ₹57 crore as property tax against the budget target of ₹48 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/property-tax-mc-slaps-7-5-crore-dues-notice-on-panjab-university-101619122983856.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||CH01-CE series: E-auction of fancy numbers fetches Chandigarh RLA ₹1.15 crore||Vehicle number “0001” of CH01-CE series fetched the highest bidding price of ₹13.18 lakh at the e-auction of fancy numbers conducted by the local Registering and Licensing Authority (RLA). It was secured by Hartinder Singh who made the highest bid. The number “CH01-CE-0009” received the second highest bidding price of ₹5.75 lakh by GHB Abodes. It was followed by “CH01-CE-0002”, which was auctioned for ₹3.31 lakh. The fancy number “0003” went for ₹2.11 lakh, “0004” for ₹1.58 lakh, “0005” for ₹2.71 lakh, “0006” for ₹1.72 lakh, “0007” for ₹3.85 lakh, “0008” for ₹2.6 lakh and 0010 was auctioned for ₹1.03 lakh. RLA earned ₹1.15 crore from the auction which took place between April 12 and April 22. Pradhuman Singh from Registering and Licencing Authority, Chandigarh said, “This is the first time the revenue has crossed ₹1 crore mark in an auction.” Only those who have purchased vehicles at a Chandigarh address were allowed to participate in the e-auction after submitting the sale letter, Aadhaar card and Chandigarh address proof. Successful bidders will be required to get their vehicles registered and deposit the bidding amount within one month from the date of auction, failing which a penalty of 10% as well as interest at the rate of 10% on the balance amount will be charged till the date of payment. The result of the auction has been put on the RLA website, and the successful bidders will also be informed through SMS and e-mail. So far, the highest bid for 0001 came in 2012, when a resident of Sector 44 bought it from CH-01-AP series for ₹26.05 lakh. It was meant for his S-class Mercedes Benz that cost four times the price paid for the fancy number.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/ch01ce-series-e-auction-of-fancy-numbers-fetches-chandigarh-rla-1-15-crore-101619122974595.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Western Command to set up Covid care facility in Chandigarh||The Western Command will assist with Covid-19 management efforts in Chandigarh and has agreed to the UT’s administration request to set up a Covid care facility in the city. Confirming the development, UT adviser Manoj Parida said, “The administration will provide the space and Army authorities will arrange the required health infrastructure and staff.” Amid the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases in the last month, the city is staring at a shortage of beds. All major health establishments in the city, particularly the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), are approaching full occupancy. Government hospitals in the city, including PGIMER, GMCH-32, GMCH-48 and GMSH-16 have 676 beds. Parida said, “At present, we don’t have shortage of beds in the city, but we are preparing for every eventuality as there has been a sharp increase in cases. So, the administration on the initiative of UT administrator VP Singh Badnore, had approached the Western Command to create a facility here. It agreed, and will be only requiring space from the administration. The rest of the arrangements will be made by them.” A meeting of senior officials from the Western Command and the UT officials, including Badnore, is scheduled for Friday. Details of the facility, including the number of beds and its location, are to be finalised. Notably, on April 19, Western Command had assured the civil authorities of Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Chandigarh that any assistance required from the formations to combat the prevalent crisis will be provided. It has offered assistance like medical care, maintenance of law and order, setting up of quarantine facilities and distribution of essential items. Army Commander Lt General RP Singh had assured that all the formations under area of responsibility of Western Command were geared up to assist civil administration in the fight against Covid. Community centres could be converted to Covid facilities: ParidaThe administration has also received requests from different community organisations and city residents to create more beds for Covid patients in the city. “Representatives of the business community met me today and offered different bhawans like Gulati Bhawan to setup Covid facilities. Similarly, a health facility in Sector 18 has offered the same and I have directed MC officials to examine it and make a report. If need be, we can tap into these facilities also,” said Parida. The administration is also considering creation of such facilities at community centres in different parts of the city. Larger and recently constructed community centres with latest infrastructure will be used if the administration faces shortage of beds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/western-command-to-set-up-covid-care-facility-in-chandigarh-101619122852297.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Only 19% Covid beds vacant at Chandigarh tricity’s hospitals||Amid the rapidly rising cases, 81% of the total Covid beds at tricity hospitals have been filled as of Thursday, with Panchkula having run out of ICU beds.Of the 379 Covid beds in Panchkula, 45 are dedicated to critical cases. But, all were taken as of Thursday. A total of 15 ICU beds are at the civil hospital, 14 at Paras Hospital, 10 at Alchemist Hospital and six at Ojas Hospital. Overall, 296 Covid beds are occupied at these hospitals and BRS Dental Hospital, leaving only 22% vacant.Civil surgeon Dr Jasjeet Kaur said they will be arranging 100 oxygen beds in a day, and they had also approached the state government to provide more BiPAP ventilators.Worst-hit in the tricity, Mohali has 713 beds for Covid patients in various government and private hospitals, but only 12% are available, as 626 have been taken. Among these, 216 beds are for ICU patients, of which 193 are occupied.Apart from the civil hospital in Phase 6, Fortis Hospital, Max Hospital, Grecian Hospital, Ivy Hospital, Sohana Hospital, Mayo Hospital, Cheema Hospital and Shalby Hospital have also been roped in for Covid care in the district.“We have also tied up with Chandigarh University for 200 beds, which can be upgraded to 1,000 should the need arise. We have ample facility to cater to the increasing cases, but increasing recoveries are also leaving beds vacant,” said Mohali deputy commissioner Girish Dayalan.In Chandigarh, PGIMER, GMCH-32, GMCH-48 and GMSH-16 have 676 Covid beds, of which 504 are occupied, a vacancy of 25%. Another 108 patients are isolated at Covid Care Centres at Dhanwantri Ayurvedic College and Hospital in Sector 46 and Sood Dharamshala.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/only-19-covid-beds-vacant-at-chandigarh-tricity-s-hospitals-101619122612849.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh tricity’s daily Covid cases soar to 2,024 in record high||The tricity on Thursday touched a fresh peak of 2,024 Covid-19 cases, as Chandigarh, Mohali and Panchkula individually hit their all-time highs since the outbreak in March last year.The grim milestone comes four days after the tricity logged its last high of 1,684 cases on April 18.On Thursday, Mohali reported 931 cases, Chandigarh 634 and Panchkula 459 – a first for all three cities. Mohali and Chandigarh had registered their previous biggest spikes (880 and 625) on April 18, a day after Panchkula had clocked its last high of 349.Thursday also saw 13 patients succumbing to the virus across the tricity, highest in a day during the pandemic’s second wave. Among them, seven people died in Mohali, four in Chandigarh and two in Panchkula.Mohali’s active cases cross 7,000 markWith the fresh infections, Mohali’s active cases soared to 7,171 – highest in the tricity. The district’s total cases stand at 39,247, of which 31,552 patients (80.39%) have successfully beaten the virus, while 524 have died. Within 22 days of April, the 12,602 cases and 88 deaths in the district are already nearly double the 6,315 cases and 48 deaths recorded in March.40-year-old among UT’s casualtiesIn Chandigarh, 4,723 patients are recuperating among the 36,404 cases reported so far. As many as 31,704 people (87.08%) have recovered and 427 have died. Among the city’s latest fatalities, three – a 40-year-old man from Sector 30, a 52-year-old man from Sector 51 and a 70-year-old man from Manimajra – also had kidney disease. The fourth deceased was a 62-year-old man from Sector 26, who was suffering from acute respiratory distress syndrome. 29 ITBP personnel test +ve in PanchkulaThose who died in Panchkula were a 45-year-old man from Pinjore, who also had hypertension and diabetes, and a 75-year old woman from Billa.The district’s fresh cases included 29 personnel from the ITBP and two from the CRPF. Panchkula’s total count has reached 18,032, of which 2,493 cases are active. A total of 15,362 patients (85.19%) have been cured and 177 have died.Remdesivir and tocilizumab scarce in ChandigarhStocks of remdesivir and tocilizumab, two drugs used to treat Covid-19, have exhausted in the city, even though doctors suggest that they do not reduce mortality.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said a few doses of remdesivir were left in government stocks, but those of tocilizumab had run out. “We have placed an order for more supplies,” he said.Meanwhile, PGIMER clarified that remdesivir was an antiviral drug, which did not help with reducing mortality. It is not effective in patients requiring high oxygen support or ventilation. Similarly, various studies have not shown any mortality benefit through tocilizumab as well, the institute said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-tricity-s-daily-covid-cases-soar-to-2-024-in-record-high-101619121532250.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Assessing student performance a challenge in the online mode: Experts||In early March this year, Sunita Kadam, a Class 8 teacher from a civic body school in Mumbai was busy drawing up a list of academically weak students. With her class being conducted online since March 2020, Kadam said that it was becoming a big challenge for the students. “Last year, all these students passed without proper assessments and this year too, the same will repeat. However, there are a few students who are lagging behind their other counterparts in terms of learning key concepts. We are now working on these students to bridge the learning gap that has been seen due to online learning,” said Kadam. As schools and colleges remain online for more than a year now, understanding and evaluating the academic performance of students and taking corrective action is becoming one of the biggest challenges for teachers and schools. In 2020, students from Classes 1 to 8 were promoted based on internal assessments conducted at the school level. Class 9 and 11 students underwent tests and exams online. Those who failed to clear these exams had to undergo another round of tests in the days to come. Students in colleges and universities had to undergo online multiple-choice questions (MCQ) to pass their semesters. This year, students of Class 1 to 12 barring Class 10 and 12 will be promoted to the next class without any exams. ‘Can have disastrous consequences’Experts said that not being able to conduct assessments of students can have disastrous consequences on their overall learning outcomes of students. Sudam Kumbhar, former principal of Shailendra High School in Dahisar said that the consequences are particularly alarming for students from low-income households. “In families with low economic means, the children have already suffered a lot due to the pandemic. There are anxieties about employment and overall existence. In online classes, nearly 50% of students are often absent because they are accompanying their parents to their workplaces or have no access to phones and gadgets. It thus becomes crucial to assess the learning levels of such students which will not happen systematically because there are no exams and assessments,” added Kumbhar. Over the last year, a large number of students from colleges and universities who were previously struggling to get their backlogs cleared have managed to pass, said colleges. This is particularly a cause of concern because there is no way to know whether these students have merely passed the exams or have understood the subject during this time.“Every year, some students in every class end up with ATKT (allowed to keep terms) which they carry forward to the next semester. In some cases, students carry forward their KTs for two years but all this changed with the MCQ format of exams. While students have passed the exam, we are doubting how much of the subject they’ve realistically understood,” said the principal of a suburban college. Gopakumaran Thampi, principal of Thadomal Shahani Engineering College in Bandra said, “Even though most students in our institute have scored very well, teachers are worried that students have not understood basic concepts and this will affect their ability to understand larger concepts in the future courses/subjects.”Lack of learning continuityIn December 2020, Leadership for Equity, a Pune-based NGO that works closely with the state education department conducted a community survey to assess the impact of the pandemic on learning. The sample survey conducted across six districts in the state (Pune, Akola, Satara, Solapur, Ahmednagar, Nashik) revealed that one of the biggest repercussions of prolonged school closures was the lack of learning continuity among students. A large number of parents and teachers expressed concerns about learning losses as only about two of the 10 students surveyed, reported having access to a phone during their study time. In eight of the 10 households, more than one person was sharing a phone thus raising concerns about the reach of online learning. Standard guidelines are importantFrancis Joseph, a city-based educationist and the co-founder of SLN Global Network said that in the days to come, it is important to have consistency and universality in strategies used for bridging the learning gaps. “Right now, each school is working on addressing issues arising out of online learning at its level as per its understanding. We need to understand that school leaders are not necessarily experts in pedagogy and thus boards need to come up with a set of standard guidelines for this. We need to understand that under the current circumstance, the entire schooling system needs to slow down a bit and rework its entire structure to make it easier on students for the coming 2-3 years. The repercussions of the losses during the pandemic will have to be dealt with even in the years to come,” he added. Trial by error learningThe sudden change from regular classes to the virtual mode affected teaching as well as learning modules across higher education institutes. Several colleges started training teachers before starting regular lectures but for a large chunk of teachers, learning was trial by error. “Most colleges were waiting for the University of Mumbai to announce the course of action, and once the announcement to start classes in the virtual mode came through, colleges were unprepared. Many of us understood the virtual classroom on our own by making many mistakes and learning from them,” said a senior professor from a suburban college. While theory sessions were conducted smoothly by colleges, practical sessions were a challenge for many. “We used the best technology possible and recorded videos of practical sessions for students, which were shared regularly. In case some students did not understand the concept, we allowed them to physically report to the college and conducted practical sessions keeping social distancing in mind,” said Hemlata Bagla, principal of KC College, Churchgate. She added that students preferred depending on virtual classes as compared to physical classes as many were back in their hometowns and travelling would’ve been a problem. Increase in learning inequalitiesEducationists said while assessing the performance of students is a tough task without conducting periodic tests and exams, governments need to understand that learning losses due to the pandemic is a very critical concern. “Like always, it is going to increase learning inequalities. Those who can afford the best tutors and help will sail through. For families where retaining children in schools is a challenge, these learning losses would pose challenges in future as students have to compete for various exams,” added Kumbhar.“For the poor, their marks are the only gateway to a good education and if learning is not equal, we cannot test students on the same levels for sure,” said a teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/assessing-student-performance-a-challenge-in-the-online-mode-experts-101619121171571.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Teachers urge education dept to declare summer break dates||Teachers in schools and junior colleges across the state have urged the education department to declare the dates for concluding the current semester and start of summer break this year.Many teachers have recently urged officials to give clarity about ending the current semester after the government announced that students from Classes 1 to 8 and 11 shall be promoted to the next class without exams. “Now that all students have been promoted, we are hoping that the end of semester is announced soon. We are seeing a very low attendance as it is. We hope here is some break in between before the new semester begins,” said Rajesh Pandya, vice-president of Teachers Democratic Front.The Mumbai Regional Junior College Teachers’ Organization (MRJCTO) also wrote to state education minister Varsha Gaikwad requesting the declaration of summer break for teachers. “As you are aware that many states have declared summer vacation for teachers and students, but the government of Maharashtra has not declared it yet. We request you to ensure that summer vacation is declared for junior college teachers with immediate effect,” stated the letter.Officials from the education department did not respond to calls and messages.Usually, summer vacations begin for teachers from May 2 and schools under the state board reopen for the new academic year from the second week of June. With the cancellation of Class 10 exams and postponement of Class 12 exams, teachers might have to work in May and June this year. “We hope that at least we get a few days off before that,” said a teacher.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-teachers-urge-education-dept-to-declare-summer-break-dates-101619121111492.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra varsities to conduct exams only in online mode: Higher education minister||All state public universities will conduct their exams, including final-year exams, in the online mode, said state minister for higher and technical education Uday Samant, in the wake of rising Covid-19 cases across Maharashtra.“While most of the university exams were anyway being held online, there were a few places where offline options were also available. But considering the strict restrictions of lockdown from April 22, this will not be possible. Such universities had approached the department seeking permission to hold all exams completely online, following which the decision was taken. All universities and colleges have been instructed to ensure that no student misses the online examination,” said Samant adding that this decision was taken after discussing the options with the chancellor of all state universities, Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari.Recently, several scheduled examinations had to be postponed due to the surge in Covid-19 cases across the country. School education boards including Maharashtra state, Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) as well as Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) decided to cancel their Class 10 board exams and postpone Class 12 exams this year. Similarly, the National Testing Agency (NTA) postponed all-India competitive exams indefinitely.University of Mumbai (MU) had released a circular in March clarifying that all university exams will be conducted in online mode in multiple choice questions (MCQ) format. “Not just theory exams, but affiliated colleges have also ensured that practical exams are conducted online. So, we have nothing to worry about,” said a senior official from MU. Similarly, most state universities have already announced that exams will be held in the online mode owing to the latest lockdown situation across the State.“Safety of staff and students is our focus, and we will make sure no student is at a loss due to the current situation. We have also been in talks with the authorities to get all teachers and other non-teaching staff to get vaccinations on priority so that the examination and results process is not hindered,” said Samant. He added that the education department also hopes to get all 3.7 million students pursuing undergraduate and postgraduate courses in state universities vaccines on priority.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-varsities-to-conduct-exams-only-in-online-mode-higher-education-minister-101619121112119.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Procurement woes: AAP demands Ashu’s resignation||Chandigarh The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Thursday demanded Punjab food and civil supplies minister Bharat Bhushan Ashu’s resignation for failing to stop the smuggling of wheat from other states, and shortage of gunny bags (bardana) in mandis. In a statement, AAP legislator and kisan wing president Kultar Singh Sandhwan alleged that Ashu has failed in performing his responsibilities and chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh should dismiss him. “It is the responsibility of the state government’s department of food and civil supplies to ensure timely and efficient procurement and payment of the crop arriving in the mandis,” he said. Sandhwan said since the commencement of procurement, only about 50% of the crop had reached the mandis, out of which about 60% was still lying in mandis due to shortage of gunny bags. “Due to this, there are stockpiles of wheat in the state mandis and the weighing work has come to a standstill,” he said. Farmers block CM adviser’s motorcadePatiala: Farmers under the banner of BKU (Krantikari) blocked the motorcade of chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh’s adviser BIS Chahal for over three hours on the Patiala-Sirhind road on Thursday over shortage of gunny bags for wheat procurement. The protesters were also upset over slow lifting wheat.Chahal was on his way towards Sirhind when the farmers blocked his motorcade near Rurki village where they were already protesting. Heavy police force was deployed at the spot as the senior officials from Fatehgarh Sahib police reached to convince the farmers to clear the road. Even Chahal had to step out of his car to pacify the protestors, but to no avail. “I have talked to senior officials of district administration and those dealing with procurement agencies. The gunny bags will be provided at the earliest,” Chahal could be seen saying to the farmers in one of the videos before getting back in his car.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/procurement-woes-aap-demands-ashu-s-resignation-101619121052786.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||1,860 Covid-19 cases recorded in Maharashtra Police force in a week||Maharashtra Police recorded 1,860 new cases of Covid-19 infection in the past one week and a dozen personnel succumbed to the disease during the period. Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Wardha districts witnessed maximum cases. Senior police officers, however, said the infection in police department was under control.As per the latest report, in the past 24 hours, 254 new cases were reported which included 41 officers and 213 constables. On an average, 229 new cases of infection were reported daily in the state police force in the past seven days, the police said.So far a total of 39,000 police personnel contracted the disease and 390 (35 officers and 355 constables) have died since April last year. Currently, there are 3,874 active cases. Around 34,735 police personnel have recovered. An additional director general said nearly 90% of police personnel have taken the first dose of the vaccine and 45% have got the second dose as well.“All unit heads have been instructed to restart the measures taken during the peak of the pandemic last year as per the requirement. But the situation is very much in our control,” the senior IPS officer said.In Mumbai Police, a total of 8,372 police personnel tested positive for Covid-19 and 103 of them succumbed to the infectious disease. Currently, there are 671 active cases. The city police force also expedited the vaccination drive for its personnel. The Mumbai Police has a strength of 45,000 personnel, of whom 75% have received the first dose of vaccine and 43% have got both the doses. “Compared to the November-February period, cases of police personnel getting infected daily in March and April have gone up. But due to vaccination, the number of serious patients is very low,” said a senior police officer from Mumbai Police.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/1860-covid-19-cases-recorded-in-maharashtra-police-force-in-a-week-101619121051458.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai logs 7,367 Covid-19 cases, 75 deaths; positivity rate dips||The city on Thursday reported 7,367 new Covid-19 cases and 75 deaths, taking tally to 609,080 and toll to 12,583. There are 82,616 active cases in Mumbai currently and the case fatality rate is 2%. Mumbai conducted 46,874 Covid-19 tests on Wednesday, pushing its total test count to 5,122,026. The daily positivity rate on Thursday dropped to 15.7%, from 18% recorded in the past week. Over the past month (since March 23), around 45,000 to 50,000 tests were conducted in Mumbai daily. Around 25% to 30% daily tests are being conducted using rapid antigen test while the remaining are RT-PCR tests. For the past three days, Mumbai’s positivity rate has been around 16%, down from 18% to 20% last week and over 20% in the beginning of the April. Positivity rate is the number of people who test positive as a per cent of the total tests done.About 78% of Mumbai’s active cases, as of Wednesday, are stable asymptomatic patients, 21% are stable symptomatic patients, and 2% are critical patients.Of the 21,331 Covid-19 hospital beds in the city, 17,519 are occupied and 3, 812 are vacant; of the 10,773 oxygen beds, 853 are vacant; of the 2,834 ICU beds, 42 are vacant; and of the 1,452 ventilator beds, 21 are vacant.Mumbai currently has a recovery rate of 84% while the overall growth rate of Covid-19 cases stands at 1.35%. Doubling rate has gone up to 50 days, from 36 days reported two weeks ago. Over the past week, around 7,000-8,000 cases were reported in the city daily. The highest number of cases reported during the second wave was 11,206 on April 4. On Thursday, the city also witnessed vaccination of a total of 48,152 beneficiaries, of which 26,162 received their first dose and 21,990 the second dose, across 132 vaccination centres in the city. So far, 1,814,389 beneficiaries have received their first dose and 313,706 received their second dose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-logs-7-367-covid-19-cases-75-deaths-positivity-rate-dips-101619120997816.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Postponed board and competitive exams leave class 12 students anxious||Eighteen-year-old Aarya Tendulkar used to spend at least 12 hours a day studying and preparing for her Class 12 exams as well as the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) until March this year. NEET is an exam that over a million students take every year for admission to undergraduate medical courses in medical institutions, including premier ones like All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), among others. Last year alone, 1.6 million candidates registered for the exam; less than half qualified. Tendulkar and several like her are well aware of how competitive the entrance exam is. This has been her routine since 2019: “My day would start at 6am and I would study continuously till 9am. After a 30-minute break I would once again start at 10am and study till 2.30pm. My coaching institute lectures are scheduled in the afternoon till 7pm, following which I would have my dinner and then revise what was taught in class for an hour or two before calling it a day.” However, the Ghatkopar resident feels in a bit of a limbo right now. On April 18, the National Testing Agency announced that Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Mains is postponed until further notice while the status of NEET, scheduled for August first week, is yet unknown. “I feel this preparation time will never end and that is leaving me more anxious than ever,” she said.Rising Covid-19 cases across the country has forced state and national school boards to cancel Class 10 board exams and postpone exams for Class 12 students. Similarly, entrance exams to all undergraduate professional courses have been pushed forward. IIT-Joint Entrance Exams (JEE-Mains) are usually held in April, followed by JEE-Advanced in May. NEET-UG too is scheduled for May every year. However, due to the national lockdown imposed last year, the exams were conducted between September and October 2020. This year, of the four sessions of JEE-Mains, two were held in February and March while April session has been postponed. Last year, by the time the national lockdown was imposed, most Class 10 and 12 students had been able to finish most of their board exams: Maharashtra state board Class 12 exams had finished; only one paper remained for those in Class 10; Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) Class 10 and 12 board exams were done; and Council for Indian School Certificate Examinations (CISCE) board students were promoted based on the exams already held. As a result, students sitting for competitive exams this year worry that they may now have to take multiple exams in a stretch. “My daughter has not taken a vacation in over two years because her focus was to prepare herself best for Class 12 and NEET exams. But last year has been tough for her physically and mentally, and the fact that exams have once again been postponed is leaving her more anxious with every passing day,” said Dr Bharat Shah, father of Manashvi Shah, 18. Shah joined integrated coaching classes after clearing Class 10 and has dedicated much of the past two years preparing for the all-India medical entrance test in the hope of becoming a neurosurgeon in the future. “Children have spent the last one year in front of a computer, and the constant postponement of exam dates are adding to the stress levels of already tired teenagers. As parents, we feel helpless,” said Nisha Parmar, mother of Advait Parmar, 17. Parmar could not appear for the second session of JEE-Mains in March as he was in quarantine after his father tested positive. “I re-registered for the April session and wanted to tick-off at least one exam of my list but now, the April session has been postponed and I am unable to focus on studies anymore,” he said. “Many Class 12 students are living in fear of falling sick during exams or not faring well in exams as many have lost the concentration to focus on exams with so much happening around them,” said Mumbai-based psychologist Seema Hingorrany. “Postponement of exams has calmed the nerves of many. However, students are also worried about the seemingly never-ending wait,” said Vinay Kumar, MD and CEO of Rao Academy, a city-based coaching institute.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/postponed-board-and-competitive-exams-leave-class-12-students-anxious-101619120997059.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Five districts in Maharashtra report highest Covid CFR||As Maharashtra recorded 67,013 new cases on Thursday, taking the total cases to over 4 million, five districts have emerged as areas of concern with respect to the case fatality ratio (CFR; the percentage of deaths per 100 cases) and in at least three of the districts where data is available, test positivity rate (TPR; number of positive cases per 100 tests) as well.In the period from April 15 to April 21, as Maharashtra recorded its highest seven-day average in both cases as well as fatalities, the CFR of five districts posed the most concern. Of them, Ahmednagar recorded the highest at 1.4%, followed by Nagpur (0.95%), Mumbai (0.64%), Nashik (0.62%) and Pune (0.33%). The TPR, however, was the highest in Nagpur with 34%, while Pune district recorded 26.64% and Mumbai posted 17.21% in the same period. Nashik and Ahmednagar did not reveal their tests, and therefore the TPR could not be calculated. State-wide, the average daily cases touched 64,238, while daily deaths averaged 443 -- highest ever in the pandemic in the country – in the same time period. The state’s TPR averaged 24.81%. The CFR was 0.69% in the same period.To be sure, the CFR in Maharashtra has been consistently falling since January 31. On that day, the overall CFR stood at 2.52%. This fell to 1.54% on April 21. The main reason for this was that deaths have not increased in the same proportion as cases. On January 31, Maharashtra recorded 2630 cases and 42 deaths. On April 21, it recorded 67,468 cases and 568 deaths, its highest one-day death toll.Ahmednagar faces a huge shortage of oxygen cylinders, and all the hospitals are full. The local authorities on Tuesday sought oxygen from Chakan in Pune. When the tanker reached the border, it was stopped by the Pune based authorities and made to halt for two hours. Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had to intervene to offer reprieve to the patients.The Maharashtra Government announced a total lockdown which will come to force on Thursday night to contain the virus.The high number of cases in these places has resulted in the burdening of the medical infrastructure which means the shortage of hospital beds, oxygen cylinders and medicines.Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope has requested for supply of medical grade oxygen for the hospitals, following which the Centre has made a road map on supplying oxygen to the state.The Centre has earmarked 1661 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen to reach the state from various states, but it is as yet unclear when the oxygen is scheduled to reach.“We have taken various steps to ease the solution and would like the central government to cooperate with us to get out of this crisis. The Centre needs to increase its quota of oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir for Maharashtra,” Tope said.In Pune, the total deaths due to Covid-19 have now reached to 8890 ever since the outbreak of the virus. Many of the small hospitals have stopped admitting patients due to the lack of oxygen. On Wednesday, the district recorded the largest number of cases and there are now 121,284 active cases.In Nagpur, a shortage of Remdesivir, an anti-viral injection, and medical grade oxygen prompted the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court (HC) to take suo moto cognizance of the shortages. On Wednesday night, at a late hearing, it pulled up the Centre for lessening the supply of oxygen from a Bhilai-based supplier, from 110MT to 60MT in a communication dated April 18.At a time when the supply of oxygen should have been increased it was reduced instead, the HC noted and ordered that the supply be restored. The region, it noted, was facing a shortfall of at least 100MT.Earlier in the week, it had asked the Central Controller of Drugs in India to ensure that 10,000 vials of Remdesivir be given to Nagpur. Two days later, the Court rapped the Maharashtra Government for its failure to comply fully with its order.Nashik has become another hotspot for the virus as there are currently 46,253 active patients on Wednesday and has registered a total number of 2701 deaths. The city is facing huge shortage of oxygen and families of patient are frantically searching for Remdesivir injections. “We need at least 125 metric tonnes but are getting only 85 metric tonnes. Even that is very erratic as it sometimes gets caught in various problems,” said senior NCP Minister Chhagan Bhujbal.On Wednesday, one of the tankers supplying oxygen to patients receiving treatment for the coronavirus disease at Dr Zakir Naik Municipal Hospital malfunctioned, which led to the death of 24 persons.In Mumbai which has 84,450 active cases, the government is pulling all stops to beat the shortage. “We are making all efforts to save the lives of the people,” said Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar.Dr Wiqar Shaikh, professor of medicine, Grant Medical College and Sir JJ Hospital, said the people in metros are getting the virus due to various reasons.“These election rallies were super spreaders and thousands of people are coming from there in flights and railways. This has played a major role in hike in numbers,” said Shaikh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/five-districts-in-maharashtra-report-highest-covid-cfr-101619120991618.html
23-04-2021||Other||Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan: Maharashtra govt begins assessing local bodies’ performance||The Maharashtra environment and climate change department has begun the assessment of 395 urban local bodies (ULBs) and 304 panchayati raj institutions (PRIs) as part of its Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan, launched last October. Over the next five-six weeks, the ULBs and PRIs will be evaluated through a two-step process to check their compliance with the tasks mandated under the initiative.These include enhancement of green cover and biodiversity, building solid waste management infrastructure, taking steps for water conservation, improving energy efficiency, implementing awareness programmes and getting citizens to take the Majhi Vasundhara e-pledge to show their commitment towards protecting the environment. These tasks have been spread out over five broad indicators – vayu (air), bhumi (earth), jal (water), agni (energy) and akash (education and enhancement).“From last October to March 2021, the ULBs and PRIs were given six months to implement certain tasks, which overlap with the mandate of other state and central schemes, like Maharashtra’s Vanmahotsav plantation drive or the Centre’s Swachh Bharat Mission. For a fairer assessment, we are also considering steps that ULBs have taken within the ambit of the indicators between January 2020 and March 2021,” said a spokesperson with the environment department.There are 22 specific (and weighted) tasks assigned to the various rural and urban local bodies. They include planting indigenous trees, implementing adequate waste segregation, treatment and composting facilities, promotion of non-motorised transport and rainwater harvesting, among several others.The first step of the evaluation process will be a clerical desktop assessment, which has been outsourced to a third-party agency and is already underway, officials confirmed. Compliance data submitted by ULBs and PRIs will be assessed, and the organisation will be ranked using a normalised score.The top 50% scorers will be subject to a second-level field inspection and citizen feedback survey, which will be outsourced to a second independent agency, and is expected to begin during the first week of May. “From those selected for field survey, there will be three winners under every vertical. The top three will be each picked out of 43 AMRUT (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) cities, 226 municipalities, 126 nagar panchayats and 272 villages. Their claims will all be verified in person before scores are assigned,” said the spokesperson, adding that standardised feedback will be taken from between 250-500 citizens in each area, or 0.005% of the area’s population (whichever greater).“The assessment is already underway, and we will aim to complete it within the month so that the best-performing urban and rural local bodies can be felicitated on June 5, World Environment Day,” said Manisha Mhaiskar, principal secretary, environment and climate change department, adding that this exercise is proposed to be conducted annually, to encourage ULBs and PRIs to continue work launched under the Majhi Vasundhara Abhiyan.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/majhi-vasundhara-abhiyan-maharashtra-govt-begins-assessing-local-bodies-performance-101619120872433.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Medical oxygen demand likely to shoot up to 150 MT in 2 weeks: Punjab to HC||The Punjab government on Thursday told the Punjab and Haryana high court that even as central government has failed to provide promised medical oxygen to Punjab, the demand for the same is likely to shoot up by 40 metric tonnes in next two weeks.Health secretary, Punjab, Kumar Rahul told court that Punjab has a storage capacity of 300 metric tonnes and daily consumption recorded as on April 20 was around 110 MT. It is expected to rise to around 150 MT in next two weeks as per projections of case load and this could increase further given the way the Covid upsurge is, the court was told, adding that daily availability of medical oxygen as of now was 115 MT and to meet the demand in view of surge has become a challenge as state does not have a plant of its own. There is disruption of supply of oxygen in few districts as Centre has not been able to supply promised 126 MT, it has told court, adding that government has written to Centre to ensure that it gets 120 MT supply.The information was given during resumed hearing of a plea in which the high court is monitoring the Covid-19 outbreak situation in both the states and Chandigarh. The government has also said that bed occupancy in the state has gone up to 50% due to Covid surge. The state has 7,525 level-II oxygen beds and 2,064 intensive care unit beds with around 1,000 ventilators, it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/medical-oxygen-demand-likely-to-shoot-up-to-150-mt-in-2-weeks-punjab-to-hc-101619120871990.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra taking urgent steps to combat Covid surge, HC told||The Bombay high court, while hearing a PIL questioning the mismanagement of the second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra, was assured on Thursday by the state and the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that appropriate measures were being taken to ensure equitable distribution of life-saving drugs and oxygen.As the hearing was on, additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that a web portal had carried a report that the Chief Justice of India had taken suo motu cognisance of all Covid-related PIL being heard by high courts and decided to hear all petitions together on Friday, with senior advocate Harish Salve as the amicus curiae.Singh informed the court that it could not continue hearing the case further and that the Supreme Court will deal with the supply of oxygen, essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination and powers of the state to declare a lockdown. However, as the SC was yet to issue an order staying the hearing in the high court or seeking transfer of petitions, the HC bench continued the hearing.The bench, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state was taking urgent steps to combat the spread. Pointing to the shortage of oxygen and key drugs such as remdesivir, he submitted that the Centre had announced it would take care of it from May 1. On a query by the court on the availability till April 30, Kumbhakoni submitted that measures such as asking suppliers to hand over the medicines directly to the collector who, in turn, would distribute it to hospitals, were put in place. To this, the court said there has to be a portal on availability of essential Covid-19 drugs.Referring to a news report from last year, which said that people need to be cautious about the spread of Covid till June 2021, the HC said, “Had we not lowered our guard at least till June 30, 2021, this situation would not have been arisen.”“You should realise this is an emergency situation,” said the bench, adding that black-marketing and profiteering should be stopped. The state submitted the concerns and suggestions of advocate Simil Purohit for the petitioner to allow more labs for testing, and having a uniform rate for the medicines, would be considered.The state submitted the concerns and suggestions of advocate Simil Purohit for the petitioner to allow more labs for testing. The court also stressed on the need for a faster way of testing, asking the state whether RT-PCR tests could be made more affordable and accessible to all. Addressing the issue of availability of beds, both Kumbhakoni and senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted there were sufficient beds in the state and statistics showed there were more beds than existing patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-taking-urgent-steps-to-combat-covid-surge-hctold-101619120725480.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Bed occupancy goes up in J&K amid spike in cases||With the spike in coronavirus cases across Jammu and Kashmir, the number of occupied Covid beds has also increased. A senior health official said that there are around 600 dedicated ventilators across the UT, of which only 48 are occupied at present. “The bed occupancy suggests the situation is not alarming as yet but of course we have to be on guard and we are augmenting our capacities,” said a senior health official, adding that the government will shortly install three state-of-the-art Cobas-6800 testing machines in premier health institutes. Financial commissioner health and medical education Atal Dulloo said the UT had 6,000 Category-I Covid beds 10,000 bulk oxygen cylinders and 3,500 medium sized cylinders. “We are in the process of installing 36 oxygen generation plants with 23 to be made functional by the end of the week, which will help add 2,000 more oxygen beds to our kitty,” Dulloo said. An analysis revealed that Government Medical College and Hospital, Jammu, has 203 Covid beds,of which 162 are occupied; of 83 ICU beds with ventilators, 30 are occupied. Similarly, Chest Diseases Hospital, Jammu, has 110 Covid beds, all of which are vacant. However, the hospital has no ventilator beds for critical patients. MCH Hospital in Gandhi Nagar has 162 Covid beds, of which 45 are occupied but it too has no ICU bed. ASSCOMS, a private hospital on the outskirts of Jammu, has 108 Covid beds, of which 80 are occupied. It has eight ICU beds with ventilators, which are all vacant. Similarly, Government Hospital, Doda, has 77 Covid beds, of which 13 are occupied. The hospital has 11 ICU beds, all of which are available. In Rajouri’s District Hospital, there are 34 Covid beds, of which 20 are occupied and four ICU beds that are unoccupied. Kathua Hospital has 35 beds, of which 15 are occupied, while five ICU beds with ventilators are vacant. Shri Mata Vaishno Devi Narayana Super Specialty Hospital in Kakryal has 70 beds, including 10 ICU beds, all of which are occupied. Notably, all bureaucrats, politicians and influential people, who had contracted the disease last year, were hospitalised in the hospital. In Reasi Hospital, there are 20 Covid beds, of which three are occupied. It has no ICU bed for critical patients. In Kishtwar, the administration has 127 Covid beds, of which three are occupied and ICU beds, which are vacant. Similarly, Poonch Hospital has 42 Covid beds, out which two are occupied, and two ICU beds. Udhampur district hospital has 36 Covid beds,of which three are occupied. It also has eight ICU beds which are all available. Dulloo said that no Covid patient from outside Jammu and Kashmir has so far reported at any of the hospitals across the UT. “However, there may be some from Ladakh, who were already here and may have been getting treatment in Srinagar or Jammu hospitals,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/bed-occupancy-goes-up-in-j-k-amid-spike-in-cases-101619120812453.html
23-04-2021||Other||Thane trader’s murder murder: Naresh Gor applies for bail, claims he was never contacted by Vaze||Cricket bookie Naresh Ramniklal Gor who was arrested in connection with the alleged murder of Thane trader Mansukh Hiran has filed a bail application before the special NIA (National Investigation Agency) court claiming that he was never contacted by suspended Mumbai Police officer Sachin Vaze, a prime accused in the case An NIA officer said the special court has asked the agency to file a reply to Gor’s bail plea by April 27. Gor is suspected of having provided SIM cards to Vaze, one of which was purportedly used in commission of the trader’s murder. In his bail plea filed through law firm Diamondwala & Co, Gor has claimed that he has been made a scapegoat by the investigating agency on Vaze’s insistence. “The CDR (call data records) of the applicant [Gor] will disprove the case of the investigating agency. There is no shred of evidence to show that the applicant was aware of any conspiracy, much less any knowledge as to the purpose for which the purported SIM cards were going to be used by Vaze,” Gor claimed in his bail plea, adding that, there is no one to look after his wife and four-month-old child. Hiran was found dead in a creek near Mumbra on March 5. Gor was arrested by the Maharashtra anti-terrorism squad (ATS) on March 21 in connection with the murder of Hiran – linked to the explosives-laden SUV found abandoned near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s south Mumbai home Antilia. The case was later handed over to NIA. According to NIA, the murder case was linked to the SUV that was found parked Antilia in February.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-trader-s-murder-murder-naresh-gor-applies-for-bail-claims-he-was-never-contacted-by-vaze-101619120812971.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab to get 21,000 doses of Remdesivir||The state health department will soon receive 21,400 doses of Remdesivir to meet the rising demand amid the second wave of the pandemic in Punjab, health experts said on Thursday.Remdesivir, an injectable anti-viral, aims to prevent replication of the virus in the infected people. It was manufactured in 2014 to treat Ebola, and has since been used to treat SARS and MERS. In 2020, the drug was repurposed for Covid treatment and clinical experience has shown that it works best in mildly ill to severe Covid-19 patients.In the Covid-19 hotbeds districts of the state, including Amritsar, Patiala, Jalandhar and Ludhiana, the patients are struggling to get Remdesivir injections from government and private hospitals as India is grappling to meet the rising demand of the anti-viral drug.Addressing shortages of Remdesivir in certain and most infected regions of the country, the Central government made interim allocation of the key anti-viral drug for 19 states and Union Territories, including Punjab, for the period up to 30 April. Under the allocation, the Government of India had decided to send 13,400 doses to Punjab.Also, the state health department has placed an order of additional 8,000 doses from private firms, which they are expecting to receive in coming 2-3 days, to ensure easy availability of the anti-viral drug in government and private hospitals.“Remdesivir is not available in Patiala hospitals, both government and private, while its demand is increasing with every positive patient. We have made requests to the state health department to ensure its availability in the market so as to avoid black marketing and hoarding,” said Patiala civil surgeon Dr Satinder Singh, adding that due to shortage, some healthcare officials are demanding thousands of rupees for one Remdesivir dose.Till Thursday evening, there were around 40,584 active Covid-19 cases in Punjab, of which nearly 508 are on oxygen support. Health experts believe that even the 21,400 Remdesivir doses may fall short in the next ten days as the state is reporting a new spike of infection daily.“Remdesivir is basically an experimental drug for use, the efficacy of which has not been proven yet. But still, being the only anti viral drug available in the country, people are purchasing it from private chemist shops at high price. The injection is given to moderate and severely ill patients but it is not a life saving drug. Also, there is no confirmation that it will reduce hospitalisation hours or will decrease the chances of mortality. The people, who are spending thousands of rupees on a single dose or are black marketing the stock of Remdesivir, is completely illogical”, said state nodal officer for Covid-19, Dr Rajesh Bhaskar.He added: “At present, we have 750 doses of Remdesivir in state’s government and private hospitals and the daily usage of the anti-viral drug is 40 to 50 doses, across the state. However, as people are searching for the injection in the market, we will ensure its easy availability for which 21,400 doses are awaited. We will distribute its stock to each district, according to positive case load and active cases. The districts’ officials will then supply it to government and private hospitals. Also, the state has enough stock of other equipment and drugs needed for Covid-19 treatment.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-to-get-21-000-doses-of-remdesivir-101619120692073.html
23-04-2021||Other||Will focus on enhancing enrolment in district, says Ludhiana’s new DEO secondary||Lakhvir Singh and Jaswinder Kaur were appointed as the new district education officer secondary and elementary in Ludhiana on Thursday. Lakhvir Singh was earlier posted at Government Senior Secondary School, Barsal, as a principal, while Kaur has been transferred from the post of DEO elementary, Moga to Ludhiana.Earlier, Harjit Singh was handling both the charges of DEO secondary and elementary in Ludhiana.Jaswinder Kaur, said, “I will first analyse the district performance and will make all efforts to uplift enrolment in the primary schools. I will take Ludhiana to the number 1 position in the state in increasing enrolment and will work with my team to motivate them to enrol more children.”Lakhvir Singh said, “I will focus on enhancing enrolment in the middle, high, and senior secondary schools of the district and will hold virtual meetings with the school principals, nodal officers. The door-to-door campaign by teachers to increase enrolment is appreciated and we will be able to achieve the target of 15% increase in strength of the students from last year.”“Keeping in mind the Covid-19 norms, I have asked the teacher unions and other employees not to come to my office in groups. They can convey their wishes through messages. Due to a surge in Covid cases in the district as well as in the state, I have asked the staff to follow the Covid-19 protocol of wearing masks and maintain social distance,” he said.He said, “I will also ensure that the new textbooks reach the students in time and have instructed school principals have been to update the record of books distribution on the e-Punjab portal as soon as they get the same from the block and further distribute it among the students.”Hailing from Lohgarh village, Moga, the new DEO secondary did his schooling from Lohgarh Government School, did his graduation from DM College, Moga and MSc physics from Panjab University, Chandigarh. He joined government service as a science teacher in 1988 at Begowal in Kapurthala; then joined as lecturer in 1992 at Mangat School in Ludhiana. He then joined Jagraon Girls School in 1993. For 12 years, he served at DIET, Jagraon, and imparted teachers’ training to thousands of students. He joined as a principal at Government Senior Secondary School, Gidderwindi, in 2010 then again joined DIET Jagraon as senior lecturer in 2015. From 2017 to 2021, he served as the principal of Government Senior Secondary School, Barsal.Despite a spike in Covid-19 cases in the district, the members of teachers’ unions, other staff of the district education office wen to congratulate the DEO secondary and elementary. Flouting the social distancing norms, many employees were seen without masks.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/will-focus-on-enhancing-enrolment-in-district-says-ludhiana-s-new-deo-secondary-101619120573766.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Cong secy Sudhir Sharma offers Dharamshala home as Covid care facility||All India Congress Committee (AICC) secretary Sudhir Sharma on Thursday offered his residence here to be utilised as a COVID care centre.In a letter to Kangra deputy commissioner Rakesh Prajapati, Sharma said, “Acknowledging the pandemic spread of coronavirus in our state and acute shortage of care centres/isolation centres nearby, it’s imperative that we augment the capacity of the system to handle as many cases as possible.” “In the coming months, the load on district healthcare infrastructure is only expected to increase, which will require help and work on private/social solutions. Therefore I would humbly request you to kindly accept my premises/home situated at Rakkar in Dharamshala area to be engaged and utilised as a COVID care or isolation centre,” the former Himachal Pradesh minister said.He indicated that around 50 patients can be accommodated at his residence, which can be readied for the purpose within 10 days.He also offered to bear the expanses of the patients admitted at the facility. He said the premise also has space for administrative offices, main control room and logistic area.Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner welcomed the offer but said a Covid Care Centre or isolation centre should have oxygen supply and other medical facilities. Prajapati said it is not possible to create a Covid-care facility at a private house.He also said district authorities have put together adequate arrangements in place to meet any exigency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/cong-secy-sudhir-sharma-offers-dharamshala-home-as-covid-care-facility-101619120571961.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Ludhiana, patients’ kin scramble to source out-of-stock tocilizumab injections||Ludhiana district, which had already been reeling under shortage of Covid vaccines, is in for another challenge — unavailability of tocilizumab, a drug which according to studies might reduce the risk of invasive mechanical ventilation or death in patients with severe infection. To top it all, hospitals are expressing helplessness and asking the attendants of patients to arrange the medicine. The sudden dearth of drug has led to a mad rush among the patients’ relatives as those ‘not so resourceful’ are frantically calling their friends and looking for some ‘influential contact’ to source the medicine. Social media platforms are flooded with distress messages and requests for tocilizumab. Rishi Sood, a drug trader, said, “There already is an acute shortage of beds for Covid patients. If one becomes available, then the relatives have to run from pillar to post to arrange medicines such as tocilizumab. The drug is currently not available.” It is not the first time that the city hospitals are facing a tocilizumab crunch. In August last year too, when the Covid cases had begun to peak, the drug marketed by a Swiss multinational pharmaceutical company as Actemra was sold in the black market for nearly ₹40,000. GS Chawla, general secretary of the Chemist Association of Punjab, has claimed that there is an acute shortage of remdesivir, while tocilizumab is not available across the country as its salt is sourced from abroad while the medicine is being manufactured in India. “The government has taken the distribution of the medicine under its control and it is being allocated to the hospitals as per the requirement,” he added.‘In this war-like situation, we are on the frontline without ammunition’Dr Rajoo Singh Chhina, director, gastroenterology, Fortis Hospital, Ludhiana, and technical adviser, United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO), blamed hoarding for the current crisis.“There is no stock available in the hospitals and we keep hearing stories of how a handful of people are putting lives at stake by hoarding the medicine. It is a war-like situation and unfortunately, we are on the frontline without ammunition. The crises have been created due to unnecessary hoarding, perhaps for petty monetary gains. People should act responsibly and help each other. It is the only way we can win over the virus,” said Dr Chhina.Dr Amit Gulrez, deputy medical superintendent, CMCH, also said the stocks of tocilizumab have dried up. “There are patients who need tocilizumab, but we have been told that it is not available anywhere. The injection is used to treat Covid patients when they fail to respond to any other treatment in a critical stage and are in respiratory distress.”However, senior cardiologist Dr Bishav Mohan, who is a member of the Covid taskforce of the state, said new findings and treatment protocols have suggested alternative treatments if tocilizumab is unavailable.“So we have to look for an alternative. But at the same time, concerted effort should be made to spread awareness among people to stop hoarding life-saving drugs,” he added.SMO Dr Hitinder Kaur said while there is adequate stock of remdesivir, tocilizumab is not available for long. She said the medicine was earlier used for treating rheumatoid arthritis, which is now being used for critically ill Covid patients.Punjab’s nodal officer for Covid-19 Dr Rajesh Bhaskar said the state government has floated tenders and within a few days, tocilizumab will be available. District receives 40,000 vaccines to replenish stockMeanwhile, the Ludhiana health department received 40,000 vaccines on Thursday to replenish its stocks. On running out of its vaccine stock, the Ludhiana health department had suspended the vaccine supply to private hospitals in the district till further orders on April 20.Sharing details, district immunisation officer Dr Puneet Juneja said they have received 40,000 Covishield vaccines on Thursday from Chandigarh for the smooth conduct of vaccination process.He said that the current batch of vaccines will be used only at the government-run centres. After running out of both Covidshield and Covaxin vaccines, the supply to 85 private hospitals in the district, which were also inoculating people, was stopped.Manpower crises hit civil hospitalWith 80 patients admitted to the Ludhiana civil hospital’s Covid ward, 52 of them on oxygen and 14 on ventilator support on Thursday, the facility is staring at serious manpower crises.The issue of staff scarcity came to the fore after SDM (East) Dr Baljinder Singh Dhillon expressed concern over the shortage of nurses and attendants at the civil hospital and asked for urgent recruitment of 20 paramedical staffers.SMO and Covid unit in-charge of the hospital, Dr Hitinder Kaur, said, “We have adequate staff to run the health services in mother and child hospital and emergency services, but the sudden rise in the number of Covid patients has mounted extra pressure on us.”“Currently, the staffers are working in three shifts. We have arranged staff from other government hospitals and primary health centres, but that is not enough. For ICU duties, we need to have three times the existing staff strength,” she added.Bhupinder Kaur, nursing in-charge of the civil hospital, said besides the staff shortage, there were other challenges as well. “Sometimes, the nursing staffers get infected or their family members contract virus and then they cannot perform duty for the next 17 days. Like other hospitals, we are also battling with such issues,” she said.Lately, 50 paramedical staffers had been performing duties in three shifts in Covid emergency, triage, trauma, male isolation, female isolation, and ICU of the hospital. Out of them, five employees were found suffering from Covid.On Thursday, one paramedical staffer was available for four wards, while two nursing staff members were present in the ICU.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-ludhiana-patients-kin-scramble-to-source-out-of-stock-tocilizumab-injections-101619120513116.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||880 fresh Covid cases drive Ludhiana to another grim milestone||With 880 new cases of Covid -19 reported in Ludhiana on Thursday, the district broke not only its previous daily records, but also sent the top brass of administration and health department in a tizzy. Patients and their relatives are already struggling to get isolation beds, crucial lifesaving medicines and even oxygen supply in many city hospitals. On Wednesday, 879 infections were logged in the district, whose daily caseload has remained above 500 since April 16. A total of seven deaths were reported in the city, taking the total fatalities to 1,272. The corona case count of Ludhiana since the beginning of the pandemic stands at 46,358. There are 5,829 active cases in the district. The deceased included four men and three women, the youngest of whom was a 36-year-old male resident of Doraha. Two men from Urban Estate, Dugri, aged 71 and 76, succumbed to the virus. There has been a surge in coronavirus cases in Dugri, which is currently under lockdown. Among the other victims were a 79-year-old woman of Kitchlu Nagar, a 72-year-old woman of Harnampura village, a 50-year-old man from SBS Nagar, and an 80-year-old woman from Shivala Road area. As many as 80 beds are currently occupied in government hospitals, while 836 isolation beds in wards of private hospitals are filled. The number of patients in active home isolation is 7,337. The increasing shortage of beds prompted the Ludhiana deputy commissioner to make an emotive appeal to hospitals to double the number of beds on their premises. DC Varinder Kumar Sharma said that there was an immediate need to increase the bed capacity to deal with the second wave and ensuring quality treatment to the patients while reducing mortality. He said that the bed capacity must be enhanced immediately as it was important to ensure every patient got best possible care. Interacting with the representatives of all prominent private hospitals of the district via videoconference, the DC urged them to listen to their conscience while making any decision as people had high hopes from all of them. In his appeal to the hospitals, Sharma said every single life was precious and the hospitals should ensure no person entering their premises dies due to lack of treatment. O2 boost to cityThe administration launched oxygen helpline numbers — 7837018500 and 0161-2421091 — which will remain operational 24x7 and function from the police control room. Anyone who is facing any difficulty in availing medical oxygen supply in Ludhiana for Covid patients can dial these numbers and oxygen cylinders will be made available to them on payment basis. Even as many private hospitals reported shortage of oxygen cylinders with the relatives of Covid patients seeking help from outside, the DC assured the residents that there was no shortage of oxygen in the district, so there was no need to panic. He said that different teams have been formed that would visit industrial units as well as hospitals to check hoarding of oxygen cylinders. He warned that any violation in this regard will not be tolerated. DC Sharma said that elective surgeries have already been deferred beyond April 30 till further orders. “We will also provide green corridors to oxygen-carrying vehicles in Ludhiana so that they promptly reach to their destination,” police commissioner Rakesh Agrawal said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/880-fresh-covid-cases-drive-ludhiana-to-another-grim-milestone-101619120512077.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||200 of 818 Sikh pilgrims test +ve for Covid on return from Pakistan||AMRITSAR Around 200 pilgrims of the 818-member Sikh jatha that returned from Pakistan on Thursday tested positive for Covid-19, Amritsar civil surguen Dr Charanjit Singh told reporters. The jatha had gone to Pakistan on a 12-day pilgrimage to celebrate Baisakhi at Gurdwara Panja Sahib, Hasan Abdal, and pay obeisance at other historical gurdwaras. However, the figure released by district administration late evening created confusion as it put the number of infected pilgrims at 99. After release of this figure, no official attended to the calls. As they crossed over to Indian territory, teams of Punjab health department organised a testing camp at the Attari Integrated Check Post (ICP). Health officials said most the pilgrims were asymptomatic. “Those infected have been put under home isolation, while others will be in 14-day home quarantine as per the guidelines,” said Himanshu Aggarwal, additional deputy commissioner (ADC) of Amritsar. SGPC president Bibi Jagir Kaur said the pilgrims should follow the guidelines of the health department. Misbehaved with health workers Sources said some of the pilgrims who tested positive but were asymptomatic confronted the health officials, trashing the ‘positive’ reports as “wrong”. Women health workers deployed at the camp said the pilgrims misbehaved and manhandled them. “They did not have patience. After all, the testing takes time. They blamed us for positive report. We demand FIR against such people. In future, we need security for such work,” they said The civil surguen confirmed the development, adding one of the pilgrims even tore the record of test results and PPE kit of a doctor. “We have taken serious note of such behaviour and asked the officials concerned to take action.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/200-of-818-sikh-pilgrims-test-ve-for-covid-on-return-from-pakistan-101619120394985.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 5,456 fresh Covid cases, Punjab sees another record spike||Punjab on Thursday registered yet another record single-day jump of 5,456 cases Covid-19 cases that pushed the state’s total tally to 3,19,719, according to a medical bulletin.Seventy-six more fatalities due to the disease took the death toll to 8,189, the bulletin stated.The number of active cases in the state climbed to 40,584 from 38,866 on Wednesday, it said.Mohali district reported the highest number of fresh cases at 931, followed by 880 in Ludhiana, 462 in Amritsar, 448 in Patiala and 446 in Bathinda.Of the latest deaths, 10 were reported from Amritsar, nine from Gurdaspur and seven each from Ludhiana and Mohali.As many as 3,657 coronavirus patients were discharged after recovering from the infection, taking the number of cured persons to 2,70,946, the bulletin stated.While 38 critical patients are on ventilator support, 508 are on oxygen support, it said.So far, 67,92,211 samples have been collected for testing, it added.Tarn Taran police launch campaign to fight CovidTARN TARAN: Amid Covid surge, the border district police have launched “village tour” campaign to fight coronavirus pandemic. Under the campaign, senior officials of the district, including SPs, DSPs and SHOs are visiting village to make people aware about the disease. On Thursday, SP-investigation Jagjit Singh Walia and SHO-city Gurcharan Singh visited over 10 villages and encouraged the people to get vaccinated. SSP Dhruman H Nimbale said the motive behind the campaign is to build confidence among the people to fight against the viral disease.RCF supplies 1,210 kg liquid oxygen to Amritsar hospitalThe Rail Coach Factory (RCF), Kapurthala, on Thursday supplied 1,210 kg liquid oxygen to a hospital in Amritsar in view of its increasing demand for treatment of Covid-19 patients. The RCF, a coach manufacturing unit of the Railways, sent the liquid oxygen to the Guru Nanak Dev Hospital in Amritsar through a gas supply firm, its public relation officer said. He said the move will have some impact on the RCF’s coach production, but it will help in dealing with emergency needs of COVID-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-5-456-fresh-covid-cases-punjab-sees-another-record-spike-101619120392008.html
23-04-2021||Other||43% desilting done, Hindmata may not get waterlogged: Mumbai civic body||HT CORRESPONDENTMumbai The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday said that it has completed 43% of the desilting works for major nullahs. This year, Hindmata area might also get some relief from waterlogging as the civic body is constructing a holding tank to store rain water for around 90 minutes.“We are anticipating that this year will be comparatively better when it comes to waterlogging. We have attended the main problem at Hindmata. We are constructing an underground tank in a nearby open space that will store water for around 90 minutes during heavy rainfall. Our ultimate aim is to have a capacity of storing rainwater for four hours. We will augment the capacity in the coming days,” additional municipal commissioner P Velrasu said. In a review meeting taken by Mumbai guardian minister Aaditya Thackeray on Wednesday with officials, BMC has maintained that all the road repair and rain-related drain works will be completed before the monsoon. The officials informed the minister that this year, 470 pumps will be installed in the city to pump out rain water at low-lying areas. It also claimed that 43% sludge has been removed from major nullahs, while 24% has been cleared from Mithi river so far. The deadline for completing desilting works end in the last week of May.According to BMC officials, all the chronic spots identified by it last year after heavy rainfall in south Mumbai have been attended to and it is expected that there will not be flooding this year. BMC also informed that the landslide-prone area near Malabar Hill will have a 103-metre retaining wall built around it and the road work on the parallel road will also be completed before monsoon.“In the coming months, we will also identify locations for tanks based on the experience at Hindmata. There have been suggestions for the locations in the western suburbs and Byculla, none have been finalised yet,” Velrasu added.Meanwhile, BMC officials will also prepare a master plan for the 2,000-km-long road network in the city. On a pilot basis, two wards will be chosen for planning the road repair and maintenance, instead of undertaking work based on demand. “We also discussed the two important projects, which includes the beautification of the Powai lake area and the construction of a board walkway between Bandra Fort and Mahim. The permissions are being worked out for the projects and they can be completed in a year,” Verasu added.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/43-desilting-done-hindmata-may-not-get-waterlogged-mumbai-civic-body-101619120211318.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid surge: Punjab and Haryana HC to hear only urgent cases||The Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday announced that in view of Covid-19 surge, it will take up only urgent cases.The decision has been taken in view of Covid-19 surge in both the states and Chandigarh. The high court had suspended physical hearing of cases last week after it was re-introduced in February this year.Now, it has decided that cases filed in the year 2021 will be listed for hearing as per dates fixed earlier and matters pending since 2020, will be adjourned for hearing in August. However, bail matters will be taken up on the dates fixed irrespective of year of filing of such pleas. From Friday, listing of pleas will be allowed through online mentioning. PILs, civil matters will be listed for hearing only after mentioning, which can be done between 8am and 9.30am daily.In bail matters, mentioning for listing will not be required, an official said, adding that all hearings will taken place though video conferencing. The cases listed for hearing between April 23 and April 30, except those filed this year, have been adjourned for August. In case of urgency, a counsel may file an application for urgent listing, the official added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-surge-punjab-and-haryana-hc-to-hear-only-urgent-cases-101619120151923.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Vaccination for 18+: Punjab to ensure free jabs at govt facilities||Chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday announced that vaccination in age group of 18-45 years across Punjab would start from May 1. He said it would be ensured that the vaccine is supplied free of cost in all government healthcare facilities across the state. In view of the limited supplies of the vaccine expected initially, the chief minister constituted an expert group, comprising eminent virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, Dr Jacob John, Professor of Community Health at CMC, Vellore, and Dr Rajesh Kumar, former head, school of public health, PGIMER, Chandigarh, to suggest prioritisation in the 18-45 age group. Chairing a meeting to review the prevailing Covid-19 situation in the state, Amarinder tasked the expert group to chalk out a vaccination strategy and submit a detailed plan to the state government within a week to meet the challenge in the midst of the unprecedented Covid pandemic in the state. Virologist Dr Gagandeep Kang, who attended the meeting as a special invitee, emphasised the need to have a proper strategy to combat the current second wave of Covid, with geographical saturation in high caseload cities such as Ludhiana, Jalandhar, Amritsar, Mohali, and Patiala, besides prioritisation on the basis of medical need (serious comorbidity) and on the basis of professional groups such as teachers. The CM was informed that the state has received 4 lakh more doses of Covishield vaccine from the Centre on Thursday. He asked the health department to vigorously pursue with the Union government for ensuring supply of more Covishield and Covaxin vaccine. Referring to the reports of black marketing of anti-viral drugs like Remdesivir and Tocilizumab in the country, the CM said the experts have given clear protocols on the use of such medicines, which must be duly publicised and followed in right earnest. The central government has allowed 13,400 Remdesivir injections for 10-day period, from April 21 to 30. Remdesivir is an investigational therapy drug given in acute and severe versions of Covid-19. Health adviser Dr KK Talwar said World Health Organisation (WHO) studies have shown that Remdesivir may not have any impact on the mortality due to Covid. Further, there were alternatives for Tocilizumab and such information is being regularly shared in the expert group of doctors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/vaccination-for-18-punjab-to-ensure-free-jabs-at-govt-facilities-101619120032611.html
23-04-2021||Other||1993 Mumbai blast accused’s murder: Chhota Rajan acquitted||A special Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) court on Thursday acquitted underworld don Chhota Rajan and his aide Jagannath Jaiswal in the Hanif Kadawala murder case. Rajan and Jaiswal were acquitted for want of cogent evidence. Kadawala, an accused in the March 1993 Mumbai bomb blasts case, was shot dead by three men on February 7, 2001, in his office. As per the prosecution case, Kadawala was booked for helping actor Sanjay Dutt hide the AK-47 and the consignment of weapons that were used in the blasts, at the actor’s garage. The weapons were delivered to him by gangster Abu Salem, who was a part of the Dawood Ibrahim gang. Kadawala was arrested by the police under Terrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) in April 1993 for transporting weapons from the Gujarat coast to Mumbai under gangster Tiger Memon directions. CBI had alleged that Rajan had ordered Kadawala’s killing, as part of a “nationalist” drive to kill those accused in the bombings. Prior to the assault on Kadawala, Rajan’s men had allegedly carried out attacks on some others accused in the bomb blasts case. CBI had claimed that after the series of blasts, Rajan parted ways with Dawood Ibrahim, a key conspirator behind the bombings. Rajan initiated killings of people involved in the blasts to gain the public sympathy,” the agency claimed. However, during the trial, Kadawala’s son had claimed that his father was killed over property dispute and the contract was given by his uncle. Rajan’s lawyer, advocate Tushar Khandare, said, “There was no evidence against Rajan. In fact, it has come on record that the contract of killing Kadawala was given by the Guru Satam and Ravi Pujari gangs. Rajan’s name was mentioned in this case only to misguide the investigating agency.” Jaiswal’s lawyer DS Manerkar said Kadawala’s employee had only seen his client going inside Kadawala’s office. “But there were lots of discrepancies in the statement of the witness as first he said only Jaiswal entered the office and later claimed there were three men. Also, he had not seen who fired at Kadawala,” said Manerkar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/1993-mumbai-blast-accused-s-murder-chhota-rajan-acquitted-101619120031425.html
23-04-2021||Other||BJP leader booked for tweeting fake video||The city police have booked a Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader for allegedly spreading fake news by tweeting a video with a “fake message” and “spreading rumour to defame the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC)”.Bhoiwada police have registered an offence against Suresh Nakhua – whose Twitter bio states that he is an official spokesperson of Mumbai BJP – based on the complaint of municipal corporation officials.According to the first information report (FIR), Nakhua on Tuesday at 5.54pm shared a 19 second video in which a man was purportedly in a bag used to carry bodies of Covid-19 victims. Along with the video, Nakhua wrote, “This is beyond shocking. A LIVING man taken to cremation centre by BMC. I think there might be some #MahaVasuliTarget from cremation centres by #MahaVasuliAghadi (sic).”The video was viewed by over 115,000 people. After much criticism on social media, BMC health officials swung into action. “We asked Nakhua about the origin and location of the video. He did not furnish any details about the video,” stated BMC’s assistant health officer Dr Pranita Tipre stated in the FIR.A senior civic official said, “ BMC checked with officers at all cemeteries in the city and confirmed the incident was not from Mumbai. “Nakhua’s statement has been recorded,” said Vijay Patil, deputy commissioner of police (zone 4). “Nakhua is specially-abled and was allowed to go home after his statement was recorded. He couldn’t clarify the exact origin of the video. We would soon complete the probe and a file charge sheet in the case,” said senior inspector Vinod Kamble, Bhoiwada police. After the FIR was filed, Nakhua on Thursday tweeted an apology. “I was not aware of the location of the incident and could not verify it. This video was tweeted as it disturbed me immensely & to alert the authorities. There was no intention whatsoever to cause panic. I regret the inconvenience caused to authorities and general public, if any, due to my act and my sincere apologies for the same,” his tweets read.“The matter is subjudice. I will release a statement in due course of the time,” Nakhua told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bjp-leader-booked-for-tweeting-fake-video-101619119911355.html
23-04-2021||Other||Essence of PM’s speech was that crisis is huge, but you find a way: Shiv Sena||Shiv Sena’s mouthpiece Saamana on Thursday criticised Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi’s address to the nation on Tuesday evening and stated that the essence of the speech was that the states should see how to tackle the crisis. Sharply criticising Modi’s speech, the editorial published on Thursday said, “PM Modi says that the Covid-19 crisis is huge and is like a storm. But he did not give solutions to protect [the country] from this storm. People have lost their relatives. PM expressed his grief on it, but what is he doing to ensure that the toll does not increase further? The Covid-19 situation is critical across the nation and not just in Maharashtra. People expected to gain strength from PM’s address. But the essence of the speech was “the crisis is huge. You figure out your way, and take care”.” The Sena has been critical of the Centre over its response to the assistance sought by the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi government to tackle the Covid-19 situation in the state. The Sena leaders have slammed the Centre for providing inadequate supply of vaccination doses, controlling distribution of Remdesivir and the supply of medical use oxygen. The editorial said that despite strict restrictions imposed by the Maharashtra government, the Covid-19 cases are not coming under control. In an apparent response to Modi’s statement that lockdown should be the last resort, the editorial added that a complete lockdown has become “essential”. It further said that Modi cancelled his visit to Portugal in the view of Covid-19, but had he not conducted crowded election rallies in West Bengal in time, the virus could have been prevented. The editorial said that the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) mobilised lakhs of people across the country to campaign in West Bengal, who returned to their respective states with the infection. “Haridwar’s Kumbh Mela and West Bengal’s political mela have only given coronavirus to the country. Rulers have to impose restrictions on themselves first. This gives them the moral right to give advice to the public,” it said. Highlighting the severe shortage of medical use oxygen, the editorial said the country expected that the PM would speak on the issue and provide solutions. “PM and his colleagues should try to provide oxygen where there is a shortage. Today that is the most necessary thing. Instead of that, everybody is making speeches and releasing carbon dioxide and spreading poison. This is the time to act and not make speeches.” Reacting to the criticism, Maharashtra BJP’s chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that the Sena-led state government failed to tackle the crisis, but is blaming the Centre. “What Sanjay Raut has said [about PM’s address] — the crisis is huge and you have to figure a way out — is actually Maharashtra chief minister’s (CM) policy from the past one year. While the pandemic is raging in Maharashtra, the Centre has provided assistance. But what steps did the CM take, how many times did he step out, what planning was done for hospital beds, oxygen and Remdesivir last year. Had the focus not been on transfers of [police] officers but on managing the pandemic, the situation wouldn’t have worsened so much,” Upadhye said in a series of tweets.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/essence-of-pm-s-speech-was-that-crisis-is-huge-but-you-find-a-way-shiv-sena-101619119851340.html
23-04-2021||Other||‘Marathi manoos’ agenda: Shiv Sena’s answer to BJP||The Shiv Sena, which is at the receiving end of an all-out attack by the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), is using its time-tested formula to get back at its bete noire.With around 10 months to go for the prestigious Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) election, the Sena has reignited the ‘Marathi manoos’ plank to corner the Opposition party. The Sena has raked the issue around 480-km south of the Maximum City in Belgaum, Karnataka, while campaigning for the Lok Sabha bypoll. Political analysts opined that the agenda would have an influence in the city’s civic polls.Apart of the Belgaum issue, the Sena has subtly painted the ongoing tussle between the Centre and the state government led by the party, over oxygen supply and shortage of Remdesivir.Former Union minister and Sena parliamentarian Arvind Sawant said that while the Centre says that Maharashtra is the most-affected state due to Covid-19, they do not provide adequate and timely assistance even though all powers rest with them.“They claim [Covid-19] numbers are fewer in other states, but they are providing more [vaccinations, drugs, oxygen] to such states, but not to Maharashtra. Be it any issue related to Maharashtra, the Centre has always denied its legitimate right. For example, other border disputes of states, which cropped up later, were resolved but not the Belgaum border issue,” Sawant said.Party’s chief spokesperson Sanjay Raut claimed that if Maharashtra is deprived of assistance, it will hurt the economy of the country. “PM and Union home minister Amit Shah should give equal attention to Maharashtra as they give to other states, because this is also a part of the country. The manner in which Maharashtra is being treated raises question whether this is an attempt to disrupt the state’s economy. If it is being done during coronavirus [pandemic], then it is vicious and unfortunate,” he told reporters earlier on Tuesday.Earlier this month, the Union ministers and those from the Maharashtra Vikas Aghadi (MVA) were engaged in a war of words over the issue of vaccination. MVA ministers said that they had run out of vaccines, leading to the closure of several centres. The Union ministers hit back stating that adequate doses had been provided to the state. Subsequently, the state and Centre clashed over Remdesivir and oxygen supply.For the Shiv Sena, which was established in 1966 to take up the issues of the Marathi-speaking population in Mumbai and Maharashtra, the agenda remains at its core, even though the party had adopted the larger issue of Hindutva to reach out to a wider audience. The Hindutva thread of the party, however, has been questioned after it junked the alliance with BJP and joined hands with Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and Congress – parties that are termed secular – in November 2019.Besides wooing the Gujarati, Jain and Marwari communities, Sena seems to be consolidating its traditional voter base of middle-class Marathi population, which could split to Raj Thackeray’s Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) in BMC polls, thereby likely benefitting BJP.Earlier this month, Shiv Sena extended support to Maharashtra Ekikaran Samiti (MES) candidate Shubham Shelke in the bypoll on the Belgaum seat. During the two-day campaign visit to the city, Raut took on Maharashtra’s BJP leaders for campaigning against Shelke, a candidate from an outfit that has been fighting for the regions’ unification with Maharashtra for five decades. As Union minister and senior BJP leader from Maharashtra Nitin Gadkari and former Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis campaigned in Belgaum last week, Sena said they have “cheated” the Marathi people of the state.Referring to Fadnavis, Raut said, “At least Marathi politicians from Maharashtra should not campaign against a Marathi candidate in Belgaum. “Fadnavis has been a former Maharashtra CM. During his tenure, MES leaders had met him and he had assured them that the Maharashtra government and BJP were firmly with MES on the merger of the Marathi-speaking areas in Karnataka into Maharashtra. But he is taking a different stand now.”Echoing Raut’s views, Sawant said, “Look at BJP’s stand now. When he [Fadnavis] was CM, he had passed resolutions, but now campaigned against the people he vowed to support. Now everybody knows that they [BJP] are not for the Marathi people and the people of Belgaum.”He added that Uddhav Thackeray has spoken firmly on the integration of Belgaum. “This is not a political stand of the party but a thread we share with Marathi people. In 1969, we agitated [for integration of Marathi-speaking areas with Maharashtra] and lost around 69 people. [Late Shiv Sena supremo] Balasaheb [Thackeray] was behind bars for three months for the same issue. The issues of Marathi people will remain at the core of Shiv Sena,” he said.In his weekly column published on Sunday, Raut wrote that the entire Marathi community has united under the saffron flag after a long time, during the bypoll for 26-year-old Shelke. He added that the community has been fighting for their “rights and to preserve their culture” for decades but “neither the Centre nor the courts are giving them justice.”“The apathy of Maharashtra’s politicians is weakening the fight… Former CM Fadnavis, under whose leadership the resolution on the unification of Belgaum-Karwar region with Maharashtra was passed, went to Belgaum to campaign against Ekikaran Samiti’s Marathi candidate. This is the misfortune of entire Maharashtra. He could have avoided going to Belgaum,” Raut wrote in his column.Political analyst Surendra Jondhale said Shiv Sena has remained consistent in its stand on the Belgaum issue. However, the timing is crucial. “Sena over the years has been vocal about the border issue. So, there are no surprises there. However, the political language at this juncture will have an influence in the future. They have showed that they have not forgotten its core ideology. The political messaging will be carried forward, with BMC elections around nine to 10 months away,” said Jondhale, a former professor of political science at the Mumbai University.Maharashtra BJP chief spokesperson Keshav Upadhye said that Sena has forgotten the cause of Marathi manoos for the sake of power.“ The Sena and its allies are blaming the Centre for its failure to handle the Covid-19 pandemic in Maharashtra. Last year, the Covid situation was new for everybody. Yet, the central government provide all assistance to the states. [But] In the past nine months, what planning did the MVA government do for beds, oxygen, Remdesivir? Nothing. Their focus was on reinstating [former cop] Sachin Vaze and raise ₹100 crore. Besides, the Sena had long-forgotten the cause of Marathi people for the sake of power. They are merely raking up the issue from Belgaum, but in reality what have they done?” asked Upadhye.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/shiv-sena-reignites-its-marathi-manoos-agenda-101619119671271.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra expects hiccups in its 18+ vaccination drive||With eight days to go for universal Covid-19 vaccination to start in the state, Maharashtra could witness hiccups in the inoculation drive from May 1 due to inadequate supply of vaccine shots. Three days after the Centre announced the decision to start vaccination for all adults in the country from May 1, the state government said it will start negotiations with foreign vaccine manufacturers as the two Indian companies have either not released prices or have their production booked by the Centre for a month. Meanwhile, the state government is also deliberating on the proposal to make the vaccine doses available for free for the poor in the 18 to 44 age group. The Centre on Monday announced vaccination for all adults in the country from May 1, but the states and Union territories have to procure the doses from manufacturers. The manufacturers would supply 50% of the ordered doses to the Government of India and 50% to the state governments and the open market. Maharashtra chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said a plan is being chalked out to procure vaccines. “A plan is being worked out… since foreign import is now allowed and there is Bharat Biotech, we will get in touch with them. The vaccination drive for [age] 18 to 44 will start on May 1, but the stock is expected to be limited. In that age group, there are roughly 55 or 57.5 million people. So, we will require about 120 million doses, including the wastage, over a span of four to five months, depending on how soon we get the stock,” said Kunte.State health minister Rajesh Tope said that chief minister Uddhav Thackeray held an online meeting with Serum Institute of India’s Adar Poonawalla on Wednesday, where he was told that the company’s production has been booked till May 24. In light of that, the state will start negotiations with manufacturers of imported vaccines as it will not be able to purchase stock from Serum Institute of India, which makes Covidshield, till third week of May, and Bharat Biotech, which makes Covaxin, as it has not released its prices.“Adar Poonawalla [during a meeting] told the chief minister that their entire production has been booked by the Centre till May 24. It is April 22 today, so, it is clear that for an entire month we will not be able to purchase [vaccine] for the 18-45 age group. Senior officials are in touch with Bharat Biotech, but so far, they have not released the price for state governments. If that happens in a day or two, we will be able to place order with them,” Tope said.However, the Centre refuted the claim and said that Serum Institute has not contracted all its production of vaccines to the Centre till May 25. A statement from the PIB said, “State governments are free to procure Covid-19 vaccine doses from the vaccine manufacturers as per the Liberalised Pricing and accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy.” It further added, “A key feature of the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy is that the “Vaccine manufacturers would supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to Govt. of India and would be free to supply remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the other than Govt. of India channel”. The state governments are free to purchase doses from the vaccine manufacturers. Therefore, it is very clear that every month out of the total CDL cleared doses available with any vaccine manufacturer, 50% doses would be available for other than Government of India channels.”Earlier in the week, deputy chief minister and finance minister Ajit Pawar had said that the state would use certain development funds, but not hamper the procuring of imported vaccines, if need be. Tope added that the state would negotiate with the companies including Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna, Sputnik V to buy the “extremely expensive” imported vaccines. “Sputnik V, Moderna, American and the Chinese vaccines are extremely expensive compared to our vaccines. These vaccines are about seven to 10 times costlier than then Indian ones. But we can carry out a negotiation at the highest level with them. Chief minister and deputy chief minister have already made it clear that our government will consider [purchasing] it, if they reduce the prices since we are going to purchase in a huge volume,” he added. Kunte added that the state will also hold talks with Bharat Biotech soon. “There will be a wide range of choice,” he said.The health minister also said that the state government would consider providing free vaccines to “poor and extremely poor” section of the society in the age group of 18 to 44 years. He said such a proposal will be mooted by the health department and the State Cabinet will take a call on it soon. He however ruled out free vaccines for others who can afford the jab.“We will be taking up the matter of providing vaccines for free in the upcoming cabinet meeting. The government will definitely think of the poor and extremely poor sections of society. But who can afford the vaccines in the 18 to 44 age bracket must pay for the vaccine shot. The health department will put up a proposal to give vaccines for free to the poor, but the final decision will be taken by the Cabinet,” he said. Currently, the vaccination is free for all in those who are 45 and above. For those who want to pay for the vaccine, have an option to get vaccinated from selected private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-expects-hiccups-in-its-18-vaccination-drive-101619119312447.html
23-04-2021||Other||K’taka to buy 10mn vaccines at ₹400 crore for younger age groups||Bengaluru Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa on Thursday said that the state government would procure around 10 million doses of Covishield vaccine for the inoculation of younger age groups that begins on May 1, becoming one of the first in the country to do so.“Chief minister has approved (the) purchase of 1 crore doses of Covid vaccine at a cost of ₹400 crore, in (the) first phase. This will be used for vaccination of persons between 18 to 44 years,” the chief ministers office (CMO) said in a statement on Thursday.The orders for the vaccine comes a day ahead of a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi who is expected to take stock of the deteriorating Covid-19 situation across different states.The decision comes days after the Serum Institute of India announced the price at which it would sell the vaccine in the open market. The announcement comes as a result of the PMs decision to open up the vaccination drive for younger age groups in the country.Karnataka has so far vaccinated 76,41,817 persons in the state and the government is trying to scale up numbers to contain the raging pandemic.Bengaluru reported its highest ever single-day spike as 15,244 new infections in the last 24 hours on Wednesday that takes its active case count to 1,37,813. Bengaluru accounted for 68 out of the 123 fatalities recorded in the state. The total number of active cases in Karnataka inched towards the 2 lakh mark and currently stands at 1,96,236 as it also registered its highest ever single-day spike with 25,795 cases in the 24 hours on Wednesday. The situation in other parts of the state continues to deteriorate with almost all 30 districts reporting over 100 cases per day and Tumakuru, about 70 km from Bengaluru, reporting 1,231 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ktaka-to-buy-10mn-vaccines-at-400-crore-for-younger-age-groups-101619119191265.html
23-04-2021||Other||Confusion grips K’taka over ‘partial lockdown’||Bengaluru: The restrictions in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka to contain the Covid- 19 surge has now turned into a partial lockdown as the shops and establishments that are not listed in the government order as ‘essential services’ have been asked to shut down operations. Senior police officials confirmed that they had orders to shut down stores in Bengaluru and other parts of the state. “There was no clarity on the guidelines issued on Tuesday, prompting an addendum being issued on Wednesday. But that also was not interpreted properly leading to the confusion on Thursday,” a senior police officer said. Praveen Sood, director general of police in Karnataka said that there would be better clarity available by Thursday evening.Police patrol jeeps and motorcycles were seen making announcements that all businesses that were not in the specific list of essential services will have to close down. “We got orders this afternoon and are just following them,” a police officer said. Several shopkeepers were caught off-guard with the announcement that comes two days after the government had clarified that business establishments will be allowed to remain open during the day. Several small business owners said that they were just starting to see some recovery from the impact of the last lockdown and another would just crush their businesses and livelihood.“Police arrived in the afternoon and asked us to shut the shops down,” said Peter Antony, a shopkeeper in Bengaluru’s SP Road. “We were told that lockdown will come to effect from Friday evening onwards, but the police came on Thursday evening. When we asked, they didn’t give us a proper answer,” he said. The action comes a day after the state government made some modifications to its earlier orders on restrictions. “All shops and establishments dealing with construction materials are permitted. All shops/commercial/private establishments except those mentioned above shall remain closed,” according to the order issued by P Ravi Kumar, Karnataka’s chief secretary.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/confusion-grips-k-taka-over-partial-lockdown-101619119131188.html
23-04-2021||Other||Kerala CM calls all-party meet after record 26,995 cases||Thiruvananthapuram Kerala reported 26,995 Covid-19 cases on Thursday in the highest single-day surge so far since the outbreak last year, with a high test positivity rate of 19.97%, and a worried state government called an all-party meeting on Monday to discuss ways to contain the pandemic.Chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the second wave was really critical and sought help of all sections of people to tide over the crisis. He said he has given instructions to top health officials to talk to vaccine companies to buy enough doses. “We hope the Centre will continue to supply it free. But we can’t wait for it. So we have already started negotiations with vaccine manufacturers,” he told reporters in the state capital. Vijayan appealed to people to contribute generously to the CM relief fund. He said people who have vaccinated and others have contributed ₹22 lakh in a single day. “We need such help at the critical juncture. We will buy enough doses and vaccinate as many as we can. We can’t wait further,” said the CM. He said rapid response teams will be constituted to help health and civic officials, urging people not to crowd vaccination centres. As vaccine supplies dwindled, many areas in the state witnessed rush at vaccinations centres on Thursday too. “We have already made it clear that doses will be given to only those who registered online. There is no spot registration from now on. Hope people will realise this,” he said. Minor scuffle was reported in Kottayam and Alapzuha on Wednesday. The CM said there are 10.65 million people in the 18-45 age group and the state will have to stock enough doses. The CM had already announced that the government will distribute vaccines free of cost. “It is true the second wave is really hard. We need a joint fight to come out of trying times. The government has called an all-party meet on Monday. We will hear all parties and sections,” he said, adding special control rooms will be set up for guest workers. He said some vested interests were trying to create panic and mislead them. This is the first time the state crossed 25,000 single-day tally. In the last 24 hours, 1,37,177 samples were tested. The state also reported 28 deaths, taking the toll to 5028. Active caseload also crossed 150,000 (1,56,266) for the first time. Ernakulam remained worst- affected with 4396 cases followed by Kozhikode with 3372 cases, according to the data released by the health ministry Going by the pace of cases, experts said the state may report at least double the cases by next week. The health department said it has enough stock of oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators. It has activated some of the defunct first line treatment centres and stadia to meet the emergency situation. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/kerala-cm-calls-all-party-meet-after-record-26-995-cases-101619118771152.html
23-04-2021||Lucknow||UP showcases defence corridor to British firms||Uttar Pradesh Cabinet minister for MSME and export promotion Sidharth Nath Singh on Thursday showcased the state’s potential and facilities being provided to investors willing to invest in the defence corridor project. The United Kingdom’s minister for exports Graham Stuart and representatives of around 120 British defence, aerospace and security companies were also present at the virtual conference organised jointly by the state government and UK India Business Council (UKIBC) in this connection.Singh mentioned the ease of doing business rating in which Uttar Pradesh was now ranked the second best state in India. Graham Stuart asserted that UK, with its huge technology advantage, was the world’s second-largest defence exporter, as well as the third largest security equipment exporter, all across the globe. He showed UK’s eagerness to do more business with Uttar Pradesh by way of trade as well as investment relationship. Awanish Awasthi, additional chief Secretary (Home) and chief executive officer of Uttar Pradesh Expressways Industrial Development Authority (UPEIDA), was also present at the meeting.He presented the state’s case, mentioning the availability of land, labour, electricity, infrastructure, skilled manpower and support of the state government. Additional chief secretary (MSME and Export Promotion) Navneet Sehgal was also present at the meeting. Jayant Krishna, UKIBC’s Group CEO, stated that the UK’s defence and security firms could leverage the British technology and co-manufacture products here in a joint UK-India development team for manufacture in the defence corridor.Dominic Beales, first secretary (Defence and Security) at the British High Commission, was also present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-showcases-defence-corridor-to-british-firms-101619118351166.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana to provide jobs to abandoned, surrendered children under HARIHAR scheme||The Haryana cabinet on Thursday approved a policy to provide jobs on compassionate grounds and economically weaker section (EWS) status to children either abandoned or surrendered and turned 18-year-old while living in child-care institutions across state.The children abandoned when below 5 years of age and surrendered before turning one-year-old will be eligible for benefits of HARIHAR initiative of the Haryana government. Under the policy, eligible children will get benefits of education, employment, and financial support.The policy provides for free schooling, higher education, technical education, skill development and industrial training, apart from financial assistance up to the age of 25 years or marriage, whichever is earlier, and one-time interest-free loan for buying a house in Haryana.“This policy will be for welfare and settlement of abandoned and surrendered children,” an official spokesperson said.MONETISATION OF LOCKED PROPERTIESThe municipal bodies will be allowed to sell shops/houses the possessions of which have been with entities other than the municipal bodies or its predecessor for 20 years. The policy received cabinet nod on Thursday.There are a large number of shops and houses, which at present are owned by the municipal bodies but are in the possession of some entities and individuals for over two decades.“The municipal bodies find managing such properties difficult as the ownership of such properties have in several cases changed hands on numerous occasions and the municipal bodies lack authentic documentation,” an official spokesperson said.The municipal bodies are unable to even recover rentals of such properties. The spokesperson said that it was decided to transfer the ownership of these properties to such persons who are currently in justified possession of these properties.“This policy will not only strengthen the financial position of the municipal bodies but also grant small shopkeepers and other pattedars ownership of the said properties under their possession,” the spokesperson said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-to-provide-jobs-to-abandoned-surrendered-children-under-harihar-scheme-101619118291892.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Existing liquor licensees in Haryana can renew their licence||Existing licensees of country liquor (CL) and Indian-made foreign liquor (IMFL) vends in Haryana have been given an option to get their licence renewed for 2021-22 under the new excise policy approved by the cabinet on Thursday.An official spokesperson said the licence of zones of CL and IMFL vends can be renewed at an increase rate of 10% over and above the base licence fee or proportionate licence fee as the case may be for 2020-21. For the remaining zones, bids will be invited.If sufficient number of applications for renewal of zones of CL and IMFL vends from the existing licensees of 2020-21 are not received, the competent authority will invite e-bids for all zones of vends, the spokesperson said.The excise policy for 2021-22 will come in effect from May 20 as the period of allotment of retail vends for 2020-21 will come to an end on May 19.The spokesperson said growth in excise revenue for 2020-21 is estimated to be at 15%. For the new policy, the state government has decided to abolish the Covid cess on sale of liquor. It was imposed in 2020-21 for generating additional revenue in view of the pandemic.The overall collection from excise in financial year 2020-21 are ₹6,792 crore against the collection of ₹6,361 crore in financial year 2019-20.Despite complete lockdown till first week of May 2020 and overall economic slowdown for a major part of the financial year, excise revenue during 2020-21 has witnessed a 6.69% growth, the spokesperson said.The quota of IMFS has been increased from 550 lakh proof litre to 625 lakh proof litre for 2021-22. The enhanced quota of IMFS will be added proportionately in the basic quota of all zones of liquor vends.The quota of country liquor has not been changed. Due to the pandemic, the sale hours of retail outlets of liquor have been re-fixed in rural areas from 8am to 11pm from April to October and from 8am to 10pm from November to March.In case of urban areas, the sale hours will be from 8am to 12 midnight throughout the year.To encourage blending of ethanol in petrol and proper utilisation of agriculture produce, a new licence (E-3/E-3A) has been introduced for setting up an ethanol-based distillation plant at a nominal fee.In case any vend or vends of any zone are closed or are subsequently closed on account of falling under Covid containment zone, its licence fee and quota will be proportionately waived-off in proportion of days of closure.For computation of proportionate licence fee and quota of a closed vend to be waived-off, the licence fee and quota of a zone will be equally divided among both vends of the zone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/existing-liquor-licensees-in-haryana-can-renew-their-licence-101619118111761.html
23-04-2021||Other||Not getting e-passes, say some essential service providers||Days after the Delhi government imposed a week-long lockdown to arrest the spread of Covid-19, people involved in the essential services said they were finding it difficult to get passes, and that their requests were either getting rejected or lying pending for days.Rajat Abbey, whose family owns a chemicals company, said he was trying to secure a pass for the past two days to deliver essential products needed in the pharmaceutical industry. “I have bills from the National Centre for Disease Control and the Indian Red Cross Society seeking supplies from our company. I have uploaded all these documents on the portal along with my Aadhar card, but the requests keep getting rejected,” said Abbey.“We are providing supplies to the government. These are urgent requirements. The portal says that the documents are incomplete. It doesn’t even clearly specify what more is needed so that we can arrange additional documents accordingly,” said Abbey.Ranjeet Raghav, operations head at a food manufacturing company, said his requests for passes were rejected seven times. “I applied on the Delhi government and Delhi Police portal but to no avail. As a last resort, I reached out to the Delhi Traffic Police handle on Twitter which directed me to the Delhi government. I even called on the Covid helpline but got no help. I work in a grain manufacturing company, and our products cannot be stored for long,” said Raghav.In addition to those working in the chemical and food processing industries, restaurants are also facing problems. Manpreet Singh, treasurer of National Restaurants Association of India, who also owns Zen restaurant in Connaught Place, said he failed to secure passes for himself and other staff members. “I applied for the pass at least five times in my name and two to three times in the name of my staff but all requests were rejected within six to eight hours without any reason. We have tried various combinations like providing Aadhar, FSSAI license, visiting card, pan card, and other documents, to secure passes but nothing works,” said Singh.Singh has asked the staff to stay within the restaurant premises while the deliveries are being managed through food-delivery apps such as Zomato and Swiggy. Singh said the upside was that his staff was not getting exposed by being in one location.Abhi Kumar, a cashier at Sagar Ratna restaurant, GK-2, said the restaurant has been facing problems in securing passes for its staff. “We have been trying to secure passes for the past five days but to no avail. Either no valid reason is cited for rejection of the request or we are told that the documents are incomplete,” said Kumar.Saurabh Suman, manager of Pebble Street in New Friends Colony (NFC), said the restaurant applied for passes for 10 people, of which the request for six staff members got sanctioned. “The portal doesn’t give a reason behind the rejection of a request, so we can’t proceed. We are now managing with the staff who have been able to secure the passes,” said Suman.When approached about the issue of difficulties being faced by essential service providers to get passes, a Delhi government spokesperson declined to comment.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/not-getting-e-passes-say-some-essential-service-providers-101619117871227.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Barricades on one side of highway at Singhu border will be removed to create passage for services, say farmers||Farmers protesting at Delhi’s borders announced on Thursday that barricades on one side of the highway at Singhu border will be removed for easier passage of services. The decision was taken following a meeting with Haryana government officials, the farmers’ union said.In a statement released Thursday, Samyukta Kisan Morcha -- the umbrella group with 40 farmer unions running the agitation -- said it did not want to cause inconvenience to people.“Leaders of Samyukt Kisan Morcha had a detailed meeting with officials of the Haryana government this evening. In the meeting, it was decided that barricades on one side of the highway at Singhu border will be removed, to give free passage to oxygen tankers, ambulance and other such emergency services,” farmer leader Darshan Pal said.The comments came in the backdrop of several allegations on social media this week that the road blockades on account of farmer agitation were leading to a delay in the movement of oxygen tankers across the state borders. BJP MP Parvesh Sahib Singh tweeted on Tuesday night that due to the road blockade by protesters at the Ghazipur border, oxygen suppliers were facing difficulties in bringing the tankers to Delhi.“... It is the government that is to be squarely blamed for barricading the roads and obstructing free passage, whereas, at all protest sites, farmers have already left such passage for vehicular movement,” SKM said in a statement.The protesting farmers, however, on Thursday showed no signs of calling off the agitation. “A large convoy of protesters in tractor-trolleys will be leaving from Barwasni in Sonepat district of Haryana for the Singhu Border,” SKM said, adding that this was to ensure that government did not try to remove the farmers on the “pretext” of the Covid-19 surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/barricades-on-one-side-of-highway-at-singhu-border-will-be-removed-to-create-passage-for-services-say-farmers-101619117691663.html
23-04-2021||Other||Don’t pressure labs to give Covid test reports within 24 or 36 hours, says HC||The Delhi high court on Thursday directed the Delhi government to not implement any order directing the labs to submit the Covid test reports within 24 hours or 36 hours, saying that the reports should come within a maximum of 48 hours.Delhi government’s additional standing counsel Satyakam, however, told the high court bench of Justice Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli that no such order has been passed. The counsel also assured the court that its earlier order of May 2020, mandating reports to be issued within a maximum 48 hours will be implemented.The court was hearing a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra, who sought ramping up of tests in the city. The petition, which was disposed of, was revived by the court on Monday, noting that the virus has raised its “ugly head” once again and that “health care infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse”.On Thursday, the court also noted that the number of RT-PCR tests in the city is going down despite the fact that the cases are on a rise.To be sure, the proportion of RT-PCR tests among the overall samples collected over the past two weeks has been 66%, below the 70% number as recommended by the Centre. Overall testing, generally, too has dropped as labs struggle to clear backlogs and deliver test results to patients in time, amid a huge spike in demandOn Thursday, Delhi collected 48,346 samples using the RT-PCR method.In comparison, a week ago, Delhi collected 59,401 samples using the gold standard, and 70,403 samples using the technique two weeks ago.During the proceedings, both the Centre and the Delhi government sparred over the allocation of beds in the hospitals being run by the Union government. The petitioner informed the court that the Centre promised to allocate more beds in its the hospitals on April 20 but they were yet to be allocated.Delhi government’s counsel Rahul Mehra said when the cases were comparatively fewer in November, the Centre allocated them 4,132 beds. He said, currently they have been given around 2,900 beds despite the infection spreading much faster than the last wave. He said that nearly 7,000 beds should be allotted to the Delhi government for the emergency period.Arti Ahuja, additional secretary, ministry of health and family welfare, told the court that they have increased the number of beds. She said that the union government was exploring avenues for augmenting the number of beds with other facilities for mild and patients not requiring oxygen. She also said that the beds being sought by the Delhi government were already occupied.The court observed that the situation has become “precarious” in the city and people are not getting beds. Justice Sanghi said, “People are not getting beds. Please do increase the beds. People are dying on the streets. The cases are four fold, people need hospitalization and the immediate needs have to be met. Forget about the common man on the road, today if I go and stand and ask for a bed, I would not get it.”The bench asked the Delhi government to explore the possibilities of augmenting hotels with the hospitals and DMs and SDMs are in talks on this with the stakeholder.The high court also asked the Delhi government to explore the possibility of getting public sector undertakings (PSUs) to set up makeshift beds as was being done by some other states to enhance the availability of beds for citizens of the national capital.“We hope and expect that the Centre will look into the requirements of COVID beds and work to enhance availability,” the court said and asked the governments to file status reports on this.The matter would be now heard on April 26.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/dont-pressure-labs-to-give-covid-test-reports-within-24-or-36-hours-hc-tells-delhi-government-101619117636123.html
23-04-2021||Other||Surge in oxygen demand, trucks from Delhi make beeline for Panipat refinery||A rush for supply of medical oxygen can be seen at the distribution gate of Indian Oil Corporation’s (IOC) Panipat refinery as trucks laden with liquid oxygen are leaving for different hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab. Police have been deployed at the main entrance of the refinery to monitor movement and double check gate passes of the trucks. The security officials said 13 trucks, of different capacities, have left from the refinery to supply oxygen to hospitals in Delhi, Haryana and Punjab since Thursday morning. Following a surge in demand, IOC has also increased its production and now it is supplying 140 MT oxygen to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana, and 20 MT to Punjab. Inspector Manjeet Singh, who is monitoring the truck movement, says, “We are examining the documents of every truck leaving with liquid oxygen and the oxygen is being supplied as per government orders.” However, some truck drivers from Delhi alleged discrimination in allocation of oxygen. Hira Lal, of Vaibhav Oxygen that supplies oxygen to many hospitals in Delhi, said that he had come on Wednesday but is yet to get the oxygen. Another driver, Karan Singh, says his truck was called inside after a wait of 28 hours. Mahender Singh, who is taking oxygen to Indraprastha Apollo Hospital, said that this is his second turn in the past 24 hours and he has been allowed to take 5.5 tonne oxygen on Thursday. Earlier, the joint director of Apollo Hospital, Dr Sangita Reddy, in a tweet had sought urgent help from PM Modi, Union defence minister Rajnath Singh, Union commerce and industries minister Piyush Goyal, saying that an oxygen tanker is waiting outside the gate of Air Liquide Panipat at IOC and the driver of the truck is not being allowed to get in. “Haryana police are stopping the truck and not letting oxygen out of Haryana. Need urgent intervention!” Dr Reddy had tweeted. But a few minutes later, she tweeted, “Update: The driver has been allowed inside and hopefully oxygen will be sent out soon.” “Further to my earlier tweet an appeal once again to the govt to please tag oxygen tank as ambulances and enable quick green corridor movement,” she tweeted. However, officials of Air Liquide Panipat said that they are supplying oxygen as per government schedule and do not have any role in deciding where the oxygen supplies should go first. Earlier, officials the IOC, had said that they will be supplying 150 MT liquid oxygen (10 MT everyday) to Delhi, Haryana and Punjab free of cost. But now, officials, requesting anonymity, said that if required, production and supply will be increased. ‘NO CLUE ABOUT MISSING OXYGEN TRUCK’ A tanker carrying liquid oxygen was allegedly stolen by unidentified persons. As per FIR registered on complaint of district drug controller Vijay Raje against unknown accused, a truck had left Air Liquide, Panipat, to supply oxygen at Sirsa on Wednesday, but it did not reach till evening. It was allegedly stolen by an unidentified accused on the way, police said. Matlauda police station in-charge Manjeet Singh said, “A case has been registered under Section 379 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against unknown persons and investigation is on.” He said that security at Air Liquide has been increased and documents of all trucks are being examined before they leave. This is the second such incident reported in state in the past two days. On Wednesday, Anil Vij had accused the Delhi government of looting oxygen truck on its way to supply oxygen in Faridabad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/surge-in-oxygen-demand-trucks-from-delhi-make-beeline-for-panipat-refinery-101619117635608.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panipat unit supplies 171 MT oxygen to Delhi in 7hrs||The politics over supply of medical oxygen continued on Thursday with Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia accusing the Haryana government of hindering oxygen supply to Delhi.Belying Delhi claims, Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar said that over 170 MT medical oxygen, of the 140 MT allocated to Delhi has been supplied from Panipat’s Air Liquide plant.Officials said there was a distribution shortfall in terms of previous allocations which has been made up by the Panipat unit.As per official statistics, 171.85 MT medical oxygen was supplied to Delhi between 10pm on April 21 and 6am on April 22 to 13 customers in Delhi.The Delhi destinations included Indian Oil Corporation (8.23 MT), Seth Air Products (15.02 MT), Inox (15.1 MT), Goyal Delhi (9.10 MT), Kapil Enterprises (11.7 MT), Jalan Gases (10.43 MT), Paramount (16.29 MT), Devansh (11.61 MT), Shree Aggarsain Hospital (15 MT), Aggarwal Gases (10.54 MT), Multan Air (8.83 MT).Khattar said a roster has been prepared for filling of oxygen cylinders and loading in trucks. “One truck will be loaded for Haryana and one truck each for Delhi and Punjab. The entire process at Panipat plant is being closely monitored by me,” he said.Khattar said some difficulty was reported in supply of oxygen to Haryana, Delhi and other states from Panipat but now the problem has been resolved. “I held detailed discussion with PM Modi on this issue,” Khattar said.The Haryana CM said that he spoke to his Delhi counterpart, Arvind Kejriwal, who expressed satisfaction over supply of oxygen.Khattar said the Panipat plant has a capacity of producing 260 MT oxygen per day, of which, 140 MT is supplied to Delhi, 80 MT to Haryana and 20 MT to Punjab.Haryana health minister Anil Vij said Sisodia’s grouse that district officials have been deputed at these installations to hamper movement of medical oxygen shows his lack of understanding.“Even as per the orders issued by Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday, the deputy commissioner and superintendent of police of a district will be personally liable for ensuring unhindered inter-state movement of medical oxygen,” Vij said.The Indian Oil Corporation Limited (IOCL) had set up a Naphtha Cracker Complex in Panipat comprising of multiple units to produce different grades of polymers and plastics at Panipat.The cryogenic oxygen and nitrogen plant which feed oxygen and nitrogen gases to the Naphtha Cracker Complex has been set up by Air Liquide Industries, Belgium.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panipat-unit-supplies-171-mt-oxygen-to-delhi-in-7hrs-101619117574303.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Hospitals in Delhi scrape bottom of barrel as oxygen supplies run out||More hospitals continued to sound the alarm about their dwindling oxygen supply, with some having run out and switching to temporary cylinders while others moving patients to other facilities in other towns before their stocks ran out.At least 15 hospitals across the city had less than five hours of oxygen on Thursday, according to figures compiled by the Delhi government, which kept going back-and-forth with the Centre and neighbouring states to ensure supply.On Thursday morning, HT received an SOS from Saroj hospital in Rohini, which was to run out of its liquid medical oxygen by 10:30 am – which is did. For the next four and a half hours, the hospital plugged oxygen cylinders to their supply lines so that the 140 Covid-19 patients at the facility could be given the required respiratory support.“We have been managing patients with reserve oxygen cylinders, refilling them and using them again. We need liquid medical oxygen,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director of Saroj Hospital. The hospital had to stop new admissions and discharge some stable patients. Oxygen replenishments reached the facility at around 3pm.After Max group, Saroj became the second to move court to ensure timely oxygen supply, following which the Delhi high court issued new orders to ensure supplies are made smoothly.The situation was similar at Karkardooma’s Shanti Mukund hospital, which put up a message stating, “we regret we are stopping admission in the hospital because oxygen supply is not coming.”With increased oxygen demand, the hospital had been simultaneously using liquid medical oxygen, oxygen cylinders, and a concentrator plant. This left the hospital with hardly any backup.The doctors in the hospital urged patients to leave and look for other hospitals that might take them in. However, with less than 20 ICU beds available and hardly any oxygen beds, they had nowhere to go.“We discharged seven patients; the others said we will die on the road anyway, it is better to wait here. This is a horrifying situation, I have never seen anything like this in 45 years of my career,” said Dr Sunil Sagar, CEO, Shanti Mukand Hospital.The hospital last received half its required supply of liquid medical oxygen at 02:30 am after a delay of three hours. “My staff was standing outside waiting for the oxygen tanker. Every time there was some movement on the road, they thought it was the tanker,” he said. The hospital turned down oxygen to its patients to conserve whatever it could till the oxygen arrived. The hospital received supply just in time after having dipped into reserves.Metro hospital in Preet Vihar, which had over 100 Covid-19 patients admitted, had to start moving them to its other centres in Shadipur, Noida and Faridabad after it completely ran out of oxygen. The hospital last received half its supply of medical oxygen on Wednesday night. It has been managing by refilling oxygen cylinders since Thursday afternoon.The crisis has been precipitated by obstruction of supply tankers from Haryana coming to Delhi on Wednesday, which resulted in a critical situation on Thursday, according to a doctor in know of the matter.“The oxygen reserves at most hospitals are running low because of the increased demand – hospitals are accommodating more patients than usual and almost all the patients need a lot of oxygen. Most hospitals had around 8 to 10 hours of back-up and would receive supply in time. The situation got worse on Wednesday because of several tankers being stopped by the Haryana government. It was a domino effect that delayed supply to all hospital. This resulted in hospitals having almost no reserves on Thursday,” the doctor said.He added, “It has become like a game of musical chair – the oxygen tankers are being diverted to whichever hospital is running out of oxygen. This means, the hospital that was to receive the oxygen also goes into a crisis,” the doctor said.The Delhi government estimated that the city would need around 700 MT of oxygen a day due to the increase in the number of patients with Covid-19. On Wednesday, the Centre increased Delhi’s quota of medical oxygen to 480 MT from 378 MT.Yet, tankers of oxygen that were meant for Delhi hospitals were stopped by administrations from neighbouring states, officials said. “Despite the quota being increased by the Centre, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments are stopping oxygen supply to Delhi. Yesterday, Delhi received 177 MT of oxygen against its quota of 378 MT. I urge the Centre to ensure oxygen reaches us even if paramilitary force needs to be deputed,” said deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia in a tweet on Thursday evening.The Ministry of Home Affairs had to intervene and order all states to ensure allotted quota of oxygen be allowed to be supplied to states other than where the medical oxygen plants are located.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal too said that he spoke to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar and the Centre to facilitate the passage of oxygen. Of the extended quota of oxygen, majority is from Orissa that might take days to arrive, Kejriwal said, adding that he had a word with the state’s chief minister Naveen Patnaik to facilitate “lifting of Delhi’s quota of oxygen” from the state.Holy family hospital too received its supply of liquid medical oxygen minutes before its stock would have run out. “We already had all of our staff scrambling to gather oxygen cylinders and attaching it to the manifold in case the oxygen runs out. We have attached 35 cylinders and are waiting with bated breaths,” said Dr Sumit Ray, medical superintendent of the hospital. The hospital received its supply.Aakash hospital had just 1.5 hours of medical supply when it desperately reached out to authorities on Twitter. “We have 233 Covid-19 patients admitted with, of which 75 are dependent on oxygen. My whole team is running around but we have no assurance so far,” said Dr Kausar Shah, COO, Aakash group. The hospital managed to get 50 oxygen cylinders from neighbouring hospitals and half a tanker of oxygen just in the nick of time.Action Balaji hospital also raised an alarm when they had about three to four hours of supply. Again they received a tanker of oxygen only after dipping into their reserves, which is like going beyond the red line on a fuel tank.Even Delhi government hospitals weren’t spared of problems, with Rajiv Gandhi superspeciality hospital in Tahirpur receiving its supply of medical oxygen just 30 minutes before it was to run out. The hospital has nearly 500 Covid-19 patients.At night, Sir Ganga Ram hospital again raised an alarm that it had oxygen left for five hours of normal use, meaning lesser time if high flow oxygen is given to Covid-19 patients. The hospital currently has over 500 Covid-19 patients admitted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/hospitals-in-delhi-scrape-bottom-of-barrel-as-oxygen-supplies-run-out-101619117452301.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid situation worsens in Haryana: 5 districts in critical category, 2 more closing in||Haryana on Thursday reported 9,742 fresh Covid-19 cases and 55 deaths. Also, active cases crossed the 58,000 mark.Five districts Faridabad, Gurugram, Panchkula Rewari and Panipat are already in the critical category having a sample positivity rate of more than 6% each, data indicated that Ambala and Karnal are fast approaching the critical positivity mark.As per the health department, Gurugram and Faridabad reported 10 deaths each followed by six in Jind, five each in Karnal and Panipat, four in Bhiwani, three each in Yamunanagar and Fatehabad, two each in Hisar, Ambala and Panchkula, and one each in Sirsa, Kaithal and Nuh.The highest number of fresh infections (3,553) were reported from Gurugram. Faridabad and Sonepat reported 1,342 and 850 new cases, respectively. Hisar with 580 cases, Karnal 530, Panchkula 459 and Panipat 360 were the major contributors to Thursday’s tally. The health authorities tested 40,687 individuals on Thursday.The sample positivity rate on Thursday reached 5.59% from 5.48% and the recovery rate came down to 84.10% from Wednesday’s 84.54%.As per the health bulletin, there are 1,814 critical patients in state, including 1,647 on oxygen support and 147 on ventilator.ROTARY RUNNING VACCINATION DRIVEThe Rotary Covid Task Force, along with the Haryana health department, has launched a mobile Covid-19 vaccination drive across state.Haryana director general health services (DGHS) Dr Veena Singh has applauded the Rotarians’ efforts aimed at vaccination and testing in remote areas in state.She said Rotary Covid task force has already organised vaccination campaigns in Kurukshetra, Kaithal, Panchkula, Ambala, Jind, Hisar and Yamunanagar along with the district health authorities by providing mobile vehicles, refreshments and safety kits for vaccinators.JJP TO SHUT PARTY OFFICE FOR 2 WEEKSThe Jannayak Janta Party (JJP) on Thursday decided to shut the official residence of deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala and the party office in Chandigarh for two weeks as a precautionary measure in wake of surge in Covid-19 cases.The decision was taken after a section of the staff of the deputy CM and some employees working at the party office tested positive.JJP state president Nishan Singh said that in two weeks, there will be no interaction with the public at the JJP office and deputy CM’s residence in Chandigarh.PATIENTS RUSHING TOWARDS PVT HOSPITALS, CAUSING PROBLEMS: VIJ
23-04-2021||Other||DDMA drwas up plan to regulate oxygen distribution of oxygen||A day after the Delhi high court asked the city administration to prepare a detailed logistics plan for optimum oxygen supply to hospitals for Covid-19 treatment, the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Thursday issued a seven-point action plan which included strict demand-based supply of oxygen to all healthcare facilities, seamless transportation of tankers till the Capital’s borders, a 24x7 control room to resolve emergency calls from hospitals within 30 minutes and constituting oxygen audit committees in all hospitals.The order, issued by chief secretary Vijay Dev, also came in the backdrop of complaints received by hospitals with low bed strength that they were receiving no help from government agencies.“The sudden spurt in Covid-19 cases and the high positivity rate have led to a large number of hospital admissions. A high proportion of patients are on supplemental oxygen and under ICU care and this has led to a quantum increase in medical oxygen requirement in various Covid related health establishments…. Consequently, in many cases, the existing contractual arrangements have either been disturbed or the health facility’s oxygen requirement has exceeded the contractual quantity, thereby leading to widespread disruption in the supply chain leading to a precarious situation. Furthermore, local supply side disruptions in the neighbouring states is leading to wide variation in day to day delivery of oxygen to Delhi,” the DDMA order read.From Friday, the Delhi government will issue a daily schedule specifying the oxygen allocation to every healthcare facility in the city, the order said.Stating that the allocation and supply of oxygen within the city will be “strictly regulated”, the rules stated: “The allocation order shall supersede any existing contractual arrangements entered into by any facility with any supplier until further orders.”The DDMA also appointed three IAS officers to oversee the demand-supply chain, the transportation and the grievance redressal mechanism of hospitals.Ashish Verma, OSD in Delhi government’s health department has been asked to ensure proper distribution of oxygen from the suppliers to the hospitals, once the tankers enter the city. Udit Prakash Rai, special secretary (health) has been asked to ensure smooth and seamless movement of tankers up to Delhi borders. He has also been asked to sort out all issues raised by suppliers.Vijay Bidhuri, MD, Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC), has been tasked with controlling, coordinating and facilitating the supply of oxygen to all health establishments.“A 24x7 control room shall function under Bidhuri. The control room shall also operate a help desk manned by a SDM level officer and 8 other officers for redressing all the grievances and complaints received from all hospitals (Central govt, state govt and private) within half an hour of the receipt of the grievances and complaints. If the grievances/complaints received are not redressed within half an hour, then it shall be the responsibility of Bidhuri to look into the issues and resolve the same,” the order read.The DDMA also asked the Delhi Police to monitor and control seamless and safe movement of all the oxygen tankers, appointing special commissioner of police Muktesh Chander as the nodal officer provide all help, support and security logistics in respect of movements of all tankers from the manufacturers sites to the various hospitals as per the allocation orders.It also asked all hospitals to appoint an audit committee for supervising and rationalising the use of medical oxygen. These committees will have to collect data on usage and stock of oxygen and submit daily reports. Every hospital has been asked to also appoint a nodal officer who shall be available round the clock for any matter relating to coordination and redressal of grievances pertaining to medical oxygen.The DDMA stated that anyone found violating these rules will be preceded against as per the provisions of sections 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code, and other applicable laws.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ddma-lays-down-rules-to-regulate-distribution-of-oxygen-in-delhi-appoints-nodal-officers-101619117391950.html
23-04-2021||Other||Smaller hospitals say vendors stretched beyond capacity, some stop admitting patients||New Delhi: Around 7.30am on Thursday, Dr. Avinder Sabharwal, the owner of Jeevan Hospital Gate No 2 in south Delhi’s Maharani Bagh, called the local police and the district administration that the hospital was fast running out of oxygen and the life of 11 Covid patients is on the line. “While one supplier did not pick my call, the other oxygen cylinder supplier said he did not have any stock but promised he will do something. We had only one oxygen cylinder left at that time,” Sabharwal said. The police and the district administration helped the hospital get nine cylinders by 1pm. “Had there been a delay of five minutes, we would have lost two critical Covid patients who were on ventilator support. The lives of other nine patients were also at risk,” said Sabharwal.While the news of big hospitals in the city was being amplified on the social media, several hospitals with low bed capacity have also been struggling to get their regular oxygen supply. Big hospitals use liquid medical oxygen pumped through a gas pipeline in their wards but most hospitals with low bed strength depend on oxygen cylinders that can be attached to the supply line. Delhi’s oxygen requirement has soared to nearly three times of the normal as an unprecedented surge of Covid-19 infections has filled up city hospitals with critical cases. Many of the owners of these hospitals and nursing homes with a bed capacity between 15-100 said with the scarcity of medical oxygen and the week-long curfew has ensured that they have a little chance to get their oxygen stock replenished. Dr RP Singh, medical superintendent of Amarleela Hospital in Janakpuri, said they have stopped taking new patients from Thursday morning. “It has become difficult to arrange oxygen cylinders. We flagged the oxygen shortage on Wednesday evening but except the police, no other agency came to our rescue. The police could only arrange two cylinders last night. Our regular supplier is able to provide only 3-4 cylinders against our requirement of 40 cylinders,” said .Some other hospital owners said the local oxygen suppliers were either themselves affected by Covid or scared to step out. Dr Pawan Solanki, owner of the 50-bed Dharamveer Solanki Multispeciality Hospital in Rohini, said, “Our main oxygen vendor is in home isolation after testing Covid positive. But he is still managing to deliver us some cylinders. We have at least 10 Covid patients in ICU. Their lives are at risk as we are not getting the adequate supply of oxygen cylinders. We are also worried about legal problems that we may have to face in case of any untoward situation,” said Solanki. HT tried to contact at least four local oxygen vendors. While the cellphones of two of them were switched off, the other two disconnected or did not respond to calls.The management of at least two other hospitals, who did not want to come on record, said the government officials have taken hold of the oxygen refilling plants and are giving priority to government hospitals or bigger private hospitals.On Thursday, deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia urged the central government to intervene and stop Haryana and Uttar Pradesh governments from “hoarding and monopolising oxygen supply designated for Delhi”. “There is a fight for oxygen supply and this is because, even after increasing the oxygen quote by Central government, there are some states that are stopping oxygen supply to reach hospitals in Delhi. Several hospitals in Delhi now see a dearth of oxygen supply. There is no oxygen left anymore. I have received many messages from hospitals – Saroj Hospital, Rathi Hospital, UK Hospital, Jeevan Hospital etc., have informed they don’t have oxygen supply left anymore. Delhi government has been arranging cylinders for these and many other hospitals. Internal arrangements are makeshift arrangements which are not long-term solutions. Government and private hospitals in Delhi have very limited supply of oxygen now,” said Sisodia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/smaller-hospitals-say-vendors-stretched-beyond-capacity-some-stop-admitting-patients-101619117391122.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Willing to touch Centre’s feet for oxygen supply, says Maharashtra health minister||With hospitals still turning away patients owing to shortage of oxygen supply, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said he was in touch with the Central government to solve the problem, and was even willing to “touch their feet”. “We want the Centre to facilitate a green corridor to provide a safe transport system for our oxygen supply. We are making a humble request to the Central government and are ready to even touch their feet. We urge the Centre to provide a maximum supply of oxygen to Maharashtra,” said Tope.Mumbai is currently receiving 235 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, although its daily requirement is 300 MT; Nagpur is getting 155 MT daily, despite its need of 180 MT; Pune needs 375 MT, but can garner just 300 MT daily; while Nashik, which needs 125 MT, gets just 85 MT daily. As of now, the state requires 1,500 metric tonnes of liquid medical oxygen daily, against its production capacity of 1,250 MT. The state is procuring 300 MT from other states, namely Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and Chhattisgarh. The government has requested the Centre to increase the Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO) supply from other states to 500 MT daily. It is also expecting 105 MT oxygen by way of Oxygen Express train from Vishakhapatnam.There are reports that many Covid patients who are unable to get oxygen beds are now procuring oxygen cylinders at home as a temporary measure. To deal with the shortage, the state is considering using oxygen being produced at steel and thermal power plants. Tope said that Covid-19 centres can be built near the four thermal plants of Parli, Paras, Koradi and Khaparkheda and oxygen supply can be made by connecting a pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/willing-to-touch-centre-s-feet-for-oxygen-supply-says-maharashtra-health-minister-101619117332440.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Cop, 2 others cremate man after kin refuses to go near body||A policeman and ambulance staff cremated a 35-year-old man, after his mother, wife and other relatives refused to touch the body in north-east Delhi’s Gokalpuri, fearing that he’d died of Covid-19, police said on Thursday.The man, police said, repaired air-conditioners for a living. He stayed with his wife, son and mother.Sushil Singh, assistant sub-inspector, said the man fell ill around April 15.“He first visited a local doctor and took some medicines. When he got fever, he visited a private hospital for admission, but was told to approach a bigger hospital. He returned home without any further treatment,” said Singh.On Monday night, he died. “Everyone believed that he died of Covid-19, although he had not got tested for the disease. His family did not approach the body for fear of infection. Someone made a failed attempt at calling an ambulance before dialling the police,” said Singh.Singh reached the house and called several ambulance services, but none responded. He then went to GTB Hospital to request a private ambulance, said Sanjay Kumar Sain, deputy commissioner of police (north-east).The policeman then took the body to a hospital, and from there to the mortuary for autopsy, the DCP said. The family did not accompany him, police said. On Tuesday afternoon, the policeman and the two of the ambulance staff cremated the body. “I have received both doses of vaccine, but I would have done this duty even anyway,” said Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-officer-ambulance-staff-cremate-man-after-family-refuses-to-go-near-body-101619117331840.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||With Delhi’s health-care system stretched thin, tele consultation services hit||With the health-care system in the national capital overwhelmed by the tsunami of Covid-19 cases, tele consultations services of most hospitals have also taken a hit.Many in home isolation complained of unavailability of slots and delayed response time from overburdened doctors, even as beds for Covid-19 patients remained in short supply.Mahant Ahuja, a resident of Alaknanda who was tested positive for Covid-19 on Monday, said, “I had very mild symptoms -- slight fever, cough, and sore throat -- during the first two days. We cannot go to hospitals directly in the present situation and that’s why I tried to book an appointment for a virtual consultation. But it took me two days to reach a doctor. I was told that slots were few due to the unavailability of doctors. I am grateful that my condition did not deteriorate in the meantime but the situation is scary for those having moderate to severe symptoms.”Several other Covid-19 patients are facing similar issues. Anamika Kapur, a resident of Green Park, said she placed a request for online consultation with a private hospital for her Covid positive mother on Sunday and did not get a response even after three days. “My mother’s oxygen saturation dropped to 70 (from an optimum of 95%) in that time. Finally, we had to contact a general physician providing telemedicine services in my locality to start her treatment on Tuesday,” she said.Several hospitals and tele consultation services acknowledged that the facility has been hit by the raging pandemic. Dr Alexander Kuruvilla, chief health strategy officer on digital health app ‘Practo’, said the number of requests for tele consultation has increased by five times in the last 20 days.“The spike was mainly for general medicine . There are complaints of unavailability of slots as doctors on board with us are not available -- they are stretched by the existing situation. It was challenging for us to respond to the sudden surge and it takes time to get more doctors on board. The situation is getting better now and it will further improve in the coming days,” he said.Officials at a few private hospitals said they will have to step up measures to meet the increasing demand for over-the-phone consultations. Prashant Singh, Director IT, and CIO at Max Healthcare said the number of patients reaching out for tele consultations has surpassed the number of patients seeking in-person consultations. “Our doctors are fully occupied with Covid patients right now but we do not have any other option other than tele consultations in the present scenario. We have reduced the timing of each slot so that doctors can attend to more patients,” he said.An official at the tele consultation department at Aakash Healthcare Super Speciality Hospital in Dwarka said they have prepared roasters for doctors to divide their time between in-person and tele consultations. “We are trying to connect patients with available doctors on the same day itself. But our doctors are occupied with Covid patients and a few even have Covid cases at home,” said the official.Meanwhile, independent practitioners are also flooded with tele consultation requests. Dr Rachna Kucheria, a general physician in South Delhi, said, “The number of calls I am getting are unprecedented and 98% of those who call have Covid symptoms. Besides Covid-related queries, I am also getting calls requesting beds and oxygen,” she said.Kucheria, founder of DocGenie Telemedicine, said it is important to strengthen tele consultation services to take the load off the health-care system. “It’s time to pool together general physicians at the community level to step up tele consultation services. It’s very challenging for doctors to manage hospital patients and telemedicine consults both,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/with-delhi-s-health-care-system-stretched-thin-tele-consultation-services-hit-101619117331143.html
23-04-2021||Other||Delhi’s night shelters told not to deny anybody free meals||The Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (Dusib) on Thursday directed night shelters in the city to ensure no individual is denied meals that are being distributed for free as part of the Delhi government’s initiative to feed people, especially migrant workers, during the lockdown.Around 14,000 meals were served from the 205 shelters run by Dusib on Thursday – up from the 12,000 meals dished out on Wednesday when the initiative was launched. “Most beneficiaries are migrant workers who have been deprived of their daily wages following the lockdown,” said Bipin Rai, a member of Dusib.Rai further said, “Orders have been issued that no shelter should deny meals to anyone unless the food is over. If they are out of food, they should guide the person to the nearest shelter. We maintain records for the purpose of scaling up capacity, if needed.”The lockdown was imposed from Monday night in the light of the Covid-19 surge that has left the health care infrastructure in the city overburdened, forcing patients to run from pillar to post for hospital beds, oxygen, medicines, etc. “We urge people to maintain social distancing and adhere to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour when they come to the shelters to collect the meals,” said Vijay Kumar Bidhuri, CEO, Dusib.When the nationwide lockdown was imposed on March 24 last year, the city government made similar arrangements for the scores of migrants who were leaving for their native towns and villages, triggered by panic and anxiety about loss of livelihood.Last year, the Delhi government also turned its schools into shelters for the migrants who decided to stay back. The Delhi government also prepared 1 million meals per day during the stringent phase of the lockdown, that lasted for 68 days, which were distributed from the night shelters and ‘hunger centres’ set up in the 70 assembly constituencies in the city.“The relief measures undertaken during the lockdown last year was massive. This time, there are fewer people lining up for food. People are scared of Covid-19 now. They are scared of stepping out and queueing. They hear about the deaths and the burden of the disease,” said Rai.The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) on Tuesday set up a six-member committee and entrusted it the responsibility of ensuring basic essentials such as food, water, sanitation, shelters and medicines to daily wagers and migrant labourers, including those at construction sites. It also directed the panel to tie up with midday meal contractors for preparing enough meals for thousands of workers and their families.Sunil Kumar Aledia, executive director of the Centre for Holistic Development, an advocacy group that works with homeless and migrant workers in the city, said the government should increase its capacity of preparing meals at the earliest. “Groups of NGOs have set up meal distributing centres in Kashmere Gate, Ramleela Maidan, Sarai Kale Khan and Nizamuddin Basti. A large number of people are still availing food from these centres and complaining they are being denied food at the shelters run by Dusib. Such mismanagement is unacceptable.”When contacted, Dusib officials dismissed such claims and said they have not received any complaint of anyone being refused food at the nigh shelters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhis-night-shelters-told-not-to-deny-anybody-free-meals-101619117271787.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||CBSE to give more weightage to competency based questions in new academic session||In order to implement the competency based learning, as mentioned in the National Education Policy 2020, the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday changed the composition of assessment tasks for students from classes 9 to 12 for the new academic session (2021-22).“While the overall marks and duration of examination shall remain the same, a change in the composition of assessment tasks would help us achieve the desired ends. Therefore, in the forthcoming sessions, a greater number of competency-based questions or questions that assess the application of concepts in real-life/ unfamiliar situations will be a part of the question paper,” director (academics) Joseph Emmanuel said in a circular to all heads of CBSE-affiliated schools.The board added that the decision was taken as the NEP 2020 “has affirmed the need to move from rote learning to competency-based learning, making it more focused on developing the creative and critical thinking capacities of students to meet the challenges of the 21st century.”For instance, the composition of the question paper for classes 9 and 10 was changed to accommodate fewer short or long answer questions (from 60% last year to 50% this year) and to introduce 30% competency-based questions -- in the form of multiple choice questions (MCQs), case-based questions, source-based integrated questions and other types -- instead of the 20% case and source-based questions last year.For classes 11 and 12, the short/long answer questions have been reduced from the earlier 70% to 60% this year and 20% weightage has been given to competency-based questions.Jyoti Arora, principal of Mount Abu Public School, said, “There is a slight change in the composition of theory paper to enhance competency-based learning through various forms of questions. This can help students score better. The board has also specified that students can expect MCQs or source-based or case-based questions in this session.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/cbse-to-give-more-weightage-to-competency-based-questions-in-new-academic-session-101619117212317.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Railways, BEST to ensure lockdown norms are followed in Mumbai||The Railways and Brihanmumbai Electric Supply and Transport (BEST) officials will be undertaking measures to ensure lockdown guidelines are being followed and unauthorised travel is restricted.Maharashtra government on Wednesday had announced that no travel by public or private transport will be allowed unless for essential services, medical reasons and vaccination.The passengers requiring medical treatments or are specially-abled, along with one person to accompany, central, state and local government personnel and medical staff, including doctors, paramedics, lab technicians, hospital and medical clinic staff will be allowed to travel by local trains on the Central and Western Railway.The railway authorities have restricted the entry and exit to railway stations. The government railway police (GRP) and railway protection force (RPF) personnel have been deployed to check identity cards and documents of passengers.Railways have also decreased the number of local trains. The Central Railway will operate at 80% of its capacity on the mainline and harbour railway. Passengers will have to take tickets through railways ticket counters. “We will be taking all restrictions to avoid unauthorised travel by local trains,” said a senior railway official.BEST officials have stated that bus conductors would ensure that only 50% passengers travel. “No standees will be allowed to travel,” said a BEST official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-best-to-ensure-lockdown-norms-are-followed-in-mumbai-101619117211157.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Deploy cops to impose complete lockdown: Maharashtra CM||The Maharashtra government’s complete lockdown came into effect on Thursday evening, with chief minister Uddhav Thackeray directing the state police to impose restrictions strictly, even as the state continued to report over 60,000 cases for three days in a row. As part of the notification for strict restrictions on movement of people, generally called lockdown, people can’t step out unless they need medical attention or are working in an essential sector or want to buy essential commodities, that too for restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. While local train and metro train travel have been restricted to essential sectors and those in need of medical attention, other public transport modes such as buses have been allowed to ply, but at 50% of the seating capacity. Even those going for vaccination would be allowed to travel. The fresh restrictions will continue till 7am on May 1. The state government may extend the restrictions in case the daily cases don’t dip. The state will take a decision after reviewing the situation by the end of this month, the officials said. Thackeray held a meeting with deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar, home minister Dilip Walse Patil and director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pande over strict implementation of the restrictions. “The DGP was directed to deploy the police force in substantial numbers at places to deter people from stepping out of their homes unnecessarily. They were asked to avoid using force and engaging in arguments and instead book offenders using provisions of the existing laws,” said a senior official, privy to the development.State health minister Rajesh Tope said they have decided to strictly restrict people’s movement. “Breaking the chain of infection is necessary to bring down the cases, hence it has been decided to impose a lockdown. We have decided to strictly curb movement that includes restrictions on inter-district movement and internal district movement as well. People will be allowed to step out if there is a death or a medical emergency, else they won’t be allowed to travel,” Tope said. “Free movement of people will not be allowed in this period.” Attendance in government and exempted category offices has also been reduced to 15%, while those coming under essential category have been allowed to work at maximum 50% capacity.Public transport buses, including BEST in Mumbai, will be allowed to ply for all, but at 50% of the sitting capacity. Besides, taxis and autorickshaws will remain operational at 50% capacity and strictly following Covid protocols. To reduce mobility between cities and districts, travelling in public buses has been reduced to 50% of their sitting capacity. Passengers travelling inter-city/district in public transport buses will have to mandatorily go in quarantine for 14 days, with mandatory stamping on their hands, while a rapid antigen test on them at alighting point can be considered by local authorities, stated the order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte on Thursday. The decision for complete lockdown was taken in a special cabinet meeting held on Tuesday. The state health department had expressed concern over the surge in daily cases as going by their projection the tally of active cases is likely to go up to 1.1 million cases, which will overwhelm the entire health infrastructure and situation may go out of control. More than 80% health infrastructure is already occupied. As the state is struggling with shortage of oxygen and anti-viral drug such as Remdesivir, ministers insisted on a complete lockdown in the cabinet meeting. “All shops related to groceries, vegetables, fruit vendors, dairies, bakeries and confectionaries, including those of chicken, mutton, poultry, fish and eggs, have been allowed to operate between 7am and 11am. Home delivery from the said shops; hotels, restaurants and bars and from e-commerce websites have also been allowed till 8pm,” said Aseem Gupta, principal secretary, disaster management and relief and rehabilitation department said. “We have brought restrictions only on public transport, offices, marriage functions and private vehicles,” he added. The wedding ceremony, which has proved to be a super-spreader event in the past, has been allowed in the presence of only 25 attendees. The ceremony has to be completed in two hours, while flouting of the condition may attract a fine of ₹50,000 to the family and action against the operator by shutting down the facility till the end of the pandemic. Flouting of rules will attract a fine of ₹10,000, stated the order. “The offices from the exempted category, including banks, mediclaim, insurance sector, too, will have to reduce the attendance to 15% from the existing permission of 50%. However, offices dealing in essential services, including hospitals, clinics, pharmaceutical companies, posts, ports, petrol pumps, petroleum companies, e-commerce companies etc. can operate at 50% capacity,” the order said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/deploy-cops-to-impose-complete-lockdown-maharashtra-cm-101619117152346.html
23-04-2021||Noida||Supply poor, private hospitals still face oxygen shortage in Ghaziabad and Noida||Ghaziabad/Noida: Many private hospitals in Ghaziabad and Noida continued to face shortage of oxygen on Thursday as supplies could not keep with demand in view of the surge in Covid-19 cases in the national capital region.Officials of several hospitals in both the cities said that they are trying to arrange for oxygen on hourly basis even as family members of the patients were running pillar to post to procure oxygen cylinders. In Ghaziabad, officials familiar with the development said that the city currently requires 59 tonnes of oxygen daily, but supply is only about 30-35 tonnes per day. Shailesh Kumar, father of an 18-year-old girl, was in tears outside Avantika Hospital in Indirapuram and desperately seeking any arrangement for oxygen. “The hospital told us that there is no oxygen supply, and we should try elsewhere. How will she get the treatment now? She was admitted here since April 17,” he said. Many hospitals in the city face similar situation. “We have never faced such conditions with oxygen left for few hours and we are trying to arrange each and every cylinder we can. We have asked patients to make arrangements elsewhere. We have 35 patients and one of them left while others are trying to arrange oxygen on their own,” said Dr Yuvraj Sharma, managing director of Avantika Hospital. “At present, we are depending on and arranging for hourly supplies. The district administration is also trying to arrange oxygen for us. Many hospitals face similar issues,” Sharma said, adding that a minimum of 30 cylinders are required each day for Covid treatment. Nearby Shanti Gopal Hospital in Ahimsa Khand II also faced similar issues. “We have intimated patients about the issue of oxygen and have discharged patients who didn’t require emergency services. There are 25 Covid beds, but we have oxygen supply only for six hours. The administration got arranged 15 cylinders and we also arranged similar numbers. So, we will be able to manage till Friday afternoon. Only nine of 22 patients are left now,” said Dr Sanjay Garg, one of the directors at Shanti Gopal Hospital. “Even empty cylinders are not available at present so that we can get them refilled on our own,” Dr Garg added. Despite repeated attempts, Ghaziabad district magistrate Ajay Shankar Pandey did not respond to calls and text messages. Shailendra Kumar Singh, additional district magistrate (city) and nodal officer for oxygen supplies, also did not respond to calls. However, officials of the district industries department said that 150 empty cylinders of seven cubic metres each were sent to Muzaffarnagar for refilling and once they reach Ghaziabad, they will be supplied to hospitals as per requirement. “We also have 60 empty cylinders of 60 cubic metres each and one empty tank with 20 tonne capacity. These can be refilled and can also be put to use for supply to hospitals,” said Virendra Kumar, general manager of district industries department.In Noida, the managements of Kailash Hospital in Sector 27 and Prakash Hospital in Sector 33 announced that it was difficult to function without adequate supply. Prakash Hospital said that its Noida facility has 55 Covid-19 patients and Greater Noida hospital has 85 positive patients. “For the last few days, the two hospitals have been facing serious difficulties in getting adequate and regular supply of oxygen. Our supplier is situated in Faridabad. On Thursday, the supplier said they could not give us oxygen as they have to supply the gas to Haryana hospitals,” said Ayush Chauhan, executive director, Prakash Hospital. In the afternoon, Prakash Hospital’s Noida facility had two and a half hours of oxygen supply, and Greater Noida facility hospital had three hours of oxygen supply, Chauhan said, adding that they were working on sourcing oxygen from other vendors. “We have shifted around 12 patients from Noida hospital and five patients from Greater Noida hospital to other hospitals,” said Chauhan. While the present requirement of oxygen in Gautam Budh Nagar is 60 metric tonnes (MT) a day, the supply is about 10 MT. Dr Shweta, in-charge of oxygen/medicine availability, GB Nagar, said Prakash Hospital had faced oxygen shortage since morning. “We provided them 80 oxygen cylinders and resumed supply. They shifted some patients to other hospitals for safety,” she said. Kailash Hospital at one point had only four to five hours of oxygen. “We’ve four hospitals in GB Nagar. All of them are suffering from the lack of oxygen. We have 450 patients and we’ve stopped new admissions due to the shortage. We are even ready to buy oxygen at inflated rates but the supply is restricted,” said Dr Ritu Bohra, Kailash Hospital’s group medical director.VB Joshi, Kailash Hospital spokesperson, said they had not shifted any patient on Thursday.Meanwhile, there were several patients who are doing rounds of hospitals but not getting beds. “My relatives have run from one hospital to the other with my mother-in-law (aged 70 and a resident of Rajendra Nagar) who is suffering fever and low oxygen levels, but they could not find any hospital. All hospitals said that oxygen supply is running out,” said Nitin Ashu, a resident of Pratap Vihar in Ghaziabad. Under the present circumstances, families have arranged for oxygen cylinders on their own. “For the past four days my mother is not able to move out of bed. No hospital is admitting her citing lack of oxygen supply. So, I arranged for a cylinder at home and it lasts four hours. Once it gets finished, I rush to Navyug Market to get it refilled,” said Prateek Kaushik, a resident of Delhi Gate locality. On Thursday, GB Nagar recorded 11 deaths and 530 positive cases. There are 4,088 active cases in the district now.Swati Maliwal, chairperson Delhi Commission for Women, tweeted, “My nana died waiting for emergency support in front of Sharda Hospital in Greater Noida. I kept standing there for half an hour and pleading for admission and nothing happened. Shame! Pathetic!”Ajit Kumar, Sharda Hospital spokesperson, said that all the beds were occupied in the hospital. “The hospital management was trying to arrange a bed for the patient. The patient was in a critical condition and he died before admission,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/supply-poor-private-hospitals-still-face-oxygen-shortage-in-ghaziabad-and-noida-101619117151658.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Relook at decision of not allowing door-to-door vaccination for elderly, kids, Bombay HC tells Centre||Expressing concerns over the lack of any policy by the Central government for vaccinating specially-abled and senior citizens with severe disabilities, the Bombay high court (HC) observed that such persons cannot be left to die and directed the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) to relook at its decision of not allowing door-to-door vaccination for elderly and find a solution and way to get them vaccinated. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni, while hearing the public interest litigation (PIL) filed by Mumbai-based lawyers Dhruti Kapadia and Kunal Tiwari seeking directions to the Centre, the state government and BMC to provide door-to-door vaccination facility for people over 75 years of age, the disabled and the bedridden, was informed that the MoHFW had filed an affidavit in response to the court’s direction in the earlier hearing. The affidavit stated that there could not be a door-to-door vaccination policy as it would lead to “high vaccine wastage and contamination leading to a reduction in efficacy”, and that the protocols on physical distancing and infection prevention, including a 30-minute observation period, would not be followed.The MoHFW affidavit had also stated that in the case of adverse event following immunization (AEFI), there could be a delay in reaching the health facility and managing that case may not be as per requirement. The affidavit also stated it was not mandatory to administer the vaccine close to an intensive care unit ( ICU), “The occurrence of serious/severe AEFI is very rare, which may not necessarily require admission into ICU. Hence, there is no such requirement for an ICU for the administration of vaccines.”After perusing the affidavit the court questioned, “There are ICUs in ambulances, you cannot keep a refrigerator? Where is the study that shows there will be wastage due to the time taken to reach the beneficiary? We expected a better affidavit with more facts and figures from the Centre. There needs to be a solution. You need to have a relook at it.”When additional solicitor general (ASG) Anil Singh for the Union of India submitted that in case of co-morbidities, there would be a risk in door-to-door vaccination to senior citizens. The court observed, “This is choosing between the devil and the deep sea. You do not want patients with comorbidities to be given vaccines without supervision, but because they cannot come to the vaccination centre, you want them to suffer?... In our country, old people and children should be taken care of on priority...We cannot leave old people to die...It is upon us that our near and dear ones get vaccinated.”Thereafter, Kapadia urged the HC to pass orders to waive off mandatory documents like Aadhaar or PAN card for vaccination, however, ASG opposed it and said that some document was required for it. The court then observed, “If some person is living under the bridge, then will not he/she carry the disease? Then what do we do? Unless you start a drive to get an Aadhar card for everyone.” The court directed the MoHFW to have a relook at its decision and said that it would give ‘prima facie’ opinions on the five reasons given by the Centre for not being able to have a door-to-door policy for vaccination and posted the hearing of the PIL to May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/relook-at-decision-of-not-allowing-door-to-door-vaccination-for-elderly-kids-bombay-hc-tells-centre-101619117031063.html
23-04-2021||Other||Medical O2 crisis increases in Varanasi, hosps ask attendants to shift patients||Amid the increasing demand for hospital beds in Varanasi to get critical Covid patients admitted, the grave issue of lack of medical oxygen has created an additional problem for the people. The attendants of many patients are being asked to shift their patients to another hospital due to a shortage in medical oxygen. This demand and supply gap of oxygen has left many in the lurch. Panna Lal (68), a resident of a colony near Varuna Bridge, took ill on April 12. His Covid test was done and the report came out negative, however, his condition deteriorated. Later, his son prof Anil Kumar Chaudhary admitted him to a Vivek Hospital in the Bhikharipur area of Varanasi on April 16. His condition was detected with pneumonia. On April 17, the hospital administration informed prof Chaudhary that there would be a shortage of oxygen, therefore, he should shift his father to another hospital. Chaudhary said, “I somehow managed to shift my father to Sahyog Hospital and Surgical Centre in Orderly Bazar area. My father is admitted to ICU and his condition is improving. However, on April 22 morning, the hospital administration asked me to shift my father to another hospital since the hospital as there would shortage of oxygen because the hospital was left with oxygen for next few hours only.” He said, “This information made me shocked because it is not easy to find a hospital under the current circumstances. I raised the issue before the authorities and urged them to ensure oxygen supply to the hospital because there are 12 patients, including my father in the ICU. By afternoon, the hospital received around eight cylinders of oxygen.” Thereafter he took a sigh of relief and thanked the authorities for paying attention to his request. Chaudhary appealed to the authorities to maintain supply to the hospital to avoid inconvenience to the patients in the ICU. Another 40-year-old patient has been admitted to the same hospital on April 18. He is on oxygen support. On Thursday morning, the patient’s kin, who does not wish to be named, said that the hospital authorities asked her to shift the patient to another hospital since the hospital was left with oxygen supply only till noon and there would be a shortage of oxygen. She took a sigh of relief after the hospital got a supply of cylinder in the noon. Not only these two persons but many others in Varanasi are being asked to shift their respective patient to another hospital due to the shortage of medical oxygen. Besides, many people are struggling to get beds with oxygen facility for their ailing kin. District Magistrate Kaushalraj Sharma said, “We are facing the biggest challenge to remove dearth of oxygen and meet its demand. This time, almost all the people who are getting infected by this deadly form of coronavirus require oxygen.” That is why, beds with oxygen facilities are being increased at the Trauma Centre, BHU. A total of 40 beds have been increased in the trauma centre on Thursday, besides, 15 ventilators have been provided to the BHU so that the general beds can be prepared for Covid patients, said Sharma. He said that all possible efforts are being made to meet the oxygen demand. ‘Now O2 reserve in hosps remain for 8-10 hrs’ VARANASI District magistrate Kaushal Raj Sharma said that nowadays, the hospitals in Varanasi have an oxygen reserve of 8-10 hours. Therefore, hospitals should admit the patients as per the availability of oxygen. DM said that a meeting was held with the in-charges of different hospitals on Tuesday. In the meeting, it was told to them that any hospital if facing problems in getting oxygen should reduce the number of beds and not admits new patients till the old patients get discharged. Every hospital should keep only as many patients as fits into its quota of oxygen, he said. The daily Oxygen supply is fixed and around 3400 oxygen cylinders are being supplied to various Covid hospitals. When the oxygen supply will get better, beds can be increased after a few days. We have reached the maximum capacity of beds according to oxygen availability, he added. BOXEmpty O2 cylinders reach Kashi from GujVARANASI Two hundred empty cylinders of oxygen reached Varanasi, said divisional commissioner of Varanasi, Deepak Agarwal, on Thursday. He said that these cylinders will be filled with oxygen and supplied to the hospitals. These cylinders have been brought from Gujarat. He added that 400 more empty cylinders will arrive in Varanasi within the next two days from Gujarat. These cylinders would be filled with oxygen and supplied to the hospitals. The order for these cylinders was placed a few days ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/medical-o2-crisis-increases-in-varanasi-hosps-ask-attendants-to-shift-patients-101619116971099.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Long queues outside civic-run vaccination centres in Mumbai||Around 10 days before the Covid-19 vaccination opens up for all above the age of 18 years, long queues were witnessed outside government and civic-run vaccination centres. The burden on government vaccination centres has increased as there are frequent closures of vaccination centres and many private hospitals have discontinued vaccination owing to shortage of stock.On Thursday, 48 private vaccination centres were shut owing to shortage of vaccine doses. As a result, long queues were seen outside civic-run vaccination centres. The scene was the same on Wednesday when around 40 of the total 129 vaccination centres could not carry out vaccination. Several jumbo centres like Dahisar Jumbo Centre, NESCO and civic hospitals in the city are witnessing long queues for vaccination.The daily number of people being vaccinated has come down to 25,000 to 40,000 from 50,000 to 60,000 about two weeks ago.Ashish Mhatre, a Dahisar resident said, “I had gone to Dahisar Jumbo Centre for vaccination, but there was a long queue and no social distancing was followed. I will now register and go at a later stage after taking a prior appointment.”The BMC on the other hand aims to have 500 vaccination centres in the city in the coming months, as vaccination for everyone above 18 years of age starts from May 1, 2021. As of Wednesday morning, the BMC had around 180,000 vaccines in stock that may go down to around 100,000 by Friday morning. On Thursday, 48,152 citizens were vaccinated of which 21,762 were senior citizens above the age of 60, 22,104 were between the age group of 45 to 60, 1,491 were health care workers and 2,795 were front line workers. Overall, 2,128,095 of citizens have been vaccinated in the city, so far. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner, said, “We have been getting vaccine doses from the Centre, but they are not in bulk.” The BMC has a storage capacity of stocking around 12 million vaccine doses at the central vaccine storage facility in Kanjurmarg, and the same is expected to be utilised starting May 1. Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, city-based physician said, “The crowding in the form of long queues outside civic vaccination centres will only prove dangerous considering the virus is mutating and its new variants are spreading faster. In all this, the long queues outside vaccination centres only add to the spread.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/long-queues-outside-civic-run-vaccination-centres-in-mumbai-101619116911032.html
23-04-2021||Other||Prayagraj admn fixes charges for wood used in cremation||People now will not have to pay extra money for the cremation of the bodies of their loved ones. In a bid to regulate the charges of cremation at the ghats, the administration has fixed the fee of cremation to ₹4000 including that of wood. The steps have been taken after reports that people were being charged hefty amounts for the cremation of the bodies of their kin started floating on social media. A video had also gone viral in which the person responsible for giving woods at Phaphamau Ghat was asking a family to pay a hefty amount. The police reached the scene after the family created a ruckus when they were allegedly stopped from cremating the body themselves. After the incident, two more persons were given the responsibility to supply wood at the ghat.It is worth mentioning that due to the large number of bodies coming in for cremation the family of deceased persons were charged ₹7000 and even more in the name of giving wood. The extra fee was causing scuffles at the ghat after which cops were deployed there.ADM (nazul) Gangaram Gupta said charges for wood have been fixed at ₹4000. No wood supplier can charge more than this amount. If any person is asked to pay more than the fixed amount then a complaint can be made in this connection. Strict action will be taken on such complaints, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/prayagraj-admn-fixes-charges-for-wood-used-in-cremation-101619116851530.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Taking steps to give drugs, oxygen: Mumbai civic body tells HC||On a day when the Supreme Court (SC) on Thursday took suo motu cognisance of the Covid-19 situation in the country and issued a notice to the Centre, the Bombay high court (HC), while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) questioning the mismanagement of the second Covid-19 wave in Maharashtra, was assured by the state and Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) that appropriate measures were being taken to ensure equitable distribution of life-saving drugs and oxygen. As the HC hearing was on, additional solicitor general Anil Singh informed the division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish Kulkarni that a web portal had carried a report that the Chief Justice of India had taken suo motu cognisance of all Covid-related public interest litigations (PIL) being heard by high courts and had decided to hear all petitions together on Friday, with senior advocate Harish Salve as the amicus curiae. Singh informed the court that it could not continue hearing the case further and that the Supreme Court will deal with supply of oxygen, essential drugs, method and manner of vaccination and powers of the state to declare a lockdown. However, as the SC was yet to issue an order staying the hearing in the HC or seeking transfer of petitions, the HC bench continued the hearing. The HC bench, while hearing the PIL filed by advocate Sneha Marjadi, was informed by advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni that the state was taking urgent steps to combat the spread. Pointing to the shortage of oxygen and life-saving drugs like Remdesivir, he submitted the Centre had announced that it would take care of it from May 1. On a query by the court on the availability till April 30, Kumbhakoni submitted that measures such as asking suppliers to hand over the medicines directly to the collector who, in turn, would distribute it to hospitals were put in place. To this, the court said there has to be a portal on availability of essential Covid-19 drugs. Referring to a news report from last year which said that people need to be cautious about the spread of Covid till June 2021, the HC said, “Had we not lowered our guard at least till June 30, 2021, this situation would not have arisen.” “You should realise this is an emergency situation,” said the bench, adding that black-marketing and profiteering should also be stopped. With regards to availability of Covid-19 tests, the state submitted the concerns and suggestions of advocate Simil Purohit for the petitioner to allow more labs for testing and having a uniform rate for the medicines would be considered. The court also stressed on the need for a faster way of testing, asking the state whether the RT-PCR tests could be made more affordable and accessible to all.Addressing the issue of availability of beds, both Kumbhakoni and senior advocate Anil Sakhare for the BMC submitted there were sufficient beds in the state and statistics showed there were more beds than existing patients. “The shortage is because the middle class and upper class are now affected and they want a bed in a hospital of their choice. When the same is not available, it is depicted as shortage, while closeby hospitals may have vacant beds,” said Kumbhakoni. The court accepted the suggestions of Purohit and advocate Rajesh Inamdar, for an intervener, on the use of print and electronic media to spread awareness on the measures and to curb panic.The court also sought to know from the state the effects of Covid-19 on smokers and said that till the virus was not eradicated completely, the state and Centre should consider banning smoking and consumption of tobacco products. Reacting to the Nashik oxygen leak that claimed 24 lives on Wednesday, the court said, “How can this happen in a civilised society? While the oxygen supply is less, there is leakage. It is of concern. This is not what we expect from a responsible government.” The HC said the Centre and state should set aside politicking and concentrate on tackling the problems. The court has scheduled the next hearing on May 6.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/taking-steps-to-give-drugs-oxygen-mumbai-civic-body-tells-hc-101619116850965.html
23-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra: Decide on jail transfer pleas in 48 hours, Bombay HC directs magistrates||The Bombay high court (HC) on Thursday directed magistrates to decide applications by prison authorities seeking transfer of undertrial prisoners from crowded jails to lesser crowded ones amid the prevailing Covid-19 situation within 48 hours. The court issued the directions to ensure ‘equitable distribution’ and to decongest jails some of which were having more prisoners than their capacity thus making the inmates susceptible to contracting the infection. A division bench of chief justice Dipankar Datta and justice Girish S Kulkarni issued the directions in the suo motu (on its own) public interest litigation (PIL) on the issue of overcrowding in the state and district jails which had resulted in almost 200 prisoners and 76 prison staff testing positive for Covid in the past month. In the previous hearing on April 20, the court had asked the state government to respond to its concerns over the surge in Covid-19 cases across prisons and provide suggestions on measures to prevent the same. According to the data furnished by the state to the HC about 35,124 prisoners are lodged across 47 jails in Maharashtra, which can house around 23,217 inmates only. The court on Tuesday had directed the state to provide details about the crime rate and the number of persons arrested after the April 13 ‘break the chain’ circular of the state government and inform whether there was any drop in the crime rate compared to the first 12 days of April 2021. On Thursday, after perusing the crime data submitted which it had sought from the state, the bench noted that offences of dacoity, robbery, kidnapping and theft were on the decline in 2020. However, it expressed its dissatisfaction with the data and said, “What has been placed before us does not serve the query of the court. The chart provided by the government is showing the crime rate in 2019 and 2020.” The court granted time to the state government to furnish a relevant response to its query during the next hearing. Thereafter, advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni informed the court that the procedure for decongesting jails and transferring prisoners required a judicial order, which the concerned magistrates could decide after hearing the prisoner and prison authority, and pass a reasoned order on the transfer. After senior advocate, Mihir Desai who had represented the Peoples Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL), an NGO which had sought various reliefs for prisoners during the outbreak of coronavirus in jails last year informed the court that transferring prisoners to other prisons could be a good option the bench said, “We do not doubt in our mind that having regard to the critical situation prevailing now, the state government may to ensure equitable distribution of undertrial prisoners, have to decide upon shifting some of them from overcrowded correctional homes. We have expressed hope and trust that the magistrate decides application as earliest possible, preferably within 48 hours of making such application.” HC will hear the PIL next on Tuesday, April 27.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-decide-on-jail-transfer-pleas-in-48-hours-bombay-hc-directs-magistrates-101619116670980.html
23-04-2021||Other||Restore 110MT oxygen supply to Nagpur, ensure distribution of Remdesivir: Bombay HC||The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court (HC) took strong exception to a decision by the Union ministry for health and family welfare (MoHFW) to reduce oxygen supply from a Bhilai supplier to Maharashtra and directed its restoration with immediate effect, in a late-night hearing on Wednesday. A division bench of Justices Sunil Shukre and S M Modak referred to the Centre’s communication of April 18, which cut down the oxygen supply from Bhilai-based oxygen supplier, Prax Air-Linde, from 110 MT to 60 MT, saying that it “hit the state of Maharshtra as a bolt from the blue”. “In this situation of emergency poignantly enveloping a region which accounts for almost 40% Covid patients of the entire nation, the communication from the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs should have been to the effect of increasing the supply of liquid oxygen to the State of Maharashtra from the present practice of 110 metric tons per day to somewhere between 200 to 300 metric tons per day.” “Unfortunately, the things have been turned in a reverse manner and it has affected very severely Covid patients in the State of Maharashtra and in particular the Vidarbha Region,” the bench said. The court noted that Nagpur requires 166.5MT of oxygen, while other districts of Vidarbha region, which encapsulates Nagpur, need 100MT. The fall in supply from Bhilai caused a shortfall of around 100MT. Nagpur has oxygen generating units with 146MT capacity. “We have also been told that PRAX AIR, HYPHEN LINDE had been, till recently, supplying 110 metric tons of liquid oxygen every day. But, now this supply has been reduced to 60 metric tons as per the communication dated 18.4.2020 issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Affairs, New Delhi. The figures noted down just now would show that there is a shortfall of about 100 metric tons between the demand and supply of oxygen and on the backdrop of this shortfall, the communication dated 18.4.2020 has hit the State of Maharashtra as a bolt from the blue,” the bench said. The court sought appropriate instructions from the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and directed the joint commissioner, Food and Drugs Administration, Nagpur to see to it that there is no breakdown in the supply of oxygen to all the hospitals in Nagpur. The bench directed the Central Controller of Drugs to be present on Friday for a hearing at 2.30 pm, with “all necessary information, and facts and figures”. This hearing was in continuation of Monday’s suo moto cognizance of the insufficient quantity of Remdesivir in Nagpur compared to other districts, following which the HC had ordered an immediate supply of the anti-viral drug to Nagpur. Stung into action, the authorities led by the divisional commissioner Dr Sanjeev Kumar, the district collector Ravindra Thakare and the municipal commissioner Radhakrishnan B obtained assurances from seven drug manufacturing companies for the supply of 6,752 additional vials of Remdesivir latest by Thursday evening. Condemning the negligent conduct of the authorities in complying with its directions to supply 10,000 Remdesivir vials to Nagpur, the HC blasted the authorities on Wednesday night, in a hearing which lasted till 11pm, as it refused to adjourn the hearing unless the order of April 19 directing the state to supply 10,000 vials of Remdesivir injection was complied with. The bench made its displeasure clear over tone and tenor of the affidavits filed by the FDA and district administration, which it said appeared to be passing the buck on to pharmaceutical companies. “You are violating fundamental rights of the people,” the High Court observed and asked them whose business it was to procure Remdesivir. “We feel ashamed of being a part of this nasty and evil society. We cannot do anything for the unfortunate patients of Maharashtra. This is how we are shirking our responsibilities. You are neglecting and ignoring our patients. We give you solution, you don’t follow it. You do not give us solution,” the bench said. Senior Counsel MG Bhangde, appearing for the State, candidly and quite forthrightly informed about difficulty in compiling information and collating the facts, and put forth the real picture before the court in presence of officials. In the second hearing held earlier this week, the HC directed the Nagpur Covid-19 Task Force, distributors, C&F agents and stockists of life-saving drugs to convene and initiate stern action against black-marketers. It noted the alleged malpractice of a Gujarat-based company where it was reported that the company was planning to export 60,000 vials of Remdesivir outside India despite a ban on export. The High Court noted that such incident would only indicate the possibility of indulgence in malpractices by some unscrupulous dealers, suppliers and manufacturers. It is always advisable for the authorities to take precautions and periodical checks, the court remarked. The HC pointed out that the Drug Controller of India had immense powers under Drug Control Act and several other statutes to direct pharmaceutical companies to increase production, ensure proper supply and also take stringent action in case of non-supply or deliberate under-supply. T It asked the central body to explain in detail steps taken to ensure fair and equitable supply of life-saving drugs before the court on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/restore-110mt-oxygen-supply-to-nagpur-ensure-distribution-of-remdesivir-bombay-hc-101619116611112.html
23-04-2021||Pune||Covid test results see five-day delay; labs work overtime in Pune||Pune: Though Pune city is carrying out more than 24,000 tests every day, there has been delay in getting the results. As many residents are reporting at the medical centres for tests, results are taking over four to five days. On Thursday, Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) collected 22,277 samples for testing for Covid-19. Speaking about the delay, Nishi Parkhe, a resident of Kothrud, said that she had to visit several hospitals and laboratories to get the test done. She had to wait for five days before getting her reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) test results. “I visited several hospitals last Thursday and Friday to get the test done. My husband has tested positive. But on weekends, no lab was taking the sample. At last I found a lab who took swab sample on Friday evening. But the sample was registered on Monday. And the test came negative late on Wednesday night. My husband was in home isolation. And I wanted to get the test done to ensure that I was negative,” said Parkhe. Dr Awanti Golwilkar-Mehendale, chief of laboratory at AG Diagnostics, said that laboratories are overloaded with samples due to rising positive patients of Covid. “When we started last year, we were testing around 80 to 100 tests a day. We had increased testing to around 1,000 tests a day during the last wave. And in the last few weeks, we have ramped up to more than 2,000 tests a day. There is a huge inflow of patients coming for testing. We have redirected our staff to address this process,” said Dr Mehendale. She said that labs across the city are working overtime to provide results as soon as possible to patients. “Test reports that show markers of a critical patient, we alert the patient. Many labs in the city have ramped up their services and are trying to conduct more tests,” said Dr Mehendale. Dr Sanjeev Wavare, assistant chief, PMC health department, said that as the three government labs were full, there was delay in getting results, but the condition has improved. “The lab kits at many private labs were over. Now, the condition has improved and reports are being issued without delay,” said Dr Wavare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-test-results-see-4-5-day-delay-labs-work-overtime-in-pune-101619108630387.html
23-04-2021||Pune||New curbs on pvt bus transport put brakes on operators’ business in Pune||Pune: The state government’s stringent new rules on inter-district travel as part of its efforts to break the Covid-19 pandemic has left private bus operators looking at a bleak future. They have termed the new rules and SOPs (standard operating procedures) non-viable and many have opted to stop plying buses on certain routes till the new restrictions are in place. According to the new curbs issued on Wednesday, private buses can ply with 50% seating capacity. Bus operators claimed that it is not affordable to ferry buses with 50% passenger as diesel rates have soared and ticket fare cannot be increased. “Nobody will travel in today’s condition by paying double fare to cover the empty seats. We have stopped plying buses on all routes from Thursday. The new rules will hit our business. Bus operators should decide if it is feasible to operate in this condition,” said Prasanna Patwardhan, chairman and managing director, Prasanna Purple, and president, Bus & Car Operators Confederation of India (Boci). According to the new rules for private bus operators declared on Wednesday by the state, bus service must restrict stoppages to maximum two in a city and at the stoppages alighting passengers must be stamped on the hand for 14-day home quarantine. “We are discussing the plan of operations. We have stopped the Gujarat route for Friday till the plan is finalised. We have closed the Nagpur route till May 1 from Wednesday. Till last week 3-4 buses plied on the Nagpur route daily. But the number had reduced to one now. Currently there are very few bookings on the Mumbai route as well. People are not even willing to travel as it will involve home quarantine. Many people have cancelled bookings after the mandatory RT-PCR test by Gujarat and Maharashtra governments,” said Akshay Nagras, business development manager, Neeta Tours & Travels. According to bus operators, March-June is a prime business season but, like last year, they are facing a lean period. “We closed our Nagpur route and only Marathwada has been operational since last year. With the new regulations, I don’t think it will be possible to function. Last year, when we got the permission to operate with full capacity diesel prices soared and our profit margin reduced. Now, when the situation was stabilising, business has been hit again,” said Pavan Patil, operator, Khurana Travels. As the administration slowly started to impose the curbs, anticipating lockdown many have already returned to their hometown. Now that the private bus services have been halted, passengers are contemplating other options. “My hometown is Akola and I have to travel home for an unavoidable reason. I was planning to travel in the next 2-3 days, but I heard that bus services could be disrupted. Now train is the only option available. I will try and book a ticket. I hope I will get it, as not many people are willing to travel now,” said a resident of Sangvi area on condition of anonymity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/new-curbs-on-pvt-bus-transport-put-brakes-on-operators-business-in-pune-101619108030396.html
23-04-2021||Pune||O2 manufacture industry in Pune in overdrive to fill demand-supply gap||Pune: Like the healthcare and frontline workers, employees working at oxygen manufacturing plants are working round the clock to meet the increasing demand of oxygen supply for Covid patients. The management of such firms have termed the handling of oxygen supply as a “war-like situation”. Sadashiv Survase, additional director, commissionerate of industries that monitors oxygen producing industries in Pune district, said, “It’s really a war- like situation and all plants are working in full capacity. They are facing issues related to extra load and production, but steps are taken to overcome it. This industry requires highly skilled manpower and the biggest challenge they face is to avoid and protect the staff from being infected by the coronavirus.” Surwase said, “We, as part of the government, ensure that the industry does not face any power failure and provide police protection to the plants besides addressing other needs.” A top official of an oxygen producing industry said, “As per the company policy, we cannot speak to the media. We are working hard on the work floor. At this stage, our priority is that the plant runs at full capacity and employees working at the ground should not get Covid-19 positive.” Another officer, on condition of anonymity, said, “There is a panic situation. We are getting calls from VIPs with request to divert oxygen to specific hospitals because of shortage. It’s becoming a challenge to monitor the supply chain.” Another officer on anonymity said that people are directly approaching plants with requests to refill cylinders. A district administration officer said, “Our priority is that all the four major plants in the district that produces oxygen should run full capacity and does not affect the oxygen supply and create a crisis.” Major medical oxygen producers Inox Air products (Chakan) Air Liquide India Holding Pvt Ltd (Chakan) Taiya Nippon Sanso India (Chakan) Linde India Ltd (Chakan) Oxygen cylinder refill units in the district Raigad Gas India (Chakan) Sudesh Gas India (Chakan) GVS Air Service (Baramati) United Gas Company (Shindewadi-Bhor) Kay Chandra Iron Engineering Works Pvt Ltd (Jejuri)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/o2-manufacture-industry-in-pune-into-overdrive-to-fill-demand-supply-gap-101619103109993.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi not receiving oxygen due to ‘jungle raj’ in UP, Haryana: Sisodia||Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said there is a “jungle raj” situation regarding oxygen supply in the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, because of which supplies in Delhi continue to be severely affected, and urged the Central government to deploy paramilitary forces for safe passage of tankers carrying medical oxygen for the national Capital.Addressing a press conference, Sisodia said Delhi on Wednesday did not even get 50% of the old quota of 378MT allocated for the national Capital. “Even if we go by the old quota of 378MT which Delhi was allotted by the Centre, we did not receive even that. Of the 378MT, Delhi received only 177MT yesterday. This is solely because of the dadagiri of Haryana and UP officials. The dire situation that Delhi is in today is only because there is absolute jungle raj in UP and Haryana over oxygen,” he said.Also Read | Top central govt official steps in to ensure smoother interstate oxygen movement“Our officials and even the Central government officials have tried to talk to officials in these states, but the situation on the ground has not changed. Our tankers are still waiting outside the plants. In the plants located in Haryana, only tankers from that state are being allowed to go in for refilling,” said Sisodia, who is also the nodal minister for Covid-19 in Delhi.The Delhi government requested the Centre to intervene and ensure trucks from UP and Haryana safely reach Delhi without any obstructions or delay.“Since the police in these respective states are being used to stop our trucks, I request the Central government to provide security to the tankers, even if it means deploying paramilitary forces to ensure seamless passage of trucks. Otherwise the horror that has unfolded over oxygen in Delhi over the past three days will turn more dangerous in the coming days,” he said.The Union government on Wednesday increased Delhi’s quota of medical oxygen from 378MT to 480MT per day. The move to increase Delhi’s quota came after the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) government sought at least 700MT per day in order to meet demand in hospitals that has surged due to a flood of Covid-19 patients.Sisodia said there is chaos regarding oxygen supply in several states across India because despite the Central government increasing Delhi’s quota, several states are trying to have control the supply.At present, several hospitals in Delhi are facing severe shortage, while in some, there is no oxygen at all. Some hospitals are releasing patients and closing new admissions. Saroj Hospital, Shanti Mukund Hospital, Rathi Hospital, Tirathram Hospital, UK Hospital, Jeevan Hospital sent SOS messages to the Delhi government on Thursday saying their oxygen stocks are over.“We are trying to arrange oxygen for them at war-footing by diverting it from hospitals that currently have oxygen in excess compared to the demand. But such internal and makeshift arrangements last only for about 2-3 hours. Delhi’s government and private hospitals have oxygen supplies for the next 4 to 12 hours only. The question is when the Central government has clearly allocated oxygen quota to all states, why are states such as Uttar Pradesh and Haryana acting as if there is a fight between them and Delhi,” Sisodia said.Day before yesterday a truck from Uttar Pradesh’s Modi Nagar was not allowed to leave the oxygen plant after district authorities and local police stopped the truck.“When that matter was resolved and oxygen supply resumed from Uttar Pradesh, then officials from the Haryana administration went and sat at the plant in Panipat and obstructed timely supply to Delhi. District officials of Haryana sat at the plant in Panipat and did not allow Delhi-bound trucks to leave. It was only at midnight that the truck was allowed to leave the facility,” the minister said.According to the updated allocation schedule, oxygen will be supplied to Delhi by at least five vendors from plants in Kalinga Nagar, Panipat, Rourkela, Roorkee, West Bengal, Bhiwadi, Barotiwala, Ghaziabad, Surajpur, Kashipur, Modinagar and Selakui.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-not-receiving-oxygen-due-to-jungle-raj-in-up-haryana-sisodia-101619089430007.html
23-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi may transport oxygen via air to save time: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday said the Delhi government is considering bringing oxygen from far flung states such as Odisha and West Bengal by air instead of road in order to save time and meet the increasing demand in hospitals across the city.Addressing a press conference, Kejriwal thanked the Delhi high court and the Central government for intervening and increasing the city’s quota of oxygen from 378 metric tonne (MT) to 480MT, even though he reiterated that the Capital needs 700MT. He, however, said it is the Centre which decides not just the quota but also the companies and places from where the oxygen is to be sourced.“Delhi does not produce oxygen, it sources it from plants in other states. The Centre decides the companies from which we get oxygen. The revised quota that the Centre has allotted to us, a substantial part of it is to come form Odisha. But, it will take several days to bring oxygen from Odisha to Delhi by road. We are exploring if bringing oxygen from there by air is possible. We are trying for that,” he said.Also Watch | ‘Very grateful’: Kejriwal as govt increases Delhi’s oxygen quota amid crisisSenior officials in the health department said despite the increase of 102MT per day, Delhi would be better placed if it received about 700MT every day. “There will be still a shortfall of 220MT per day which we will have to make up for by ensuring proper demand-side management and plugging oxygen consumption wastage. Also, in times of utmost crisis, oxygen is diverted from low-demand hospitals to high-demand ones, but that is supposed to be the last resort,” the official said.According to the updated allocation schedule, oxygen will be supplied by at least five vendors from plants in Kalinga Nagar, Panipat, Rourkela, Roorkee, West Bengal, Bhiwadi, Barotiwala, Ghaziabad, Surajpur, Kashipur, Modi Nagar and Selakui.“What remains a matter of grave concern is that of the 480 metric tonnes, 100 metric tonne oxygen from Odisha (70 metric tonne) and West Bengal (30 metric tonne) will take almost 72 hours to reach Delhi. Our citizens, our hospitals, our city is running out of time. Meanwhile, the 140 metric tonne which Haryana has to supply is yet to leave for Delhi,” said the government spokesperson.Kejriwal said Delhi faced a severe oxygen crisis over the past few days with some state government’s stopping tankers meant for Delhi to use in their states. “Night before last, a truck was supposed to leave from a neighbouring state to provide oxygen to Delhi government’s GTB hospital. But, that truck was not allowed to start from there. We contacted a Union minister at night for help and got the truck released. We thank the Central government and the Delhi high court for all their help and interventions,” said Kejriwal.With states clamouring for oxygen supplies, Kejriwal appealed to all states to put up a united front against Covid-19. He urged all states to help each other and assured if Delhi has oxygen in excess, the government would give it to other needy states.“Going by the number of Covid-19 cases, India is now the worst-hit country across the world. This is a very big catastrophe. In such as situation, if now we act in a divided way and think about our own states, then India will not survive. Right now, we should help each other. We have to be an Indian first and be humane. This is the time to help each other as only then India will survive. This disease does not spread on the basis of borders,” he said.Kejriwal reiterated that the Delhi government is preparing for more beds, oxygen and other medical supplies during this ongoing lockdown which is scheduled to be lifted at 5am on Monday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-may-transport-oxygen-via-air-to-save-timecmkejriwal-101619077369889.html
23-04-2021||Chandigarh||1,710 doses of Covid vaccine stolen from Jind civil hospital||Hours after a thief stole 1,710 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, comprising 440 doses of Covaxin and 1,270 doses of Covishield, from the PPE centre of civil hospital in Jind at 12.44am on Thursday, he left the doses at a tea stall outside Jind Civil Lines police station.Jind deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jitender Katkar said that the thief had handed over a sealed packet to an old man who was sitting at the tea stall outside the police station.“The thief told the old man to hand over the packet to a police personnel and said that there is food inside the packet. When the man brought the packet to the cops, they found vaccine doses inside it,” the DSP said.“We called the doctors and they checked the vials. No vaccine was found missing. The thief had also written a note saying ‘Sorry, I did not know it was corona vaccine’. We are checking the CCTV footage near the tea stall to identify the thief,” the DSP added.Police have registered a case under Sections 380 and 457 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the unknown person.Earlier in the day, Police said two men were caught on CCTV, breaking into the hospital’s store past midnight. “We have studied the footage in which the two men are seeing breaking into three locks to reach the vaccine stock,” the spokesman said. Civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said, “It seems the thief came to steal remdesivir, the medicine to treat Covid-19, but took away Covaxin and Covishield.” The civil surgeon said that despite the theft, there is no shortage of vaccine.“We have over 6,000 doses of vaccine and there is no shortage,” he added.Sheela Devi, store in-charge, said that a sanitation worker called her up on Thursday morning to report that the lock of the store was broken.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/1710-doses-of-covid-vaccine-stolen-from-jind-civil-hospital-101619072808995.html
23-04-2021||World||France, EU, Australia extend support, solidarity to India amid Covid-19 surge||France, Australia and the European Union (EU) on Friday offered support and solidarity to India as it grappled with a massive surge in Coronavirus infections that has stretched medical facilities across the country and resulted in shortages of oxygen and medicines. French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain tweeted a message from President Emmanuel Macron about providing support for India’s Covid-19 response, while cooperation on pandemic-related issues figured in a virtual meeting between external affairs minister S Jaishankar and European Commission executive vice-president Margrethe Vestager. “I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no-one. We stand ready to provide our support,” Macron was quoted as saying by the French envoy. Though the meeting between Jaishankar and Vestager largely focused on preparations for the virtual India-EU Summit next month, the two leaders also discussed India’s Covid-19 response. “Appreciated the support offered by EU on Covid-19 challenges currently faced by India. Confident that EU will help strengthen our capabilities at this critical juncture,” Jaishankar tweeted after the meeting. European Council President Charles Michel too said in a tweet that the EU “stands in solidarity with Indian people amidst [the] resurgent #COVID19 pandemic”. He added the fight against the virus is a “common fight” and said the EU would discuss its support and cooperation at the India-EU Summit on May 8. Australian foreign minister Marise Payne extended solidarity to India “as it tackles this latest Covid-19 outbreak” and said in a tweet: “India’s generosity and leadership in providing vaccines to our region is appreciated. We will continue to work together closely to respond to this global crisis.” Meanwhile, China on Friday said it was holding talks with India on sending assistance to New Delhi to fight the surge in Coronavirus cases, a day after offering to help with support. “Based on the needs [of the] Indian side, we stand ready to offer support and assistance. We are now holding communications with the Indian side,” foreign ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian told a briefing in Beijing. He didn’t give details of the assistance China intended to provide. India on Friday recorded the world’s highest daily tally of coronavirus cases for the second day in a row, with daily deaths too recording a jump. With 3,32,730 new cases, India’s total caseload crossed 16 million, and the official death toll rose by 2,263 to touch 186,920, according to health ministry data. As the cases surged, Canada announced it would temporarily bar passenger flights from India and Pakistan for 30 days as part of stricter measures to combat the spread of the Coronavirus. The government of Prime Minister Justin Trudeau acted after prominent opposition politicians complained Ottawa hasn’t done enough to combat a third wave of infections in Canada. The ban will not affect cargo flights. Canada’s health minister Patty Hajdu said while Indian citizens accounted for 20% of all international arrivals, they represented more than 50% of positive tests conducted by Canadian authorities. “By eliminating direct travel from these countries, public health experts will have the time to evaluate the ongoing epidemiology of that region and to reassess the situation,” she said. France imposed a 10-day quarantine requirement for travellers from India, Brazil, Chile, Argentina and South Africa, while Indonesia on Friday announced a ban on all travellers from India that will come into force on April 25. “The government has decided to stop granting visas to foreign nationals who live in or have visited India in the past 14 days,” economic affairs minister Airlangga Hartarto, who heads Indonesia’s Covid-19 handling and economic recovery committee, told a news conference. Australia, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Oman, the US, Britain and New Zealand have imposed travel restrictions on India or issued advisories against travelling to India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-eu-australia-extend-support-solidarity-to-india-amid-covid-19-surge-101619195576928.html
23-04-2021||World||Among Covid-19 survivors, an increased risk of death and serious illness: Study||Researchers have said people who have survived the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), including those who were not hospitalised, have an increased risk of death in the six months after their diagnosis. The research by experts at the Washington University School of Medicine in the US, published in the Nature journal on Thursday, also reveals the massive burden the coronavirus disease may place on the world's population in the coming years, they said."Our study demonstrates that up to six months after diagnosis, the risk of death following even a mild case of Covid-19 is not trivial and increases with disease severity. Physicians must be vigilant in evaluating people who have had Covid-19. These patients will need integrated, multidisciplinary care," senior author Ziyad Al-Aly, an assistant professor of medicine at Washington University School of Medicine, said.The researchers, after their study which involved more than 87,000 patients and nearly five million control patients, have also catalogued the numerous diseases associated with Covid-19, providing an overview of the long-term complications of the deadly disease. They confirmed that despite being initially a respiratory virus, long Covid-19 can affect nearly every organ system in the body.Also read | UK variant could be behind current Covid-19 surge in Delhi, says NCDC chiefThe researchers were able to calculate the potential scale of the problems first seen from anecdotal accounts and smaller studies that hinted at the wide-ranging side effects of surviving Covid-19 patients. These side effects include breathing problems, irregular heart rhythms, mental health issues and hair loss, they said. "This study differs from others that have looked at long Covid-19 because, rather than focusing on just the neurologic or cardiovascular complications, for example, we took a broad view and used the vast databases of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) to comprehensively catalogue all diseases that may be attributable to Covid-19," said Al-Aly.The researchers showed that Covid-19 survivors—after surviving the initial infection—beyond the first 30 days of illness had an almost 60 per cent increased risk of death over the following six months compared to the general population. The researchers noted that at the six-month mark, excess deaths among all Covid-19 survivors were estimated at eight people per 1000 patients. They said that among patients who were ill enough to be hospitalised with Covid-19 and who survived beyond the first 30 days of illness, there were 29 excess deaths per 1000 patients over the following six months.Also read | Tedros denounces Covid vaccine inequity as COVAX sharing scheme marks first year"These later deaths due to long-term complications of the infection are not necessarily recorded as deaths due to Covid-19. As far as total pandemic death toll, these numbers suggest that the deaths we are counting due to the immediate viral infection are only the tip of the iceberg," Al-Aly said.The researchers analysed data from the national health-care databases of the US department of veterans affairs—including 73,435 Veterans Health Administration (VHA) patients with confirmed Covid-19 but who were not hospitalised. Almost 5 million VHA patients, who did not have a Covid-19 diagnosis and were not hospitalised during this period, were included for comparison. The veterans were primarily or almost 88 per cent men but the large sample size meant that the study still included 8880 women with confirmed cases of the coronavirus disease.Also read | UK infections drop following Covid-19 vaccinations: ReportThe researchers said they analysed VHA data to conduct a separate analysis of 13,654 patients hospitalised with Covid-19 compared with 13,997 patients hospitalised with seasonal flu to help understand the long-term effects of more severe bout of the coronavirus disease. All patients survived at least 30 days after hospital admission and the analysis included six months of follow-up data.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/among-covid-19-survivors-an-increased-risk-of-death-and-serious-illness-study-101619190920916.html
23-04-2021||World||India in talks to end impasse on import of vaccine raw materials from US||The United States is committed to inoculating Americans “first and foremost”, the Biden administration has said defending restrictions on the export of raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines that could potentially slow down production of vaccines in India at a time when it is witnessing a deadly second wave.India has taken up the issue with the US at a high level and discussions are ongoing. India’s external affairs Minister S Jaishankar has spoken with his US counterpart Antony Blinken, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla has discussed it with deputy secretary of state Wendy Sherman and ambassador Taranjit Singh Sandhu has raised it with the White House. Americans have promised to “give the matter due consideration” and work with India to “find appropriate solutions”, according to people familiar with these developments.Along with other high-income countries, the United States has also refused to back a proposal from India and South Africa allowing the World Trade Organization to grant a temporary waiver of intellectual property rights on Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and technologies to make them freely available around the world.“The United States first and foremost is engaged in an ambitious and effective and, so far, successful effort to vaccinate the American people,” State Department Spokesperson Ned Price told reporters on Thursday when asked about the export restrictions on raw materials that is causing slowdown in the production of vaccines in India.The spokesperson went on to say that Americans need to be inoculated first having been hit the hardest by the pandemic. And, then he argued that it is “not only in our interest to see Americans vaccinated; it’s in the interests of the rest of the world to see Americans vaccinated”.Under the Defense Production Act (DPA), a war-time law that President Joe Biden invoked in February, American supplies of raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines are prioritised for American buyers to ramp up US availability of vaccines, which, in turn, has resulted in massive delays in shipments ordered by outside buyers, such as Indian vaccine maker Serum Institute of India (SII). Its owner-CEO Adar Poonawalla publicly raised the issue in a tweet, urging the US president to “lift the embargo”.US officials have insisted there is no explicit ban on the export of these raw materials. But, supplies of an estimated 35 categories of items needed by Indian makers of Covid-19 vaccines, are held up under the Defense Priorities and Allocations System Program (DPAS) of the DPA.These raw materials include reagents, plastic tubing material, nano-filters and bioreactor bags, which SII has said, are needed for making Novavax and the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccines (later is called Covishield in India).Price also sought to defend the US restrictions by pointing to commitments made by the Biden administration to COVAX, the WHO-led initiative to ensure free and equitable access to vaccines by every country and part funding of a Quad initiative under which India will manufacture up to 1 billion doses of Covid-19 vaccines by 2022-end for distribution in Indo-Pacific countries. Part of the funding will come from Japan, the third member of the group, and Australia, the fourth member, will take care of last-mile distribution. The US has announced an arrangement with neighbours Canada and Mexico.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/india-in-talks-to-end-impasse-on-import-of-vaccine-raw-materials-from-us-101619192276808.html
23-04-2021||World||Bitcoin sinks below $50,000 as cryptos stumble over Biden tax plans||Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies suffered hefty losses on Friday on concern that U.S. President Joe Biden's plan to raise capital gains taxes will curb investment in digital assets.The selloff came after reports that the Biden administration is planning a raft of proposed changes to the U.S. tax code, including a plan to nearly double taxes on capital gains to 39.6% for people earning more than $1 million.Bitcoin, the biggest and most popular cryptocurrency, slumped 5% to $48,8867, falling below the $50,000 mark for the first time since early March, while smaller rivals Ether and XRP fell around 7%.The tax plans jolted markets, prompting investors to book profits in stocks and other risk assets, which have rallied massively on hopes of a solid economic recovery. Levies on investment gains were reported to be in line for record increases."Bitcoin headed South today after President Biden signalled that he wanted to raise capital gains tax in the US," said Jeffrey Halley, senior market analyst, Asia Pacific, at OANDA. "Now whether that happens or not, many bitcoin investors are probably sitting on some substantial capital gains if they stayed the course over the past year.""I firmly believe that developed market regulation and/or taxation remain the crypto markets' Achilles Heel," he added.Bitcoin is on track for a 15% loss on the week, though it is still up 65% since the start of the year. Ether dropped more than 10% on the day to as low as $2,107, a day after climbing to a record $2,645.97.But while social media lit up with posts about the plan hurting cryptocurrencies, and individual investors complaining about losses, some traders and analysts said declines are likely to be temporary."I don't think Biden's taxes plans will have a big impact on bitcoin," said Ruud Feltkamp, CEO at automated crypto trading bot Cryptohopper. "Bitcoin has only gone up for a long time, it is only natural to see a consolidation. Traders are simply cashing in on winnings."Others also remained bullish on bitcoin's long term prospects, but noted it might take time before prices start increasing again."There are reasons to believe the overall trend will remain bullish unless the price drops below $40k," said Ulrik Lykke, executive director at crypto hedge fund ARK36. "At the moment, we are not convinced that the trend will reverse into a bear market but we acknowledge it may take some time before the demand overtakes the supply again in the medium to short term."Shares of cryptocurrency exchange Coinbase also fell around 4% to $282 in U.S. pre-market trading, marking the lowest level since its listing earlier this month. The listing had driven bitcoin prices to $65,000, before pulling back 25% in the following days."The Coinbase listing – the ultimate poacher-turned-gamekeeper moment - might have been the high watermark for Bitcoin," said Neil Wilson, chief market analyst at Markets.com.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/bitcoin-sinks-below-50-000-as-cryptos-stumble-over-biden-tax-plans-101619184240338.html
23-04-2021||World||Russian's Navalny to end prison hunger strike on 24th day||Imprisoned opposition leader Alexei Navalny says he is ending his hunger strike after getting medical attention and being warned by his doctors that continuing it would put his life at risk.In an Instagram post on Friday afternoon, the 24th day of his hunger strike, Navalny said he will continue to demand a visit from his doctor to address a loss of sensation in his legs and arms – the main demand the politician announced when launched his hunger strike.But he said he would stop the strike after having been examined by non-prison doctors, something he called “a huge progress.”“Thanks to the huge support of good people across the country and around the world, we have made huge progress,” Navalny said in his message. “Two months ago, my requests for medical help were prompting smirks. I wasn't given any medications....Thanks to you, now I have been examined by a concilium of civilian doctors twice.”Navalny said he would start “coming out of the hunger strike” on Friday and the process of ending it will take 24 days.The 44-year-old politician, who was arrested earlier this year and is serving a 2 ½-year sentence, began the hunger strike on March 31 to protest prison authorities' refusal to let his doctors visit after he developed severe back pain and numbness in his legs.Officials insisted Navalny was getting all the medical help he needs, but Navalny said he received effectively no treatment.On Wednesday night, another round of mass protests demanding his freedom swept across Russia. A top aide said Wednesday night's protests seemed to have brought a compromise from Russian authorities on getting Navalny the medical help he had demanded when launching the hunger strike.Navalny, who is President Vladimir Putin's most well-known critic, was arrested in January upon his return from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from a nerve agent poisoning he blames on the Kremlin — accusations that Russian officials reject.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russians-navalny-to-end-prison-hunger-strike-on-24th-day-101619181515578.html
23-04-2021||World||Saudi Arabia's new curriculum to include Ramayana, Mahabharata||A tweet about Prince Mohammed bin Salman’s new vision for the education sector in Saudi Arabia, Vision 2030, involving the history and culture of different countries in the country’s curriculum, has gone viral.The tweet by Nouf Almarwaai included screenshots of son’s social studies exam with questions about Hinduism, Buddhism and Hindu epics the Ramayana and Mahabharata. “Saudi Arabia’s new #vision2030 & curriculum will help to create a coexistent,moderate & tolerant generation. Screenshots of my son's school exam today in Social Studies included concepts & history of Hinduism, Buddhism,Ramayana, Karma, Mahabharata Dharma. I enjoyed helping him study,” the tweet, with the screenshots of the question paper, read.Saudi Arabia’s new #vision2030 & curriculum will help to create coexistent,moderate & tolerant generation. Screenshots of my sons school exam today in Social Studies included concepts & history of Hinduism,Buddhism,Ramayana, Karma, Mahabharata &Dharma. I enjoyed helping him study pic.twitter.com/w9c8WYstt9As part of the Vision 2030 of the Saudi Prince, other significant elements of Indian culture like yoga and Ayurveda apart from the Ramayana and Mahabharata will also be included in the school curriculum, according to media reports. The English language has also been made mandatory under the new vision, the reports claimed.Also read: Tedros denounces Covid vaccine inequity as COVAX sharing scheme marks first yearNouf, who is also a Padma Shri awardee for being the first certified yoga instructor in Saudi Arabia, tweeted about the new curriculum on April 15. Since then, the tweet has been doing rounds on social media platforms for the diversity in curriculum adopted by the Islamic state. The tweet was also appreciated and retweeted by Rajya Sabha MP Dr Vinay Sahasrabuddhe. Nouf, who was born with an autoimmune disease, has been known to play a crucial role in legalising yoga in Saudi Arabia.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/saudi-arabia-s-new-curriculum-to-include-ramayana-mahabharata-101619174205846.html
23-04-2021||World||Holding communications with India on pandemic help: China||China on Friday said it was holding talks with India on sending assistance to New Delhi to fight the surge in coronavirus cases, a day after offering to help with necessary support.India on Friday recorded the world’s highest daily tally of coronavirus cases for a second day in a row with daily deaths from the disease also recording a jump.With 332,730 new cases, India’s total caseload has now crossed 16 million with the official death toll rising by 2,263 to reach a total of 186,920, according to health ministry data quoted by Reuters.In Beijing, the Chinese foreign ministry said China was ready to offer assistance according to India’s needs.“Based on the need for Indian side we stand ready to offer support and assistance. We are now holding communications with the Indian side,” ministry spokesperson, Zhao Lijian said to a question on the pandemic situation in India.Zhao did not give details of what kind of assistance China was willing to extend to India.Zhao said China and the Chinese people were with India in its fight against the pandemic. “For the recently deteriorating epidemic situation in India we send our sincere sympathies. The Chinese government and the people firmly support the Indian government and their people in their fight,” Zhao added. “We believe the Indian people will surely conquer the epidemic at an early date.”Earlier in the day, the foreign ministry told the Hindustan Times that it was willing to talk to India about its specific needs in fighting pandemic.The spike in Covid-19 cases has put medical infrastructure under severe strain with hospitals in parts of India running out of essential medical supplies including oxygen.Responding to a query from Hindustan Times about what kind of assistance Beijing was ready to offer to New Delhi, the Chinese foreign ministry said it was ready to talk to India about what it needs. “China is willing to communicate (on) specific matters with India according to its needs,” the ministry said in a one-line statement in Mandarin to HT earlier on Friday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/holding-communications-with-india-on-pandemic-help-china-101619174756124.html
23-04-2021||World||Indonesian submarine lost at sea with less than a day's oxygen left. US joins search||Rescue teams from several countries were battling against time on Friday to find a missing Indonesian Navy submarine lost in the Bali Sea with 53 crew, which would be rapidly running out of oxygen if not already crushed by water pressure.Search helicopters and more navy ships left Bali and a naval base in Java at first light heading to the area where contact was lost with the 44-year-old KRI Nanggala-402 on Wednesday as it prepared to conduct a torpedo drill."The main priority is the safety of the 53 crew members," President Joko Widodo said late on Thursday.Indonesia's navy said it was investigating whether the submarine lost power during a dive and could not carry out emergency procedures as it descended to a depth of 600-700 metres, well beyond its survivable limits.An object with "high magnetic force" had been spotted "floating" at a depth of 50-100 metres, Indonesian Navy Chief of Staff Yudo Margono said, and an aerial search had earlier spotted an oil spill near the submarine's last location.If the submarine was still intact, officials said it would only have enough air to last about another 15 hours until early Saturday morning.The diesel-electric powered submarine could withstand a depth of up to 500 metres (1,640 ft) but anything more could be fatal, Navy spokesman Julius Widjojono said. The Bali Sea can reach depths of more than 1,500 metres.One of the people on board the boat was the commander of the Indonesian submarine fleet, Harry Setiawan.An Indonesian defence expert said the crew could still be found alive."But if the submarine is in a 700-metre sea trough, it will be difficult for them to survive because underwater pressure will cause cracks and ruptures of the steel hull," Connie Rahakundini Bakrie said.Distraught relatives await newsThe submarine joined the Indonesian fleet in 1981, according to the defence ministry, and underwent a refit in South Korea completed in 2012. It was said to be in good condition."I hope that they will be found alive," said Berda Asmara, the wife of crew member Guntur Ari Prasetyo, 39, who has sailed on the Nanggala for 10 years."We had a video call. He told me that he would go sailing and asked me to pray for him," she said of the last time they spoke.Australia, India, Malaysia, Singapore and the United States have sent specialised ships or aircraft in response to Indonesian requests for assistance.The US Defence Department is sending "airborne assets" to assist in the submarine search, a Pentagon spokesman said.Two Australian Navy ships were heading for the search area including a frigate with special sonar capabilities, the defence department said.Indonesia operates five submarines - two German-built Type 209s including Nanggala and three newer South Korean vessels.It has been seeking to modernise its defence capabilities but some of its equipment is old and there have been fatal accidents in recent years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indonesian-submarine-lost-in-sea-with-less-than-a-day-s-oxygen-left-us-joins-search-101619172192490.html
23-04-2021||World||SpaceX launches 3rd crew in under year, fly on reused Falcon 9 rocket||SpaceX launched four astronauts toward orbit Friday using a recycled rocket and capsule, the third crew flight in less than a year for Elon Musk’s rapidly expanding company.The astronauts from the U.S., Japan and France should reach the International Space Station early Saturday morning, following a 23-hour ride in the same Dragon capsule used by SpaceX’s debut crew last May. They’ll spend six months at the orbiting lab.It was the first time SpaceX reused a capsule and rocket to launch astronauts for NASA, after years of proving the capability on station supply runs. The rocket was used last November on the company’s second astronaut flight.Embracing the trend, spacecraft commander Shane Kimbrough and his crew weeks ago wrote their initials in the rocket’s soot, hoping to start a tradition.For NASA astronaut Megan McArthur, it was a bit of deja vu. She launched in the same seat in the same capsule as her husband, Bob Behnken, did during SpaceX’s first crew flight. This time it was Behnken and their 7-year-old son waving goodbye. McArthur blew kisses and offered virtual hugs.Also flying SpaceX on Friday: Japan’s Akihiko Hoshide and France’s Thomas Pesquet, the first European to launch in a commercial crew capsule.A masked Musk met briefly with the astronauts at NASA’s Kennedy Space Center before they boarded white gull-winged Teslas from his electric car company. The astronauts’ spouses and children huddled around the cars for one last “love you” before the caravan pulled away and headed to the pad in the predawn darkness.Despite the early hour, spectators lined surrounding roads to watch the Falcon take flight an hour before sunrise. Liftoff was delayed a day to take advantage of better weather along the East Coast in case of a launch abort and emergency splashdown.NASA limited the number of launch guests because of Covid-19, but SpaceX’s next private passengers made the cut. Tech billionaire Jared Isaacman, who’s bought a three-day flight, watched the Falcon soar with the three people who will accompany him. Their capsule is still at the space station and due back on Earth with four astronauts next Wednesday. It will be refurbished in time for a September liftoff.For Friday’s automated flight, SpaceX replaced some valves and thermal shielding, and installed new parachutes on the capsule, named Endeavour after NASA’s retired space shuttle. Otherwise, the spacecraft is the same vehicle that flew before.“We’re thrilled to have a crew on Endeavour once again," SpaceX Launch Control radioed minutes before liftoff.The first-stage booster aimed for a touchdown on an ocean platform nine minutes after liftoff.Rapid reusability is critical to Musk’s effort to open space to everyone, land NASA’s next moonwalkers and, his loftiest goal by far, build a city on Mars.Musk will go a long way toward achieving that first objective with the private flight in September. It will be followed in October by SpaceX’s fourth crew launch for NASA.SpaceX picked up the station slack for NASA after the space agency’s shuttles retired in 2011, starting with supply runs the following year. The big draw was last year’s return of astronaut launches to Florida. “It’s awesome to have this regular cadence again,” said Kennedy’s director Robert Cabana, a former shuttle commander.Boeing, NASA’s other contracted crew transporter, isn’t expected to start launching NASA astronauts until early next year. First, it needs to repeat a test flight of an empty Starliner capsule, possibly in late summer, to make up for its software-plagued debut in December 2019.Last week, SpaceX beat out two other companies, including Jeff Bezos’ Blue Origin, to land astronauts on the moon for NASA in three or more years. They’ll descend to the lunar surface in Starship, the shiny, bullet-shaped rocketship that Musk is testing in the skies over Texas, with fiery, explosive results.“It’s a great time to be here, and we’re very excited,” the European Space Agency’s Frank De Winne, an astronaut turned manager, said shortly before liftoff. The space station eventually will come to an end, he noted, but the partnership will continue amid hopes of “European astronauts one day walking on the surface of the moon.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/spacex-launches-3rd-crew-in-under-year-fly-on-reused-falcon-9-rocket-101619172088756.html
23-04-2021||World||Pakistan faces third Covid-19 wave. Low oxygen chokes Islamabad hospitals||Crisis looms large over major hospitals in Pakistan as they approach saturation due to rising Covid-19 cases. Pakistan is reeling under the third wave of coronavirus. The country has reported new 144 fatalities due to coronavirus, raising the total death tally to 16,842 on Friday. So far, 784,108 cases have been reported in Pakistan.The situation in Islamabad seems to be particularly precarious as the largest medical facility here, the Pakistan Institute of Medical Sciences (PIMS), is struggling with low oxygen pressure amidst a tidal wave of Covid-19 patients, Geo reported.According to the latest data by the National Command and Operation Centre on its official web portal, 5,870 new coronavirus cases have been recorded in Pakistan, Geo News reported.At least 53,818 coronavirus tests were conducted across the country in the last 24 hours, out of which 5,870 came back positive.A critical situation was reported at PIMS on April 18, when ventilators reserved for coronavirus patients started sounding alarms.The ventilator alarms are triggered when the pressure of oxygen being supplied to a patient drops below the required level. On that day, it dropped from 100% to 70%.The incident caused panic at the facility as there were five patients on ventilators at the time in the coronavirus intensive care ward. At the time, there were 147 patients occupying the 183 beds allocated for Covid-19 patients at the hospital. A separate 30 patients were in the hospital's emergency ward.The situation was serious as most of the patients affected were dependent on 'high flow oxygen' for survival -- a medical condition where they need more oxygen in comparison to ordinary patients as they suffer from acute breathing difficulties.When contacted, Joint Executive Director PIMS Dr Minhaj-us-Siraj told Geo News that the drop in oxygen pressure was mainly attributable to the sharp increase in the number of coronavirus patients at the hospital and the need to continuously supply oxygen to them.The PIMS administration explained that the health facility's storage tank is in fact full of oxygen. The real issue is to maintain oxygen pressure as the oxygen supply lines running through the hospital are in excessive use owing to an unprecedented number of patients needing oxygen for life support.Among the hospitals catering to the capital city, the Federal Government and Social Security hospitals do not have proper arrangements for high flow oxygen beds, according to the health ministry.There is no ventilator available for Covid-19 patients at these facilities either.Recently, Pakistan Minister for Planning, Development and Special Initiatives Asad Umar expressed concerns as Oxygen supply capacity in the country is now under stress and hospitals are filling up.Global covid cases exceeding 750,000 per day and deaths more than 13,000. We are seeing some of the worst numbers since covid started. Our neighbourhood in severe crises... Need for safety precautions greater than ever," Pakistan Minister for Planning, Development and Special Initiatives Asad Umar tweeted."Hospital fill up continuing to grow. Critical care patients now above 4500, which is 30% higher than the peak in June last year. Oxygen supply capacity in the country is now under stress. Sop compliance remains low. We are making a huge mistake by not following sop's," he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-faces-third-covid-19-wave-low-oxygen-chokes-islamabad-hospitals-101619170172690.html
23-04-2021||World||Tedros denounces Covid vaccine inequity as COVAX sharing scheme marks first year||Coronavirus vaccines remain out of reach in the poorest countries, the head of the World Health Organization (WHO) said in a report on Friday, marking the first anniversary of the COVAX dose-sharing facility."Nearly 900 million vaccine doses have been administered globally, but over 81% have gone to high- or upper middle-income countries, while low-income countries have received just 0.3%," WHO director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said about the ACT (Access to Covid-19 Tools) Accelerator set up a year ago.Tedros has repeatedly denounced inequities in vaccine distribution and urged wealthier countries to share excess doses to help inoculate health workers in low-income countries. More than 3 million people have died in the pandemic.COVAX, which has shipped 40.5 million doses to 118 countries so far, aims to secure 2 billion doses by the end of 2021.On Thursday, COVAX, co-run by the Gavi Vaccine Alliance and WHO, said it was seeking to bolster its supplies of vaccines for poor countries from new manufacturers as it aims to mitigate supply problems of the AstraZeneca vaccine from India, its main shot so far."Low-income countries test less than 5% as much as high-income countries, and the majority of countries still have trouble accessing sufficient oxygen and dexamethasone," Tedros said. He was referring to an inexpensive steroid found to help patients suffering severe Covid-19, the only WHO-approved treatment for the disease.India reported the world's highest daily tally of coronavirus cases for a second day on Friday, surpassing 330,000 new cases, as it struggles with a health system overwhelmed by patients and plagued by accidents and lack of medical oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/tedros-denounces-covid-vaccine-inequity-as-covax-sharing-scheme-marks-first-year-101619168203732.html
23-04-2021||World||UK spy chief warns of China, Russia threats to web freedom||The freedom and security of the internet is at risk from the competing world views of China and Russia, and Western nations must adapt to face the threat, a U.K. spy chief will say on Friday.Jeremy Fleming, director of GCHQ -- the branch of British intelligence dealing with intercepts and cyber security -- will use a speech to warn that if left unchecked, foreign adversaries could threaten the security of future technologies such as smart cities. He will invite further collaboration with the private sector to counter the risk.“Without action it is increasingly clear that the key technologies on which we will rely for our future prosperity and security won’t be shaped and controlled by the West; we are now facing a moment of reckoning,” Fleming will say, according to extracts of his speech released by his office. “In the natural world, during a period of rapid change, the only option is to adapt. And it’s the same for us.”Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said in a briefing Friday in Beijing that the remarks are groundless and unreasonable. “The U.S., U.K. and others are the true empires of hacking,” he said.The U.K. should develop sovereign technologies in key areas like quantum, developing cryptographic technologies to protect sensitive information, Fleming will say. The country should also work with allies to build cyber defenses, according to the remarks.The U.K. characterizes Russia and China as different types of threat. In November, Ken McCallum, Director General of MI5 -- the U.K.’s homeland security branch -- said that while Russia might provide “bursts of bad weather” espionage activity by Chinese spies is “changing the climate”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-spy-chief-warns-of-china-russia-threats-to-web-freedom-101619168381717.html
23-04-2021||World||Russia scrambles fighter jet to accompany US spy plane: Report||The Russian military scrambled a MiG-31 fighter jet to escort a U.S. reconnaissance aircraft over the Pacific ocean as it approached the Russian border, the Interfax news agency said on Friday, citing the Russian Pacific Fleet."The Russian fighter crew identified the aerial target as a US Air Force RC-135 strategic reconnaissance aircraft and escorted it over the waters of the Pacific Ocean," Interfax reporting, citing the Fleet's statement.The Russian military jet returned to its home airfield after the U.S. plane had turned away from the Russian border, Interfax reported.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-scrambles-fighter-jet-to-accompany-us-spy-plane-report-101619167948793.html
23-04-2021||World||More than 100 Europe-bound migrants feared dead in shipwreck off Libyan coast||More than 100 Europe-bound migrants are feared dead in a shipwreck off the Libyan Mediterranean coast, independent rescue groups said.SOS Mediterranee, which operates the rescue vessel Ocean Viking, said late Thursday that the wreck of a rubber boat, which was initially carrying around 130 people, was spotted in the Mediterranean Sea northeast of the Libyan capital, Tripoli. The aid vessel did not find any survivors but could see at least ten bodies near the wreck, the group added in a statement.“We are heartbroken. We think of the lives that have been lost and of the families who might never have certainty as to what happened to their loved ones,” read the statement.In the years since the 2011 NATO-backed uprising that ousted and killed longtime dictator Moammar Gadhafi, war-torn Libya has emerged as the dominant transit point for migrants fleeing war and poverty in Africa and the Middle East. Smugglers often pack desperate families into ill-equipped rubber boats that stall and founder along the perilous Central Mediterranean route.The European humanitarian organization added that more than 350 people have drowned in the sea so far this year, not counting the victims of this latest shipwreck.“States abandon their responsibility to coordinate Search and Rescue operations, leaving private actors and civil society to fill the deadly void they leave behind,” added the statement.Alarm Phone, a crisis hotline for migrants in distress in the Mediterranean, said in another statement that it had been in contact with the boast in distress for nearly ten hours before it capsized. Alarm Phone added that it had notified European and Libyan authorities of the GPS position of the boat but only non-state rescue groups actively searched for it.“The people could have been rescued but all authorities knowingly left them to die at sea,” they said in the statement.Alarm phone accused European authorities of refusing to coordinate a search operation, and instead laid full responsibility on the Libyan coastguard, who also declined to launch a rescue operation.In recent years, the European Union has partnered with Libya’s coast guard and other local groups to stem such dangerous sea crossings. Rights groups, however, say those policies leave migrants at the mercy of armed groups or confined in squalid detention centres rife with abuses.“These are the human consequences of policies which fail to uphold international law and the most basic of humanitarian imperatives,” tweeted Eugenio Ambrosi, Chief of Staff for the International Organization for Migration.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/more-than-100-europe-bound-migrants-feared-dead-in-shipwreck-off-libyan-coast-101619167251916.html
23-04-2021||World||France pledges solidarity with India amid Covid-19 surge||France stands ready to provide its support to India in its fight against Covid-19, said French president Emmanuel Macron, as the pandemic situation in the country deteriorated with over 3 lakh infections being reported in a day."I want to send a message of solidarity to the Indian people, facing a resurgence of Covid-19 cases. France is with you in this struggle, which spares no one. We stand ready to provide our support," French Ambassador Emmanuel Lenin tweeted Macron's message on Friday.India has reported 3,32,730 new Covid-19 cases on Friday with 2,263 fatalities in the last 24 hours, as per the Union health ministry. The country's caseload has topped 1.62 crores. The death toll due to infection stands at 1,86,920.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in an address to the nation Tuesday evening, called the second Covid wave a "toofan" (storm) that has swept the country.The worsening Covid-19 situation has seen a surge in the demand for medical oxygen and beds for the Covid-19 patients and many states are reporting an acute shortage in essential medical supplies.Availability of oxygen is a key element in the treatment of certain medical conditions in the Covid-19 infection.With the Covid-19 situation worsening, many countries have imposed travel restrictions on travellers from India.France on Wednesday announced that it will impose a 10-day quarantine for travellers arriving from India in the coming days to prevent the spread of a Covid-19 variant found in India.The UAE has banned travel from India for 10 days from Sunday. Passengers who have transited through India in the last 14 days are also not permitted to board from any other point to the UAE, the Gulf News reported.Recently, the United Kingdom added India to its travel "red list" on a precautionary basis after reporting 103 cases of a coronavirus variant first identified in India. The Russian Embassy's visa section temporarily ceased its operations until further notice due to India's Covid-19 situation, it announced on Monday.As Covid-19 cases soar, the United States has also issued a 'Level 4 (Very High)' warning for potential travellers to India asking them to "avoid all travel" to the country even if they are fully vaccinated.Hong Kong on Tuesday announced the suspension of all flights connecting with India for 14 days amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the region. The authorities have also suspended flights from Pakistan and the Philippines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/france-pledges-solidarity-with-india-amid-covid-19-surge-101619157291071.html
23-04-2021||World||UK infections drop following Covid-19 vaccinations: Report||Covid-19 infections in adults of all ages fell by 65% after a first dose of AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccine in UK research, which scientists said showed the real-world impact of the nation's immunisation campaign against the pandemic.Crucially, the research was conducted at a time when a new and more infectious variant of the coronavirus, called B1.1.7, was dominant in Britain, but still found vaccination was just as effective in elderly people and those with underlying health conditions as it was in the young and healthy."These real-world findings are extremely promising," health minister James Bethell said in a statement as the data were published. He said they showed Britain's COVID-19 vaccination programme - one of the world's fastest - was having a "significant impact".The data come from two studies that are part of the COVID-19 Infection Survey - a collaboration between Oxford University, the government's health department, and the Office of National Statistics. Both studies were published online as preprints on Friday and have not yet been peer-reviewed.The researchers analysed more than 1.6 million test results from nose and throat swabs taken from 373,402 study participants between Dec. 1, 2020 and April 3, 2021.They found that 21 days after a single dose of either the AstraZeneca or Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine - with no second dose - rates of all new COVID-19 infections had dropped by 65%.This included a drop in symptomatic infections by 74% and a drop in infections with no reported symptoms by 57%.Reductions in overall infections and in symptomatic infections, were even greater after a second dose - 70% and 90% respectively - the study found, and were similar to effects in people who had previously had a COVID-19 infection.The second study looked at levels of antibodies to the SARS-CoV-2 virus to see how they changed after one dose of either vaccine, and after two Pfizer doses.Results showed that antibody responses to a single dose of either vaccine were slightly lower in older people, but high across all ages after two Pfizer doses.More than 33 million people in Britain have received a first dose of a COVID-19 vaccine, with more than 10 million having had two doses, official data showed on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-infections-drop-following-covid-19-vaccinations-report-101619155021740.html
23-04-2021||World||Ready to support India in its fight against Covid-19: China||China on Friday said it was willing to talk to India about what it needs to fight the massive surge in coronavirus cases, a day after offering to help New Delhi with necessary support and help.India reported 314,835 new coronavirus cases on Thursday (for the preceding 24 hours), the highest single-day tally recorded anywhere in the world since the pandemic started last year.India’s death toll from the disease rose 2,104 in the same time period.The spike in Covid-19 cases has put medical infrastructure under severe strain with hospitals in parts of India running out of essential medical supplies including oxygen.Responding to a query from Hindustan Times about what kind of assistance Beijing was ready to offer to New Delhi, the Chinese foreign ministry said it was ready to talk to India about what it needs. “China is willing to communicate (on) specific matters with India according to its needs,” the ministry said in a one-line statement in Mandarin to HT.It could not be ascertained if Beijing had officially conveyed to New Delhi its intention to extend help in fighting the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.On Thursday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson, Wang Wenbin had said that Beijing was aware that the epidemic in India had become severe, and that there was a temporary shortage of necessary materials for epidemic prevention.Wang was responding to a question from Chinese official media at the regular ministry briefing about what action China was taking in view of the spreading epidemic in India. “China is willing to provide the necessary support and help,” Wang had said, without giving details of what such assistance might consist of.“The novel coronavirus is a common enemy of all mankind, and the global community needs to unite as one to fight against epidemics,” he told the briefing.Last year, India was among the countries to help Beijing with medical supplies during the time when the Covid-19 outbreak was at its most severe in China.India had provided 15 tonnes of medical supplies comprising masks, gloves, and emergency medical equipment at a cost of about ₹2.11 crore to China at the time.In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha in March, 2020, external affairs minister of state V Muraleedharan had said the medical supplies included one lakh surgical masks, five lakh pairs of surgical gloves, 75 pieces of infusion pumps, 30 pieces of enteral feeding pumps, 21 pieces of defibrillator and 4,000 pieces of N-95 masks.The supplies, flown to China in an India Air Force’s C-17 special flight, were handed over to the Hubei charity federation in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, the first epicentre of the pandemic where the virus had emerged in early December, 2019.In February, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had written to President Xi Jinping extending India’s assistance to fight the coronavirus outbreak.Speaking at a press conference soon after, Chinese ambassador to India, Sun Weidong had appreciated the support and solidarity that India had extended to China in its fight against the novel coronavirus.China had returned the favour in April, dispatching dozens of aircraft with Covid-19-related medical supplies when the first wave of the pandemic became severe in India.India-bound flights had taken off from Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Xi’an and Hong Kong, carrying 390 tonnes of medical supplies including RT-PCR test kits, Rapid Antibody test kits and personal protection equipment.Soon after, however, ties between India and China had plunged to its worst in decades following military friction along the disputed border in eastern Ladakh.Nearly a year later, the two countries are still grappling to completely defuse the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/ready-to-support-india-in-its-fight-against-covid-19-china-101619151355004.html
23-04-2021||World||Death by Zoom: Covid-19-hit Indonesia orders death penalties online||Indonesia has sentenced scores of prisoners to death over Zoom and other video apps during the pandemic in what critics say is an "inhumane" insult to those facing the firing squad.The Southeast Asian nation turned to virtual court hearings as Covid-19 restrictions shut down most in-person trials, including murder and drug trafficking cases, which can carry the death penalty.Since early last year, almost 100 inmates have been condemned to die in Indonesia by judges they could only see on a television monitor, according to Amnesty International.The Muslim-majority nation has some of the world's toughest drug laws and both Indonesian and foreign traffickers have been executed, including the masterminds of Australia's Bali Nine heroin gang.This month, 13 members of a trafficking ring, including three Iranians and a Pakistani, learned via video that they would be shot for smuggling 400 kilograms (880 pounds) of methamphetamine into Indonesia.And on Wednesday a Jakarta court sentenced six Islamist militants to death using a video app over their role in a 2018 prison riot that left five members of Indonesia's counter-terror squad dead."Virtual hearings degrade the rights of defendants facing death sentences -- it's about someone's life and death," said Amnesty International Indonesia director Usman Hamid."The death penalty has always been a cruel punishment. But this online trend adds to the injustice and inhumanity," he added.'Clear disadvantage'Indonesia has pressed on with the virtual hearings even as the number of executions and death sentences dropped globally last year, with Covid-19 disrupting many criminal proceedings, Amnesty said in its annual capital punishment report this week.Virtual hearings leave defendants unable to fully participate in cases that are sometimes interrupted in countries with poor internet connections, including Indonesia, critics say."Virtual platforms... can expose the defendant to significant violations of their fair trial rights and impinge on the quality of the defence," NGO Harm Reduction International said in a recent report on the death penalty for drug offences.Lawyers have complained about being unable to consult with clients due to virus restrictions.And families of the accused have sometimes been barred from accessing hearings that would normally be open to the public."These virtual hearings present a clear disadvantage for defendants," said Indonesian lawyer Dedi Setiadi.Setiadi, who defended several men sentenced to die in the methamphetamine case this month, said he would appeal their case on the grounds that virtual hearings were unfair.Relatives of the defendants were not given full access, the lawyer said.Death penalty cases are often reduced to long jail terms in Indonesia and an in-person trial might have brought about a less severe verdict, according to Setiadi, who described his clients as low-level players in the smuggling ring."The verdict could have been different if the judges had talked directly with the defendants and seen their expressions," he said."A Zoom hearing is less personal."'Heaviest sentence possible'Indonesia's supreme court, which ordered online hearings during the pandemic, did not reply to requests for comment.But the country's judicial commission told AFP that it has asked the top court to consider returning to in-person trials for serious offences, including capital cases.Indonesia appears to be an outlier in holding virtual trials for death penalty cases, although reliable data can be hard to come by in some nations that impose executions.Neighbouring Singapore, which executes convicted murderers and drug traffickers, has sentenced at least one person to hang via video since the global health crisis began.There are nearly 500 people, including scores of foreigners, awaiting execution in Indonesia, where condemned prisoners are marched to a jungle clearing, tied to a stake and shot.Indonesia has not carried out executions for several years. But its courts have continued to sentence defendants to death on the back of strong public backing for the ultimate punishment -- support that may have been bolstered by the pandemic."Advocates think that these criminals are continuing to commit crimes even during a time of crisis when everyone is suffering," Amnesty's Hamid said."So they must be given the heaviest sentence possible."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/death-by-zoom-covid-19-hit-indonesia-orders-death-penalties-online-101619149248767.html
23-04-2021||World||Covid: Japan to issue 'short, powerful' emergency for Tokyo, Osaka, Kyoto, Hyogo||Japan will declare "short and powerful" states of emergency for Tokyo, Osaka and two other prefectures, a cabinet minister said on Friday, as the country struggles to contain a resurgent pandemic just three months ahead of the Olympics.Under a new state of emergency for April 25 to May 11, the government will require restaurants, bars, and karaoke parlours serving alcohol to close, and big sporting events to be held without spectators, Economy Minister Yasutoshi Nishimura said.Breaching the restrictions will in some cases carry penalties under a recently revised law, he said."We absolutely have to limit the movement of people, and we have to do it decisively," said Nishimura, speaking at the start of a meeting with a panel of experts to discuss the proposed measures."We need powerful, short and focused measures," he said, asking people to remember the lockdowns of last spring and stay at home.Nishimura later told reporters the panel had approved the government's plan. The new restrictions are expected to be formally approved later on Friday and announced by Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga at an 8 p.m. (1100 GMT) news conference.Department stores and other retailers larger than 1,000 square metres will need to close while companies will be asked to make greater allowances for people to work-from-home.The state of emergency - a third round for Japan that would also include Kyoto and Hyogo - would last through the "Golden Week" holidays and cover nearly a quarter of the population, in a further hit to the tourism and services industries.Japan has so far avoided an explosive spread of the pandemic that has crippled many countries. There have been a total of about 550,000 cases and 9,761 deaths, which is significantly lower than the numbers seen in other large economies.But the latest rise in infections has stoked alarm with an explosive surge in the mutant variant and a critical shortage of hospital beds in some regions, while Japan's vaccination drive remains sluggish.Organisers of the Tokyo Motor Show on Thursday cancelled the marquee event for this year, in a move likely to raise more questions about the government's insistence that the Tokyo Olympics will go ahead this summer. Tokyo 2020 organisers said on the same day that a policeman who worked with the torch relay had tested positive for the virus, in a first for the event.Tokyo reported 861 new cases on Thursday, the most since Jan. 29, which was during the third wave of the pandemic and a previous state of emergency.Several other prefectures remain in a "quasi-emergency" state of targeted infection controls, and Nishimura said the duration would also be extended to May 11 for some.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid-japan-to-issue-short-powerful-emergency-for-tokyo-osaka-kyoto-hyogo-101619147877883.html
23-04-2021||World||Intel PC chip sales grow but profit outlook dims due to manufacturing costs||Intel Corp on Thursday raised its annual sales outlook on booming demand for personal computers, but its second-quarter profit forecast fell short of analyst expectations as the company spends heavily to get its manufacturing operations back on track and catch up to rivals with faster chips.Intel shares were down 3.1% to $60.60 in after-hours trading after the results. The company also missed first-quarter expectations in its closely watched data center chip unit.Intel fumbled new manufacturing technology in recent years, causing it to fall behind rivals such as Advanced Micro Devices Inc and Nvidia Corp in the race to make faster, smaller chips. Patrick Gelsinger, who returned to Intel as its chief executive earlier this year, said the chipmaker has begun to resolve its manufacturing problems, and in March announced a major expansion plan to build new factories in the United States and Europe.Intel, which is one of the few remaining companies in the processor chip industry that both designs and manufactures its own chips, has said it has been able to beat out rivals during a global chip shortage by operating its own factories. But the company said shortfalls of other third-party components needed to build complete computers could hold back its sales this year.Intel said its PC chip business had sales of $10.6 billion in the first quarter, ahead of analyst expectations of $10.17 billion, according to data from FactSet.Gelsinger told Reuters following the release of Intel's earnings that the company exceeded PC chip expectations in part because it was able to finish in its own factories so-called organic substrates, which are materials used to package delicate silicon chips into tougher housings so they can tolerate being put onto circuit boards.Gelsinger said the changes helped Intel mitigate a global shortage of the substrate materials and "generate millions of units of more supply.""We were able to satisfy our customer commitments, as we expect that we'll be able to do through the rest of the year," Gelsinger said. "If we are able to gain more leverage in our supply chain, which we have lots of tools to go do, I expect we'll both have beat our guidance for the year and gain more market share for the year."But Angelo Zino, senior equity analyst at CFRA Research, said he expects PC "momentum to wane" as COVID-19 vaccines roll out around the world and workers return to offices.Intel said it expects 2021 adjusted revenue and profits of $72.5 billion and $4.60 per share, above analyst estimates of $72.32 billion and $4.58 per share, according to Refinitiv data.The chipmaker forecast second-quarter adjusted revenue and profits of $17.8 billion and $1.05 per share, with sales above analyst estimates of $17.59 billion but profits below estimates $1.09 per share, according to Refinitiv data.Intel Chief Financial Officer George Davis told Reuters that the lower profits were because the company was investing in ramping up its new 10-nanometer and 7-nanonmeter manufacturing technologies.But Kinngai Chan, senior research analyst at Summit Insights Group, said Intel's margins are taking a hit in part because it cannot raise prices for new products to recoup manufacturing costs as it did in the past because rivals like AMD have more competitive products.Demand for both personal computers and cloud computing services from data centers has surged during the pandemic as many businesses shifted to working from home, trends that analysts expect to continue into this year. Intel's data center chip business had $5.6 billion in first-quarter sales, below FactSet estimates of $5.89 billion.Intel said adjusted sales and earnings for the first quarter ended March 27 were $18.6 billion and $1.39 per share, higher than analyst estimates of $17.89 billion and $1.15 per share, according to Refinitiv data.Intel's non-adjusted results include a $2.18 billion judgment won by VLSI Technology LLC in a patent trial in March. Gelsinger said the company is appealing that verdict and pressing for changes to U.S. patent laws."We need fundamental patent reform. So not only are we going to be aggressive in our appeal, we're also going to be even more aggressive and driving a patent reform. This is a topic that I've brought up in my multiple conversations with White House officials this year," Gelsinger said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/intel-pc-chip-sales-grow-but-profit-outlook-dims-due-to-manufacturing-costs-101619145270956.html
23-04-2021||World||Daunte Wright funeral: After milestone police verdict, Minneapolis lays to rest another Black man||Two days after a Minneapolis jury found a white police officer guilty of murdering George Floyd, the city will lay to rest Daunte Wright, another Black man whose violent death has raised fresh concerns over the way police treat people of color.The funeral for Wright, 20, who was shot by a white police officer in a Minneapolis suburb on April 11 after a routine traffic stop, will be attended by a number of high-profile civil rights activists as well as family and friends.The service is scheduled to begin at 12 p.m. CDT (1:00 p.m. ET) at Shiloh Temple International Ministries, a historically Black church in north Minneapolis. The Reverend Al Sharpton will deliver the eulogy, as he did at Floyd's funeral last year.On Tuesday a Minneapolis jury convicted Derek Chauvin, a 19-year veteran of the police force, on all three counts of murder and manslaughter for killing Floyd by pressing his knee into his neck for more than nine minutes last May.While Chauvin's conviction brought a measure of satisfaction to people calling for an end to brutality and racism in policing, to many Wright's death served as a reminder of the risks facing Black people during encounters with police.Police video of the shooting shows multiple officers attempting to arrest Wright for an outstanding warrant and an ensuing scuffle. The video then shows Kimberly Potter threatening to stun Wright with her Taser before firing her handgun. She can be heard saying she shot him a few moments later. Before resigning, former Police Chief Tim Gannon said Potter mistakenly used her gun instead of her Taser.Potter, who also resigned after the incident, has been charged with second-degree manslaughter. Potter has not entered a plea and her lawyer, Earl Gray, has not commented about the case.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/daunte-wright-funeral-after-milestone-police-verdict-minneapolis-lays-to-rest-another-black-man-101619145297364.html
23-04-2021||World||'You get away with it now, but...': Greta Thunberg blasts politicians over climate crisis||Environmental campaigner Greta Thunberg assailed powerful politicians on Thursday for "ignoring" climate change, as she demanded an end to fossil fuel subsidies and implored the current generation of leaders to take the crisis more seriously.Speaking as world leaders gathered at a climate summit hosted by US President Joe Biden, the 18-year-old Thunberg warned that powerful interests and lawmakers were contributing to the "destruction" of living conditions around the globe."How long do you honestly believe people in power like you will get away with it?" the Swedish activist told US lawmakers at a House of Representatives committee hearing."How long do you think you can continue ignoring the climate crisis, the global aspect of equity and historic emissions without being held accountable?" she asked."You get away with it now, but sooner or later people are going to realize what you have been doing all this time."Thunberg, the world's foremost young climate activist, has addressed members of the US Congress before, at a hearing in 2019.But Thursday's remarks coincided with Biden's Earth Day Climate Summit, in which he committed to aggressive new goals for reducing emissions.As leaders like China's President Xi Jinping, Russia's Vladimir Putin and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi expressed commitments to reduce emissions, Thunberg said global action still fell far short of where it should be."It is the year 2021. The fact we are still having this discussion and even more that we are still subsidizing fossil fuels directly or indirectly using taxpayer money is a disgrace," she said."It is proof that we have not understood the climate emergency at all."She also directly accused the current generation of politicians of "giving up without even trying," adding: "Well, I'm here to tell you that unlike you, my generation will not give up without a fight."Thunberg in particular criticized the continued use of fossil fuel subsidies, which in the United States have been on the books for more than 100 years, even though Washington committed in 2009 to bringing them to an end.She also showed her willingness to confront -- and even mock -- world leaders.When British Prime Minister Boris Johnson addressed the summit, he said it was vital to think of the climate change fight as a challenge to boost growth and jobs, not merely as "some expensive politically correct green act of bunny hugging."Thunberg promptly changed her Twitter bio to a two-word description: "Bunny hugger."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/you-get-away-with-it-now-but-greta-thunberg-blasts-politicians-over-climate-crisis-101619143592232.html
23-04-2021||World||WHO experts want AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine clot data from outside Europe||The World Health Organization's vaccine advisors called Thursday for more data on the incidence of blood clots in people who received the AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine outside Europe.The WHO's Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) on Immunisation updated their guidance on the use of AstraZeneca's coronavirus jab, rewriting the section on precautions in light of data from Europe on clotting."WHO continues to support the conclusion that the benefits of these vaccines outweigh the risks," the UN agency stressed in a statement.On April 7, SAGE said a link between AstraZeneca's Covid-19 jabs and blood clots was plausible but unconfirmed, underlining that reported occurrences were "very rare".In light of evidence emerging from ongoing vaccination programmes, they have updated their recommendations on the AstraZeneca jab, which is being deployed in 157 territories according to an AFP count.SAGE said most clotting cases were reported in Britain and the European Union, with very few cases noted in other countries.They said it was unknown whether there was a risk of clotting from the second dose of the vaccine, while recommending that those who suffered blood clots after their first injection should not be given the second dose of the two-shot vaccine.'Very rare syndrome'"A very rare syndrome of blood clotting combined with low platelet counts, described as thrombosis with thrombocytopenia syndrome (TTS), has been reported around four to 20 days following vaccination," the new guidance says."A causal relationship between the vaccine and TTS is considered plausible although the biological mechanism for this syndrome is still being investigated."Most of these cases were reported from the UK and the EU. There is considerable geographic variation with regards to the reported incidence, with very few cases reported from non-European countries, despite extensive use of the vaccine."An estimation of the risk outside Europe needs further data collection and analysis."The vaccine currently forms the backbone of the Covax scheme, which ensures that poorer countries can access doses, with donors covering the cost.Covax has so far shipped more than 40.5 million Covid-19 vaccine doses to 118 participating territories.The SAGE guidance said that data from Britain, dated March 31, suggested the risk of TTS was approximately one case per 250,000 vaccinated adults, while the rate in the EU was estimated at one in 100,000.It said current data from Europe suggested that the risk might be higher in younger adults compared with older adults."No specific risk factors have yet been identified," it said.Incidence by region, age, sexWhilst stressing that the benefit of vaccination against Covid-19 "far outweighs" the risks, the assessment may differ between countries."Countries should consider their epidemiological situation, individual and population-level risks, availability of other vaccines, and alternate options for risk mitigation," the guidance said."The benefit-risk ratio is greatest in older age groups."It is currently unknown whether there is a risk of TTS following the second dose."The safety surveillance and monitoring section was also rewritten,recommending research into serious adverse events including cerebral venous sinus thrombosis and thrombotic events with thrombocytopenia.It also called for research into the incidence of TTS by region, age and sex.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/who-experts-want-astrazeneca-covid-19-vaccine-clot-data-from-outside-europe-101619137637265.html
23-04-2021||World||Owner calls 911 after couple intrude into Florida mansion to conduct wedding||A Florida couple who planned their wedding at a multimillion-dollar mansion near Miami thought they could get hitched without a hitch until one tiny detail got in the way: the owner was home and had no idea about their party.Courtney Wilson and Shenita Jones, referring to themselves as "the Royal Couple," invited friends and family to the "dream home and estate," which includes a tennis court, pool and theater, plus nine bedrooms and 15 bathrooms, the local Sun Sentinel newspaper reported Wednesday.With the $5.7 million mansion up for sale, Wilson, the groom, visited it several times, taking photos and pretending to be interested in buying it.Assuming no one lived at the vacant home, he invited guests to his wedding and related festivities, which included a red-carpet cocktail on Saturday afternoon and a breakfast on Sunday morning, the paper reported.Owner Nathan Finkel, who lives elsewhere on the property, was therefore up for a surprise when the groom and another person arrived Saturday morning ready to set up."I have people trespassing on my property," an irritated Finkel told a 911 dispatcher, according to the paper. "And they keep harassing me, calling me. They say they're having a wedding here and it's God's message."I don't know what's going on. All I want is (for) it to stop. And they're sitting at my property right at the front gate right now."Police who arrived at the scene encouraged the wedding party to leave, without making any arrests.Keith Poliakoff, an attorney for the Southwest Ranches suburb where the mansion is located, said that Wilson "figured it was a vacant house and didn't realize Nathan lived on the property in a different home.""This guy had no idea he lived there. You know the shock that must have been on his face when he showed up at the gate and the owner was home?" Poliakoff said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/owner-calls-911-after-couple-intrude-into-florida-mansion-to-conduct-wedding-101619137111890.html
23-04-2021||World||NASA's Mars helicopter soars higher, longer on 2nd flight||NASA's little Mars helicopter aced its second test flight Thursday, soaring even higher and longer than before.The 4-pound (1.8-kilogram) chopper, named Ingenuity, hovered longer and also flew side to side this time, according to NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in California. It achieved the intended altitude of 16 feet (5 meters) and even accelerated sideways 7 feet (2 meters).This hop lasted 52 seconds, 13 seconds longer than the first one.“Go big or go home!” JPL tweeted in announcing the Earth Day news.Also Read: NASA's Perseverance Mars rover extracts first oxygen from Red PlanetThe success came just three days after Ingenuity made the first powered flight by an aircraft on another planet. The helicopter carried a bit of wing fabric from the Wright Flyer that made similar history at Kitty Hawk, North Carolina, in 1903.Flight controllers had to wait four hours before learning Thursday's outcome. Like it did during Monday's 10-foot-high (3-meter-high) hop, the helicopter sent back a black and white photo showing its shadow against the dusty, rock-strewn surface now known as Wright Brothers Field.“It sounds simple, but there are many unknowns regarding how to fly a helicopter on Mars," Ingenuity's chief pilot, Havard Grip, said from JPL in a statement. “That's why we're here — to make these unknowns known.”One of the challenges is the planet's extremely thin atmosphere — 1% that of Earth's.NASA plans up to three more test flights in the next 1 1/2 weeks, venturing higher each time with more complicated acrobatics. Ingenuity hitched a ride to Mars on the rover Perseverance, which photographed the proceedings from more than 200 feet (64 meters) away. The rover team allotted one month for the $85 million tech demo; The clock started ticking when Ingenuity was released from Perseverance's belly on April 3.“We have two flights of Mars under our belts, which means that there is still a lot to learn during this month of Ingenuity," chief engineer Bob Balaram said in a statement.Perseverance and Ingenuity arrived at Mars in mid-February, landing in an ancient river delta following a 6 1/2-month flight.Once Ingenuity's flights are complete, Perseverance will set off on its journey to find any signs of past microscopic life. A robotic geologist, the rover will collect core samples of the most enticing rocks and set them aside for pickup by a future spacecraft a decade from now.In another first, an experiment on the rover successfully converted Mars' carbon-dioxide-rich atmosphere into pure oxygen this week. Five grams of oxygen was produced, according to NASA, the equivalent of 10 minutes of breathing for an astronaut. Large-scale production at Mars could yield oxygen not only for air, but also rocket fuel. More tests are planned over the next two years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/nasas-mars-helicopter-soars-higher-longer-on-2nd-flight-101619137314924.html
23-04-2021||World||Alexei Navalny's doctors urge him to end hunger strike 'immediately'||Imprisoned Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny said in an emotional message from behind bars Thursday that he felt “pride and hope” after learning from his lawyer about the mass protests demanding his freedom that swept across Russia the previous night.Meanwhile, Navalny's doctors urged him to “immediately” end a prison hunger strike now in its fourth week “to save his life and health.” And a top aide said Wednesday night’s protests seemed to have brought a compromise from Russian authorities on getting Navalny the medical help he had demanded when launching the hunger strike.In an Instagram post Thursday, Navalny called people who turned out to protest in his support “the salvation of Russia."The 44-year-old who is President Vladimir Putin's most well-known critic said he hadn't known “what was really happening” outside the prison because he only has access to one TV channel, but his lawyer visited him Thursday and brought him up to speed. “And, I will sincerely say, two feelings are raging inside me: pride and hope.”“People are marching in the street. It means they know and understand everything," said Navalny. "They won't give up their future, the future of their children, their country. Yes, it will be difficult and dark for some time. But those pulling Russia back historically are doomed. There are more of us in any case.”Navalny was arrested in January upon his return from Germany, where he had spent five months recovering from a nerve agent poisoning he blames on the Kremlin — accusations that Russian officials reject.Soon after, a court found that the politician’s stay in Germany violated the terms of his suspended sentence for a 2014 embezzlement conviction and ordered him to serve 2 1/2 years in prison.The mass street protests in support of Navalny — which authorities had declared unlawful — swept dozens of cities and smaller towns across Russia. The largest crowds were seen in Moscow, where thousands marched down the city center amid a heavy police presence.Yet unlike on past occasions, officers in riot gear didn't interfere with the rally in the Russian capital, allowing crowds to swarm streets and squares for hours. According to OVD-Info, a rights group that monitors political arrests, police detained only 31 people in Moscow, which usually accounts for the vast majority of arrests across the country.But overall, OVD-Info tallied more than 1,900 arrests Wednesday night, with more than 800 in St. Petersburg. While some violent detentions, with police using stun guns, were reported in St. Petersburg, in many cities the demonstrations went on without clashes with law enforcement.Leonid Volkov, Navalny's top strategist and chief of staff, noted in the YouTube live stream that the number of arrests was significantly lower than during the nationwide protests in January after Navalny was arrested.Independent political analyst Abbas Gallyamov believes the turnout at Wednesday's protests indicates that the harsh Russian crackdown on previous demonstrations hasn't scared off Navalny's supporters.Hundreds were jailed after the January demonstrations and Navalny allies were slapped with criminal charges for allegedly violating coronavirus restrictions.Navalny’s aides and associates in different Russian regions, in the meantime, were targeted with detentions and raids both before and after Wednesday's protests. Many were jailed, and one was reportedly brutally beaten by police who came to search his apartment.Gallyamov said this indicated a change of tactics for the authorities, from sweeping crackdowns on all demonstrators to targeting suspected protest leaders.Last week, Russian authorities took the pressure on Navalny’s allies and supporters to a new level, with the Moscow prosecutor’s office petitioning a court to label as his Foundation for Fighting Corruption and his network of regional offices as extremist groups. Human rights activists say such a move would paralyze their activities and expose their members and donors to prison sentences of up to 10 years.Navalny began the hunger strike to protest prison authorities’ refusal to let his doctors visit after he developed severe back pain and numbness in his legs. Officials insisted Navalny was getting all the medical help he needs. But Navalny's doctors said last week that the politician could be near death, as his test results showed sharply elevated levels of potassium, which can bring on cardiac arrest, and heightened creatinine levels that indicated impaired kidneys.Navalny was transferred Sunday from a penal colony east of Moscow to the hospital ward of another prison in Vladimir, a city 180 kilometers (110 miles) east of the capital.On Thursday, Navalny's personal physician Dr. Anastasia Vasilyeva released a letter she signed with four other doctors, urging him to end his hunger strike.The letter revealed that Navalny was taken to a regular hospital Tuesday in Vladimir, where he underwent tests and was examined by specialists “in accordance” with requests from his doctors. It said they were given the results of those tests through Navalny’s lawyers and family on Thursday.Navalny’s doctors said they would continue to insist on access to their patient — his chief demand in launching his hunger strike — but urged him “to immediately stop the hunger strike in order to save life and health,” saying that they consider being examined by “civilian,” non-prison doctors and undergoing “objective tests” enough to end the strike.Volkov in a tweet Thursday said the pressure Navalny’s supporters put on the authorities, first by calling a demonstration and then by making it happen, helped achieve this result.“As soon as the protest was announced, Alexei was taken for a multidisciplinary medical exam to a civilian hospital in Vladimir, and had a large amount of tests. As soon as the protest happened, today, all of a sudden, we were given all the test results.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alexei-navalny-s-doctors-urge-him-to-end-hunger-strike-immediately-101619136921431.html
23-04-2021||World||UNSC expresses 'deep concern' about human rights in Ethiopia's Tigray||The UN Security Council expressed concern Thursday about humanitarian conditions and human rights in Ethiopia's Tigray region, marking the council's first collective comment on the conflict that has raged in the region for six months.The statement made no mention of Eritrean soldiers in Tigray, though UN humanitarian chief Mark Lowcock and Amnesty International said last week that the troops remain weeks after Ethiopia said they would leave. US State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters Wednesday that “we haven’t seen any evidence that Eritrean troops are withdrawing from Tigray."In November, political tensions between Ethiopian President Abiy Ahmed’s government and Tigray leaders exploded into war. Eritrea teamed up with neighboring Ethiopia in the conflict. Thousands of people have been killed.The United States has alleged ethnic cleansing in the western part of Tigray, a claim that Ethiopian authorities dismiss as unfounded. The term refers to forcing a population from a region through expulsions and other violence, often including killings and rapes.Ethiopia has said that life in Tigray is returning to normal.Lowcock, meanwhile, told the council last week that some 4.5 million of Tigray's 6 million need humanitarian aid and that “there is no doubt that sexual violence is being used in this conflict as a weapon of war." He cited alarmingly numerous reports of rape and other sexual attacks, mainly by men wearing the uniforms of various forces.In Thursday's statement, the council conveyed “deep concern about allegations of human rights violations and abuses, including reports of sexual violence.” It welcomed an agreement by the UN and an Ethiopian rights agency to conduct a joint investigation into reported abuses.The council also acknowledged Ethiopia’s humanitarian efforts but called for a bigger response, unfettered humanitarian access to everyone in need and “a restoration of normalcy.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/unsc-expresses-deep-concern-about-human-rights-in-ethiopia-s-tigray-101619136520916.html
23-04-2021||World||3 rockets strike close to Baghdad airport: Iraqi military||At least three rockets have hit near Baghdad international airport, the Iraqi military said.A total of eight missiles were fired and three landed near the airport complex late Thursday, the statement said. It did not detail whether the attack caused casualties.The rockets struck areas known to contain Iraqi security forces. One hit close to a central prison, the second near an academy of the elite Counter-Terrorism Service, and a third near the headquarters of the Rapid Response regiment.No one claimed responsibility for the attacks. US officials have previously blamed Iran-backed militia groups.It is the latest in a string of rocket attacks that have primarily targeted American installations in Iraq in recent weeks. On Sunday, multiple rockets hit an Iraqi airbase just north of Baghdad, wounding two Iraqi security personnel.Last month, a base in western Iraq housing US-led coalition troops and contractors was hit by 10 rockets. One contractor was killed. \||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/3-rockets-strike-close-to-baghdad-airport-iraqi-military-101619136581179.html
23-04-2021||World||Proud that science is back in White House, says Kamala Harris on World Earth Day||On the occasion of World Earth Day, US Vice President Kamala Harris said that she is proud that science is back in the White House.Harris said her mother, who was a scientist, raised her to appreciate the power of science."My mother was a scientist and raised me to appreciate the power of science. On this #EarthDay, I am proud that science is back in the White House," Harris wrote in a tweet on Thursday."No nation or region is immune to climate change. So as a global community, it is imperative that we act quickly and together to confront this crisis," she added.Earlier in the day, US President Joe Biden announced that the United States would cut its greenhouse gas emissions by half by 2030 as part of the country's efforts to combat climate change.Biden also urged world leaders to significantly accelerate their own plans to reduce greenhouse gas emissions or risk a disastrous collective failure to stop catastrophic climate change.Every year on April 22, Earth Day marks the anniversary of the birth of the modern environmental movement since 1970.The fight for a clean environment continues with increasing urgency, as the ravages of climate change become more and more apparent every day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/proud-that-science-is-back-in-white-house-says-kamala-harris-on-world-earth-day-101619136208407.html
23-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Canada suspends flights from India, Pakistan for 30 days||Canada on Thursday said it is banning all flights from India and Pakistan for 30 days due to the growing wave of COVID-19 cases in that region.Transport Minister Omar Alghabra said the ban would start late Thursday, speaking hours after India reported a global record of more than 314,000 new infections in the previous 24-hours. Cargo flights from India and Pakistan will continue.Health Minister Patty Hajdu said half the people who are testing positive for the coronavirus after arriving in Canada by airplane came from India. Flights from India account for about one fifth of the country's air traffic.There also a disproportionate higher number of positive cases among those travelling on flights from Pakistan, she said.“It makes sense to pause travel from that region while our scientists and researchers better understand the variants of interest," Hajdu said.There are than 1 million people who live in Canada who have Indian descent. There are 100,000 Canadians who have Pakistani ancestry.Canada does not have any direct flights from Brazil where cases are also surging.Vaccinations have ramped up in Canada, but health experts say more-contagious variants and a failure to take the right measures against the virus have led to a third wave of infections in Ontario. The premiers of Ontario and Quebec asked the federal government to further restrict people from entering.Ontario Premier Doug Ford, meanwhile, apologized Thursday for a failed attempt to close playgrounds and allow police to stop and question people who were not in their homes — measures that created a backlash from police forces, health officials and the public.The leader of Canada’s most populous province, in his first public appearance since announcing the restrictions, said his government had moved too fast with the measures."They left a lot of people angry and upset. I know we got it wrong. I know we made a mistake and for that I’m sorry and sincerely apologize,” said Ford, who appeared to choke back tears at one point.But Ford said he won’t resign despite widespread calls for him to do so.He also suggested his government will offer province-paid paid sick leave for Covid-19 patients, but announced no details. The lack of such a program has led to widespread complaints.The pandemic restrictions Ford's government announced last Friday immediately ran into opposition. Police departments insisted they wouldn’t use new powers to randomly stop pedestrians or motorists and doctors complained the rules focused on outdoor activities like playgrounds and golf rather than more dangerous indoor settings.Restaurants, gyms and classrooms across the province already had been closed. Most nonessential workers are working from home.On Saturday, Ford retracted the ban on playgrounds, though outdoor recreation activities such as golf remain forbidden in Ontario, the only jurisdiction in North America that now bans it.Ontario has been reporting more than 4,000 new cases a day in recent days.Ford himself is isolating after a staff member tested positive.“Doug Ford knows he's spiraling and that Ontario voters have lost confidence in his ability to manage this emergency. But "Sorry, folks" won't cut it," Opposition Liberal leader Steven Del Duca tweeted. “His cold hearted refusal to introduce paid sick days for more than a year has already cost lives.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-canada-suspends-flights-from-india-pakistan-for-30-days-101619135502307.html
23-04-2021||World||Covid-19 hits a new peak, infects climber on Everest||Norwegian climber hoping to summit Everest has confirmed that he has tested positive for Covid-19, in a blow to Nepal’s hopes for a bumper mountaineering season on the world’s highest peak.The pandemic wiped out last year’s season, but Nepal has eased quarantine rules in an effort to attract more climbers despite the difficulties of treating them if they contract the deadly disease.“My diagnosis is Covid-19,” Erlend Ness told AFP in a Facebook message. “I’m doing ok now... The hospital is taking care (of me).” Ness was evacuated from the slopes by helicopter and taken to a hospital in Kathmandu after spending time at Everest base camp. Norwegian broadcaster NRK, which interviewed him, reported that a sherpa in his party has also tested positive.“I really hope that none of the others get infected... high up in the mountains. It is impossible to evacuate people with a helicopter when they’re above 8,000 metres,” Ness told NRK. Breathing is already difficult at high altitudes, so any outbreak of disease among climbers presents urgent health risks.“The plan was to get fast high up in the mountains to make sure that we wouldn’t get infected... I’ve been unlucky and I could have done more by myself when it comes to sanitary precautions,” Ness added.One hospital in Kathmandu confirmed it had taken in patients from Everest who had contracted the coronavirus disease but couldn’t give a number.“I can’t share the details, but some evacuated from Everest have tested positive,” Prativa Pandey, the medical director at Kathmandu’s CIWEC Hospital, told AFP. But Mira Acharya, a spokesperson for Nepal’s tourism department, said it has so far not received any reports of Covid-19 among climbers.Dawa Steven Sherpa of Asian Trekking said everyone at base camp was concerned. Nepal issued 377 permits this year to climb the mountain, and the final number is expected to exceed 381 handed out in 2019.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-hits-a-new-peak-infects-climber-on-everest-101619118525759.html
23-04-2021||World||Russia set to pull troops back from Ukraine border||Russia said it will begin pulling thousands of troops back from areas near the Ukrainian border starting on Friday, in a step that could calm tensions with the West that have surged in recent weeks.Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskiy welcomed the move, saying in a tweet it “reduces tension”.The military units will return to their bases by May 1, Russian defence minister Sergei Shoigu said on Thursday in Crimea, where he’s on a visit to review manoeuvres.“The goals of these surprise checks were fulfilled completely. The forces showed their ability to reliably defend the country,” he told commanders, announcing the end of the operation. “The military activity of Nato in this region has significantly increased.”Western officials say Russia moved as many as 100,000 troops, as well as tanks, warplanes and other equipment, to areas near the border with Ukraine in recent weeks, the largest such build-up in years. The US and its European allies called on the Kremlin to pull the forces back, but Moscow said it’s free to deploy its military wherever needed on its territory.‘Moscow got its message across’“Moscow thinks that it got its message across,” said Fyodor Lukyanov, head of the Council on Foreign and Defence Policy, which advises the Kremlin. “There’s been some de-escalation and now the confrontation has returned to the political and diplomatic sphere.”There was no immediate sign the withdrawal would take place as announced and Russia has changed plans in the past. The defence ministry said it would leave the tanks and other equipment of one of the major units in the area near the border ahead of exercises planned for the fall.Amid the crisis, US President Joe Biden called Vladimir Putin to appeal to the Russian leader to reduce tensions, offering the prospect of a summit meeting.Russia denied its build-up was a threat to Ukraine, but the Kremlin had charged the government in Kiev with planning an assault on Donbas separatist regions in the east of the country that are backed by Moscow. The Ukrainian government rejected those claims and accused Moscow of planning a military incursion of its own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/russia-set-to-pull-troops-back-from-ukraine-border-101619118412395.html
23-04-2021||World||Pak Taliban behind blast in Quetta||The Pakistani Taliban has claimed responsibility for Wednesday night’s deadly suicide blast at a luxury hotel hosting the Chinese ambassador in the southwest of the country, as the death toll went up to five.A bomber detonated the explosives while inside a vehicle in the car park of Serena Hotel - part of a five-star chain popular with diplomats and aid agencies - in the city of Quetta, capital of Balochistan province, police and the interior ministry said.Pakistan is fighting several low-level insurgencies in the impoverished province, waged by Islamist, separatist and sectarian groups.“The suicide bomber hit the security officials exactly as it was planned,” the spokesperson for Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) said in a statement.The country’s interior minister confirmed a suicide bomber had carried out the attack and pinned the blame on a “foreign hand”. “Our agencies will fight the efforts that are being made in the neighbouring country to reorganise the TTP,” said interior minister Sheikh Rashid Ahmed.Pakistan routinely accuses India of using insurgent groups, including in Afghanistan, as proxy forces to wage an ongoing shadow war between the arch rivals.China was among the first countries to react following the explosion, saying it strongly condemned the attack, although the Taliban said Pakistan security officials were the target of the blast.Describing the blast as a “terrorist attack”, China’s foreign ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin confirmed in Beijing that a Chinese delegation was not present when the bomb detonated. Gu Wenliang, agriculture commissioner at China’s embassy in Pakistan, told Chinese newspaper Global Times that the bomb had detonated 10 minutes before their expected return.“I was walking through the car park when I heard a sudden loud sound and the earth shook under my feet,” said Khuda Baksh, a guard at the hotel. “Everyone was running for their lives before I lost consciousness.”For years, the TTP unleashed deadly attacks on urban centres across Pakistan from their bases along the Afghan border, where they provided shelter to an array of global jihadist groups including al-Qaeda.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pak-taliban-behind-blast-in-quetta-101619118259564.html
23-04-2021||World||EU looks to sue AstraZeneca over jab||The European Commission is looking to launch legal action against AstraZeneca for under-delivering Covid-19 vaccine doses to the EU, hobbling the bloc’s early roll-out of jabs, diplomats said on Thursday.The EU executive informed member state envoys of its plans on Wednesday, the diplomats told AFP, confirming information first published by the Politico website.They said any lawsuit against AstraZeneca would begin in a Belgian court - the jurisdiction agreed under the commission’s contract with the British-Swedish pharmaceutical company.A European Commission spokesman, Eric Mamer, told journalists that “no decision has yet been taken”. Another spokesman, Stefan De Keersmaecker, added, “As you know, AstraZeneca is not delivering the number of doses which have been agreed upon in the contract... This is one of the reasons why we keep our options open together with member states to take any further steps.”AstraZeneca has so far delivered 31 million of the 120 million doses it had promised. It has warned it will likewise provide just 70 million of the 180 million more meant to be delivered over the rest of this year.US weekly jobless claims fall to one-year lowThe number of Americans filing new claims for unemployment benefits last week dropped to a one-year low, suggesting layoffs were subsiding and strengthening expectations for another month of job growth in April.But the labour market recovery has a long way to go, with the report from the labour department showing at least 17.4mn people were collecting unemployment checks in early April.Initial claims for unemployment benefits decreased 39,000 to a seasonally adjusted 547,000 for the week ended April 17, the lowest since mid-March 2020.Pressure on US to lift IPR protections on vaccinesThe Biden administration is weighing an appeal from progressive Democrats to accelerate global access to Covid-19 vaccines by supporting a waiver of IPR protections, a move opposed by big drugmakers.Lawmakers last week called on President Joe Biden to back a proposal before the WTO that seeks a broad waiver from obligations on the protection of IP rights. The lawmakers and allies including labour unions argue that the plan - backed by India, South Africa, and more than 50 other countries - would save more lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-looks-to-sue-astrazeneca-over-jab-101619118096210.html
23-04-2021||India||Centre to extend services of SSC doctors in military to cater to Covid-19 cases||The government has decided to extend the services of short-service commission (SSC) doctors serving in the military to cater to the rising number of coronavirus cases. The defence ministry on Friday announced that it is extending the tenure of SSC doctors in the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) till December 31, 2021 “to tide over the current surge in medical services.” “This will augment the strength of AFMS by 238 more doctors,” said an official statement. While hospitals run by the armed forces are primarily meant for soldiers, ex-servicemen and their dependents, the military has opened the doors of its medical facilities to civilians in some parts of the country depending on the availability of beds. The armed forces and allied organisations are playing an important role in the fight against Covid-19 --- they have set up hospitals, helped ramp up oxygen production, airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers and are liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases. On April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh carried out an extensive review of the preparedness of the armed forces and other organisations to deal with the surge in Covid-19 infections across the country. At that meeting, Singh asked the military to explore the possibility of utilising the services of vaccinated retired military personnel to help the civil administration and state governments to deal with the grim situation. The armed forces and other stakeholders have been given the go-ahead to buy medicines and other critical items using their emergency powers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-extend-services-of-ssc-doctors-in-military-to-cater-to-covid-19-cases-101619181836269.html
23-04-2021||India||Work as one nation to ensure no scarcity: Modi to CMs amid surge in Covid cases||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday urged all states to come together and work as one nation to ensure there is no scarcity of resources needed to check the second Covid-19 wave, which has led to a shortage of hospital beds, medical oxygen, and medicines in the country.In his meeting with chief ministers of 11 worst-hit states, Modi stressed India was able to fight the first wave of the pandemic due to “collective power, united effort, and strategy’’. He added they would have to again tackle the challenge in a similar manner as the coronavirus was now impacting both tier two and tier three cities. “Every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded,’’ said Modi.The direction came a day after Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia blamed police forces of two neighbouring states--Haryana and Uttar Pradesh--for blocking oxygen supplies to the national capital. Several hospitals have issued distress messages about their dwindling oxygen supply this week. The Centre on Thursday invoked the Disaster Management Act to ensure unrestricted inter-state supply of oxygen.Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. Also Read | Chhattisgarh, Punjab CMs request PM Modi to bring parity in vaccine pricesModi, who has this week held four meetings to address the oxygen shortage, suggested a coordination committee to track its delivery to hospitals and a crackdown on hoarding and black marketing of critical supplies. “There is a continuous effort to increase oxygen supply. All the concerned departments and ministries of the government are also working together. Industrial oxygen has also been diverted to meet immediate requirements,’’ he said.Modi assured the states that the Centre was there to support them. He added the Union health ministry was monitoring the situation closely. Modi said the railways and the Indian Air Force have been roped in to cut down the transportation time of oxygen.Modi was seen reprimanding Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal for going live with his part of the interaction with the prime minister. “This is a violation of our tradition, our protocol. It is not proper for the chief minister to telecast such internal meetings live. We should always maintain protocol.’’ Kejriwal immediately apologised. “Sir, we will keep it in mind for the future. If I have said and spoken too harshly, if I have made some mistakes, I apologise to you.”Also Watch | ‘Where is PM CARES money?’ Mamata Banerjee attacks Modi govt over Covid crisisKejriwal earlier spoke about his helplessness and having had sleepless nights due to the paucity of oxygen. “My phone keeps ringing. Some hospitals say they have only two hours of oxygen...,’’ he told Modi. “I have called some central ministers. They initially helped a lot but now they are also tired. If Delhi does not have an oxygen factory, will Delhi’s 20 million people be deprived of any oxygen? Who shall I speak to if... our hospitals start running out of oxygen? We cannot leave our people to die?’’Kejriwal requested Modi to call chief ministers of the states and ask them not to stop the oxygen supply. “One call from you will solve everything. I cannot sleep at night thinking about our people. We would not be able to forgive ourselves if something happens.’’Modi also urged states to continue with the Covid-19 vaccination programme in an urgent manner.The Centre on Monday heeded calls for wider access to Covid-19 vaccination and announced all adults will become eligible for coronavirus vaccine, which can be sold in the market from May 1. People under 45 will only be able to receive doses once private sales begin or if state governments procure stocks for distribution.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/work-as-one-nation-to-ensure-no-scarcity-modi-to-cms-amid-surge-in-covid-cases-101619179556872.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Free food for 800 million poor in May, June and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt to provide free food to 800 million poor in May, JuneThe Centre said on Friday the government will provide 5 kilogram of free food grains to millions of poor covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013, “due to economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 outbreak in the country” for the months of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.Read more.‘Won’t be any scarcity of resources if we work as one nation’: PM Modi tells CMs at Covid meetPrime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told chief ministers of states and Union territories hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic to ensure there are no hindrances in the transportation of oxygen tankers as several regions across the country reported a shortage in the supply for Covid-19 patients.Read more. No instructions, says Kejriwal’s office as it ‘regrets’ live appeal to PM ModiDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal’s office on Friday issued a clarification after a row erupted over his address during the review meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, telecast live for some time, during which the Aam Aadmi Party (leader) raised alarm about “a big tragedy" that could happen because of the oxygen shortage in hospitals during the second wave of the coronavirus pandemic.Read more. 'Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if...': Kejriwal asks PM Modi in Covid-19 meetFacing a grim crisis of saving lives with top hospitals in Delhi reporting an acute shortage of oxygen, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday raised the challenge in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi.Read more. Shravan Rathore's son says parents tested Covid-19 positive after Kumbh Mela visit: 'Never expected such tough times'Music composer duo Nadeem-Shravan's Shravan Rathore died on Thursday of complications related to Covid-19. Now, Shravan's son Sanjeev has revealed that Shravan had tested positive after visiting the Kumbh Mela in Haridwar with his wife.Read more. Video of ‘high-definition views’ of Earth as seen from ISS goes viralAre you someone who loves seeing the videos showcasing the beauty of our Blue Planet captured from the outer space? Then here is a video which will make you very happy. Shared on official Instagram page of International Space Station (ISS), the video will make you say “Wow,” repeatedly.Read more. Xiaomi Mi 11X Pro, Mi 11X launched in India: Check specs, priceXiaomi on Friday launched the Mi 11X series in India alongside the Mi 11 Ultra. The new smartphone series features Mi 11X Pro and Mi 11X. The new Mi phones come with the Snapdragon 888 processor, 120Hz AMOLED display, 108-megapixel camera, and more.Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-free-food-for-800-million-poor-in-may-june-and-all-the-latest-news-101619177351318.html
23-04-2021||India||Centre diverting oxygen supply to UP, depriving Bengal, alleges Mamata||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee alleged on Friday that the Union government is depriving her state of its quota of medical oxygen by diverting the supply to Uttar Pradesh. Addressing journalists in Kolkata, Banerjee alleged discrimination even in vaccine distribution, claiming that while Gujarat has been given enough vaccine doses to cover 60% of the population, other states are not being allotted more than 15% -20%. “SAIL [Steel Authority of India] used to supply oxygen to West Bengal. Yesterday, there was an instruction (from the Centre) that SAIL would now supply the same oxygen to Uttar Pradesh. Is Bengal a beggar? When it comes to elections, they (BJP) want to capture Bengal but when it comes to oxygen supply, they are diverting it to other states,” Banerjee told reporters, adding that she has already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi in this regard. The West Bengal government has procured 5,000 cylinders of oxygen and diverted them to Covid-19 hospitals to meet the acute demand, she said, adding that “negotiations are on with one source to arrange for more cylinders”.On distribution of vaccine among states, Banerjee said, “Gujarat has been given vaccines to cover 60% of its population, while other states have been given not more than 15% – 20%. In Gujarat, vaccination is being done at (BJP) party offices. We have asked for more vaccines and have urged the Centre to fix a rate.” Also Read | Dissatisfied with measures for polls amid Covid surge: Calcutta HC raps ECIThe Centre has opened Covid-19 vaccination for everyone above the age of 18 from May 1, allowing vaccine-makers to sell in the open market in India at a pre-decided rate. Banerjee said that as per a rough estimate, the Centre would need around ₹20,000 crore to vaccinate the entire population of India. “They have collected lakhs of crores of rupees in PM-Cares Fund. Can’t they give this money? How much is being spent to build a new Parliament building or a statue? And this is a question of life and death. All it takes is a second to decide,” said Banerjee, while attacking the Centre over its alleged failure tackle the second wave of corona.“It is unfortunate that the BJP, in a bid to capture Bengal, pushed not just the state but the entire country into a crisis. It is total negligence,” she added. The BJP hit back at the chief minister over her allegations. “The outgoing chief minister has been attacking the Prime Minister. Misleading statements are being made. Unfortunately, the state has not come up with any plan to fight Covid in the last three months. The state should inform the Centre of its requirement. But it hasn’t been done. The ruling party is doing politics during a crisis just to scare and confuse the people,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson in the state.“We really have doubts. The Centre would never do this – depriving one state to benefit another. Instead of making such allegations, the CM should cooperate in times of crisis,” said Jay Prakash Majumdar, vice president of BJP’s unit in West Bengal. A senior official of SAIL said, “We have a stock of around 2,000 tons of liquid medical oxygen at our two plants at Durgapur Steel Plant and IISCO Steel Plant. It can be provided as per requirement.”Later in the day, a statement released by the state government said that on April 21, the Centre allotted 200 MT of oxygen from different plants in West Bengal to outside the state. “As per the current patient load and rising trend of infections, it is expected that the consumption level of oxygen in the state will radically rise to roughly 450 MT per day in the next couple of weeks. Hence, present allocation of liquid oxygen to outside West Bengal will jeopardise the treatment of Covid-19 patients. The state government has accordingly requested the Centre to consider the need of the state and not to divert the medical oxygen available in the state to elsewhere,” the statement said.Meanwhile, the state reported 11,948 fresh cases on Thursday and has around 65,000 active cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-diverting-oxygen-supply-to-up-depriving-bengal-mamata-101619176196084.html
23-04-2021||India||Govt to provide free food to 800 million in May, June under PM Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana||The Centre said on Friday the government will provide 5 kilogram of free food grains to millions of poor covered under the National Food Security Act, 2013, “due to economic disruptions caused by the Covid-19 outbreak in the country” for the months of May and June under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana.This will be “over and above NFSA foodgrains for next two months i.e. May and June 2021 on the same pattern as the earlier “Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PM-GKAY)”, it added. “Under this special scheme (PMGKAY), around 80 Crore NFSA beneficiaries covered under both categories of NFSA, namely Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) and Priority Householders (PHH), will be provided with an additional quota of free-of-cost foodgrains (Rice/Wheat) at a scale of 5 Kg per person per month, over and above their regular monthly entitlements under NFSA. Government of India will bear all expenditure of over ₹26,000 Crore on account of food subsidy and Central assistance to states/UTs on account of intrastate transportation etc,” it added.Prime Minister Narendra Modi stressed that it is important that the poor of the country have nutritional support when the country is facing the second wave of coronavirus pandemic.Also read: As India gasps for oxygen, PM Modi tells CMs to check hoarding, black marketingThe free food grains distribution scheme under the Prime Minister Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana was extended in June for five months till November 2020 with an additional estimated outlay of ₹90,000 crore. The extension of the scheme was announced by the Prime Minister last year when the country was entering the ‘unlock’ phase from the nationwide lockdown imposed to curtail the spread of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) and to support the poor affected by the halt in the economic activities.The scheme has been rolled out again for the next two months as the country’s healthcare infrastructure has reached its capacity and several states have taken steps like complete lockdown, night curfew to contain the spread of the disease. The scheme comes as such measures affecting the economic activities of the country and the pandemic will cause a huge burden on the poor of the country.India on Friday reported 332,730 cases of coronavirus disease in the last 24 hours—the highest since the pandemic broke last year—taking the tally to over 16.2 million.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-to-provide-free-food-to-800-million-in-may-june-under-pm-garib-kalyan-anna-yojana-101619174442565.html
23-04-2021||India||‘Won’t be any scarcity of resources if we work as one nation’: PM Modi tells CMs at Covid meet||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday told chief ministers of states and Union territories hit hard by the coronavirus pandemic to ensure there are no hindrances in the transportation of oxygen tankers as several regions across the country reported a shortage in the supply for Covid-19 patients. “He urged the states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. The PM said that every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded,” the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 herePM Modi’s remarks came at a high-level meeting on the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union territories that have reported the maximum number of cases lately. The crucial meeting, the third with CMs in the last five weeks, comes at a time when many states are reporting a lack of health infrastructure to meet the requirements amid a massive increase in Covid-19 cases.As the states flagged a shortage of oxygen and medicines for Covid-19 patients, PM Modi said that continuous efforts are on to increase the supply. “All the concerned departments and ministries of the government are also working together. Industrial oxygen has also been diverted to meet immediate requirements,” the Prime Minister said, according to his office.During the meeting, PM Modi urged the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state. This committee should ensure that as soon as there is an allotment of oxygen from the Centre, it can deliver oxygen as per requirement in different hospitals of the state immediately.PM Modi also stated that the government is working on all possible options to reduce the travel time and turnaround time of oxygen tankers. “For this, railways has started Oxygen Express. Empty Oxygen tankers are also being transported by the Air Force to reduce one-way travel time,” according to PM’s office.Prime Minister urged all states to work together to fight the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and assured that if the nation battles as a collective power, there won’t e any scarcity of resources. “He said the biggest basis of India’s success during the first wave of the pandemic was our united efforts and united strategy and reiterated that we will have to address this challenge in the same way,” his office said.PM Modi reiterated the need to scale up testing along with upgrading resources. He also remarked that India’s vaccination programme should not slow down in the current situation.On Friday, India registered over 300,000 Covid-19 cases, the world's highest daily tally for the second day in a row, which take the total infection tally to 16,263,695. The toll due to the viral disease is also on the rise with 2263 deaths in the last 24 hours taking the total number of fatalities to 186,920.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-no-oxygen-tanker-is-stopped-stranded-pm-modi-tells-cms-at-covid-meet-101619173926308.html
23-04-2021||India||Military importing oxygen generation plants from Germany||The Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) is importing mobile oxygen generation plants to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), people familiar with the development said on Friday. The AFMS is importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany, and these will arrive within a week, said one of the officials cited above. “These plants will be deployed in AFMS hospitals catering to Covid patients,” he said. Each plant can produce 2,400 litres of oxygen per hour. “At this rate, it can cater to 20-25 patients round the clock. The advantage of these plants is that they are easily portable,” the official said.The military and other wings of the defence ministry have been ordered to respond on war footing to fight the outbreak that has so far claimed nearly 185,000 lives, as reported by Hindustan Times. From setting up Covid hospitals to ramping up oxygen production and airlifting of medical staff and oxygen containers to liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases, the armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid-19 relief. The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the second deadly wave of Covid-19 that has ripped through the country. A new Covid hospital set up by the DRDO in Ahmedabad will be functional from Saturday. The hospital has been readied in less than 10 days. Also Read | Western Command to set up Covid care facility in ChandigarhThe Dhanvantri Covid Hospital has a capacity of 900 beds, including 150 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, said a second official. The remaining 750 beds also have provision for oxygen, he added. The DRDO has set up the facility in collaboration with Gujarat government. It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients. The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow and 750 beds in Varanasi are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur. The Indian Air Force on Thursday airlifted three empty oxygen containers from Hindon to Panagarh in West Bengal where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid relief. The IAF used its C-17 and Il-76 heavy-lift aircraft to move the containers. Also, it moved empty oxygen containers from Begumpet to Bhubaneswar on Friday. Once filled, the containers will be carried to Covid centres by rail or road. The IAF has deployed its aircraft for airlifting medical personnel, oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders, trolleys and essential medicines to places where they are needed, as reported by HT. The DRDO has also stepped in to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. It has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now started providing oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The Uttar Pradesh government, for instance, has ordered five such plants from Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics. The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. The DPSUs are also making arrangements to buy oxygen plants for the production and supply of oxygen cylinders at a swift pace. Technology developed by the DRDO for a supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted in high-altitude areas has also been transferred to the industry, and it will soon be available in the market for use by Covid patients. Also Watch | Amid rise in cases, DRDO reopens Covid hospital in national capitalThe armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry can play an important role in the fight against Covid-19, said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former directed general of AFMS said on Thursday. “They have the manpower, resources and discipline to provide relief in these hard times. The military especially has a culture of quick response, be it enemy action or natural catastrophes. It can do a lot to alleviate the sufferings of our countrymen during the pandemic too,” Chopra said. On April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh carried out an extensive review of the preparedness of the armed forces and other allied organisations to deal with the surge in Covid infections across the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-importing-oxygen-generation-plants-from-germany-101619173136230.html
23-04-2021||India||India's Cadila gets approval to repurpose Hepatitis C drug for Covid-19||India's Cadila Healthcare Ltd has received restricted emergency use approval from local regulators to use a Hepatitis C drug as a treatment for moderate Covid-19 in adults, the drugmaker said on Friday.The approval follows promising results from a late-stage study of the drug, and comes in the middle of a massive wave of Covid-19 cases in India, which has overwhelmed its health system and left many hospitals short of critical oxygen supplies.Cadila said patients given its therapy in clinical trials had shown lesser need for supplemental oxygen, which is given to seriously ill Covid-19 patients to increase its supply in the blood and lungs.About 91% of patients treated with the drug, branded Virafin, tested negative for Covid-19 in standard RT-PCR tests by day seven, compared to nearly 79% who were given the standard of care, the company said earlier this month."The fact that we are able to offer a therapy which significantly reduces viral load when given early on can help in better disease management," Cadila Managing Director Sharvil Patel said. "It comes at a much-needed time for patients."India reported the world's highest daily tally of coronavirus infections for a second day on Friday, surpassing 330,000 new cases.Cadila's drug, known as Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b, was originally approved for liver disease Hepatitis C and launched in India 10 years ago. It is being repurposed to treat Covid-19.The company's shares reversed course following the news, and were last up 3.2% at 570 rupees in afternoon trading on the National Stock Exchange.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-cadila-gets-approval-to-repurpose-hepatitis-c-drug-for-covid19-101619171912735.html
23-04-2021||India||Chhattisgarh, Punjab CMs request PM Modi to bring parity in vaccine prices||Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to provide vaccine doses to states at the same rates as procured by the Centre. At the Covid-19 review meet with PM Modi on Friday, he also urged the Centre to provide an action plan to make vaccines available to the states which will soon begin vaccination of people above the age of 18.“Please provide vaccine doses to the states at the same rate as it is procured by the Centre. Also provide an action plan for those states for who will vaccinate people above the age of 18 years starting May 1,” Chhattisgarh chief minister Baghel told PM Modi.Similar concerns were expressed by Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh at the meeting. He asked the Prime Minister to ensure a proper system of vaccine allocation by May 1 while parity should be maintained in vaccine pricing between states and the Centre. He also asked PM Modi to ensure a regular and adequate supply of Remdisivir and Tocilizumab and medical oxygen, urging the PM to allow the State Disaster Response Funds for vaccination.PM Modi asked chief ministers present at the meeting to ensure that oxygen supplies headed towards a state are not being stopped. “Every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded. Urge the states to set up a high-level coordination committee to carry oxygen to different hospitals of the state,” the Prime Minister told the chief ministers, according to a statement released by the Prime Minister’s Office. He also asked the chief ministers to ensure there is no hoarding of oxygen or essential medicines.Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a review meeting with chief ministers of states and Union Territories which are badly affected by Covid-19. Chief ministers Arvind Kejriwal, Uddhav Thackeray, Ashok Gehlot, BS Yediyurappa, Pinarayi Vijayan, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Vijay Rupani, Captain Amarinder Singh, Yogi Adityanath and Bhupesh Baghel attended the meeting. This is the third meeting between the chief ministers and the Prime Minister in the last five weeks. Prime Minister Narendra Modi also held a review meeting with leading oxygen manufacturers to discuss the issue of oxygen shortage in the country after the meeting with chief ministers as several worst-hit regions, state capitals and districts saw deaths due to lack of oxygen as well as ICU beds and drugs like Remdesivir.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/chhattisgarh-punjab-cms-request-pm-modi-to-bring-parity-in-vaccine-prices-101619171297626.html
23-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Pak’s Edhi Foundation offers to send 50 ambulances to help India||Pakistan’s Edhi Foundation, renowned for its humanitarian relief work, on Friday offered to send a fleet of 50 ambulances to India to assist efforts to cope with a massive surge in Coronavirus infections that has swamped health services in several cities. The offer was conveyed in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by Faisal Edhi, the director of Edhi Foundation and the son of late Abdul Sattar Edhi, the founder of the organisation. “We are very sorry to hear about the exceptionally heavy impact that the pandemic has had on your country, where a tremendous number of people are suffering immensely. As a neighbouring friend, we sympathise with you greatly and during this strenuous time, we would like to extend our help in the form of fleet of 50 ambulances along with our services to assist you in addressing, and further circumventing, the current health conditions,” said the letter, which was sent to the Indian mission in Islamabad. Speaking over phone from Karachi, Faisal Edhi told Hindustan Times that the organisation made the offer after witnessing the hardship being faced by Indian people in news reports. “The people are suffering and this affected us. We have dealt with Covid-19 cases across Pakistan and we have the experience of operating in such situations. That’s why we offered our services,” he said. Also Read | Covid-19: Canada suspends flights from India, Pakistan for 30 days“If permission is given by the Indian side, we are mentally and physically prepared to go across and do whatever we can to help. We will fully cooperate with the Indian authorities and are prepared to operate in any city they allow us to operate in,” he added. The Edhi Foundation said in its letter that it wished to extend full support to Indian authorities without causing any inconvenience and would arrange all supplies that would be needed by any of its teams allowed to operate across the border. “We are not seeking any assistance from the Indian side for our operations. We will carry our own food, fuel and other supplies and our team will include emergency medical technicians, drivers and support staff,” Faisal Edhi said. Given the strained ties between the two countries, observers said it was unlikely that the Edhi Foundation’s offer would be accepted. Asked about this matter, Faisal Edhi replied: “We have made the offer and are fully prepared to help by operating wherever the Indian authorities want us to assist. We will cooperate fully with the local administrations and police departments.” The Edhi Foundation’s ambulance services across Pakistan are known for being more efficient than state-run services and often reach the site of accidents or terror attacks before government ambulances. The foundation also operates orphanages, hospitals, homes for the elderly, graveyards, langars or free kitchens. The foundation has often assisted Indian fishermen held in Pakistani jails, especially in Karachi, and facilitated their repatriation. Abdul Sattar Edhi, who died in 2016, and his wife Bilquis played key roles in looking after Geeta, the deaf Indian woman who accidentally strayed across the border when she was nine. Bilquis personally cared for Geeta till she was repatriated in 2015. Earlier this year, Geeta was reunited with her family at Parbhani in Maharastra.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pak-s-edhi-foundation-offers-to-send-50-ambulances-to-help-india-101619170915996.html
23-04-2021||India||Shortage, shortcoming and short-sightedness: Cong slams govt’s Covid strategy||The Congress on Friday again hit out at the government over its handling of the second Covid-19 wave, saying “shortage, shortcoming and short-sightedness” define its approach to it, while demanding “vaccine neutrality”.“The priorities of the Prime Minister [Narendra Modi] and [Union] home minister [Amit Shah] reflect that they have entirely become inefficient, incompetent, and indifferent towards the Covid-19 crisis,” said Congress leader Abhishek Singhvi. He urged venerable institutions to realise that their primary job is to protect the lives of the country’s citizens and not the government’s reputation.Singhvi questioned the differential pricing of vaccines and the failure of the government to provide better Covid infrastructure. He accused the government of “under-reporting cases of infections and deaths” and attacked it for exporting resources crucial in the fight against the virus.Also Read | ‘Government of India, this is on you’: Rahul Gandhi on oxygen crisisSinghvi said India has exported over 60 million doses of vaccines, 1.1 million Remdesivir injections, 9300 MT of oxygen, and 20 million testing kits. He blamed the government for the shortage of crucial resources needed to fight the pandemic.Singhvi called the Supreme Court’s suo motu cognisance over the Covid crisis a day earlier “uncalled for and wrong”. “It is wrong because it is not suo motu ameliorative but a reaction to palliative High Court orders.” Singhvi added the Supreme Court is not equipped to deal with local issues. He questioned the need for discharging the high courts of their duties.Bharatiya Janata Party leader Gaurav Bhatia hit back saying the Congress destroyed institutions when in power and discredits them in opposition. “All institutions are doing their best to save precious human lives. The Congress is indulging in cheap and petty politics. The nation has given up on Congress and its leadership. The citizens of Congress-ruled states like Maharashtra...are also looking towards Narendra Modi for support and relief. We will work tirelessly to help all citizens.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/shortage-shortcoming-and-short-sightedness-cong-slams-govt-s-covid-strategy-101619169596249.html
23-04-2021||India||Employers allegedly burn 12-yr-old domestic help to death in Assam; 2 arrested||Two people have been arrested in Assam’s Nagaon district for allegedly burning their 12-year-old domestic help. “We got initial information from the [employers]...that she [domestic help] had died by suicide. ...after initial investigation, our team found the claim to be suspicious,” said police superintendent Gaurav Abhijit Dilip. “It appears she had been burnt. We also came to know the girl who was just 12 was employed as domestic help. We have arrested two persons...Prakash Borthakur and his son, Nayanmoni Borthakur. Further investigations are underway.”Also Read | 8 states to provide free vaccine doses for all above 18. Check list herePolice said the girl’s body has been sent for post-mortem. Purported photos of the girl’s body circulated on social media show it in a kneeling position with the head on the ground. A plastic jar and a matchbox can also be seen in the pictures. HT could not independently verify their authenticity.The girl had been employed as domestic help for five years in violation of the law that prohibits employing children under 14. Her employers allegedly poured kerosene after she requested them to allow her to go home.In a tweet, Assam police chief Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta said: “As per her employer, the girl committed suicide. However, after initial inspection, it is suspected that she was murdered and then burnt. She was also underage to be working as a domestic help. Therefore, two accused were taken to custody immediately. Investigation is on.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/employers-allegedly-burn-12-yr-old-domestic-help-to-death-in-assam-2-arrested-101619167615659.html
23-04-2021||India||Saw hills...and even guns: Outgoing CJI Bobde recalls virtual court experience||Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, sitting for the last time on a bench in the Supreme Court before he demits office on Saturday, recalled his virtual court experience of a tour of the lawyers’ chambers while he heard arguments through video-conferencing for most part of his 14-month tenure. “There are many disadvantages of hearings through video-conferencing but that was the need of the hour. But hearing you (lawyers) in virtual mode has made me feel like taking a tour of your chambers without physically visiting them. I can recognise the statue behind the attorney general, the jaguar chair of Mr Vikas Singh, Lord Ganesha idol from the solicitor general’s office which is not on his desk today,” quipped justice Bobde. He added that as lawyers appeared before his court, he could see the hills behind a few; painting and sculptures behind some others and even guns and pistols in the background of some advocates. “It (video-conferencing) has its own advantage. I’m happy we all have been in it together and we will come out of it together too,” said the outgoing CJI, who shared the bench with CJI-designate NV Ramana and justices AS Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian. The Supreme Court began hearing of cases through video-conferencing in March 2020 after the imposition of lockdown to curb the spread of Covid-19, and it continues till today. Also Read | All you need to know about CJI-designate RamanaAttorney general KK Venugopal, solicitor general Tushar Mehta, president of the Supreme Court Bar Association Vikas Singh and president of the Supreme Court Advocates on Record Association Shivaji M Jadhav were present during the proceedings to bid adieu to justice Bobde. Justice Bobde said he had “mixed feelings” sitting for the last time on what is a called a ceremonial bench and he was not able to say much because he perhaps had to a lot to say. “All I can say is that I leave this court with happiness, with goodwill, with very fond memories of wonderful arguments, excellent presentation, good behaviour and a great commitment to the cause of justice not only from my learned colleagues but also from the bar and everyone associated,” he expressed. The outgoing CJI ended his address by saying: “I did my best. I don’t know how it came across but I am happy about what I could do. I hand over the baton to justice Ramana who, I am certain, will very ably lead the court.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/saw-hills-and-even-guns-outgoing-cji-bobde-recalls-virtual-court-experience-101619165695894.html
23-04-2021||India||Hearing in SC's suo moto cognisance case on Covid-19 deferred to April 27||The Supreme Court on Friday deferred the hearing into a suo moto congnisance case on the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) crisis to April 27. The top court will on Tuesday also examine the judicial power of High Courts to declare lockdowns in view of the pandemic and issues related to oxygen supply, drug supply and vaccine policy.Hearing the case, a three-judge bench of the Court, headed by CJI SA Bobde, criticised senior advocates for suggesting that the apex court had restrained high courts from hearing petitions on Covid-19 management.Meanwhile, a day after senior advocate Harish Salve was appointed as an amicus curiae in the matter, he recused in the wake of comments regarding a 'conflict of interest' resulting from his relationship with the CJI. Accepting his decision to recuse, the CJI said, "I did not know our Bar is divided among industries we appear for. Please allow me to recuse with all humility. I appeared for Vedanta since I was informed ten minutes before mentioning...I don't want any side show. The language of the narrative now is very different."On Thursday, the CJI said that at least six High Courts are considering cases related to pandemic management. "We as a court wish to take suo motu cognizance of certain issues. We find that there are 6 High Courts -Delhi, Bombay, Sikkim, Madhya Pradesh, Calcutta and Allahabad-. They are exercising jurisdiction in best interest. We appreciate that. But it is creating confusion and diversion of resources", CJI Bobde told Solicitor General Tushar Mehta.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/supreme-court-s-suo-moto-cognisance-case-on-covid-19-deferred-to-april-27-101619158251641.html
23-04-2021||India||Is RT-PCR test giving false negative reports because of mutants? Expert answers||Amid rising Covid-19 tests, a long wait for RT-PCR tests and the results, concerns over false negative reports are being expressed. It is being speculated that because of the new mutant strains, RT-PCR tests are coming negative, even when a person is actually positive and has symptoms of the infection.Allaying such fears, Dr Anurag Agarwal, director of the National Institute of Biomedical Genomics confirmed that while it is possible that a covid positive person may test negative in an RT-PCR test, double mutant strain is not the reason."Double mutant was sequenced through PCR positive. So it is not possible that the mutant escapes the RT-PCR test. Then we could not have sequenced it," Dr Agarwal said in a video, tweeted by the Union health ministry.#Unite2FightCorona RT- PCR tests giving false negative reports due to mutants? Listen to Dr Anurag Agrawal, Director, @FollowDbtNibmg, Professor @iiscbangalore speak on this issue.https://t.co/IA7EhNMe8w@PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @mygovindia"All possible sequences in the world are being checked regularly and there is no strain which can escape the double gene testing," he said.What people should remember is that PCR has a sensitivity of 70 per cent. "The load of the virus in one's mouth and nose remains the highest a day before the symptoms start showing. Then the virus load gradually decreases. If people get tested late after 7 to 8 days, it is possible to get a negative test report because the virus may have travelled inside the body," he said.Health ministry advises proning at home for Covid-19 patients with breathing troubles | All you need to knowTests coming negative despite symptoms being present is not new and not because of any new strain. This was the case since the beginning, that if delays testing, the test results may come negative, Dr Agarwal said.RT-PCR (Reverse transcription- Polymerase chain reaction) tests are considered the gold standard in the detection of Covid-19 and that is why the Centre is asking all states to increase the percentage of RT-PCR testing, but its sensitivity is not beyond 70 per cent if all tests being done are taken into account.Double mutant is a new strain formed by two mutated strains. In India, its presence has been found in many states, including Maharashtra and Delhi. E484Q and L452R strains have formed the double mutant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/is-rt-pcr-test-giving-false-negative-reports-because-of-mutants-expert-answers-101619164458667.html
23-04-2021||India||Nestle apologises for ‘factual error’ on KitKat wrapper pointed out by Manipur||FMCG major Nestle India on Friday apologised for the “factual error” on the wrapper of its KitKat chocolate that syas Keibul Lamjao National Park is in Meghalaya. The park is in Manipur, as was pointed out by the forest department of Manipur.Apart from its apology, Nestle India responded by announcing two new packs celebrating the beautiful locations.“While we stay at home,the KitKat travel break packs were aimed at bringing a smile in these tough times by celebrating beautiful locations.We got it wrong with the location of one of the packs celebrating wildlife and we sincerely apologise for this unintentional error,” Nestle India spokesperson said. “We are launching two new packs as soon as possible to bring to light the beauty of these destinations.These packs celebrate Keibul Lamjao National Park,Manipur and Balpakram National Park,Meghalaya.We thank you for your understanding and support.”Manipur’s principal chief conservator of forest (wildlife) AK Joshi had pointed out the error in a letter.Keibul Lamjao National Park, the only floating national park in the world, is located in the Bishnupur district of Manipur.Also Read | PM conducts high-level review meeting with CMs of worst Covid-affected statesJoshi also pointed out the picture on the wrapper is that of Red Panda (Ailurus fulgens), which is not found in the park. “This appears to be an irresponsible act on the part of your marketing team. These kinds of basic errors are not expected from a prestigious & reputed company of your standard,” he wrote.“I trust that you will deal with this issue at the earliest possible. I also hope that you will take necessary precautions to prevent such incidents in the future.”People for Animals (PFA) Manipur said Nestle products will be boycotted if the company does not rectify the misrepresentation.“We take such factual errors very seriously [as they will] mislead the people across the globe about the park,” said L Biswajeet Meitei, managing trustee, PFA, in a statement on Thursday. He added Panda’s picture on the chocolate cover makes things more confusing.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-forest-dept-writes-to-nestle-over-factual-error-on-chocolate-wrapper-101619164315575.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 135 million vaccine doses administered in India and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1pm on Friday (April 23, 2021). Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.India has administered over 135 million vaccine doses till nowIndia had administered over 135 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday evening even as the country registered a new single-day record, forcing the Supreme Court to call it a “national emergency”. Read MorePM conducts high-level review meeting with CMs of worst Covid-affected statesPrime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of states and Union Territories which reported a high number of Covid-19 cases on Friday. The meeting comes at a time when the nation is reporting more than three lakh cases for the past week and is also reporting a high number of fatalities. Read MoreAntilia bomb scare, Hiran murder case: Another Mumbai Police officer arrestedThe National Investigation Agency (NIA) has arrested one more Mumbai Police officer in connection with the Antilia bomb scare and Thane trader Mansukh Hiran’s murder case. Read MoreAt least 13 Covid-19 patients killed in fire at ICU of Maharashtra hospitalAt least 13 Covid patients died in a fire at the ICU unit of a hospital in Maharashtra's Palghar. The blaze broke out on the second floor of four-storey Vijay Vallabh Hospital at Virar. Watch hereBandish Bandits actor Amit Mistry dies of cardiac arrest, Kubbra Sait, Jacqueline Fernandez pay tributeBandish Bandits and Kya Kehna actor Amit Mistry has died. The news of demise was confirmed by actor Kubbra Sait on Twitter. Read MoreMI5 reveals ‘secret to successful spying’ in first Insta post. Share goes viralMI5, United Kingdom's domestic counter-intelligence and security agency, has recently joined Instagram and their first post on ‘secret to successful spying’ has prompted people to share various reactions. They also shared a picture that gives a glimpse inside the agency’s London headquarters. Read More'He has got class and ability': Gavaskar identifies batsman who could play for India 'sooner rather than later'Royal Challengers Bangalore mauled Rajasthan Royals on Thursday to win their fourth straight game of Indian Premier League 2021. RCB restricted RR to a total of 177 runs after an impressive performance from Indian seamers Mohammed Siraj and Harshal Patel. But the real star of the show was Devdutt Padikkal, who slammed his maiden IPL ton against RR at the Wankhede Stadium in Mumbai. Read More||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-135-million-vaccine-doses-administered-in-india-and-all-the-latest-news-101619162679415.html
23-04-2021||India||'Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if...': Kejriwal asks PM Modi in Covid-19 meet||Facing a grim crisis of saving lives with top hospitals in Delhi reporting an acute shortage of oxygen, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday raised the challenge in a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The Delhi CM raised the issue in a meeting PM Modi held on Friday with chief ministers of 10 states with the most number of Covid-19 cases. The meeting via video conferencing comes on the day India saw more than 3 lakh Covid-19 cases."There is a huge shortage of oxygen in Delhi. Will people of Delhi not get oxygen if there is no oxygen-producing plant here?" Kejriwal said, reported news agency ANI.Raising the issue of problems faced during transportation of oxygen tankers, Kejriwal said, "Please suggest whom should I speak to in Central Govt when an oxygen tanker destined for Delhi is stopped in another state."Delhi on Thursday reported more than 26,000 new cases and 306 deaths, or about one fatality every five minutes, the fastest since the pandemic began.Delhi's Max hospital chain on Friday informed that it is suspending any new patient admissions in all the hospitals in Delhi-NCR till oxygen supplies get stabilize, but later withdrew the order after it received the oxygen supply.An Oxygen carrying vehicle has reached Max Hospital, Saket after the hospital sent an SOS to the Delhi government , says DCP South.DCP also informed that another Oxygen carrying vehicle has reached Max Smart Hospital.On Friday morning, Healthcare provider Max Healthcare informed that it is suspending any new patient admissions in all the hospitals in Delhi-NCR till oxygen supplies get stabilize.India's top private hospital in the national capital Sir Ganga Ram on Wednesday announced an oxygen shortage with 58 patients awaiting treatment and 35 waiting outside the hospital for admission.The crisis was compounded by similar reports emerging from other parts of the national capital where hospitals are racing against time with their oxygen quota.Sisodia said that the Delhi government has talked to the Centre to get the oxygen tanker that was stuck at a plant in Faridabad.Medical oxygen and beds have become scarce, with major hospitals putting up notices saying they have no room for any more patients and police being deployed to secure oxygen supplies.Max Healthcare, which runs a network of hospitals in northern and western India posted an appeal on Twitter on Friday for emergency supplies of oxygen at its facility in Delhi."We regret to inform that we are suspending any new patient admissions in all our hospitals in Delhi ... till oxygen supplies stabilise," the company said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/will-people-of-delhi-not-get-oxygen-if-kejriwal-asks-pm-modi-in-covid-19-meet-101619160299060.html
23-04-2021||India||PM conducts high-level review meeting with CMs of worst Covid-affected states||Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of states and Union Territories which reported a high number of Covid-19 cases on Friday. The meeting comes at a time when the nation is reporting more than three lakh cases for the past week and is also reporting a high number of fatalities.The meeting was attended by Union home minister Amit Shah, NITI Aayog health member VK Paul, union ministers Piyush Goyal and Harsh Vardhan chief ministers Arvind Kejriwal, Uddhav Thackeray, Ashok Gehlot, BS Yediyurappa, Pinarayi Vijayan, Shivraj Singh Chouhan, Vijay Rupani and Bhupesh Baghel. Delhi lieutenant governor Anil Baijal also attended the meeting. West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee could not attend the meeting. Chief secretary Alapan Bandyopadhyay represented West Bengal at the meeting, according to a news report by PTI. Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Kerala, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Punjab are among the states and Union Territories which are contributing to the daily caseload, according to health ministry. Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka have all reported their highest single-day surges since the onset of the pandemic during the second wave. Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur and Bengaluru Urban are also among the worst-affected districts in the country. The Prime Minister is also scheduled to hold a meeting with oxygen manufacturers as several hospitals in several worst-affected states and major cities continue to clamour for oxygen. Desperate appeals for oxygen were sounded by Delhi's two major hospitals as they raced against time to save the lives of the patients afflicted with Covid-19. Oxygen shortage has affected hospitals in Capital city Delhi, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka along with the rest of the country leading to widespread fear and concern among people whose friends and relatives have been diagnosed with Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-conducts-high-level-review-meeting-with-cms-of-worst-affected-states-101619161035359.html
23-04-2021||India||Pune, Bengaluru Urban have more than 1 lakh active covid-19 cases | 10 points||India has been recording unprecedented rises in the number of daily Covid-19 infections and with more than 3 lakh cases being recorded every day, the country has now breached all records anywhere in the world. Along with this, the country is reeling under an acute shortage of oxygen prompting the Centre to take a few crucial steps to ramp up the production and transport of oxygen. Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday spoke with state chief ministers to review the covid-19 situation of the country.India's present Covid-19 situation explained in 10 points> India at present has over 24 lakh active Covid-19 cases, which is 14,93 per cent of the country's total tally.> In the last 24 hours, the country recorded 2,263 new fatalities, which is also a 24-hour record.India registers over 3 lakh Covid-19 cases, world's highest daily tally for second day in row> About 75.01 per cent of the new cases came from Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Karnataka, Kerala, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat and Rajasthan, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday.> With 1,37,813 cases, Bengaluru Urban district has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the country. It has surpassed Pune which has 1,17,337 active Covid-19 cases.> In Maharashtra, Pune, Mumbai, Nagpur, Thane and Nashik are the districts with the highest active Covid-19 caseload.> In Uttar Pradesh, Lucknow, Prayagraj, Varanasi, Kanpur, Meerut have the highest concentration of active covid cases.> Bengaluru Urban, Tumakuru, Kalaburagi, Mysuru, Ballari in Karnataka report the highest active caseload.> Delhi's contribution in daily toll is high as it stands second, following Maharashtra, with 306 deaths recorded in last 24 hours. Apart from Maharashtra and Delhi, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Karnataka, Jharkhand, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are reporting high daily fatalities.> The ministry said that the national mortality rate has been falling and currently stands at 1.15 per cent.> Amid concerns that the young population is getting more infected in the second wave of the pandemic, the health ministry said in the age group 30-40 years, 21.05 per cent Covid-19 cases were reported in the first wave, while 21.15 per cent cases were registered in the second wave.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pune-bengaluru-urban-have-more-than-1-lakh-active-covid-19-cases-10-points-101619160725703.html
23-04-2021||India||Corona fears: Delhi Police move SC to handcuff accused instead of holding hands||The Delhi Police have approached the Supreme Court, requesting it to let policemen handcuff the arrested persons and undertrials in order to minimise the exposure to Covid-19 due to holding of hands. The application cites the previous directions issued by the top court in a spate of judgments, starting 1980, against handcuffing of the accused persons as a matter of protection of human rights of citizens as against actions by the police. At the same time, the Supreme Court has said that the police or jail authorities can seek permission for the same if there were certain extraordinary reasons, including the fact that accused or undertrials were “high-risk prisoners”. Seeking a relaxation of the directions issued by it, the Delhi Police plea has been moved in a pending suo motu (on its own) matter on management of Covid-19 that was registered last year by the apex court, and cites the crisis triggered by the second Covid-19 wave. An urgent listing application has been filed by the Delhi Police in the Supreme Court requesting it to relax the directions issued by the apex court prohibiting handcuffing of arrested persons and other undertrial prisoners till the time the pandemic subsides so as to ensure safe transit while they are being escorted. Also Read | ‘National emergency’: SC calls crisis triggered by 2nd Covid-19 waveThe application, filed earlier this week, has stated that the transit of undertrial prisoners between jail and courts as also transit of accused persons by holding their hands will expose both the prisoner as well as the police to the Covid-19 virus. Since it would also be difficult to ensure social distancing, the police contended, it would increase the possibility of infection. “Even if the police personnel wear gloves, it will not give sufficient grip to hold the prisoner/accused, even in that event they have to move in close proximity and cannot ensure social distancing norms. Therefore, if they are handcuffed, the police personnel escorting them can hold them from a distance, thereby ensuring safe distancing,” added the plea. Pointing out that several Delhi Police personnel have already lost their lives due to coronavirus and this also put their families at risk, the application said, “this Hon’ble Court may consider balancing the right to dignity of the undertrial prisoner/accused and the life and safety of both prisoner/accused and police personnel who accompany them during transit between jail/police station to courts and help reducing the risk of infection from spreading.” The top court is yet to fix a date for hearing this plea.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/corona-fears-delhi-police-move-sc-to-handcuff-accused-instead-of-holding-hands-101619160475739.html
23-04-2021||India||India has administered over 135 million vaccine doses till now||India had administered over 135 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Thursday evening even as the country registered a new single-day record, forcing the Supreme Court to call it a “national emergency”.In all, 135,346,729 vaccine doses have been given in the country till now, Thursday. This includes 9,241,384 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 5,903,368 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 11,727,708 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,073,622 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Several long-term effects of Covid-19 point to massive health burden: StudyIn the 45-59-year age group, 45,510,426 people have got their first dose and another 1,891,160 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 48,501,906 people have been administered their first dose while 6,497,155 have had their second dose as well.As many as 3,016,085 vaccine doses were given on Thursday till 8pm, as per the provisional report. Of this, 1,435,858 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 685,184 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.On Friday, India reported over 300,000 cases again, clocking 332,730 cases in the last 24 hours. With this, India’s trend of registering the world’s highest daily tally continues, pushing the country’s total infection count to 16,263,695 cases.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-over-135-million-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619159455624.html
23-04-2021||India||Congress seeks uniform vaccination rate, BJP free inoculation in Rajasthan||Congress leader Sachin Pilot has expressed concern about the management of vaccines and oxygen amid rising Covid-19 cases while underlining the need for saving lives as the country is reporting record infections daily. He called for vaccinating people in time and added future generations will not forgive them if needy patients do not get life-saving oxygen and medicines such as Remdesivir.Pilot, a former Rajasthan deputy chief minister, questioned different Covid-19 vaccine rates for the Centre, the states and private hospitals. “By fixing three prices of the same vaccine, the government of India has put the public in great difficulty. It is a very bizarre decision that the same vaccine will be supplied to the central government for ₹150, state governments for ₹400 and private hospitals for ₹600. One nation, one vaccine, one rate is the needed to control the hoarding and black marketing of the vaccine,” he said on Thursday.Also Read | Residents vaccinated against Covid-19 in Jodhpur mark their homes with postersChief minister Ashok Gehlot earlier called on the Centre to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all.Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rajendra Rathore asked Gehlot to think about vaccinating all eligible people seriously instead of indulging in rhetoric against the Centre. “The governments of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh have decided to administer free corona vaccine to people above 18... when will you announce [the same]?” State BJP chief Satish Poonia echoed Rathore and said there should be no politics over the vaccination.Independent lawmaker Sanyam Lodha, who is considered as pro-Gehlot, asked Rathore to ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi through 25 Rajasthan BJP members of Parliament why were 60 million vaccine doses exported. He questioned why is not the Covid-19 vaccine available for states at ₹150.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/congress-seeks-uniform-vaccination-rate-bjp-free-inoculation-in-rajasthan-101619159395397.html
23-04-2021||India||'Not national news': Maharashtra minister Rajesh Tope on Virar hospital fire which killed 13||Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Friday said the fire tragedy at the Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Virar which killed 13 Covid-19 patients is not national news. The minister's statement comes shortly after a fire broke out in the intensive care unit on the second floor of the four-storeyed hospital in the early hours of Friday, in which five women and eight men died.Stating that the action will be taken on the state government level, Tope said, "This is not national news. The state government is taking all steps to help the patients and their relatives." The minister said that the government has announced an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh to the next of kin of those who lost their lives and the municipal corporation will add another ₹5 lakh to the ex gratia announced."We have announced probe and the report will be submitted in ten days. We will take strict action against those who are responsible for not doing compliance with mandatory fire, electrical and structural audit," Tope said. Earlier in the day, Tope called the incident unfortunate in a tweet and said, "The fire incident at Virar based Vijay Vallabh Hospital's ICU section has claimed 13 lives. It is a very unfortunate and painful incident. CM Thackeray has ordered in-depth inquiry into this accident." Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Friday announced financial assistance of ₹five lakh each to the families of 13 Covid-19 patients who died in the blaze. A statement from the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said those who suffered serious injuries in the incident will be given ₹one lakh compensation each.There were 90 patients in the hospital, 18 of them in the ICU, when the fire broke out after a blast in the AC unit, an official has said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/not-national-news-maharashtra-minister-rajesh-tope-on-virar-hospital-fire-which-killed-13-101619155620834.html
23-04-2021||India||'Government of India, this is on you': Rahul Gandhi on oxygen crisis amid Covid-19 surge||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Friday slammed the central government and said that the accountability is on the Government of India for the current crisis over oxygen shortage and lack of ICU beds. "Corona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it is the oxygen shortage and lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths," he said, adding, "Government of India, this is on you." His statements come on the day India registered over 3 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the second day in a row, clocking 332,730 cases in the last 24 hours.Taking to his official Twitter handle on this day, Rahul Gandhi said, "Corona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it’s #OxygenShortage & lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths. GOI, this is on you." The deadlier, more infectious second Covid-19 wave currently sweeping through India is crushing its already overburdened health infrastructure and frontline medical workers.Corona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it’s #OxygenShortage & lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths.GOI, this is on you.Several hospitals in the national capital, Delhi, are running out of medical oxygen supplies, with as many as twenty-five Covid-19 patients dying over the last 24 hours at the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital in the city. Although the hospital refused to say whether or not the deaths were because of oxygen shortage, several other hospitals in the national capital issued distress messages about their dwindling oxygen supply on Thursday. Congress has been attacking the government over its alleged mismanagement of the Covid-19 situation in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/government-of-india-this-is-on-you-rahul-gandhi-on-oxygen-crisis-amid-covid-19-surge-101619154398680.html
23-04-2021||India||NIA arrests Mumbai Police inspector Sunil Mane in Antilia security scare case||The National Investigation Agency, which is probing the Antilia bomb scare incident, on Friday arrested Mumbai police officer Sunil Mane, who was called for interrogation on Thursday night. After Sachin Vaze, who is now suspended, and Riyaz Kazi, Mane is the third officer of the Mumbai Police to be arrested in the high-profile security threat case.According to reports, the 1995-batch Maharashtra police service officer was placed under arrest late on Thursday night following hours of interrogation.On February 25, an explosive-laden SUV was found parked near Ambani residence Antilia. Thane-based businessman Mansukh Hiran who claimed that the car belonged to him and was stolen before the incident was found dead in February. Hiran's wife accused Mumbai police inspector Sachin Vaze of pressuring Hiran to get arrested in the case. After taking Vaze in custody, the NIA arrested his associate Riyaz Kazi, on charges of destroying evidence. Kazi has also been accused of being involved in the conspiracy along with Vaze, NIA said.Reports said Kazi was seen entering a number plates shop in Vikhroli where he spoke with the owner. He was also seen taking away a digital video recorder and a computer from the shop. CCTV footage also showed him collecting CCTV footage from Vaze's housing complex in Thane.The case took a different turn after Sachin Vaze accused Maharashtra's former home minister Anil Deshmukh of extortion. In his letter to the invetigating agency, Vaze wrote the former home minister asked him to collect monet from bars and restaurants.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/nia-arrests-mumbai-police-inspector-sunil-mane-in-antilia-security-scare-case-101619154632708.html
23-04-2021||India||DRDO’s 900-bed Covid facility to be inaugurated in Ahmedabad today||A new hospital set up by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) in Ahmedabad to deal with the rising number of coronavirus infections will be inaugurated this evening, officials familiar with the development said on Friday.It will begin operations on Saturday. The hospital has been readied in less than 10 days.The Dhanvantri Covid Hospital will have a capacity of 900 beds including 150 intensive care unit (ICU) beds, said an official. The remaining 750 beds also have provision for oxygen, he added. The DRDO has set up the facility in collaboration with the Gujarat government.Union home minister Amit Shah and chief minister Vijay Rupani will inaugurate the hospital.The DRDO is among the defence ministry organisations at the forefront of fighting the second wave of Covid-19. It has so far or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat over 3,100 critical patients, as reported by HT on Friday. The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow and 750 beds in Varanasi are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur.The DRDO has also stepped in to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. It has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now started providing oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. Also Watch | Amid rise in cases, DRDO reopens Covid hospital in national capitalThe Uttar Pradesh government has ordered five such plants from Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics.The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.Technology developed by the DRDO for a supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted in high-altitude areas has also been transferred to the industry, and it will soon be available in the market for use by Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/drdos-900-bed-covid-facility-to-be-inaugurated-in-ahmedabad-today-101619154956497.html
23-04-2021||India||Canada stops passenger flights from India amid rising Covid-19 cases||Canada prohibited all commercial and private passenger flights from India for 30 days starting Thursday night, hours after the UAE, Australia, and Oman on Thursday joined the list of countries to impose travel restrictions on the country. The UK, France, Hong Kong, the US, Singapore, and New Zealand earlier announced similar measures and either completely barred or restricted flights from India amid a record surge in daily Covid-19 infections.The Canadian move was precipitated by increasing pressure on the government to act after several cases of the double mutant originating in India were reported in Canada. There were also demands from provincial governments to ban flights from India at the earliest. Canada informed New Delhi of the decision prior to making the announcement, people aware of the matter said.Flights from India were barred along with that from Pakistan. Transport Canada, the ministry responsible for aviation, issued a notice to airmen saying: “...suspend all commercial and private passenger flights from India and Pakistan for 30 days, effective 23:30 EDT April 22, 2021.”In a statement, Transport Canada said these measures will help manage the elevated risk of imported cases of Covid-19 and variants of concern into Canada during a time of increasing pressure on the country’s health care.Passengers from India, who arrive through a third country, will have to provide a pre-departure negative coronavirus test result from the last port before continuing their journey.Also Read | Canadian PM Justin Trudeau keen to take AstraZeneca’s Covid-19 vaccineThe Canadian announcement came hours after the UAE announced the temporary suspension of all flights from India and the entry of transit passengers for 10 days from April 25. People, who transited through India in the past 14 days, will also be barred from entering the UAE. The travel ban will be reviewed after 10 days.Singapore on Thursday further tightened restrictions for travellers from India. On Wednesday, Oman barred the entry of travellers from India. Australia has temporarily reduced the number of flights from India by 30%.Canada’s health minister Patty Hadju said, “Throughout this pandemic, we have adapted our response to emerging science with one goal in mind: protecting Canadians. This is what we are doing again today. We have established some of the strongest border measures in the world, to test, screen, and quarantine incoming travellers.”Earlier, during the course of briefing linked to this announcement, she pointed out that while passengers from India accounted for about 20% of those traveling into Canada, they comprise nearly 50% of positive tests on arrival.Till now, Canada has had a system wherein passengers flying in have to have a negative RT-PCR test prior to departure and are tested again on arrival and have to quarantine in a designated hotel till the results of tests are available. They also have to self-isolate for two weeks from the time of arrival.Bill Blair, the minister of public safety and emergency preparedness, said, “These new measures complement those we already have in place and will play a critical role in controlling COVID-19 and variants of concern.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-stops-passenger-flights-from-india-amid-rising-covid-19-cases-101619154355201.html
23-04-2021||India||Virar hospital fire: PM Modi announces ex gratia, Uddhav Thackeray orders probe||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday approved an ex gratia of ₹2 lakh each for the next of kin of those who lost their lives in a fire at a covid hospital at Virar in Maharashtra's Palghar. Those who are seriously injured will be given ₹50,000 from Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, the PMO said.Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray has ordered a probe into the fire which killed 13 Covid-19 patients admitted to the private-owned Vijay Vallabh Covid Care Hospital. A statement issued by the Chief Minister's Office (CMO) said that Thackeray spoke to the district authorities on learning about the fire incident."Give priority to douse the fire completely and ensure the treatment of the remaining patients is not hampered," the statement quoting the chief minister said. It will be probed whether the fire safety measures were being followed in the hospital."The fire incident at Virar based Vijay Vallabh Hospital's ICU section has claimed 13 lives. It is a very unfortunate and painful incident. CM Thackeray has ordered an in-depth inquiry into this accident," Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope said.The Maharashtra government has also announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh to the families of those who lost lives and ₹1 lakh to the injured. "This is a big accident. Those found responsible won't be spared," minister Eknath Shinde said.Reacting to the tragic incident, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi wrote on Telegram, "Tragic news has been received from Vijay Vallabh COVID centre in Virar about the death of patients due to a fire. My deepest condolences to the families of the victims."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/virar-hospital-fire-pm-modi-announces-ex-gratia-uddhav-thackeray-orders-probe-101619153360079.html
23-04-2021||India||Indian Air Force ferries oxygen containers for Covid-19 relief||The Indian Air Force on Thursday airlifted three empty oxygen containers to Panagarh in West Bengal where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid relief at a time when the country is reeling under the pandemic, an IAF official said. The IAF used its C-17 and Il-76 heavy-lift aircraft to move the containers, he said. The IAF also ferried Covid testing set-up to Leh.As reported by Hindustan Times, the IAF has deployed its aircraft for airlifting medical personnel, oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders, trolleys and essential medicines to places where they are needed.Doctors and nursing staff have been airlifted from Kochi, Mumbai, Vizag and Bengaluru for setting up of the DRDO hospital at Delhi. Oxygen containers of the DRDO have also been airlifted from Bengaluru for Covid centres in Delhi.With India reeling under an unprecedented public health emergency, its hospitals stretched thin by a staggering number of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases and deaths being attributed to scarcity of beds, oxygen and medicines, the military and other wings of the defence ministry have been ordered to respond on war footing to fight the outbreak that has so far claimed nearly 185,000 lives.From setting up Covid hospitals to ramping up oxygen production and airlifting of medical staff and oxygen containers to liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases, the armed forces, Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid-19 relief.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-ferries-oxygen-containers-for-covid-19-relief-101619153815584.html
23-04-2021||India||'This home is vaccinated' posters put up at Jodhpur houses where residents got both doses of Covid-19 vaccine||In a bid to spread awareness regarding vaccination, Jodhpur Municipal Corporation (North) has started an initiative to encourage people by pasting posters stating "this house is vaccinated" at houses where people have received both their Covid-19 vaccine doses.The first-of-its-kind initiative which has been taken by the municipal body here sends a positive message among people regarding coronavirus vaccine and appreciate those, by pasting poster outside their houses, who already get themselves vaccinated."As per the direction of Mayor and with the help of the medical team, an initiative has been taken to appreciate those whose entire family has been vaccinated for the coronavirus. Under this initiative, we paste a poster stating that this house is vaccinated," Rohitashva Tomar, Commissioner of North Municipal Corporation told reporters on Thursday.He further said that in order to remove the misconception and getting people encouraged regarding the vaccine, the municipal body here in Jodhpur sends a positive message to society."The purpose of the initiative is to encourage people who have not yet got themselves vaccinated for the virus. Earlier we used to mark the houses as having Covid-19 positive cases. But this step has a positive approach. I urge people to get themselves vaccinated," the Commissioner said, while the Mayor of the city Kunti Deora Parihar said that we are pasting posters on houses where people aged above 45-years are living and they all got themselves vaccinated for the coronavirus."With this step, people will get encouraged and come to the vaccination centres to get themselves inoculated. From May 1, people above 18 years will be eligible for the vaccine," She said.The third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive in India will begin from May 1 and will include those above 18.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/residents-vaccinated-against-covid-19-in-jodhpur-mark-their-homes-with-posters-101619149791405.html
23-04-2021||India||When to use Remdesivir, Tocilizumab? When to do HRCT chest? Govt issues clinical guidance for Covid-19 treatment||Classifying active Covid-19 patients into three broad groups of mild, moderate and severe, the Union health ministry has issued fresh clinical guidance for the management of adult Covid-19 patients, underlying which patients need which medication and what should not be done in a specific situation.Ivermectin or HCQClarifying that this is based on low certainty of evidence, the guideline said that Tab Ivermectin (200 mcg/kg once a day for 3 days) may be given to patients who have mild symptoms and are being treated at home.An alternative to Ivermectin is Tab HCQ (400 mg BD 1 day f/b 400 mg OD for 4 days) unless contraindicated.For these mild patients, inhalational Budesonide (given via Metered dose inhaler/ Dry powder inhaler) at a dose of 800 mcg BD for 5 days) may be given if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond 5 days of disease onset.#IndiaFightsCorona:📢 Latest Clinical Guidance for Management of Adult #COVID19 Patients‼️For more details: https://t.co/GXFhozHWVN#Unite2FightCorona #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/N64dUuATtiMethylprednisoloneCoovid-19 patients admitted in hospital with moderate symptoms with oxygen level between 90 per cent to 93 per cent on room air can be given injection Methylprednisolone 0.5 to 1 mg/kg in 2 divided doses (or an equivalent dose of dexamethasone) usually for a duration of 5 to 10 daysSerial CXR, HRCT chest can be done on these patients only if there is worsening.Remdesivir (EUA)Remdesivir (EUA) may be considered only in patients with moderate to severe disease, requiring supplemental oxygen and who are within 10 days of the onset of symptoms. Patients who are not on oxygen support or are in home settings should not be recommended Remdesivir.Recommended dose: 200 mg IV on day 1 f/b 100 mg IV OD for next 4 days.Tocilizumab (off-label)A severe Covid-19 patient admitted in ICU can be given this medication within 24 to 48 hours of the admission if the inflammatory markers are significantly raised if there is no improvement despite the use of steroids and only if there is no active bacterial/fungal/tubercular infection.Recommended single dose: 4 to 6 mg/kg (400 mg in 60kg adult) in 100 ml NS over 1 hour.Convalescent plasma (off label)This may be considered only within seven days of the onset of the symptoms.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/when-to-use-remdesivir-tocilizumab-when-to-do-hrct-chest-govt-issues-clinical-guidance-for-covid-19-treatment-101619148803989.html
23-04-2021||India||India registers over 3 lakh Covid-19 cases, world's highest daily tally for second day in row||India on Friday reported over 3 lakh coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases for the second day in a row, clocking 332,730 cases in the last 24 hours, according to the Union health ministry's dashboard at 9:15am on this day. With this, India's trend of registering the world's highest daily tally continues, pushing the country's total infection count to 16,263,695 cases. As many as 2,263 people also died of Covid-19 in the last 24 hours, mounting the coronavirus death toll to 186,920. India is currently dealing with a deadlier, more infectious second Covid-19 wave that sweeps through the nation, crushing its health infrastructure and overburdened frontline medical workers.Also Read: AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to Covid-19India has repeatedly shattered records for Covid-19 infections and deaths over the past few weeks, stoking fears that the central government may be forced to implement another country-wide lockdown to curb the spread. Yesterday, India had recorded as many as 314,835 new cases in a span of 24 hours, the first time that the country surpassed the three-lakh mark in its daily spike. In Delhi alone, where hospitals are running out of medical oxygen supplies, the daily rise registered on Thursday was over 26,000. As many as 306 new deaths were reported in the national capital, forcing several to turn to makeshift facilities for laying their dead to rest as bodies piled up at encumbered crematoriums and burial grounds.Ten states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Gujarat, account for 75% of all the new cases registered in a day, the health ministry informed a day ago. On the vaccination front, the cumulative number of Covid-19 vaccine doses administered in the country has crossed 13.53 crore, of which over 30 lakh were administered in the last 24 hours. As many as 274,445,653 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till April 22, with 1,740,550 samples tested on Thursday itself.Also Read: Maharashtra Covid tally over 4 mn; 5 districts report highest growth in a weekIndia is currently the second-worst Covid-19 affected nation in the world, lagging only the US. While the US caseload is twice as high its death toll is three times what India has reported. The surge in Asia’s third-largest economy puts at risk not only its fragile economic recovery but also the global fight against the coronavirus pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-registers-over-3-lakh-covid-19-cases-for-second-day-in-row-101619146140668.html
23-04-2021||India||Willing to talk to India about what it needs to fight Covid pandemic: China||China on Friday said it was willing to talk to India about what it needs to fight the massive surge in coronavirus cases, a day after offering to help New Delhi with necessary support and help.India reported 314,835 new coronavirus cases on Thursday (for the preceding 24 hours), the highest single-day tally recorded anywhere in the world since the pandemic started last year. India’s death toll from the disease rose 2,104 in the same time period.The spike in Covid-19 cases has put medical infrastructure under severe strain with hospitals in parts of India running out of essential medical supplies including oxygen.Responding to a query from Hindustan Times about what kind of assistance Beijing was ready to offer to New Delhi, the Chinese foreign ministry said it was ready to talk to India about what it needs.“China is willing to communicate (on) specific matters with India according to its needs,” the ministry said in a one-line statement in Mandarin to HT.It could not be ascertained if Beijing had officially conveyed to New Delhi its intention to extend help in fighting the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in India.Also Read | Rafale weaponry prompts China, Pak to alter defence postureOn Thursday, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin had said that Beijing was aware that the epidemic in India had become severe, and that there was a temporary shortage of necessary materials for epidemic prevention.Wang was responding to a question from Chinese official media at the regular ministry briefing about what action China was taking in view of the spreading epidemic in India.“China is willing to provide the necessary support and help,” Wang had said, without giving details of what such assistance might consist of.“The novel coronavirus is a common enemy of all mankind, and the global community needs to unite as one to fight against epidemics,” he told the briefing.Last year, India was among the countries to help Beijing with medical supplies during the time the Covid-19 outbreak was at its most severe in China.India had provided 15 tonnes of medical supplies comprising masks, gloves, and emergency medical equipment at a cost of about ₹2.11 crore to China at the time.In a written reply to a question in the Lok Sabha in March, 2020, external affairs minister of state V Muraleedharan had said the medical supplies included 100,000 surgical masks, 500,000 pairs of surgical gloves, 75 pieces of infusion pumps, 30 pieces of enteral feeding pumps, 21 pieces of defibrillator and 4,000 pieces of N-95 masks.The supplies, flown to China in an India Air Force’s C-17 special flight, were handed over to the Hubei charity federation in the central Chinese city of Wuhan, the first epicentre of the pandemic where the virus had emerged in early December, 2019.In February, 2020, Prime Minister Narendra Modi had written to President Xi Jinping extending India’s assistance to fight the coronavirus outbreak.Speaking at a press conference soon after, Chinese ambassador to India Sun Weidong had appreciated the support and solidarity that India had extended to China in its fight against the novel coronavirus.China had returned the favour in April, dispatching dozens of aircraft with Covid-19-related medical supplies when the first wave of the pandemic became severe in India.India-bound flights had taken off from Shanghai, Guangzhou, Shenzhen, Xi’an and Hong Kong, carrying 390 tonnes of medical supplies, including RT-PCR test kits, Rapid Antibody test kits and personal protection equipment.Soon after, however, ties between India and China had plunged to its worst in decades following military friction along the disputed border in eastern Ladakh. Nearly a year later, the two countries are still grappling to completely defuse the situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/willing-to-talk-to-india-about-what-it-needs-to-fight-covid-pandemic-says-china-101619149555199.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: AIIMS Delhi stops contact tracing of exposed medics||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.AIIMS Delhi faces staff shortage, stops contact tracing of exposed medicsThe All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in New Delhi informed on Thursday that the hospital is discontinuing the practice of risk assessment and contact tracing of healthcare workers exposed to the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in the wake of insufficient resources and shortages of staff to do so amid the pandemic, according to a notice shared by news agency ANI. Read more.Health ministry advises proning for Covid patients with breathing troublesCovid-19 patients who are being treated at home can practise proning if they are having breathing discomfort, the Union health ministry has said, releasing a detailed document explaining what proning is and how it helps in improving oxygenation. Read more.13 Covid patients killed in fire at ICU of Maharashtra hospitalAt least 13 patients lost their lives after a fire raged in the Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of private-owned Vijay Vallabh Covid Care hospital in Maharashtra’s Virar (W) on Friday at around 3:15 am. A short circuit in the air conditioning unit of the hospital is said to be the preliminary cause of the fire according to people aware to the development in Vasai Virar civic fire brigade. Read more.Covid-19: PM Modi to address rally virtually in Bengal due to surgePrime Minister Narendra Modi will address an election rally virtually on Friday as the second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) continues to affect the nation. PM Modi is also scheduled to chair a series of high-level meetings to review the nation’s condition in the wake of the prevailing situation of the pandemic. Read more.'Tell me that after you get to the first one': Kohli reveals conversation when Padikkal was nearing centuryRoyal Challengers Bangalore captain Virat Kohli had nothing but encouraging and positive words for his teammate Devdutt Padikkal, who on Thursday, slammed his maiden IPL century. Padikkal and Kohli stitched an unbeaten 181-run partnership as RCB gunned down the 178-run target set by Rajasthan Royals in Match 16 of IPL 2021 in Mumbai. Read more.Manoj Bajpayee birthday interview; 'Doesn't feel right to celebrate at a time when people around you are suffering'Actor Manoj Bajpayee, who turns 52 on Friday, has no plans to celebrate this year, given the coronavirus pandemic and the havoc it has created all around. However, he did take some time out to talk about some of his recent projects, his love for Neeraj Pandey and his work, and his own recent fight against coronavirus. Read more.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-aiims-delhi-stops-contact-tracing-of-exposed-medics-101619148261736.html
23-04-2021||India||Oxygen crises in MP, hospitals put up banners of unavailability||Hospitals in Madhya Pradesh are struggling with oxygen shortage as its demand continues to grow with rising Covid-19 infections in the state, which had over 84,957 active cases of the disease on Thursday.Aurbindo Hospital, one of Indore’s biggest, put up a board saying it did not have any oxygen. Similar, banners were seen at other private hospitals in Indore as well as Bhopal.Hitesh Sharma, a doctor at a private hospital in Bhopal, said they were left with oxygen on Thursday that lasted for just two hours. “The government provided two cylinders only that helped manage overnight. Now we do not have any oxygen on Friday. There are 32 patients on oxygen support at our hospital and we need oxygen immediately.”A video purportedly showing the family of a Covid-19 patient requesting Union minister Prahlad Patel for oxygen in Damoh went viral. Patel is heard scolding them and saying he would slap a man complaining about of unavailability of oxygen.Despite repeated attempt, Patel could not be contacted for comments. Mukesh Kumar, whose mother is admitted to a hospital in Damoh, said she got oxygen just for 15 minutes on Thursday. “Her saturation level was going down, but hospital administration is not providing oxygen due to shortage.”A health department official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said 405 metric tonnes of oxygen is being supplied to Madhya Pradesh. “But for 19,172 oxygen and Intensive Care Unit beds, [the state needs] 441 metric tonne oxygen. ...Madhya Pradesh requires 553 metric tonne oxygen as the number of cases is increasing very fast.”Also Read | 12,384 new Covid-19 cases take MP’s tally across 450,000-markThe second Covid-19 wave has sparked shortages of hospital beds and other crucial supplies such as oxygen and medicines across the country. Oxygen is a critical medical intervention against Covid-19, which causes respiratory distress in some cases. The pandemic has accelerated the global demand for it. The need for oxygen has increased to 1.1 million cylinders in low to middle-income countries alone, according to the World Health Organisation.Minister Vishwas Sarang said four oxygen plants are being set up. “Bharat Oman Refineries, Bina, will provide oxygen for 10,00 beds hospital being constructed in Bina for Covid-19 patients of Sagar and Vidisha.”Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said they were improving the facilities. “But it is necessary to break the chain. If positive cases increase further, the facilities will fail.” He said they are starting a campaign called Yog se Nirog (healthy with yoga) for Covid 19 patients under home isolation. “A yoga teacher will deal with 10 patients. We will try to enhance the mental strength of patients through this campaign.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-crises-in-mp-hospitals-put-up-banners-of-unavailability-101619148655156.html
23-04-2021||India||Reliance to roll out its own Covid-19 vaccination programme for staff on May 1||Reliance Industries Limited will roll out its own coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccination programme, R-Surakshaa, for all eligible employees, a letter released by CEO Mukesh Ambani and Nita Ambani read. "The Covid-positive caseload may rise further over the next several weeks before we begin to see a downward curve. We must be even more vigilant now and uncompromising in observing the strictest measures of safety, precaution and hygiene," the letter added. The R-Surakshaa programme will be effective from May 1. "We urge you to avail your shot at safety without any delay and encourage your eligible family members to do the same," the Ambanis wrote.Reliance will roll out our own vaccination programme, R-Surakshaa, across locations for all our employees and eligible family members above the age of 18 years, effective May 1: Reliance Industries Limited pic.twitter.com/bh2U9Atb5RSharing their action plan to tackle the virus for the next three months, they urged those employees not affected by Covid-19 to support their peers who have been infected in case they need time off. "Our priority remains the safety and health of our people. Do everything possible to uphold this principle and safeguard members of your team and their families," the letter read.The announcement comes as India registered the world's highest single-day tally for the second day in a row. As many as 332,730 fresh Covid-19 cases were recorded on Friday and the total infection count went up to 16,263,695. The number of people who died of the disease in 24 hours went up to 2,263, pushing the total toll to 186,920.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/reliance-to-roll-out-its-own-vaccination-programme-for-staff-on-may-1-101619147540121.html
23-04-2021||India||Maharashtra Covid tally over 4 mn; 5 districts report highest growth in a week||Maharashtra recorded 67,013 new cases on Thursday, taking its total tally to over 4 million. Five districts have emerged as areas of concern with respect to the case fatality ratio (CFR: the ratio of deaths per 100 cases), and the test positivity rate (TPR: number of positive cases per 100 tests) is worrisome in at least three of the districts where the data is available.Also Read | Covid-19: PM Modi to address rally virtually in Bengal due to surgeFrom April 15-21, when Maharashtra recorded its highest seven-day average in both cases as well as fatalities, the CFR of five districts posed the most concern. Of them, Ahmednagar recorded the highest at 1.4%, followed by Nagpur (0.95%), Mumbai (0.64%), Nashik (0.62%), and Pune (0.33%). The TPR, however, was the highest in Nagpur at 34%, while Pune recorded that of 26.64% and Mumbai posted 17.21% in the same period. Nashik and Ahmednagar did not reveal their number of tests.Statewide, the average daily cases touched 64,238, while daily deaths averaged 443 – highest ever in the pandemic in the country – in the same time period. The state’s TPR averaged 24.81%. The CFR was 0.69% in the same period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-covid-tally-over-4mn-5-districts-report-highest-growth-in-a-week-101619146734810.html
23-04-2021||India||Rain, thunderstorms likely over western Himalayas till Saturday||Rain and thunderstorms are likely to affect the western Himalayan region till Saturday, according to India Meteorological Department.Under the influence of a fresh active Western Disturbance, widespread rainfall or snowfall with isolated thunderstorm or gusty winds is likely over the western Himalayan region (Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit-Baltistan & Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand) during April 22 to 24.Scattered rainfall with isolated thunderstorm or gusty winds is also very likely over adjoining plains of northwest India during the same period.Also Read | Monsoon 2021: The good and bad newsA north-south trough (area of low pressure) runs from south Madhya Maharashtra to south Tamil Nadu and a cyclonic circulation is lying over south Tamil Nadu and neighbourhood in lower tropospheric levels. Under their influence, isolated to scattered rainfall or thunderstorms are very likely over south Peninsular India during the next 4-5 days. Heavy rainfall is also likely over south interior Karnataka till today and over Kerala and Mahe during April 22 to 24. Heat wave conditions are unlikely over the country during the next 4-5 days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rain-thunderstorms-likely-over-western-himalayas-till-saturday-101619145774797.html
23-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Puducherry under complete 4-day lockdown from today||The Puducherry administration imposed a complete lockdown in the union territory (UT) in view of the surge in cases of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). The lockdown will be in place from 10pm on Friday to 5am on April 26, the territorial government announced on Tuesday. A night curfew from 10pm to 5am is already in place in the UT. "A total lockdown will be observed in the whole of the Union Territory from 10 PM on April 23 to 5 AM on April 26 as part of the measures to contain spread of the virus in Puducherry," a release from the office of Lt Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said.Click here for full Covid-19 coverageThe lockdown comes in the backdrop of the UT registering 987 new Covid-19 cases on Thursday, taking the overall tally to 50,580. The number of active cases in the union territory stood at 5,923. Four more people died of the virus, pushing the death toll to 726.Here is all you need to know about the lockdown:(with PTI inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-puducherry-under-complete-4-day-lockdown-from-today-101619141562122.html
23-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Haryana reports 11,854 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hours||The coronavirus disease (Covid-19) surge continues to affect several cities and regions of the country as clamour for oxygen and ICU beds continues. India reported a record 332,730 fresh cases on Friday crossing the US in terms of the highest number of cases reported in a single day. Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Delhi continue to report a high number of cases and fatalities and are also facing issues with testing, hospital infrastructure and oxygen availability. The Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, chaired one review meeting on the nation’s Covid-19 situation today with the chief ministers of worst-affected state and his meeting with oxygen manufacturers is currently underway.In the worst-affected US, California is reopening at a faster pace as vaccinations have helped the state recover from the spikes that it had recorded previously during the winter season. Michigan is the worst-affected by Covid-19 out of all states. The WHO immunisation body has asked for more data on the reports of clotting caused by AstraZeneca vaccine from outside Europe but maintained that the benefits of vaccination outweigh the risks. India’s mutant variant was discovered in Belgium from a few travellers. Canada has joined the US and UK to ban travellers entering from India.Follow all the updates here:Jharkhand reports 5,741 new Covid-19 casesJharkhand reports 5,741 new Covid-19 cases, 3,205 discharges and 63 deaths.Active cases: 43,415Total discharges: 1,45,499Death toll: 1,778Haryana reports 11,854 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursHaryana reported 11,854 new Covid-19 cases, 60 deaths and 6,334 recoveries in the last 24 hours on Friday.Delhi reports 24,331 new Covid-19 casesDelhi on Friday reported 24,331 fresh coronavirus infections and 348 deaths in the last 24 hours.Chhattisgarh registers more than 17,000 new Covid-19 casesChhattisgarh on Friday reported 17,397 new Covid-19 cases, 14,284 recoveries and 219 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra's Pune logs 9,810 new Covid-19 casesPune district reported 9,810 fresh Covid-19 cases, 137 fatalities and 10,310 recoveries in the last 24 hours.West Bengal logs over 12,000 fresh Covid-19 infectionsWest Bengal reported 12,876 new Covid-19 cases, 59 deaths and 6,878 discharges in the last 24 hours on Friday.Kerala logs highest-ever single-day hike of 28, 447 new Covid-19 infectionsKerala on Friday registered 28,447, highest in a single day, new Covid-19 cases, ANI quoted the state's Information & Public Relations Department (IPRD) as informing.Maharashtra reports over 66,000 new Covid-19 casesMaharashtra on Friday reported 66,836 new Covid-19 infections and 773 deaths in the last 24 hours.Flyers from Delhi, UP, 3 other states to Bengal must carry Covid-19 negative report from MondayThe West Bengal government makes prior RT-PCR test and Covid-negative report mandatory for flight passengers coming to Kolkata from nine states.Mumbai reports 7,221 new Covid-19 infections in last 24 hoursMumbai reported 7,221 new Covid-19 cases, 9,541 recoveries and 72 fatalities in the last 24 hours. Active cases in the city have surpassed 81,000-mark.Andhra Pradesh announces night curfew from April 24 to curb Covid-19 spread, reports PTIAndhra Pradesh government on Friday announced that night curfew from 10pm to 5am will be imposed in the state from April 24, reported PTI. "The night curfew will be in force daily from 10 pm to 5 am. Only essential and emergency services, like medical and health, milk supply, will be allowed," PTI quoted deputy chief minister (Health) A K K Srinivas (Nani) as saying.Tamil Nadu logs 13,776 new Covid-19 cases in last 24 hoursTamil Nadu on Friday reported 13,776 new Covid-19cases, 8,078 recoveries and 78 deaths in the last 24 hours.Maharashtra's Nagpur reports 7,485 new Covid-19 casesNagpur district reported 7,485 new cases of Covid-19 on Friday with 6531 recoveries and 82 deaths, reported ANI.Goa reports 1,420 new Covid-19 infectionsGoa reports 1,420 new Covid-19 cases, 12 fatalities and 596 recoveries in the last 24 hours. Active cases stand at 11,040.Uttarakhand reports over 4,300 new Covid-19 infectionsUttarakhand on Friday reported 4,339 new Covid-19 cases, 1,179 recoveries and 49 deaths in the last 24 hours.Study finds even single jab of vaccine dose reduces Covid-19 infection rateAs per a new UK study, a single dose of either Oxford/AstraZeneca or Pfizer/BioNTech Covid-19 vaccine reduces the infection rate by 65 per cent, reported PTI. Oxfird/AstraZeneca and Pfizer/BioNTech vaccines are currently being administered in the UK.UP records highest single-day spike of over 37,000 new Covid-19 infectionsUttar Pradesh on Friday recorded the highest single-day rise with 37,238 fresh Covid-19 cases and 196 deaths in the last 24 hours. The new hike took the state's tally to over one million, an official said, reported PTI.Zydus Cadila gets DGCI nod for use of hepatitis drug in Covid-19 treatmentZydus Cadila on Friday said it has received restricted emergency use approval from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) for the use of hepatitus drug Pegylated Interferon alpha-2b (PegIFN) in treating moderate Covid-19 infection in adults, reported PTI.Covid-19 survivors face high risk of death, serious illness: StudyAs per research published in the journal Nature, Covid-19 survivors, including those not sick enough to be hospitalised, have an increased risk of death in the six months following diagnosis with the coronavirus, reported PTI.Odisha reports highest single-day rise of 6,215 new Covid-19 casesOdisha on Friday reported the highest-ever single-day spike of 6,215 new Covid-19 cases. The rise took the Covid-19 tally of the state to nearly 400,000 cases, PTI quoted a health department official as saying.Zero case of Covid variant reported in Mizoram so far, says officialMizoram has not reported any case of new Covid-19 variants till date, PTI quoted an an official as saying on Friday. Chhattisgarh receives 15k vials of Remdesivir15,000 vials of Remsdesivir reached Raipur airport today, says Chhattisgarh Health Minister TS Singh Deo "It has been sent to CGMSC godown for counting and storage. Distribution of the same will follow immediately, later in the day," he adds pic.twitter.com/x1xpRlSFlRChhattisgarh health minister said that the distribution of Remdesivir will begin immediately after they are counted. Mamata claims Bengal's oxygen is being diverted to UPOur oxygen supply chain has been diverted to Uttar Pradesh. The supply chain is being maintained in BJP states. Where will we get oxygen from?: West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee pic.twitter.com/zQD6TWlSMxAt a virtual meeting, the Bengal CM also claimed that the supply chain is being maintained by BJP states. PM Modi's meet with oxygen manufacturers beginsPrime Minister Narendra Modi holds meeting via video conference with oxygen manufacturers in the country pic.twitter.com/uaEVJxWVSEPM Modi's meet with leading oxygen manufacturers begins. Farmers deny to leave protest sitesSKM chief Gurnam Singh Chaduni told HT that RSS should intervene and reiterated that farmers will not call off stir at Delhi's borders. Edhi foundation offers ambulances to IndiaPakistan's #EdhiFoundation - built by the great Abdul Sattar Edhi - writes to Indian PM with offer to send fleet of 50 ambulances to help fight #COVID19India pic.twitter.com/bj5xfeK0l0Edhi foundation offers to send fleet of 50 ambulances. PM Modi holds meeting with CMs of states with high case burdenDelhi: Prime Minister Narendra Modi chairs a meeting with the Chief Ministers of high burden states, over the prevailing #COVID19 situation pic.twitter.com/u91CKrGOLJPM Modi held a meeting with chief ministers of states which reported a high number of cases of Covid-19. People dying due to lack of oxygen: CJI"People are dying due to lack of oxygen," CJI Sharad Arvind Bobde observed.The SC is hearing a suo motu cognisance case on Covid-19 crisis. Rahul Gandhi blames government for oxygen shortage, lack of ICU bedsCorona can cause a fall in oxygen level but it’s #OxygenShortage & lack of ICU beds which is causing many deaths.GOI, this is on you.Congress leader Rahul Gandhi in a tweet blamed the govt for oxygen shortage and lack of ICU beds. China says willing to talk to India about its second wave of Covid-19China a day after it extended its help to India in its fight against Covid-19 surge said it is willing to talk to India about what it needs to fight the massive surge in coronavirus cases. Read more here. Max Hospitals rescinds order stopping all admissions at its hospitals in Delhi NCRMax healthcare has decided to not stop new admissions in its hospitals in Delhi NCR. Max Healthcare suspends new admissions across all its hospitals in Delhi NCRMax Healthcare suspends new admissions across all its hospitals in Delhi NCROxygen supplies reach Max HospitalsOxygen carrying Vehicle has reached Max SmartAnother vehicle is enroute for Max East WestSenior Officers are monitoring the situationMax and Sir Ganga Ram Hospital which had reported medical oxygen shortage received 2 MT of emergency oxygen supply. India records more than 3 lakh cases in last 24 hoursIndia's death toll from Covid-19 also inched towards 187,000 with 2,263 deaths reported in last 24 hours.Reliance industries rollout vaccination programme for employeesReliance will roll out our own vaccination programme, R-Surakshaa, across locations for all our employees and eligible family members above the age of 18 years, effective May 1: Reliance Industries Limited pic.twitter.com/bh2U9Atb5RReliance Industries rollout vaccination programme for employees. Indian Air Force aircrafts deployed to airlift oxygen containersTwo IAF C-17 aircraft airlifted two empty cryogenic oxygen containers and one IL-76 aircraft airlifted one empty container to Panagarh yesterday#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/AJ0cBQS7WbTwo IAF aircrafts were deployed to airlift and send oxygen containers to Panagarh. Delhi's Sir Ganga Ram Hospital records 25 deaths in 24 hours25 sickest patients have died in last 24 hrs at the hospital. Oxygen will last another 2 hrs. Ventilators & Bipap not working effectively. Need Oxygen to be airlifted urgently. Lives of another 60 sickest patients in peril: Director-Medical, Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, DelhiSir Ganga Ram Hospital's director said that oxygen needs to be airlifted urgently as the hospital reported 25 deaths in last 24 hours, news agency ANI reported. Read more here. Extremely promising: UK registers drop in Covid-19 infections post vaccinationThe UK reported a drop of 65% in Covid-19 infections in adults of all ages after a dose of AstraZeneca or Pfizer vaccine was administered. Maharashtra hospital fire toll rises to 13The death toll due to hospital fire in Virar rose to 13.Cuba Covid-19 tally rises due to South African virus variantThe arrival of the contagious South African virus variant led to one of the worst outbreak since the start of the pandemic in Cuba as the country reported a record 1,207 new coronavirus cases on Thursday. Japan Covid-19 emergency measures to be announced in Tokyo, OsakaTokyo, Osaka, Kyoto and Hyogo could see restaurants, bars, and karaoke parlours serving alcohol close as the Suga govt is seeking a "short and powerful" state of emergency due to a surge in cases, Reuters reported. WHO's immunisation body call for more astrazeneca vaccine blood clot data from outside EuropeWHO's Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE) said that geographic variation was observed in people who received the AstraZeneca vaccine as more people from UK and EU reported the clotting. SAGE sought data from outside EU as well, AFP reported. 12 dead in Maharashtra hospital fire12 patients were charred to death on early Friday morning in Vijay Vallabh Covid Care hospital in Virar West. The patients' identity could not be ascertained as they were charred beyond recognition. An eyewitness told HT that the hospital did not have any fire safety measures like water sprinklers and the few fire extinguishers that were there remained unused as the fire raged. India's Covid-19 variant found in BelgiumA group of Indian students who arrived from Paris tested positive for the Covid-19 variant contributing to a surge in coronavirus cases in India.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-23-2021-101619139591347.html
23-04-2021||India||Steps taken to resolve the crisis||MHA has directed states and UTs to ensure the following:• No restriction on movement of medical oxygen between states•No restrictions of oxygen manufacturers or suppliers to supply only hospitals in the state/UT where they are located.•Free movement of oxygen-carrying vehicles into all cities and towns•No authority must attach oxygen vehicles passing through their state/district to make specific supplies in their area•Supply of oxygen for industrial purposes halted from Thursday, till further orders24*7 control room in Delhi: DDMA sets up 24*7 control room to redress grievances, complaints from city hospitals within 30 minutes||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/steps-taken-to-resolve-the-crisis-101619129473112.html
23-04-2021||India||How hospitals scrambled for oxygen||The Delhi government estimated the city will need around 700 MT of oxygen a day due to the increase in patients. On Wednesday, the Centre increased Delhi's oxygen quota to 480 MT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/how-hospitals-scrambled-for-oxygen-101619129166036.html
23-04-2021||India||'National emergency': SC calls crisis triggered by 2nd Covid-19 wave||The Supreme Court on Thursday called the crisis triggered by the second Covid-19 wave a “national emergency” as it initiated a public interest litigation on its own, and asked the Centre to present before it on Friday a national plan to combat the crisis that has now made India the worst hot spot of the entire global pandemic.“The situation in various parts of the country is grim. There seems to be a sudden surge in the number of Covid patients and mortality,” said the bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) SA Bobde, while taking a suo motu cognisance of the surge in infections, which have led to a shortage of hospital beds and crucial supplies such as medical oxygen and medicines.The order said its focus areas at this time were the supply of medical oxygen, essential medicines, the method and manner of vaccination, and the declaration of lockdowns to check the spread of the disease.Issuing the notices to the Union and state governments, it asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta to remain present in the court with the national plan on availability and distribution of essential supplies and services. The bench, which also includes justices L Nageswara Rao and S Ravindra Bhat, appointed senior advocate Harish Salve as amicus curiae to assist the court.A day after India saw the world’s biggest one-day jump in Covid-19 cases ever, the country again broke all records as 332,394 new infections and 2,255 deaths were reported on Thursday, both new single-day records.The ferocious second wave of infections has overwhelmed hospitals and crematoriums across the country and has led to frantic cries for help on social media as patients throughout the country struggled to arrange for beds, key medical supplies such as oxygen and medicines.Pointing out that at least six high courts were hearing issues related to the preparedness of the states and the Centre to deal with the crisis, the bench also issued notices to the petitioners before the high courts, asking why uniform orders should not be passed by the Supreme Court.“The high courts have passed certain orders which may have the effect of accelerating and prioritising the services to a certain set of people and slowing down the availability of these resources to certain other groups whether the groups are local, regional or otherwise,” recorded the court in its order, while telling Mehta that these orders were also creating confusion and diversion of resources because of different priorities.“Prima facie, we are inclined to take the view that the distribution of these essential services and supplies must be done in an even-handed manner according to the advice of the health authorities which undoubtedly take into account relevant factors like severity, susceptibility, the number of people affected and the local availability of resources,” the court recorded in its four-page order.On the issue of lockdowns, the CJI, whose bench had on Tuesday stayed an order of the Allahabad high court for virtually locking down five worst-hit districts of Uttar Pradesh, observed that this authority should be with the state government. “We want to keep the power to declare lockdown with states. It cannot be a judicial decision,” he remarked.In its order, the apex court also asked the Union government to apprise it of existence or requirement of a coordinating body that could consider allocation of the resources in a consultative manner with the involvement of concerned states and Union territories in addition to providing logistical support for transportation and distribution of essential medicines, oxygen and other resources.The bench further asked the Centre to consider the declaration of essential medicines and medical equipment required for treatment of Covid-19 as “essential commodities” under the law.When Mehta asked if the Centre was still required to make submissions before the high courts after the top court’s cognisance, justice Bhat said that the central government should go ahead and adduce its national plan before high courts since the idea was not to supersede high court orders at this moment. However, the CJI was of the opinion that it was perhaps a better idea for the Supreme Court to hear everything together and the matters before the high courts could be transferred to it.During the hearing, the bench had observed that it will issue a notice only to the Centre at the moment. But the written order released in the evening mentioned notices to all the states as well as the petitioners before the high courts.Experts questioned this move.Senior counsel and former additional solicitor general Indira Jaising, however, questioned why justice Bobde put the matter before himself on Friday when he knew that he will not be able to deal with it after one hearing because he is demitting office.“No one had complained about any high court order. So who was the aggrieved party? Can high court orders be bypassed without being challenged? If the Delhi high court had not stepped in at a late-night hearing on Wednesday, many more lives would have been lost,” she told HT, referring to the high court’s order on a Max hospital plea urgently seeking medical oxygen.Former attorney general and senior lawyer Mukul Rohatgi also termed the suo motu registration of the case as “ill-conceived”.“In Covid times, the apex court is hardly functioning when you have just two-three benches sitting there off late. On the other hand, high courts have been doing a great job. They should not be stultified. Proactive high court benches across the nation should rather get a pat on their back for holding courts at all times and rising to the occasion. In any case, this issue should have been left to the new CJI who takes over on Saturday, just a day later.”Salve, who was present in the court on behalf of Vedanta with a request for reopening its Sterlite Copper plant in Tamil Nadu’s Thoothukudi to produce and supply oxygen for Covid-19 patients, said people were dying every day. “We want this permission only for starting the oxygen plant. And we will supply it free of cost. Give us the permission today and we can start producing it in 5-6 days.”The plant was shut down in May 2018 after 13 civilians were shot dead in the anti-Sterlite protests in Thoothukudi. The Madras high court in August 2020 rejected Vedanta’s petition to reopen the plant, citing environmental concerns. The Supreme Court has also rejected requests to reopen the plant for a trial run.Salve said Vedanta was pleading only for making the oxygen plant in Thoothukudi functional so that it could provide thousands of tonnes of oxygen for medical purposes.Mehta cited the dire need for medical oxygen and added that the Centre was augmenting its supply from all possible sources. “Let Vedanta operate its plant only for the purpose of producing oxygen and this will be diverted only for medical purposes. Sooner the plant starts functioning, better for the country.”Senior advocate CS Vaidyanathan, who represented the Tamil Nadu government, said there was a “trust deficit” with Vedanta. He added the violations for which the plant was shut could not be ignored. The state government opposed any urgent hearing of Vedanta’s application.Justice Bobde questioned the Tamil Nadu government’s attitude. “What is this attitude? You are not manufacturing it [oxygen] and you will be getting it free of cost for your medical emergencies. We will make sure they follow all environmental norms, but we do not appreciate your attitude. This is a national emergency. Do not throw spokes like this,” the CJI told Vaidyanathan, while fixing the hearing into the matter on Friday.Mehta said between protecting human life and the environment, they must lean toward protecting human lives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/national-emergency-sc-calls-crisis-triggered-by-2nd-covid-19-wave-101619127828993.html
23-04-2021||India||India’s Covid-19 tally 330k+; Delhi 1-day toll 306||A day after India became the world’s worst Covid-19 hot spot ever, the country again broke all previous records on Thursday, adding 332,394 new cases and 2,255 new deaths amid a massive second wave of infections that has continued to exceed all global peaks and overwhelmed the nation’s health care system.Till Thursday night, 16,257,091 people are confirmed to have been infected with the disease in the country, of which 186,948 lost their lives.The seven-day average of new cases in the country now stands at 264,838 infections a day. This means that the country, on average, is currently reporting nearly thrice as many cases as it was during the absolute worst of the first wave – India’s first wave of cases peaked at 93,617 for the week ending September 16, 2020, according to HT’s Covid-19 dashboard. On average, 1,800 people have lost their lives to the disease in the country every day in the last week. In the same period, nearly two million people (1,969,347) have been infected in the country.The positivity rate – the proportion of tests that are positive for Covid-19 – continued to soar, with nearly one out of every five samples tested across the country returning positive.Delhi, meanwhile, lodged a record 306 deaths due to the disease and registered 26,169 new cases with an alarmingly high positivity rate of 36.2%, the highest ever recorded since the start of the pandemic in March last year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indias-covid19-tally-330k-delhi-1-day-toll-306-101619127176748.html
23-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Cost of vaccinating the 18-44 population||On April 19, the Union government announced that vaccinations will open for everyone above the age of 18. While the Centre is providing free vaccination to those about 45, it indicated that people in the 18-44 age group will either have to get them from state governments or buy them from private hospitals. This means that unless state governments decide to supply the vaccines free of cost, people will have to pay to get them. So far, seven state governments have declared that they will provide free vaccines. To be sure, the Centre will continue to acquire vaccines, which may be used to vaccinate the 45-plus population or to supply to state governments.1) So, how much will it cost to vaccinate India’s entire population between 18 and 44 years of age?More clarity is needed on the procurement process and other important details. But answering this question requires clarity on the cost of vaccines. So far, only one of the vaccine manufacturers, Serum Institute of India (SII), which is making the Oxford/AstraZeneca vaccine (Covidshield in India) has declared its price – ₹400 per dose for state governments and ₹600 per dose for supply to private hospitals. Other vaccines, which include Covaxin made by Bharat Biotech, and those that will be imported or their Indian-made versions will be rolled out, could change the price in the days to come. Taking the SII price as the benchmark for now, vaccination people between 18 and 44 years of age could range anywhere between ₹47,500 crore to ₹71,500 crore, depending on whether the SII vaccine is procured at ?400 per dose or ?600 dose. Where does this number come from? The total population of 18-44-year-old age-group in India is expected to be 594.6 million, according to the report of the government’s Technical Group on Population Projections. This report also gives the statewise break-up of the 18-44 population. This number, when multiplied by ?800 or ₹1200 (for two doses of Covidshield) gives the total cost of ₹47,566 crore or ₹7,1349 crore. Uttar Pradesh, the state with the largest population of 18-44 year olds will have to spend between ₹7,970 crore to ₹11,960 crore for vaccinations. For smaller states such as Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand this number will be in the range of ₹400- ₹625 crore respectively.2) What will be the possible fiscal burden on states?The absolute cost of vaccination, while it is important, does not tell us about the fiscal burden on the states. In order to calculate this, it is useful to look at the vaccine cost (at ₹800 for two doses) as a share of the total spending of states. An HT analysis shows that the fiscal burden of vaccination, defined as cost of vaccination as a share of total budgeted spending of states, will vary in a big way across states. Among 21 states for which data is available in the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy’s (CMIE) database and population projection report, Bihar will face the highest burden – 1.8% of total state spending in 2021-22. This number is the lowest in Himachal Pradesh, where the burden will be just 0.54% of the budgeted state spending. All state budget numbers are 2021-22 budget estimates except for Punjab and Andhra Pradesh where 2020-21 numbers have been used. The total cost of vaccination in India assuming everybody in the 18-44 age-groups was to use the state government supply would be ₹47,565.8 crore, or 26% of the total health spending of the states in 2020-21 as per CMIE data.To be sure, the net cost per person for different governments will likely be lower than these estimates because some people might take the private route for vaccinating themselves and it is possible that some state governments ask some sections of the population to foot the bill for vaccination in part or full.3) What is the affordability of vaccines in open market?Since India does not release income data for its workers, the best way to answer this question is to use earnings estimates given in the latest Periodic Labour Force Survey (PLFS) data. These are 2018-19 figures, but HT has not adjusted them for inflation, given the uncertainty about the adverse impact of the pandemic on employment and earnings. According to PLFS, there were 356 million workers in India in 2018-19 in the current weekly status, or the status of employment during the week preceding the survey. Wage data is available only for this status. PLFS classifies workers into four categories: regular wage/salaried, self-employed, casual workers, and casual workers employed in public works such as MGNREGS. Among these four, regular wage salaried workers had the highest incomes, while the casual workers engaged in public works (about 1% of workers) had the lowest incomes. 22% of Indian workers are casual workers other than public works, who earn an average of ₹8,340 per month.4) What does thismean for vaccine affordability?It is to be expected that an earning member in a household might have to buy vaccines for more than one person in the household, as every member in the 18-44 year age-group might not be employed. According to PLFS, the work force participation rate in the 18-44 year age-group was 51.6% in 2018-19. This means that 48.4% of the population in this age-group is not working. An HT analysis of unit level PLFS data can help in finding out the actual burden of vaccinating people in the 18-44 year age-group by calculating the number of 18-44 year olds in that household and total household earnings irrespective of the age of the earning member. This exercise shows that an average Indian household will end up spending 24% of its monthly incomes on vaccinating its 18-44 members if it was to spend ₹1,200 for both doses. This headline number varies greatly across income class and states. For the bottom 20% of households, this burden will be 43% of their monthly incomes. For the top 20%, this number will be 12% of the household monthly income. The financial burden, as is to be expected, will be significantly higher in rural areas (31%) compared to urban areas (16%).As in the case of the fiscal burden, the private cost of vaccinations will also burden households differently across states. Replicating the analysis used above at the state level, Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Odisha, and Jharkhand will have the highest burden while household in richer states will face a smaller burden.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cost-of-vaccinating-the-18-44-population-101619125907373.html
23-04-2021||India||India, US announce clean energy initiative||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday announced the launch of a joint climate and clean energy initiative with the United States to “mobilise investments, demonstrate clean technologies and enable green collaborations” in India that could also “create templates of sustainable development” for other developing countries.PM Modi, speaking at the Leaders Summit on Climate convened by US President Joe Biden on Thursday, did not announce any changes or upgrades to commitments under the Paris Agreement but underlined that India was already doing its part and that the country’s per capita carbon emissions are 60% lower than the global average.President Biden opened the summit with an ambitious pledge to cut the US’s greenhouse gases in half by the year 2030 and called upon other nations to “set higher climate ambitions” that will create jobs at home, advance innovative technologies and help countries vulnerable to the impact of climate change”.“We in India are doing our part. Our ambitious renewable energy target of 450 GW by 2030 shows our commitment. Despite our development challenges, we have taken many bold steps on clean energy, energy efficiency, afforestation and biodiversity. We are among few countries whose NDCs (nationally determined contribution, under the Paris climate deal) are 2 degree C compatible,” PM Modi said in an address to over 40 other world leaders who participated in the two-day summit called by Biden.“President Biden and I are launching the India-US Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 partnership. We will help mobilise investment, demonstrate clean technologies and enable green collaborations,” Modi added.No details were available yet on the India-US initiative, but on a visit to India last month, Biden’s special envoy on climate, John Kerry, said that “huge investments” will be forthcoming in India by the US and other countries in return for “some changes by India”.Earlier this month, Union environment minister Prakash Javadekar underscored India’s prerogative to balance development goals with obligations on climate change, saying that the country will attempt to keep its climate commitments but will not act at the behest or under pressure from developed countries.According to a White House statement, Biden’s move to upgrade the country’s NDCs on Thursday will steer the world towards achieving the Paris agreement goal of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius.The Climate Action Tracker, however, said that the US will need to do even more. Instead of the revised aim to to cut 50-52% in national emissions, it will need to shave off at least 57-63% emissions below 2005 levels by 2030 and provide support to other countries to meet the Paris climate goals.Following the US’s announcement, independent experts said it is time for all countries, including India, to scale up action against climate crisis.“President Biden’s upgraded NDC is a game changer. For too long the US has not put out an aggressive emissions reduction target. All countries could benchmark their lack of progress against the US... We think its time for all countries including India to upgrade action. As per the Climate Action Tracker, India’s NDC is 2 degree C compliant but not 1.5 degree C target compliant. We should ramp up action for our own good,” said Sunita Narain, director general, Centre for Science and Environment.“The new US climate target is a step in the right direction: all major economies should be shifting towards cutting their emissions at least 50% by 2030,” tweeted Laurence Tubiana, CEO European Climate Foundation and one of the architects of the Paris agreement.“The new NDC target that the US submitted today aims to reduce its GHG emissions by 50-52% below 2005 levels. Since the US’ emissions grew between 1990 and 2005, this new target roughly amounts to a 43-45% reduction below its 1990 emissions or its 2020 emissions. This is a step in the right direction, particularly when combined with its commitment to net-zero GHG emissions by 2050. Unlike the UK and EU, however, the US's pledge is not yet enshrined in law. But it has the potential to spur technological innovation,” said Ulka Kelkar, director, climate programme, World Resources Institute.In its Biennial Update Report to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) submitted in February, India said it has progressively decoupled economic growth from greenhouse gas emissions and it was on track to meet its voluntary declaration to reduce emission intensity of GDP by 20-25% from 2005 levels by 2020. The report, however, also noted that India’s reliance on coal will continue to meet the country’s energy needs.On Thursday, President Xi Jinping reiterated that China’s carbon emissions will peak before 2030 and the country will achieve carbon neutrality by 2060. Xi also emphasised on “the principle of common but differentiated responsibilities”, which argues for long-time polluters such as developed countries to do more to fight climate crisis.Some experts agree. "Biden administration's new climate target goes further than its previous commitment yet remains far from its 'fair share' of action. As the world’s biggest historical emitter, the US has a huge responsibility to the communities most affected by a crisis they did the least to cause," said Harjeet Singh, ActionAid’s global lead on climate.Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga too announced that Japan aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050 and that it will cut its emissions by 46% over 2013 levels by 2030. The United Kingdom too led with a target of cutting emissions by 78% by 2035 compared to 1990 levels.At the summit meant to signal the US’s return to the high chair after the Trump administration pulled out of the Paris agreement, Prime Minister Modi cited India as an example and called for more attention to “lifestyle changes” as a way to combat global warming. “India’s per capita carbon footprint is 60% lower than the global average. It is because our lifestyle is still rooted in sustainable traditional practices,” he said, adding that “back-to-basics” must be an important pillar of economic strategy for the post-Covid era.The summit, termed by Biden as a milestone leading up to the United Nations Climate Change Conference 2021 in Glasgow this November, was also attended by UN secretary general Antonio Guterres, Germany’s Angela Merkel, France’s Emmanuel Macron and Russia’s Vladimir Putin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-us-announce-clean-energy-initiative-101619125714314.html
23-04-2021||India||Cong leader AK Walia dies of Covid-19 at 72||Senior Congress leader and former Delhi health minister Dr AK Walia died of Covid-19 on Thursday morning. The 72-year-old doctor-politician is credited for playing a crucial role in improving the health care and urban development infrastructure, especially in parts of east Delhi.Party members remember him as soft-spoken, humble, and always ready to help those in need. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi wrote to Walia’s brother, BK Ahluwalia, on the demise of veteran Congress leader. “His unwavering commitment to public service and contribution towards transforming Delhi will be remembered... his spirit of generosity, and willingness to go beyond his call of duty to help people in need will be missed,” wrote Gandhi in the letter, which was shared on a social networking site by Delhi Congress president Anil Chaudhary.A four-time MLA from Laxmi Nagar, and minister in all the three terms of the Sheila Dikshit government, Walia held multiple portfolios, including health, urban development, and power.Former Union minister Ajay Maken tweeted, “We lost Dr AK Walia last night. He was the architect of development in Trans Yamuna area of Delhi. As health minister he laid the foundation for series of govt hospitals in Delhi... his untimely death is a great loss for Delhi.”Senior Congress leader Haroon Yusuf said that Walia was invested in improving the government health infra.His own nursing home, Walia Nursing Home in east Delhi, is a landmark in health infrastructure in east Delhi, said two other Congress leaders.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cong-leader-ak-walia-dies-of-covid-19-at-72-101619122922556.html
23-04-2021||India||Journalist dies month after road accident||Renu Agal, a 54-year-old journalist, succumbed to head injuries at a private hospital in the national capital on Wednesday, nearly a month after the cycle-rickshaw she was in was rammed by an allegedly speeding car in north Delhi’s Civil Lines. This was the second death in the accident -- the cycle-rickshaw driver, whose identity remains unknown till date, died on April 1, over a week after the accident on March 25.According to the police, the Swift Dzire car that rammed the rickshaw was driven by Gaurav Batra, an assistant director with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO).In the FIR, a police officer noted Batra “appeared” drunk. “We have collected his blood sample for testing and the report is awaited,” said another police officer when asked if Batra’s medical examination revealed excess alcohol in his blood.Agal, who worked at The Print, lived in West Delhi’s Mayapuri. On the evening of March 25, she was travelling on a cycle-rickshaw when the accident took place.Anto Alphonse, deputy commissioner of police (north), said a case of rash and negligent driving and causing hurt was registered initially. “When the rickshaw rider succumbed to injuries, we added the IPC section pertaining to causing death due to negligence,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/journalist-dies-month-after-road-accident-101619122408543.html
23-04-2021||India||Cops get nod to obtain Sidhu’s voice sample||A Delhi court on Thursday allowed city police to obtain the voice sample of actor-activist Deep Sidhu, accused in connection with the violence at Red Fort on Republic Day.Metropolitan magistrate Sahil Gupta allowed the application in which the police claimed that in order to authenticate the voice of the accused in several videos (Facebook live, TV interviews, etc), it was necessary to match his voice with the ones in the video clippings.While allowing the police plea, the court termed as “premature” the arguments made by the counsel for the accused that the application lacked any concrete detail, saying that the manner in which the investigation is to be done is the prerogative of the investigating agency.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cops-get-nod-to-obtain-sidhu-s-voice-sample-101619122246847.html
23-04-2021||India||Thieves steal ₹1.92 lakh from office inside Kannur central jail in Kerala||In a major embarrassment for law-enforcement agencies, burglars stole ₹1.92 lakh from the Freedom Food Factory office inside the Kannur central jail complex. The robbery was discovered by the jail authorities on Thursday morning.According to initial reports, the money proceeds from the sale of jail chapattis and other dishes was kept on a table and burglars reportedly entered the room after breaking two locks. Interestingly, the room was situated just 20 metres away from the main gate which was manned by a special police team called Thunder Bolts.Jail authorities suspect that it was carried out by some inmates who were aware of the money kept inside the room. Finger print experts and forensic officials have visited the spot and all inmates linked to the jail canteen and cafeteria will be questioned. “Since the investigation is on we can’t divulge more. But it turned out to be a big embarrassment,” a senior official, who did not want to be named, admitted.Many jails in the state make tasty cuisine including chappati with chicken curry, biryani, Kerala porotta and many other dishes. Since rates are very economical there is a big demand for food from the jail called, Freedom Food Factory. In Thiruvananthapuram jail, the department runs an AC freedom cafe and fuel filling station also. Viyyur central jail in Thrissur launched a successful online delivery system with the help of food major Swiggy two years ago.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thieves-steal-rs-1-92-lakh-from-office-inside-kannur-central-jail-in-kerala-101619121892061.html
23-04-2021||India||Sonia demands uniform price for Covid vaccines||Congress president Sonia Gandhi wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday questioning how the government could allow “brazen profiteering from people’s misery” as she demanded a re-evaluation of the Centre’s modified vaccination policy and a uniform price for vaccines.She referred to the Serum Institute of India (SII)’s Covishield rate list— ₹150 per vaccine dose for the Centre, but ₹400 for state governments and ₹600 for private hospitals. “This means that citizens will be compelled to pay these high rates to be vaccinated. This will also bleed the finances of state governments,” Gandhi said in her letter.The SII on Wednesday became the first company to disclose the pricing under the new, open-market mechanism for coronavirus vaccinations from next month.Gandhi questioned how the same vaccine manufactured by SII could have three different prices. She added there was no rationale or justification to this “arbitrary distinction”.“At a time when medical resources are scarce, hospital beds are unavailable, oxygen supply and availability of essential medicine is dwindling rapidly, why is your Government allowing a policy that reeks of such insensitivity,” she said.Gandhi accused the government of abdicating its responsibility of providing free vaccination to people in the age group of 18 to 45. “This is [a] complete abandonment of the Government’s responsibility towards our youth.” She reiterated the allocation to state governments should be “transparent and equitable, in line with the spirit of cooperative federalism”.The Centre on Monday announced all adults will be eligible for vaccination and doses can be sold in the market from May 1 as it heeded calls for wider access as India grapples with a surge of Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sonia-demands-uniform-price-for-covid-vaccines-101619121376498.html
23-04-2021||India||14 held for abduction of 3 ONGC employees in Assam, ULFA-I role confirmed||The police in Assam’s Sivasagar arrested 14 people on Thursday in connection with the abduction of three employees of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC). Police officials confirmed the role of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) in the abductions. Search operations are underway in neighbouring Nagaland where the abducted persons are believed to have been kept. “Till Thursday evening we have arrested 14 people on suspicion of their involvement in the abductions. Further investigations are underway,” said Amitabh Sinha, superintendent of police, Sivasagar. The three employees were abducted from a work over rig site inside the Lakwa tea estate in the early hours of Wednesday. The abducted employees are Ritul Saikia, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (both junior engineer assistants) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician)—all of them belong to Assam. According to the police, 5 armed persons came to the rig site in an ONGC ambulance and abducted the 3 employees at gunpoint. The ambulance was recovered later close to the Assam-Nagaland border, around 11 km away. “It is now confirmed that ULFA-I was responsible for the abductions. The police are not yet aware of any ransom demand made by the outfit for the release of the abducted persons,” said Singha. “We suspect the abducted persons were taken to Nagaland. A search operation with involvement of different agencies is underway at present in Nagaland to rescue the ONGC employees,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/14-held-for-abduction-of-3-ongc-employees-in-assam-ulfa-i-role-confirmed-101619120332070.html
23-04-2021||India||Finalise complaints against officials within 3 months: CVC to ministries||The Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) has written to all Union ministries and departments under them to finalise complaints against government officers within three months so that vigilance clearances are not held up indefinitely.The apex body, in a communication sent on Monday, said it had observed from proposals received by the commission for vigilance clearances that complaints against employees often stay on their vigilance profiles without any further movement.“This has led to a situation where the vigilance clearance is being delayed or denied for no fault of the employee,” the CVC order said. It asked the ministries and departments to take such complaints against employees to their “logical conclusion” within three months of the date of receipt of the complaint.“Logical conclusion here implies that the decision shall be taken by the organisation to either file the complaint, or register a vigilance case for further investigation, or register a non-vigilance administrative action case for further investigation,” the CVC order said.“As a pilot, to begin with, the backlog complaints received till December 31, 2020 shall be disposed of according to the guidelines issued in this circular and compliance reported by May 31, 2021,” the order added.At the end of the third month from the date of receipt of a complaint, and after deciding the course of action, a copy of the complaint shall be made available to the employee concerned within 15 days through speed post, it said. If the name of the employee is not explicitly mentioned, a copy of the complaint will be made available to the staff concerned at the stage of registration of a vigilance or non-vigilance case, the order further said.Subsequently, if a decision has been made to take up the matter as a vigilance case, the organisation concerned shall send its inquiry report to the commission or Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO) seeking advice within three months of registration of such a case, it added.Lauding the directive, former ONGC chairman R S Sharma said: “These investigations drag on for months, sometimes years and at the time of empanelment of an officer, these are brought out to deny promotion or other due benefits. Delay in completing these investigations leads to harassment. The CVC directive is appreciable. It is in the interest of natural justice.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/finalise-complaints-against-officials-within-3-months-cvc-to-ministries-101619119276568.html
23-04-2021||India||Ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply: Centre to states, UTs||The Centre on Thursday invoked the Disaster Management Act and directed the states and Union territories to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport along interstate borders, amid reports of several states stopping supply vehicles from travelling to other areas.The order, issued by Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla, said the district magistrates, deputy superintendent of police and deputy commissioner of police of the district concerned will be personally liable in case there is any violation.Section 56 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, which is in force since March 12 last year when the first wave of the coronavirus disease had begun in India, says that any officer refusing to or failing to implement the directions issued by the authority may face imprisonment of one year along with fine.Asserting that supply of medical oxygen cannot be limited to one state or district, the order said availability of adequate and uninterrupted supply of medical oxygen is an important pre-requisite for managing moderate and severe cases of Covid-19 and with increasing cases, the medical oxygen supply will need to keep pace with the requirements of the states and Union territories.Bhalla directed there should be no restriction on the movement of medical oxygen between the states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free interstate movement of vehicles carrying oxygen.He further instructed that no authority shall attach oxygen-carrying vehicles passing through any district for making supplies specific to any particular district. Subsequently, it asked states to make sure there are no restrictions imposed on oxygen manufacturers and suppliers to limit the supplies only to hospitals of the respective state.“There shall be free movement of oxygen carrying vehicles into the cities, without any restriction of timings, while also enabling inter-city supply without any restriction,” the order said.The Centre has already prohibited supply of oxygen for industrial purposes, except those (nine specified industries) exempted by the government beginning Thursday.The order highlighted that medical oxygen is an essential public health commodity and any impediment in its supplies has the potential to critically impact the management of patients suffering from coronavirus disease in other parts of the country.The Centre announced on Wednesday evening that it was increasing the quota of oxygen in eight states, including Delhi, in view of the sudden spike in demand due to an exponential rise in the number of Covid-19 patients admitted in hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/ensure-uninterrupted-oxygen-supply-centre-to-states-uts-101619119311243.html
23-04-2021||India||UAE, Australia, Oman ban travel from India||New Delhi The United Arab Emirates (UAE), Australia and Oman on Thursday joined the list of countries that have imposed travel restrictions on India in the wake of a massive surge in coronavirus infections, either completely barring or restricting flights from the country. The National Emergency Crisis and Disaster Management Authority and the General Civil Aviation Authority of the UAE announced the temporary suspension of all flights from India and the entry of transit passengers for a period of 10 days from April 25. Cargo flights between the two sides were exempted from the ban.People who transited through India in the past 14 days will also be barred from entering the UAE and the travel ban will be reviewed after 10 days, according to the announcement.The ban will not apply to UAE nationals, diplomatic passport holders, official delegations, and “golden residency” visa holders, though they will be required to take further preventive measures such as a 10-day quarantine and a RT-PCR test at the airport. Flights between Indian cities and Dubai have been among the busiest routes even during the pandemic as the UAE is home to more than three million Indians, one of the largest concentrations of expatriates in West Asia. On Thursday, Singapore further tightened restrictions for travellers from India, mainly to prevent the spread of Covid-19 in its crowded workers’ dormitories. Officials acknowledged that the move would impact the construction and marine sectors, which employ a large number of people from India and other South Asian countries. The UAE became the third country after the UK and Oman to bar the entry of Indian nationals even as the daily infections surged past the 300,000-mark. On Wednesday, Oman barred the entry of travellers from India, Pakistan and Bangladesh from April 24. The ban will also cover travellers who transited through any of the three South Asian countries over the past 14 days, Oman’s Supreme Committee announced. The Australian government has decided to temporarily reduce the number of flights from India by 30% after registering a spike in incoming travellers testing positive for Covid-19. People coming from high-risk countries such as India will also have to test negative for Covid-19 at least 72 hours before boarding a flight to Australia. Prime Minister Scott Morrison said the reduction will apply to government-organised repatriation flights and commercial flights. The change will take effect “in the months ahead”, he said without giving details. Authorities in Australia’s Northern Territory (NT) said there would be changes to the schedule of repatriation flights from India to Howard Springs and the requirements for travellers. “All repatriation flights not yet booked but planned for the NT for May will now be deferred until June,” chief minister Michael Gunner was quoted as saying by ABC News. “Anyone returning from India on these flights and all flights thereafter will be required to isolate for two weeks prior to departure,” he said. The move follows the Howard Springs quarantine facility dealing with the highest number of Covid-19 cases since it began handling repatriation flights last year, with most cases recorded among arrivals from India. Singapore on Thursday announced that all long-term pass holders and short-term visitors with a history of travel to India within the last 14 days wouldn’t be allowed entry into the country from April 24. This includes travellers transiting through India and those who had obtained prior approval for entry into Singapore, officials said. “We know that this major move will have an impact on our construction, marine and process sectors. And many local SMEs and contractors will be badly impacted,” Lawrence Wong, co-chair of Singapore’s Covid-19 multi-ministry task force, told a news conference. Singapore’s health ministry had on Tuesday said Covid-19 border measures would be tightened for travellers from India, who will have to stay at home for an additional seven days after the mandatory 14-day stay at dedicated facilities. The US, the UK and New Zealand have imposed fresh restrictions on travellers from India or issued advisories against travelling to India in the backdrop of a massive spike in coronavirus cases. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson and Japan Prime Minister Yoshihide Suga have called off planned visits to India because of the Covid-19 situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uae-australia-oman-ban-travel-from-india-101619119192616.html
23-04-2021||India||Night curfew hits street food vendors||Bengaluru Bharat Kumar R, a street food vendor in Vijayanagar area of Bengaluru, is a worried man, like many others in the business. The extended night curfew and weekend restrictions announced by the government on Tuesday has dealt a harsh blow on the food cart vendor businesses, which were yet to recover from the last year’s lockdown in the city. “Our business starts only after 7-8 pm. We especially cater to those who come into town late after finishing work and want food, especially bachelors and others like delivery boys, cab, auto, and bus drivers among others. There is no section that does not come to us for food,” Kumar said. Food cart vendors, who serve dishes like egg rice, kebabs, tea and other condiments after dusk, said their businesses have come down by as much as 80%, adding that the new restrictions will further cripple their sole source of income. The BS Yediyurappa-led government, which announced fresh restrictions to contain the surging Covid-19 cases, has allowed food delivery from hotels and restaurants during the curfew hours, but has barely taken into consideration these vendors who feed the thriving gig economy of Bengaluru, said food experts. The government has tried to mitigate the hardships of those forced to stay back at home by allowing food and grocery delivery, fuel stations, cabs, buses and autos, medical stores, private security guards, ambulance and hospital staff among others. But the food carts, which offer a lifeline to workers in these sectors beyond regular hours, have neither got the permission to remain open nor received any financial compensation from the government this time or during the previous lockdown, they added. “Our business begins only after 8 pm. So, when the government order is for closure at 9 pm, we have to start closing by around 7.30 pm. Almost 80% of our business has vanished. Whether it is a night curfew or a lockdown or a weekend curfew, it has the same impact on us,” Manju G, another food vendor who has a stall outside the TTMC bus stand, said. The mobile food carts serve food for prices in the range of ₹30-60 in almost all urban centres of India, outside bus stands, railway stations, IT parks, among others. “A lot of delivery boys from Zomato, Swiggy and cab drivers from Ola and Uber eat from carts like ours,” Kumar added. This section of business is run mostly by families, with each member handling one aspect of the operations like cooking, cleaning, supplies and service. Food vendors are part of a large unorganised economy of Bengaluru and other large urban centres, but the lack of a union or organisation often deprives them of bargaining powers that other sectors may have, said experts. The government announced a slew of relief during the first lockdown for weavers, auto drivers, barbers and construction workers, but an even larger section of people in various professions do not even come in the radar of the administration, vendors and political leaders said. Being aware of the hardships people might endure if a second lockdown was announced, the Yediyurappa government tried to find a middle path with the night and weekend curfew to contain the Covid-19 surge without closure of businesses. “We have bigger problems than corona,” said Abdul Wahab, a food cart vendor in Frazer Town area in East Bengaluru. Karnataka Congress president DK Shivakumar said the government has failed. “The government must first instill courage in people and aid them financially,” he said. Another Congress legislator said several sections of people were barely noticed during the previous lockdown and restrictions even this time. “The last lockdown was almost inevitable, and we did not have any knowledge or time. We used our savings to survive the lack of income. But this time we don’t know what to do to survive,” Syed Mudabbir Ahmed, an auto driver said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-hits-street-food-vendors-101619119191964.html
23-04-2021||India||Court seeks CBI, ED reply on Michel bail||Delhi court on Thursday sought the responses of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and Enforcement Directorate (ED) on two bail applications by alleged middleman Christian Michel, who was arrested in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP chopper scam cases.Special CBI judge Arvind Kumar issued notices to the probe agencies, and sought their responses by May 6, when the case will be heard next.Michel, accused in a case of corruption filed by the CBI in relation to the scam and another case of money laundering filed by the ED, moved the bail applications through advocates Sriram Parakkat and Aljo Joseph, saying that no purpose was being served by keeping him in custody.“The applicant has undergone almost 600 hours of custodial interrogation by both the agencies. As of today, the applicant has spent more than two years and four months, in addition to the period which he spent in Dubai jail,” he said in his application.Special public prosecutor NK Matta and advocate DP Singh received the notice for ED and CBI respectively.Michel, extradited from Dubai, was arrested by ED in December 2018.Michel is among the three alleged middlemen being probed in the case by ED and CBI in the case. The other two are Guido Haschke and Carlo Gerosa.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/court-seeks-cbi-ed-reply-on-michel-bail-101619118951357.html
23-04-2021||India||Thief leaves 1,710 vaccine doses with an apology||A thief stole 1,710 doses of Covid-19 doses from a hospital in Haryana’s Jind town on Thursday but left it at a tea stall hours later with an apology note saying they didn’t mean to take away coronavirus shots, state police said.The shots were stolen from the personal protective kit centre of the Civil Hospital in Jind around 12.44am, said authorities.Jind deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Jitender Katkar said a man handed over a sealed packet to an old man sitting at a tea stall outside the Civil lines police station on Thursday.“The thief told the old man to hand over the packet to a police personnel and said there is food inside the packet. When the old man brought the packet, the cops found doses inside it. Then, we called the doctors and they checked all vials. No vaccines were found missing,” he said.Inside the packet, police also found a note.“The thief had written ‘sorry- I did not know it was corona vaccine’. We are checking the CCTV footage near the tea stall to identify the thief,” the DSP added.The packet contained 440 doses of Covaxin and 1,270 of Covishield.Earlier in the day, police said two men were caught on CCTV footage breaking into the hospital’s store past midnight. “We have studied the footage in which the two men are seeing breaking into three locks to reach the vaccine stock,” the hospital spokesman said.Civil surgeon Dr Manjeet Singh said: “It seems the thieves came to steal Remdesivir, the medicine to treat Covid-19, but took away the vaccines.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/thief-leaves-1-710-vaccine-doses-with-an-apology-101619119071157.html
23-04-2021||India||Pfizer offers vaccine to Indian govt at not-for-profit price||US pharma major Pfizer said on Thursday that it had offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine to the government and was in talks with the administration to deploy its jab for India’s Covid-19 immunisation programme.The Pfizer-BioNTech Covid-19 mRNA vaccine has been widely used in the United States and Europe for inoculating large populations and has a tested efficacy of around 95%.It is a two-dose vaccine but the company said last week that people may need a third dose within 12 months of getting fully vaccinated, which may be the case with others too as scientists attempt to understand the duration of immunity.“For India, Pfizer has offered a not-for-profit price for its vaccine for the government immunisation program. We continue to be in discussions with the government and remain committed to make our vaccine available for deployment in India’s immunisation program,” a statement by the company read.The company said that it was interested in working exclusively with the government.“During the current pandemic situation worldwide, Pfizer has maintained that its priority would be to exclusively support governments through supply of its vaccine only to governments for their immunisation programs. This would be our approach in India as well,” the statement added.On April 13, India announced that Covid-19 vaccines cleared for use in the US, the UK, the European Union, and Japan will get fast-track approval in India, and would not need prior bridging trial results to seek emergency use authorization (EUA). The trials can be done in parallel to administering the shots to the general population..The move is expected to potentially boost India’s pandemic response when it has recorded the world’s worst surge in infections.At present, there are vaccines by three companies that are approved by regulators identified by the government and are yet to be authorised in India: Pfizer-BioNTech, Moderna and Johnson&Johnson. A fourth vaccine, made by Novavax, has made progress in clinical trials and sought approval from several of these regulators.Pfizer said it will continue talks with the Indian government on the matter.“We have noted the recent announcement with regard to the regulatory pathway for global vaccines. We remain committed to continuing our engagement with the government towards making the Pfizer and BioNTech vaccine available for use in the government’s immunisation program in the country.”The company also denied some reports citing a price for American vaccines in India. “In all our agreements Pfizer has adopted a distinct pricing structure for high, middle, and low/lower-middle-income countries consistent with our commitment to work towards equitable and affordable access for our Covid-19 vaccine for people around the world,” the company said.Despite being the first company to have applied for EUA of its Covid-19 vaccine on December 7, Pfizer withdrew its application on February after the national drugs controller did not approve its EUA application and sought additional data.The decision was taken after the central drugs standard control organization (CDSCO) subject expert committee (SEC), on February 3, did not recommend granting approval for want of more data.The company said Pfizer’s priority had been to ensure rapid manufacturing and deployment of the COVID-19 vaccine to cater to the current emergency response scenario.“We are also mindful of the unique mRNA technology that is being utilized in this vaccine. Given these considerations, Pfizer has created two dedicated supply lines with established vaccine capabilities – one each in US and Europe… This will continue to be the company’s strategy for the time being. At this time we are not in discussions for any additional local manufacturing for this vaccine,” the company said.“Once the pandemic supply phase is over and we enter a phase of regular supplies, Pfizer will certainly evaluate all additional opportunities available. We remain committed to working towards equitable and affordable access for our COVID-19 vaccine for people around the world including in India, and we welcome opportunities to collaborate with the government to fight COVID-19,” the statement further read.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pfizer-offers-vaccine-to-indian-govt-at-not-for-profit-price-101619119012419.html
23-04-2021||India||TN can share O2 if state’s needs are met: Madras HC||Chennai: Tamil Nadu can help other states in need of oxygen amid the relentless surge in Covid-19 cases if it has good production capacity and its own needs were met, the Madras high court observed on Thursday. The court’s observation came after the state government informed that there is no shortage of oxygen or Remdesivir, a drug used in treatment of Covid-19 patients.The court had taken suo-motu cognizance of reports that the Centre had diverted supply of oxygen to other states without the consent of the Tamil Nadu government, and shortage of the antiviral drug. “We are one country. If we have the resources here, we must share it,” a bench comprising chief justice Sanjib Banerjee and Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy said. The bench, however, raised concerns over the new pricing of Covid-19 vaccines and the financial burden it would cause on lower income groups. The observation also came shortly before the Supreme Court took suo-motu cognisance of the prevailing Covid-19 situation and sought a “national plan” to fight various issues on Friday. Earlier in the day, Banerjee had directed advocate general (AG) Vijay Narayan to focus on four areas -- the availability of the antiviral drug, oxygen, ventilators and vaccines. He also directed additional solicitor general (ASG) R Sankaranarayanan, who was representing the Centre, to be present for the hearing at 2.15 pm. During the hearing later, the state government informed the court that Tamil Nadu has a storage capacity of 1,167 tonnes of oxygen with a daily manufacturing capacity of 400 tonnes and that only 250 tonnes were being used for treatment as of now. Additionally, Puducherry has a production capacity of 150 tonnes, it added.“Recently, about 65 tonnes of oxygen were diverted from Tamil Nadu to Andhra Pradesh and Telangana but it did not affect our capacity at all,” the AG said. Out of 9,600 ventilators, 5,887 are earmarked for Covid-19 treatment in government hospitals. On the other hand, 3,000 ventilators are available in private hospitals. 3,10,000 vials of Remdesivir which is more than enough to meet contingencies, he added. The government also said that it is prepared to face any emergency and that a contingency plan was being prepared in case of an unforeseen situation. At present, there is no shortage in the four areas, it added. Taking note of the new pricing for vaccines announced by the Serum Institute of India (SII), the court asked the ASG to consider the financial burden it would cause on the citizens. On Wednesday, the SII, which locally manufactures the Covishield vaccine, fixed the price at ₹400 for government and ₹600 for private players per dose. “If the people do not take the vaccine, they will continue to remain as carriers and spreaders,” the bench said, taking into consideration that all those above 18 years of age would be eligible for the jab from May 1. It also urged the Centre to consider the requirements of the less privileged and those without basic resources and adequate jobs in the wake of the 2020 lockdown.Besides this, the court called for special measures to ensure minimum spread during Ramzan and on May 2 when counting of votes for the April 6 assembly elections will be conducted. The court said it was not interfering in the state’s functioning but wanted to ensure stricts measures were in place to tackle any emergency situation. The bench adjourned the hearing for Monday when the state is expected to submit more data on availability of hospital beds and vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tncan-share-o2-if-state-s-needs-are-met-madras-hc-101619118831333.html
23-04-2021||India||Violence mars 6th phase of polls, over 79% voter turnout||Injuries to two people in police firing and stray incidents of violence marked the sixth phase of polling in West Bengal on Thursday that was largely peaceful across four districts and held amid an alarming spike in coronavirus infections in the state. Polling was held for nine seats each in North Dinajpur and Nadia, 17 in North 24 Parganas, and eight in East Burdwan district. Provisional turnout stood at 79.09 %, comparatively lower than the polling percentage recorded in the first five phases. In the sixth phase, 306 candidates were in the fray. “Polling was today conducted peacefully in 14,480 polling stations,” the election commission (EC) said in a statement. With the sixth phase, polling has been held now for 223 of 294 seats. At Bagda in North 24 Parganas, a mob allegedly attacked a state police team, injuring a constable and the officer-in-charge of Bagda police station, EC officials said. When police fired three rounds to disperse the mob, two villagers suffered leg injuries. The incident triggered a slugfest between Trinamool Congress (TMC) and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders. “Police opened fire on innocent villagers. Even the state police are now under the control of the EC,” said TMC spokesperson Snehasish Chakraborty. “The attack on the state police was an outcome of the instigating speeches by chief minister Mamata Banerjee. Four men were killed at Sitalkuchi in north Bengal (on April 10) when central forces opened fire in self defence. Before that incident, Banerjee asked people to attack central forces,” said BJP state vice-president Jay Prakash Majumdar. Voting took place amid a spike in coronavirus infections. The state reported more than 10,000 infections on Wednesday and 11,948 on Thursday. Fifty-six people died in Bengal between Wednesday and Thursday morning. Prime Minister Narendra Modi cancelled the four rallies he was to address in Bengal on Friday. “Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal,” Modi tweeted. He was supposed to address a rally at the Shahid Minar grounds in the heart of Kolkata. Union home minister Amit Shah, who addressed a rally in South Dinajpur district where polls will be held on April 26, said by the time polling in the sixth phase ends, the BJP will secure an absolute majority. “But we still want you to vote for us so that BJP gets over 200 seats.” In North 24 Parganas district, TMC and BJP workers clashed in Ashoknagar, Barrackpore and Bijpur. BJP workers alleged that six people sustained splinter injuries when bombs went off at Ashoknagar. TMC workers blamed central forces for opening fire on them and said a man was shot in his leg. Central paramilitary officers posted in the area dismissed the allegation saying no shots were fired anywhere. The EC sought a report from the local administration as the election watchdog’s police observer, Navin Kumar, rushed to the area. BJP national vice-president Mukul Roy’s son, Subhranshu Roy, who was contesting from Bijpur seat in North 24 Parganas, alleged that bombs were hurled at their supporters. Mukul Roy contested the Krishnanagar North seat in Nadia district against actress Kaushani Mukherjee (TMC). “I was gheraoed by BJP workers in some areas when I was visiting polling booths,” alleged Mukherjee. Shah and chief minister Mamata Banerjee held rallies in districts where polls will be held in the last two phases on April 26 and 29. Addressing a rally in Malda district, where Muslims comprise majority of the population, Banerjee said: “There was a time when some people were in the CPI(M). They terrorised people. Now, the same people are in the BJP and still terrorising people... I will never let the BJP enforce the National Population Register and National Register of Citizens in Bengal, not as long as I am alive.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/violence-mars-6th-phase-of-polls-over-79-voter-turnout-101619118171086.html
23-04-2021||India||Rafale weaponry prompts China, Pak to alter defence posture||With the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Rafale fighter successfully test-firing the 60km range Hammer air-to-ground modular weapon in March, the air defence posture of both China and Pakistan has changed in the wake of the advent of the multi-role fighter in South Asia, according to people familiar with the matter.The Hammer weapon secured a bunker-busting vertical hit on its target at the testing location. According to top South Block officials, with the IAF’s first Rafale squadron just one short of completion in Ambala, the Chinese have moved their so-called fifth generation fighter J-20 ahead in the Tibet and Xinjiang airbases. The Pakistanis have also moved their Chinese import JF-17 fighter in key forward bases to tackle the clear and present threat of the Rafale fighter. Although the Chinese say the J-20 is the third operational fifth-generation fighter after the US F-22 and F-35, genuine fifth-generation fighters developed by the Americans do not have a canard that further reduces the cross-section of the plane, the officials said. The Chinese J-20 has the same canard as the Rafale, which the IAF calls a 4.5-generation fighter.The Chinese and Pakistani air posture has also undergone a change with IAF’s induction of the Rafale as the latter carries the Meteor air-to-air missile, whose range is way beyond any missile the other two forces have in their arsenal. The Hammer and Scalp air-launched cruise missile with a range of over 500km ensures that the adversary will have no early warning as the two weapons can be launched from within Indian territory and beyond visual range.While India could only send three out of five readied fighters from the Merignac Bordeaux airbase in France on Wednesday due to unforeseen reasons, seven more fighters have been lined up for delivery to IAF next month. Although the seven fighters may come in batches of three and four, six of them will be flown to the Hashimara airbase in West Bengal via Ambala. The re-pavement and extension of the main runway at Hashimara, which sits astride the Siliguri corridor, is expected to be completed by this month-end. The Haishmara upgrade also includes blast pens and surface-to-air missile batteries to protect the vital base.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rafale-weaponry-prompts-china-pak-to-alter-defence-posture-101619117691126.html
23-04-2021||India||Country is being run by God, remarks HC amid oxygen shortages||The Delhi high court on Thursday warned of criminal action against authorities failing to ensure “safe” and “unobstructed” passage of oxygen cylinders for hospitals in the city from different states, while regretting that “the country is being run by God”.“We direct the Centre to ensure strict compliance of the allocation order of April 21, April 22 of the ministry of home affairs under the Disaster Management Act and our order of April 21. We also direct all the authorities concerned who are bound by the order to ensure its strict compliance... We want to make it clear that this order is implemented immediately since non-compliance is likely to result in grave loss of lives and we put it to everyone that non-compliance of these orders will also invite criminal action”.“We direct the Centre to ensure that supplies of all the oxygen producing plants as per the allocation order are made and transportation takes place without any hindrance… to ensure that adequate security is provided to the lorries transporting oxygen and that there is no obstruction created. A special corridor may be created for immediate transportation,” a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Justice Rekha Palli said.The bench, on Wednesday, in a late evening hearing, had got the Centre to assure it that safe and unobstructed passage would be provided to oxygen cylinders for patients in Delhi from different states. The Centre on Thursday issued an order with directions on timely and unhindered transportation of oxygen.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, told the court that the ministry of home affairs has issued an order to all the states and Union territories to ensure that no restriction shall be imposed on the movement of medical oxygen between states and transport authorities shall be instructed to accordingly allow free interstate movement.The direction came after the Delhi government told the court that the amount of oxygen that was to come from Panipat in Haryana was not being allowed to be picked up by the local police there. The court was also informed that several hospitals in the city such as Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, Rohini, Balaji Action Centre, Paschim Vihar, and many others had run out of oxygen supply and were left only with a few hours of medical oxygen.An anguished high court nudged the Centre and remarked during the hearing, “We all know that the country is being run by God,” adding that the situation in the city had become “precarious”. It said the Centre should make sure that oxygen reached the national capital without any hiccups.“If the government wants it can do anything and can even make heaven meet earth,” it observed.The directions were passed on a plea by advocate Rakesh Malhotra who sought ramping up of tests in the city. The petition, which was disposed of, was again revived by the HC on Monday, April 19, noting that the virus had raised its “ugly head” once again and that the “health care infrastructure is at the stage of imminent collapse”.The court noted that the Centre’s allocation of oxygen for Delhi from plants in other states such as Haryana was not being respected by the local administration there and it needed to be resolved immediately.With respect to the transportation by air, as suggested by the Delhi government, the court said oxygen cannot be airlifted as it would be hazardous and in case of an accident would not only affect the aircraft but also the population where it falls.Solicitor general Tushar Mehta, representing the Centre, told the bench, “If there is any roadblock by any individuals or any officers, the officers have been instructed that if they are involved in any such activity they will be departmentally dealt with.”The bench, while dictating its order, said, “The position in Delhi has turned rather precarious with several hospitals reporting that either they have insufficient oxygen or it will not last for a longer period.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/country-is-being-run-by-god-remarks-hc-amid-oxygen-shortages-101619117574810.html
23-04-2021||India||Military, defence wings go in overdrive for Covid relief||As India reels under an unprecedented public health emergency, its hospitals stretched thin by a staggering number of Covid cases and deaths due to scarcity of beds, oxygen and medicines, the military and other wings of the defence ministry have been ordered to respond on war footing to fight the outbreak that has so far claimed nearly 185,000 lives, people familiar with the developments said on Thursday.From setting up Covid hospitals to ramping up oxygen production and airlifting of medical staff and oxygen containers to liaising with state governments to help them deal with the rising number of daily cases, the armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings (DPSUs) are working overtime for Covid relief, said one of the people cited above.As many as 15,924,697 confirmed infections and 184,693 deaths (as of Wednesday) have been reported across the country since the pandemic began, according to HT’s dashboard. The most worrying factor right now is how fast daily cases are multiplying, and how the trajectory is showing no clear signs of approaching a peak.The DRDO is among the organisations that are at the forefront of fighting the second deadly wave of Covid that has ripped through the country. It has so far set up or is in the process of setting up state-of-the-art Covid hospitals in six cities to treat more than 3,100 critical patients, said a second official.The DRDO has set up a 500-bed hospital in Delhi and converted an ESIC hospital into a 500-bed Covid facility in Patna. In addition, hospitals with 450 beds in Lucknow, 750 beds in Varanasi and 900 beds in Ahmedabad are expected to be functional soon. A sixth Covid hospital is being readied in Bihar’s Muzaffarpur.The DRDO has also stepped in to address the oxygen crisis precipitated by the second wave of the disease. It has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now started providing oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals, the official said. The Uttar Pradesh government, for instance, has ordered five such plants from Coimbatore-based Trident Pneumatics.The technology transferred to the industry is based on the onboard oxygen generation technology developed for the Tejas light combat aircraft. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute. “More plants can be supplied by the industry to cater to the hospital requirements pan-India,” the official said.The DPSUs are also making arrangements to buy oxygen plants for the production and supply of oxygen cylinders at a swift pace.Technology developed by the DRDO for a supplemental oxygen delivery system for soldiers posted in high-altitude areas has also been transferred to the industry, and it will soon be available in the market for use by Covid patients.The Indian Air Force has deployed its aircraft for airlifting medical personnel, oxygen containers, oxygen cylinders, trolleys and essential medicines, an IAF official said.“Doctors and nursing staff were airlifted from Kochi, Mumbai, Vizag and Bengaluru for setting up the DRDO Covid hospital at Delhi. Oxygen containers of the DRDO have also been airlifted from Bengaluru for Covid centres in Delhi,” he said.The armed forces and other wings of the defence ministry can play an important role in the fight against Covid-19, said Lieutenant General BK Chopra (retd), a former director general of the Armed Forces Medical Services.“They have the manpower, resources and discipline to provide relief in these hard times. The military especially has a culture of quick response, be it enemy action or natural catastrophes. It can do a lot to alleviate the sufferings of our countrymen during the pandemic too,” Chopra said.On April 20, defence minister Rajnath Singh carried out an extensive review of the preparedness of the armed forces and other allied organisations to deal with the surge in Covid infections across the country.At that meeting, Singh asked the DPSUs, the DRDO and others to work on war footing to provide oxygen cylinders and extra beds to civil administration and state governments. The armed forces and other stakeholders were also given the go-ahead to buy medicines and other critical items using their emergency powers.The military is also exploring the possibility of utilising the services of vaccinated retired military personnel to help the civil administration and state governments deal with the grim situation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/military-defence-wings-go-in-overdrive-for-covid-relief-101619117332998.html
23-04-2021||India||PM urges states to act tough against hoarding of oxygen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi wants states to come down heavily on hoarding of oxygen and fix responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction and told officials during a review meeting on Thursday to ensure “smooth, unhindered” supply to various states.The PM will attend three key meetings on Covid management and cancelled his election campaign in West Bengal scheduled for Friday.As patients and hospitals face acute shortage of oxygen, Modi chaired a high-level meeting on Thursday to review the situation across the country and discuss ways to boost availability. At 12.30pm on Friday, he will meet the country’s leading manufacturers of medical oxygen.Friday’s meeting will be the third meeting on oxygen in the month. On April 16, Modi met senior officials to review the status of oxygen supply.“Tomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal,” the PM tweeted.Officials said that at 9am, the PM will review the Covid situation in an internal meeting, followed by a virtual interaction with chief ministers of high-burden states. His last meeting with the CMs was on April 8.Modi directed officials on Thursday to ensure that oxygen supply to various states happens in a smooth, unhindered manner.“He spoke about the need to fix responsibility with the local administration in cases of obstruction. He also asked ministries to explore various innovative ways to increase production and supply of oxygen,” an official release said.Various measures are being undertaken to rapidly increase the availability of cryogenic tankers through conversion of nitrogen and argon tankers, import and airlifting of tankers as well as manufacturing them.The PM stressed on the need to ensure faster transportation of oxygen to the states. It was discussed that the railways is being used for rapid and non-stop long distance transport of tankers. The first rake has reached Vizag from Mumbai to transport 105MT. Similarly, empty oxygen tankers are also being airlifted to suppliers to reduce one-way journey time.Representatives from the medical fraternity spoke about the need for judicious use of oxygen and how an audit in some states decreased oxygen demand without affecting the condition of patients.Modi’s emphasis on faster transportation and the need to come down heavily on hoarders came after reports emerged that tankers were stopped at state borders and were unable to supply oxygen to Delhi.“The PM was informed that an elaborate exercise is being done in coordination with the states to identify their demand for oxygen and ensure adequate supply accordingly. The PM was briefed on how oxygen supply to states is steadily increasing. Against the present demand from 20 states of 6,785 MT/day of Liquid Medical Oxygen, Government of India has from 21st April, allocated 6,822 MT/day to these states,” the release said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-urges-states-to-act-tough-against-hoarding-of-oxygen-101619117151015.html
23-04-2021||India||Vaccine registration for those above 18 begins Apr 28: Govt||Registration for universal adult Covid-19 immunisation in India will begin next week when anyone above 18 can log onto the government’s vaccine portals and book an appointment, paving the way for a crucial stage of inoculation pivotal to arrest the devastating recent surge in infections.The Co-WIN platform, which is the backbone of India’s Covid-19 vaccination delivery system and is being modified to accommodate extra numbers, will be ready by Saturday, said the Union health ministry. Adults can start registering for appointments from April 28, the ministry added.“The entire process will be the same as it has been happening so far for the age-appropriate category. People can register through the Co-WIN web portal or the Aarogya Setu app, and book an appointment. In a few days it will be ready to roll,” said an official familiar with developments.On Monday, the central government had announced it was opening up the vaccination drive to anyone above 18, allowing state governments to directly purchase shots and letting manufacturers earmark 50% jabs for states and private hospitals.The Centre’s drive for those above 45 will continue at the current subsidized rates – free at government hospitals and ₹250 a shot at private facilities. Those between 18 and 45 will have to take jabs procured by state governments or private hospitals at open market prices.The universal vaccination drive is an important step to tame the coronavirus outbreak, which is currently the worst in the world with 332,394 cases and 2,255 deaths posted on Thursday. . But experts have expressed concern at availability of adequate stock, given that the 18-45 population is estimated to be around 594 million. The government has currently administered around 130 million shots.The Centre also issued a rebuttal to reports that it had booked all stock from Serum Institute of India – which makes Covishield – till May 25.The government said state governments were free to procure from the manufacturer as per the revised government policy.“A key feature of the Liberalised Pricing and Accelerated National Covid-19 Vaccination Strategy is that the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50% of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to Govt. of India and would be free to supply remaining 50% doses to state governments and in the other than Govt. of India channel. The state governments are free to purchase the vaccine doses from the vaccine manufacturers,” said Union health ministry in a statement.“There have been some media reports suggesting that Serum Institute of India (SII) has contracted all its production till 25th May 2021 to the Centre, and therefore till that date the State governments will not be able to procure vaccine from SII. These media reports are based on incorrect facts and are without any basis,” the statement read.SII’s current production capacity is about 60-70 million doses per month. The firm hopes to expand this to around 100 million doses soon.Under the revised vaccination strategy, the government has made pricing, procurement, eligibility, and administration open and flexible.The vaccine makers will be able to sell half of what they produce at a price of their choosing to the open market and to state governments. The remainder will need to be supplied to Centre for the state-sponsored component of the vaccination programme.If the vaccines have been imported as ready-to-use, the government will allow all of the stocks to be sold on the open market or to the states. The pricing for any doses sold in the open market will need to be “transparent”, although there will be no pricing cap, only monitoring.“If you want to keep making noise, then nothing will be enough. These were the same people who were asking the government of India to open up vaccination for everyone, and allow states a free-hand to purchase the doses. Now that that has been done, then suddenly talks of shortages have again risen,” said a senior central government official aware of the matter, who did not want to be identified.“The Centre hasn’t booked everything; the guidelines clearly say that only 50% of their stock every month will go to the central government, the rest they are free to sell. Nothing is going out of the country anyway. Their capacity is to be consumed within the country only, and central government will not book anything beyond 50%,” added the official.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccine-registration-for-those-above-18-begins-apr-28-govt-101619115652074.html
23-04-2021||India||PM Modi agreed to virtually address people of Bengal today: Dilip Ghosh||Ahead of the seventh phase of the West Bengal assembly elections, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will virtually address the people of the state on Friday, confirmed West Bengal BJP president Dilip Ghosh.The West Bengal BJP chief said the Prime Minister had to cancel his visit to Bengal on Friday, in which he was scheduled to address four rallies across four districts and 56 assembly constituencies.""BJP Bengal unit and the voters of West Bengal were looking forward to his visit but we realise the gravity of the situation and the rationale for him not being able to make it in person. We have since requested the Prime Minister to address all these constituencies at one go through a virtual address and we are pleased to confirm that he has agreed to do so," he said."Accordingly, Prime Minister will be addressing voters of West Bengal, particularly voters of Malda, Murshidabad, Birbhum and Kolkata, through a virtual medium at 5 pm on April 23. On behalf of the voters of West Bengal, we extend our gratitude to the Prime Minister for acceding to our request," added Ghosh.Earlier today, the Prime Minister informed that he will not be going to poll-bound West Bengal as he will chair high-level meeting to review the 'prevailing Covid-19 situation' amid rapidly increasing coronavirus cases in the country..Meanwhile, the polling for the sixth phase of the eight-phased West Bengal elections concluded on Thursday with an approximate voter turnout of 79.09 per cent till 5 pm.Polling for the seventh and eighth phases will be held on April 26 and 29 respectively while the counting of votes will take place on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-agreed-to-virtually-address-people-of-bengal-tomorrow-dilip-ghosh-101619113671115.html
23-04-2021||India||Story withdrawn||We regret the publishing of this news based on parliamentarian Shashi Tharoor's tweet concerning Sumitra Mahajan's health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-lok-sabha-speaker-sumitra-mahajan-passes-away-tweets-shashi-tharoor-101619113993900.html
23-04-2021||India||MPs get ₹2,200 crore for local projects sanctioned or pending before April '20||Even as the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) is unavailable for lawmakers due to diversion of funds for Covid-19 management, they have just got access to ₹2,200 crore for projects in their constituencies sanctioned or pending before April 2020. According to a circular issued last month, the release of pending instalments for projects sanctioned by Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members will get first priority.When India faced the first Covid-19 wave last year, the government, anticipating the requirement of additional funds to fight the pandemic, decided to halt MPLADS for two years. Under this scheme, members of Parliament are entitled to get ₹5 crore annually for projects in their constituencies.Indian Parliament has 788 members, and they had access to ₹3,940 crore under MPLADS. Members of legislative assemblies, too, get funds from state governments for public projects of their choice.Also Read | Covid-19 peddled as an excuse to stop protests against agri laws: Farmer leaders“...pursuant to the implementation of the decision (to stall funds for FY20-21 and FY21-22), the ministry started receiving references from MPs, state nodal departments and district authorities for release of unreleased installments prior to March 31, 2020,” the government said the circular.During Parliament’s Budget Session this year, opposition parties requested the government to restart MPLADS as it helps build critical infrastructure and ensures public services, particularly in rural India.Parliamentarians have also had their salaries cut by 30% for one year and the money has been diverted for Covid-19 management. A member of Parliament is entitled to ₹1,00,000 monthly salary but now gets ₹70,000.The Salary, Allowances, and Pension of Members of Parliament (Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in September for the new salary structure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mps-get-rs-2-200-crore-for-local-projects-sanctioned-or-pending-before-april-2020-101619086490171.html
23-04-2021||India||Sitaram Yechury’s son dies of Covid-19, political leaders send condolences||Communist Party of India (Marxist) general secretary Sitaram Yechury on Thursday said his son Ashish Yechury died of Covid-19.“It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury to COVID-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us,” Sitaram Yechury wrote on Twitter.Ashish Yechury, a journalist, had been hospitalised in Gurugram. He was 34 years old.Several senior political leaders condoled his death on Twitter.Prime Minister Narendra Modi wrote “Condolences to Shri Sitaram Yechury Ji and his family on the tragic and untimely demise of his son, Ashish. Om Shanti”.Chief Minister of West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee said that it was shocking and saddening to hear about Ashish’s death.“Shocked and very saddened to hear about the untimely passing away of Ashish, son of @SitaramYechury Ji. My deepest condolences to the grieving family”, Banerjee tweeted.Kerala chief minister and CPI(M) leader Pinarayi Vijayan also wrote, “Dear comrade Sitaram Yechury, our deepest condolences on the loss of Ashish. Our thoughts are with you and your family during this difficult time.”Congress leader Shashi Tharoor said that the news was devastating. He offered condolences to Sitaram Yechury and added there was no bigger loss for a parent than that of a child.“Devastated by the news @SitaramYechury @seemay. There is no greater loss for a parent to endure. May you find the strength to bear the inexpressible grief of your loss. My heart goes out to you at this painful time,” Tharoor wrote.On Thursday afternoon, Sitaram Yechury thanked everyone for their condolences.“I bid goodbye to my son, Ashish (Biku) at noon today. I thank all of you who have shared our sorrow. I thank everybody who gave us strength to be able to face this dark hour. I know that I am not alone in my grief, with this pandemic consuming countless lives,” he tweeted.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sitaram-yechury-s-son-dies-of-covid-19-political-leaders-send-condolences-101619069689237.html
23-04-2021||NA||Covid-19 Highlights: Covid 3rd wave peak in France 'appears to be behind us': PM||India, fighting an uphill battle against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19), reported over 3 lakh new infections on Thursday. Although government officials have said that statistics do not show the second wave to be more contagious than the first, cases have increased manifold over the past few weeks. The central government has ramped up the production capacity of the anti-viral drug Remdesivir from the current 38 lakh vials per month to 74 lakh vials per month. Amid the rising number of Covid-19 cases, several states have also been imposing restrictions on the movement of people in an attempt to contain the spread of the coronavirus variants, while the country is gearing up for the third phase of its nationwide vaccination drive, slated to begin on May 1. Everyone above the age of 18 will be considered eligible for vaccination under this phase, the central government has said.Find the latest news updates on the coronavirus disease and Covid-19 vaccines in India and across the world here.Stay up-to-date on the coronavirus outbreak:• The Union health ministry's dashboard on Thursday showed that India has recorded 314,835 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike in the world, while Covid-19-related deaths also jumped by a record with 2,104 new fatalities.• Fresh Covid-19 curbs are in place in Maharashtra, India's worst-hit state, from today. The restrictions will remain in effect till May 1 in view of the sudden surge in coronavirus disease cases in the state.• A nationwide shortage in oxygen supply is being reported, with at least 24 Covid-19 patients at a hospital in Maharashtra's Nashik dying on Wednesday after their ventilators ran out. Hospitals in Delhi, the national capital, and elsewhere have warned that their supplies of medical oxygen given to severely ill Covid-19 patients are running low.• The Supreme Court has asked the central government to present a national plan on the supply of oxygen and essential drugs, and the method of vaccination. The matter will be heard on Friday.• On the other side of the world, the United States of America has administered over 200 million Covid-19 vaccine shots. US president Joe Biden called this a "stunning achievement".Follow all the updates here:Madhya Pradesh reports 12,384 fresh Covid-19 positive casesMadhya Pradesh reports 12,384 fresh Covid-19 positive cases, 9,620 recoveries and 75 deathsActive cases: 84,957Death toll: 4,863Covid 3rd wave peak in France 'appears to be behind us': PMThe peak of the third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic in France "appears to be behind us", Prime Minister Jean Castex said on Thursday, announcing that travel restrictions will be relaxed from early next month.Pune reports 9,841 new Covid-19 cases, 115 deaths in last 24 hoursMaharashtra: Pune district reports 9,841 fresh COVID19 cases, 115 fatalities and 9,186 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Active cases: 1,01,916Total cases: 7,63,194Total recoveries: 6,49,565Death toll: 11,882 pic.twitter.com/hpgxVrsGAgWith 9,841 new Covid-19 cases and 115 fatalities, Pune's cases tally reached 763,194 and death toll climbed to 11,882, reports ANI.Covid-19 vaccination drive: Over 3 million doses administered till 8pm#LargestVaccineDrive More than 30 lakh vaccine doses given till 8 pm today push Cumulative Vaccine Coverage to more than 13.53 Cr doses.https://t.co/8hdUOOp1L6 pic.twitter.com/PkDeK9cpUpThe Union health ministry said that over 3 million Covid-19 vaccine doses have been delivered under the country's vaccination drive until 8pm on the day. The ministry highlighted that cumulative vaccine coverage was above 135 million doses.West Bengal records 11,948 new Covid-19 cases in highest single-day spikeBengal registers highest single-day spike of 11,948 COVID-19 cases, 56 fresh fatalities: Health DepartmentWest Bengal reported 11,948 new Covid-19 cases, the highest single-day spike in the state and 56 related deaths, reports PTI citing state health department.Karnataka sets aside ₹400 crore to procure 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses: CMKarnataka will procure 1 Crore doses of COVID-19 vaccine as we begin to inoculate citizens between 18 to 44 years from May 1. ₹400 Crores has been earmarked for this in the 1st phase. I urge all those above 18 to register themselves for the vaccine starting from April 28.Karnataka chief minister BS Yediyurappa said that the state government has earmarked ₹400 crore for procuring 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses for the state.Maharashtra records 67,013 new cases of Covid-19; Mumbai continues downward trend and adds 7,367 cases to its tallyWith 67,013 new Covid-19 cases and 568 new fatalities, Maharashtra's tally reached 4,094,840 and the death toll climbed to 62,479.Mumbai's daily tally continued to decline and 7,367 new cases were reported. Cases tally stands at 609,080. The city also saw 75 new deaths as the death toll reached 12,583.Gujarat reports over 13,000 new Covid-19 cases, 137 deaths in last 24 hoursGujarat reports 13,105 fresh COVID cases, 5,010 recoveries, and 137 deaths in the last 24 hoursTotal cases: 4,53,836Active cases: 92,084Total recoveries: 3,55,875Death toll: 5,877Vaccination: 1,08,59,073Gujarat reported 13,105 new Covid-19 cases and 137 deaths in last 24 hours taking the state's tally to 453,836 cases and death toll to 5,877, reports ANI.Tamil Nadu reports 12,652 new Covid-19 cases, active caseload close to 90,000-markTamil Nadu reported 12,652 fresh COVID-19 cases, 7,526 recoveries, and 59 deathsActive cases: 89,428Total recoveries: 9,34,966Death toll: 13,317 pic.twitter.com/ywPShEWxFWTamil Nadu reported 12,652 new Covid-19 cases and 59 deaths taking the state's cases tally to 1,037,711 and death toll to 13,317, reports ANI.Goa reports 1,410 new Covid-19 cases, 21 deaths in last 24 hours1,410 new COVID-19 cases, 461 recoveries & 21 deaths reported in Goa in the last 24 hours. Goa's positive case tally rises to 72,224 including 10,228 active cases, 61,032 recovered cases and 964 deaths: State Health Department pic.twitter.com/gXGN5o7QBuWith 1,410 new Covid-19 cases and 21 deaths in the last 24 hours, Goa's cases tally reached 72,224 and the death toll reached 964, reports ANI.WB CM Mamata Banerjee announces 'free universal vaccination' after May 5 for people above 18 years“FREE UNIVERSAL VACCINATION for everyone above the age of 18 post May 5th”, promises @MamataOfficial pic.twitter.com/aOSRppjeicWest Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee announces free universal vaccination after May 5 for all people over 18 years of age in the state.Karnataka reports over 25,000 new Covid-19 cases, 123 deaths in last 24 hoursKarnataka reports 25,795 fresh COVID-19 cases, 5,624 discharges, and 123 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 1,96,236Total discharges: 10,37,857Death toll: 13,885 pic.twitter.com/IKnsfW3KAzWith 25,795 new Covid-19 cases and 123 fatalities in the last 24 hours, Karnataka's Covid-19 tally reached 1,247,997 and death toll climbed to 13,885, reports ANI.Watch | ‘Maharashtra Remdesivir consumption of 50,000 vials/day, getting 26,000’: TopeCovid-19: Goa government to inoculate people between 18, 45 years of age for free of costGoa government to administer COVID-19 vaccine free of cost to people aged between 18 to 45Goa government has said that people between 18 and 45 years of age to be vaccinated against Covid-19 free of cost, reports PTI.Uttarakhand to close all offices, except those offering essential services, for 3 days from April 24In view of rising #COVID19 cases in Uttarakhand, all offices in the state, except those for essential services, will be closed for three days i.e. April 24, 25 and 26: In-charge Secretary Dr Pankaj Kumar PandeyUttarakhand government has ordered the closure of all offices in the state, except those offering essential services, for three days beginning April 24, reports ANI.Uttarakhand reports almost 4,000 new Covid-19 cases, 19 deathsUttarakhand reports 3,998 new COVID cases and 19 deaths today; case tally rises to 1,38,010 pic.twitter.com/m2te6aXXNCWith 3,998 new Covid-19 cases and 19 deaths, Uttarakhand's cases tally reached 138,010 and the death toll reached 1,972, reports ANI.PM Modi cancels visit to West Bengal on Friday, will hold high-level meeting to review the prevailing Covid-19 situationTomorrow, will be chairing high-level meetings to review the prevailing COVID-19 situation. Due to that, I would not be going to West Bengal.Prime Minister Narendra Modi will hold a high-level meeting to review Covid-19 situation in the state and has cancelled his West Bengal visit.Chhattisgarh CM writes to PM Modi, seeks immediate information on cost, availability of Covid-19 vaccinesChhattisgarh CM writes to PM seeking immediate information on availability & cost of #COVID19 vaccines to be provided as part of 3rd phase of vaccination drive commencing May 1Letter argues that Bharat Biotech must supply its vaccines at lesser rates compared to Serum Institute pic.twitter.com/9ii6AxJEm8Chhattisgarh chief minister Bhupesh Baghel writes to Prime Minister Narendra Modi seeking immediate information on cost, availability of Covid-19 vaccine, reports ANI.PM Modi chairs high-level meeting to review oxygen supply across country, ways to boost availabilityPM Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review oxygen supply across the country & discuss ways & means to boost its availability. Officials briefed him on efforts undertaken in last few weeks to improve oxygen supply: Prime Minister's Office (PMO) pic.twitter.com/ntBoLj10SvPrime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to review the oxygen availability across the country and means to boost its availability, reports ANI.Home ministry asks states to ensure no restrictions applied on supply of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patientsThe Union ministry of home affairs has asked the state governments to ensure that there are no restrictions applied on the supply of medical Oxygen for Covid-19 patients.Noida: Kailash hospital says Oxygen to last for few more hours, stops admissionsNoida: Kailash Hospital says it's left with Oxygen that will last for only for a few more hrs. Group Medical Director, Dr Ritu Bohra says, "We've 4 hospitals in Gautam Buddh Nagar, crisis in all. We've been told we'll receive supply after next 36 hrs. We've stopped admissions." pic.twitter.com/gEkOQNB8ogKailash hospital in Noida said that only few more hours supply of oxygen left. Group Medical Director Dr Ritu Bohra said that admissions have been stopped, reports ANI.Oxygen completely exhausted in some Delhi hospitals: Manish SisodiaAmid the worsening oxygen crisis in the national capital, Delhi deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said that oxygen has completely depleted in some hospitals in the union territory. "I have been receiving messages and emails from hospitals since this morning. We are somehow providing them cylinders by arranging from other hospitals that have slightly more stock," he said.Haryana announces summer vacation in schools till May 31 as Covid-19 cases riseThe Haryana government on Thursday declared summer vacation in schools till May 31, amid rising Covid-19 cases in the state. There are as many as 55,422 active Covid-19 cases in Haryana so far, said the Union Health Ministry on Thursday. The cumulative cases in the state have mounted to 3,22,297 while the death toll now stands at 3,528.(Reporting by ANI)10 states with the most number of confirmed Covid-19 cases#CoronaVirusUpdates: State-wise details of Total Confirmed #COVID19 cases (till 22 April, 2021, 8 AM) ➡️States with 1-40000 confirmed cases ➡️States with 40001-370000 confirmed cases ➡️States with 370000+ confirmed cases ➡️Total no. of confirmed cases so far #StaySafe pic.twitter.com/5ySWI2SlsHThe central government on Thursday released the list of states with the highest number of confirmed coronavirus disease (Covid-19) cases.The 10 states which take the top spot are (in descending order):Fix one price for Covid-19 vaccine: Mamata's appeal to CentreOne nation, one party, one leader shouts BJP all the time but to save lives they can’t have one price for vaccine.Every Indian needs free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location. GoI must fix ONE price for Covid vaccine irrespective of who pays— Centre or the States.West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday said that the central government must fix one price irrespective of who pays – Centre or state.“One nation, one party, one leader shouts BJP all the time but to save lives they can’t have one price for the vaccine. Every Indian needs free vaccine, regardless of age, caste, creed, location. GoI must fix ONE price for Covid vaccine irrespective of who pays— Centre or the States,” Banerjee tweeted on Thursday.'Abdicated free vaccination promise': Congress sends letter to PMCongress chief writes to PM over new #COVID19 vaccination policy for inoculation of people b/w 18-45 yrs of ageLetter reads "Policy implies GoI has abdicated responsibility to provide free vaccination for these citizens...Urge you to intervene & reverse ill-considered decision" pic.twitter.com/5jMypGgTmhCongress chief Sonia Gandhi on Thursday sent a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi asking if the Government of India has abdicated its responsibility to provide free vaccination for citizens between the age group of 18 to 45 years.The letter reads, "As a consequence of this policy, the vaccine manufacturer, i.e. the Serum Institute of India announced a differential pricing mechanism today, viz ₹150/- per dose for the central government, ₹400/- per dose for state government and ₹600/- per dose for private hospitals."Supreme Court asks Centre to present national plan on supply of oxygen, essential drugsThe Supreme Court has taken suo motu cognizance on the supply of oxygen and essential drugs, method of vaccination and the judicial power to declare a lockdown. The top court asked the central government to present a national plan on the same after noting that at least six different high courts in the country have been hearing the matter with their own priorities.Senior advocate Harish Salve has been appointed as amicus curiae in the matter. The matter will be heard tomorrow.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta today told the Supreme Court that the country is in 'dire need' of oxygen. The apex court said that hearings by six different high courts on Covid-19 related issues may create some kind of confusion and noted that a national policy in place on issues relating to supply of oxygen, essential drugs & method and manner of vaccinationDelhi asks for more oxygen. Government points out acute shortageDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday reiterated that the national capital is facing an oxygen crisis over the past few days and said that the increased quota fixed by the central government a day ago is still not enough to meet the spiralling demands amid a more infectious second wave of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a press conference on this day, Kejriwal appealed to the Centre for more oxygen, pointing out that Delhi does not produce oxygen on its own and hence has to depend on other states for supply.'There is a crisis of ICU beds': Delhi health ministerSituation is different in different hospitals; 6 hours in some, 8 in others 10 in some others. We can't call this a comfortable situation: Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain when asked about situation of Oxygen in Delhi hospitals & how long will Oxygen last in each of them pic.twitter.com/T85WWL8gDIAmid a shortage of medical oxygen in the national capital, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday pointed out a crisis in ICU beds, as well. "There is a crisis of ICU beds. We have made a request to the Centre, I think they will give us 700-800 more ICU beds soon. We have demanded 7,000 beds in the central government-run hospitals, they have given us around 2,000," said the Delhi health minister.Over 500 doctors, health workers in top Patna hospitals test Covid-19 positive amid second waveOver 500 doctors and healthworkers of two leading hospitals in Bihar's Patna -- AIIMS and Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) -- have been infected with coronavirus during second wave: Sources.Over 500 doctors and health workers of two leading hospitals in Bihar's Patna -- the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and the Patna Medical College and Hospital (PMCH) -- have tested positive for Covid-19 during the second wave of the coronavirus, news agency PTI reported citing sources.Haryana to hold a meeting with protesting farmers over Covid-19 testing, vaccinationsHaryana intends to hold a meeting with farmers, sitting at the state's borders and protesting against the central government's three contentious farm laws, regarding their Covid-19 testing and vaccinations. Haryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that officers of the state health department will hold a meeting with protesting farmers in this regard and begin the aforementioned process once the farmers' leaders agree.1,710 doses of Covid-19 vaccine stolen from PPC centre in HaryanaHaryana | COVID19 vaccine has been stolen from PP Medical Centre in Jind. The video footage shows two people committing the crime. We are investigating the matter: Police pic.twitter.com/jf3IqpMyLC1,710 doses of Covid-19 vaccine, including 1,270 doses of Covishield and 440 of Covaxin, along with other files, were stolen from the PPC centre at Civil Hospital in Haryana's Jind, ANI reported. The centre's in-charge said, "I'll also check our main store that keeps supply for the entire district and inform officials."The police have launched an investigation into the incident and said that video footage shows two individuals committing the crime. The probe is on.Delhi L-G's Covid-19 review meet with CM Arvind Kejriwal postponedAnil Baijal, the Lieutenant Governor of the union territory of Delhi, was scheduled to hold a Covid-19 review meeting with Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal and other senior government officials later in the day, news agency ANI reported. However, the meeting has now been postponed. No reasons for deferring the meet have been provided till now.All you need to know about India's new Covid-19 spikeIndia on Thursday reported more than 300,000 coronavirus cases over the last 24 hours, the highest daily global total, while Covid-19-related deaths also jumped by a record.India's total cases are now at 15.93 million, while deaths rose by 2,104 to reach a total of 184,657, according to health ministry data.New cases: 314,835New deaths: 2,104Total cases: 15,930,965Total recoveries: 13,454,880Death toll: 184,657Active cases: 2,291,428Total vaccination: 132,330,644India records over 3 lakh new Covid-19 cases, world's highest single-day spikeThe Union health ministry's dashboard at 9:30am on Thursday showed that India has recorded 314,835 new Covid-19 cases in the last 24 hours, the highest single-day spike in the world.Before this, only one country had recorded a daily spike of over 3 lakh cases -- the United States, on January 8 earlier this year, when it clocked 307,581 new coronavirus disease infections, according to worldometers.info, an independent aggregator of the worldwide Covid-19 tally. Centre raises Delhi's oxygen quotaWith several private and government hospitals in Delhi running low on medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the central government has raised the national capital's oxygen quota from 378 metric tonnes to 480 metric tonnes.Dr AC Shukla, Head-ICU, Mata Chanan Devi Hospital, Delhi, said, "We've received two batches of 21 oxygen cylinders each today. We have 200 Covid-19 patients and oxygen consumption is very high. For us, priority is re-filling of the liquid oxygen plant so that there is an uninterrupted supply."Since Delhi does not have its own source of oxygen, the capital's supply comes from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh.(Inputs from agencies)272,705,103 samples tested for Covid-19 till now in IndiaCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/x9sHR8CesaThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) informed that 272,705,103 samples have been tested for coronavirus disease (Covid-19) in India till April 21, 2021. Of these, 1,651,711 samples were tested on Wednesday, the ICMR informed.'Oxygen Express' chugs up to Vizag with cryogenic tankers for loading oxygen#WATCH | "Oxygen Express" arrives in Visakhapatnam, Andhra Pradesh. The cryogenic tankers, with a total carrying capacity of more than 100 tons of LMO (Liquid Medical Oxygen) will be loaded with LMO at Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL) - Visakhapatnam Steel Plant. pic.twitter.com/uKb7AK2MR5The 'Oxygen Express' has arrived in Andhra Pradesh's Visakhapatnam with its massive cryogenic tankers capable of loading more than 100 tonnes of Liquid Medical Oxygen (LMO). The tankers will be loaded with LMO at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant facility under the Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd (RINL).CPI(M) leader Sitaram Yechury's son dies of Covid-19It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury to COVID-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him - doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers and innumerable others who stood by us.Communist Party of India (Marxist) (CPI-M) leader Sitaram Yechury on Thursday took to his Twitter account to inform that his son, Ashish Yechury, has passed away due to Covid-19. "It is with great sadness that I have to inform that I lost my elder son, Ashish Yechury, to Covid-19 this morning. I want to thank all those who gave us hope and who treated him -- doctors, nurses, frontline health workers, sanitation workers, and innumerable others who stood by us," the veteran leader tweeted.Voting underway in West Bengal, day after state breached 10,000 daily infectionsPolling for the sixth phase of the ongoing assembly elections in West Bengal began at 7am on Thursday across 43 constituencies in four districts. This comes amid a surge in Covid-19 cases with the state reporting record infections over the past few days, breaching the 10,000- mark of daily infections on Wednesday. The state registered its highest single-day spike of 10,784 new Covid-19 cases on Wednesday, while 58 more people lost their lives.Former Delhi minister Dr AK Walia passes away of Covid-19Senior Congress leader and former Delhi minister Dr AK Walia passed away of Covid-19 at the Apollo Hospital in the national capital, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.India's CAPF jawans in Covid-19 battlefieldThe Central Armed Police Forces (CAPF) on Thursday informed that several of its jawans have contracted the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Mukesh Saxena, ADG (Med), CAPF, said, "We have stopped admission of non-Covid patients and closed OPD services at the CAPF hospital in Greater Noida. 80 Covid-19 patients are currently admitted at the hospital.""We have deployed our medical officers and paramedics at the DRDO Covid-19 facility in Delhi and Ahmedabad," he added.CDC issues level-4 travel health notice for IndiaCenters for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued a Level-4 Travel Health Notice for India due to Covid-19, indicating a very high level of COVID-19 in the country: US Dept of State Bureau of Consular Affairs||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-live-india-news-world-new-coronavirus-india-maharashtra-lockdown-delhi-curfew-101619054856658.html
23-04-2021||India||16 Covid-19 positive migrants in TN jump quarantine to go home to Jharkhand||Two days before their quarantine ended, 16 migrant workers who are Covid-19 positive have left Tirupur district to go home to Jharkhand, authorities from the police and health department said.The 16 infected patients left with a group of 36 other migrant workers and boarded a train on Monday night fearing that there may be a lockdown due to the second wave. Tirupur health authorities have informed the state officials to alert their counterparts in Jharkhand so that co-passengers of the same train could be tracked. Samples taken from the workers came back positive on April 7. Their 14-day isolation period would have ended on Wednesday. The workers were being treated at the government hospital and medical college in Tirupur for a week. “After being discharged they were asked to quarantine for another week but they escaped on the 5th day,” said Dr Jagadish Kumar, deputy director of health services of Tirupur. “They are unlikely to pose a risk as they’re all asymptomatic and have remained in quarantine except for two days but it is still a violation so we have registered a police complaint and informed the medical team in Jharkhand.”The district police are likely to register a complaint under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897. “We have received the complaint today and we will be registering an FIR for Covid-19 violations,” said sub-inspector Sivaganesh. The workers were employed in a cotton mill at Vellakoil in Tirupur and were undergoing quarantine at the staff quarters at the mill. “Even the mill management were not aware that they had left,” he said. As Covid-19 cases are rising in Tamil Nadu and several restrictions have been imposed including a night curfew, migrant workers from different parts of the state are queuing up at railway stations to go home. The belt of Tirupur, Coimbatore and Erode in the western region of Tamil Nadu are dotted with industries and manufacturing factories and a major part of the workforce is formed by migrant workers predominantly from Jharkhand, Odisha and Bihar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/16-covid-19-positive-migrants-in-tn-jump-quarantine-to-go-home-to-jharkhand-101619032664796.html
23-04-2021||India||French energy major makes final offer to India to build 6 nuclear reactors in Maharashtra||French energy major EDF on Friday said it has made a final offer to the Nuclear Power Corporation of India (NPCIL) on building six nuclear reactors at Jaitapur in Maharashtra, setting the stage for discussions on a framework agreement. Describing the development as a “major step forward” for the Jaitapur civil nuclear project, French ambassador Emmanuel Lenain said: “The French energy company EDF has submitted [its] final offer to build six EPR reactors in Maharashtra. This would be the largest power plant in the world and it would provide safe, reliable sustainable energy to up to seven crore households.” The binding techno-commercial offer to supply engineering studies and equipment for building six European pressurised water reactors (EPR) was made by EDF on Thursday, and it will “enable discussions aimed at converging towards a binding framework agreement in the coming months”, the French embassy said in a statement. The final offer is a follow-up to the Industrial Way Forward Agreement signed by the two sides in March 2018 in New Delhi and to non-binding proposal submitted by EDF at the end of 2018. EDF’s final offer includes the detailed technical configuration of the reactors, taking into account information provided by NPCIL on the Jaitapur site conditions and the joint work done by the two organisations, and the associated commercial terms and conditions for supplying engineering studies and equipment for six reactors, the statement said. The French firm will guarantee the performance of each of the reactors under specific conditions and for a predefined period of time, and also offer training for NPCIL’s operating teams. NPCIL will be responsible for construction and commissioning of the reactors and for obtaining all necessary permits and consents in India, including the certification of the EPR technology by the Indian safety regulator. Lenain said in keeping with the “Make in India” initiative, more than 200 Indian companies have been identified to work on the nuclear power project. EDF will also launch a pre-feasibility study along with the International Institute of Nuclear Energy (I2EN) and Veermata Jijabai Technological Institute (VJTI) for establishing a centre of excellence in India to train engineers and technicians and to support the development of the necessary set of skills for the project. The project is expected to create around 2,700 permanent jobs and generate economic benefits for the French nuclear industry over its entire duration of about 15 years. The Jaitapur project, with an installed capacity of 9.6 GWe, will be the most powerful energy plant in the world and generate up to 75 TWh a year. This will cover the annual consumption of 70 million households while avoiding the emission of 80 million tons of CO2 a year. “This key milestone has been achieved thanks to the trust-based relationship built over time with our Indian partner, and the excellent collaboration and continuous efforts of the EDF and NPCIL teams,” said EDF Group’s chief executive Jean Bernard Levy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/french-energy-major-makes-final-offer-to-india-to-build-6-nuclear-reactors-in-maharashtra-101619201097187.html
23-04-2021||India||Oxygen Express with 7 tankers reaches Maharashtra, brings relief amid Covid rise||The first Oxygen Express carrying seven tankers filled with liquid medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam reached Maharashtra on Friday.The train arrived at Nagpur at 8.10 pm, bringing some relief to the state which is reeling under a surge in coronavirus cases and shortages of medical oxygen.Three of the seven tankers will be unloaded at Nagpur station and remaining will be unloaded at Nasik Road station."Oxygen Express is expected to reach Nasik Road station in the morning tomorrow," Shivaji Sutar, chief central railway spokesperson said.The train departed from Visakhapatnam on Thursday night.The flat-wagon goods train had left for Visakhapatnam from Kalamboli near Mumbai on April 19, around 8 pm.After more than 50 hours' journey, it reached the destination, passing through Vapi, Surat, Nandurbar, Bhusawal, Akole, Nagpur, Gondia, Raipur and Titagarh.Last Sunday, the Railways had announced it will run "Oxygen Express" trains over the next few days to transport liquid medical oxygen and oxygen cylinders across the country.Empty tankers will be loaded with medical oxygen from Visakhapatnam, Jamshedpur, Rourkela and Bokaro, it had said.Amid spiralling coronavirus cases in the country, the demand for medical oxygen has gone through the roof.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-express-reaches-maharashtra-101619197963602.html
23-04-2021||India||Amit Shah reviews oxygen supply; asks states to create corridors for oxygen vehicles||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Friday asked all states and union territories to provide adequate security to oxygen transporting vehicles and to make provisions for exclusive corridors for such transportation, treating these vehicles like ambulances. A review meeting was taken by home minister Amit Shah during which he directed an expert group to optimize and rationalize the allocation of oxygen to various states and UTs, keeping in view the active cases and to reduce time for movement of medical oxygen. The ministry had, on Thursday, passed an order under the Disaster Management Act, 2005 directing states to make sure there is no hindrance in the supply of oxygen transporting vehicles. Within hours, the Delhi high court directed to ensure adequate security to the lorries transporting oxygen and its non-obstruction on the way as well as creation of a special corridor for immediate transportation. In his letter to states/UTs on Friday, Union home secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla pointed out that the Delhi High Court “has further directed that non-compliance of its order will invite action for contempt of court and also invite criminal and penal action under DM Act and under the Indian Penal Code (IPC)”. “In view of the sharp rise in Covid-19 cases and resultant increasing demand of medical oxygen across the country, Union Home Minister, Shri Amit Shah has reviewed the situation and directed various measures to augment the supply of oxygen for medical purposes. Accordingly, an Expert Group is optimizing and rationalising the allocation of oxygen to various States and UTs, keeping in view the active cases and to reduce time for movement of medical oxygen,” said a statement by MHA. MHA has further written to states/UTs, to direct District Collectors/ Deputy Commissioners to list all the plants situated in their district, in which different types of oxygen is generated, along with the installed capacity, the statement added. “They should also take action to revive those plants, which are lying closed. These efforts will ensure ready availability of oxygen at the district level, besides supply of medical oxygen from usual channels,” the ministry said. The Indian Air Force has already started transporting empty tankers after delivery of oxygen to destination state/UT to oxygen producing locations to reduce movement time. The MHA is coordinating lifting of high capacity tankers from abroad, such as Singapore and UAE by Indian Air Force (IAF) transport planes. Further, Ministry of Railways is running special trains carrying oxygen tankers across the country for faster movement. MHA and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare are in regular touch with the states and UTs for promoting optimal use of medical oxygen and undertake periodic audits to ensure there is no wastage of medical oxygen and essential medicines, the statement added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-reviews-oxygen-supply-asks-states-to-create-corridors-for-oxygen-vehicles-101619197557073.html
23-04-2021||India||Cadila Healthcare starts producing Covid-19 vaccine candidate||India's Cadila Healthcare has started producing its potential Covid-19 vaccine for which it will seek emergency use authorisation in May or June, its managing director told Reuters, with an aim to make up to 240 million doses a year.Government officials have said they are eagerly waiting for Cadila to seek approval for ZyCoV-D soon, as a record rise in coronavirus infections have led to a public health disaster in the world's most populous country after China.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here "We have just started producing doses," Sharvil Patel said in a Microsoft Teams interview on Friday. "But it is not meaningfully large."He said the aim was to produce 10 million doses a month starting June, taking the in-house annual capacity to 120 million. The rest of the production, as required, will mainly come from third-party producers."We are already talking with two other manufacturers. We will slowly add more manufacturers," Patel said.Its DNA plasmid product - which involves the injection of a small part of the virus's genetic code (DNA or RNA) to stimulate immune response in the recipient - is currently meant to be given in three doses but the company is also doing trials on a two-dose regimen, he said.ZyCoV-D's success is crucial for India, the country with the world's biggest vaccine making capacity.It exported more than 66 million vaccines before supplies ran tight for its own people as demand surged. The immunisation drive will expand from May 1 though domestic vaccine output will not increase for more than a month.India is currently using the AstraZeneca shot and homegrown Covaxin. It has also approved Russia's Sputnik V and has urged Pfizer, Moderna and Johnson and Johnson to provide it with vaccines. All those shots will be imported, at least initially.Patel said unlike some other drugmakers hit by US curbs on exports of vaccine raw material, Cadila was sourcing its ingredients domestically."We did anticipate those challenges," he said. "Everything for us is done in India. Our supply chain is secure. We don’t have any issues for the next 14-15 months."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cadila-healthcare-starts-producing-covid-19-vaccine-candidate-101619194931148.html
23-04-2021||India||Amit Shah tells states to treat vehicles carrying oxygen like ambulances||Union home minister Amit Shah reviewed the state of oxygen availability on Friday as many states have been reporting its shortage amid rising cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19). In a letter to all states and Union territories, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) told them to make provisions for exclusive corridors for transportation of oxygen tankers. “MHA has written to all States and UTs...to provide adequate security to oxygen transporting vehicles and to make provisions for exclusive corridors for such transportation, treating these vehicles like ambulances,” the home ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 hereThe move comes at a time when several states and UTs across the country, especially Delhi, are reporting an acute scarcity of oxygen for Covid-19 patients. Social media is flooded with posts seeking help for patients whose oxygen levels are dropping and they are unable to find beds with oxygen in hospitals.The home ministry also said that following the April 18 order diverting oxygen for industrial use for Covid-19 patients, the supply of medical oxygen has gone up. “Steps are being taken to further reduce consumption of industrial oxygen by industries, which will augment the supply of oxygen for medical purpose,” it added.Amit Shah’s ministry also told states to direct district collectors, deputy Commissioners to list all the plants situated in their district, in which different types of oxygen are generated, along with the installed capacity. The states were also asked to take action to revive the oxygen plants that are lying closed. “These efforts will ensure ready availability of oxygen at the district level, besides supply of medical oxygen from usual channels,” the ministry said.Earlier in the day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi held a virtual meeting with chief ministers of 11 worst-affected states and told them to ensure there are no barriers in the transportation of oxygen tankers. “He urged the states to check hoarding and black marketing of oxygen and medicines. The PM said that every state should ensure that no oxygen tanker, whether it is meant for any state, is stopped or gets stranded,” his office said in a statement.The Prime Minister also urged all states to work collectively in the battle against the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic and assured that if the nation battles as a collective power, there won’t be any scarcity of resources.Meanwhile, the Armed Forces Medical Services (AFMS) is importing 23 mobile oxygen generation plants from Germany, which will arrive within a week, to address the oxygen crisis, people familiar with the development told HT.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amit-shah-tells-states-to-treat-vehicles-carrying-oxygen-like-ambulances-101619193579167.html
23-04-2021||India||India to airlift critical search system to locate missing Indonesian submarine||India is set to fly critical search equipment to Indonesia on Saturday to locate a submarine that went missing on April 21 with a crew of 53 personnel, people familiar with the development said. The submarine Nanggala went missing in the waters north of Bali on Wednesday.“Intervention system of the second deep submergence rescue vessel (DSRV) will be airlifted to Indonesia by the Indian Air Force on Saturday. This system can be used to locate the submarine,” said one of the officials cited above. The Indian Navy on Thursday dispatched a DSRV by sea to help the Indonesian Navy with its search and rescue efforts. The Indian DSRV, being ferried by offshore supply vessel Sabarmati, could take almost a week to reach the location which is 2,500 nautical miles away. The Indonesian Navy said on Thursday that the missing German-built submarine has enough oxygen for 72 hours during a power blackout. Defence minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday asked the IAF to examine the feasibility of induction of the DSRV intervention system by air. The Indian Navy’s DSRV system can locate a submarine up to 1,000 metres underwater. The Indian Navy inducted its first DSRV in 2018 and the second one the following year. The vessels were delivered under a £193-million contract awarded to JFD, a leading underwater capability provider, in March 2016.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-to-airlift-critical-search-system-to-locate-missing-indonesian-submarine-101619193957705.html
23-04-2021||India||Maharashtra govt orders fire, oxygen audits for all hospitals||The Maharashtra government on Friday directed the district administrations to conduct oxygen and fire audits at all hospitals in the state.These directives from Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte come in the backdrop of the oxygen leak incident at a state- run hospital in Nashik, in which 22 Covid-19 patients lost their lives and the fire at a hospital in Virar, where 13 patients were killed.Speaking at a virtual meet, the chief secretary said oxygen tankers have been given the status of ambulances and transportation of the life-saving gas has to be under police security.The virtual meeting was attended by district collectors, divisional commissioners, police commissioners, superintendents of police and senior bureaucrats.Kunte said all hospitals should undertake preventive measures to ensure that incidents of fire do not reoccur.Apart from fire audits, oxygen audits should also be conducted, he said."Under the oxygen audit, they should examine if patients are given oxygen in a scientific manner and if the task force's recommendations to prevent wastage are being followed," the official said, adding that measures should be taken to check leakage of oxygen.Each district should have an oxygen concentrator to reduce dependence on cylinders and liquid oxygen, the chief secretary said.Oxygen plants on PSA technology should be set up, he said.Of the oxygen tankers arriving from Vishakhapatnam, four tankers will be sent to Nagpur and Nashik, Kunte added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-govt-orders-fire-oxygen-audits-for-all-hospitals-101619193163971.html
23-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid curbs and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid Covid curbsThe Centre has set up a control room to monitor issues related to internal trade, manufacturing and the delivery of essential commodities to citizens amid curbs put in place by state governments to tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union ministry of commerce and industry said on Friday. Read moreUttarakhand to give free Covid-19 jabs to all above 18, will bear cost of ₹400 croreThe Uttarakhand government has decided to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all residents above 18 years of age. Read more'Utilise full potential': PM Modi in meeting to review supply of medical oxygenPrime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday oxygen manufacturers need to utilise their full potential to meet the demand of medical oxygen in the coming days, saying there is a need to increase the availability of cylinders as well as to upgrade the logistical facilities for its transportation. Read more'Starts like a million-dollar baby but goes down rapidly': Gautam Gambhir slams RR captain Sanju Samson's inconsistencySanju Samson’s dry run in IPL 2021 after his majestic hundred in Rajasthan Royals’ opening game against Punjab Kings, has frustrated even his great admirer Gautam Gambhir. Read moreXiaomi launches its flagship 75-inch QLED TV for ₹1,19,999: Specs and availabilityAlongside the Mi 11 Ultra, the Mi 11X and the Mi 11X Pro, Xiaomi also announced the 75-inch Mi QLED TV today that comes with the Quantum Dot Technology. Read moreJanhvi Kapoor stuns on magazine cover dressed in bridal attire, has a message for fansActor Janhvi Kapoor has shared her pictures dressed in a bridal attire posing for a magazine. Taking to Instagram, she posted a series of photos. She also had a message for her fans. Read moreWatch | 'Won’t Return': How migrants are leaving Mumbai again fearing full lockdown||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-govt-sets-up-control-room-to-monitor-trade-essentials-delivery-amid-covid-curbs-and-all-the-latest-news-101619190962611.html
23-04-2021||India||Air passengers from 9 states will have to show Covid-19 negative reports to enter Bengal||The West Bengal government has made prior RT-PCR tests and a Covid-19 negative report mandatory for flight passengers arriving in Kolkata from nine states. A statement released by the state government on Friday said that flight passengers coming to West Bengal from five states - Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhattisgarh - need to carry Covid-19 negative reports from April 26. Earlier in February this year, the state had made such reports mandatory for flight passengers coming from four states - Kerala, Maharashtra, Telangana, and Karnataka. The test has to be conducted 72 hours prior to the passengers’ departure. These are among the ten states that account for over 76 per cent of new Covid-19 cases in India. West Bengal on Friday reported 12,876 new Covid-19 cases, which is nearly one thousand more than the number of fresh cases registered on Thursday. The state now has nearly 75,000 active cases. At least 59 people died in the last 24 hours. The Kolkata Metro Rail which used to run 258 trains on weekdays has announced that it will reduce the number of trains to 238 because of fewer passengers from April 26. “On an average the number of passengers has dropped from around 2.5 lakh per day to around 1.75 lakh per day,” said a Metro Railway official. State government offices have already returned to the 50% attendance regime because of the alarming rise in Covid-19 cases, while several private companies have also asked their employees to work from home, resulting in fewer passengers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/air-passengers-from-9-states-will-have-to-show-covid-19-negative-reports-to-enter-bengal-101619190838189.html
23-04-2021||India||Centre installs DRDO-Tata Sons oxygen generation plants at state-run hospitals||The Centre has decided to immediately install DRDO-Tata Sons oxygen generation plants at various state-run hospitals like AIIMS, NIC Jhajjar, Safdarjung, Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital among others, which shall have a capacity to generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.The decision was taken at a high level meeting chaired by Union health minister Harsh Vardhan as he reviewed the status of oxygen availability at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) here and various other central government hospitals, and the steps being taken for timely augmenting the supply.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here He also reviewed the preparedness of the central government hospitals in the national capital--Safdarjung Hospital, Dr Ram Manohar Lohia (RML) Hospital, Lady Hardinge Medical College (LHMC) and AIIMS--for clinical management of severe COVID-19 patients, a health ministry statement said.The minister directed the officials concerned to expedite installation of five Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) plants at all locations in Delhi hospitals, it said.He also directed the state-run hospitals to be prepared with expansion plans for providing timely treatment to coronavirus patients in the days to come."A decision was taken to install DRDO-Tata Sons oxygen generation plants at AIIMS, NIC Jhajjar, Safdarjung, LHMC and Dr RML Hospital immediately. These plants shall have a capacity to generate 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute," the statement stated.Vardhan noted that the country is passing through the second Covid-19 wave. Most of the states and Union territories (UTs) are reporting a very high number of daily cases and the daily mortality has also increased, he said.The Union government has been leading the fight against Covid-19 through a 'whole of government' and 'whole of society' approach. The hospital infrastructure has been substantially ramped up through various proactive decisions taken by the government in collaboration with the states/UTs.In view of the unprecedented surge in the number of daily cases, the requirement of oxygen-supported and ICU beds in addition to adequate oxygen supply along with medicines and trained manpower has increased manifold, the statement quoted Vardhan as saying.The health minister also reviewed in detail beds availability, including oxygen supported and ICU-ventilator beds.Meanwhile, the central government hospitals talked about the immediate steps taken for augmenting the beds availability to cater to the immediate needs of Covid-19 patients."The Union minister directed all the hospitals to urgently start work on the augmentation plans through fabricated hospitals, repurposing non-COVID beds (such that the healthcare services are not unduly and adversely impacted), conversion of buildings/blocks and wards in the existing premises into dedicated COVID facilities," the statement said.It was also informed that Safdarjung Hospital was augmenting the bed availability with 172 more COVID beds (total being 391). With this, the Super Specialty Block at the hospital will be fully converted to a specialty block for only coronavirus patients. Also, 46 beds (including 32 ICU beds) are being added with the help of the Council of Scientific & Industrial Research (CSIR).Dr RML Hospital stated that it is converting non-Covid buildings for dedicated Covid treatment facilities. This step shall provide 200 additional beds for the Covid affected.In LHMC, 240 more beds are being created by CSIR which shall become operationalised soon, the statement said.Shekhar Mande, secretary, DSIR & Director General, CSIR assured that all support is being provided to strengthen and expedite the ongoing efforts, it said.AIIMS director Randeep Guleria outlined the expansion plans for adding more beds in other wards/blocks such as the Burns and Plastic Surgery Centre, NCI Jhajjar, Dr R P Centre for Ophthalmic Sciences and the geriatric wards. The total capacity shall be enhanced to more than 1,000 beds for only Covid-19 patients, according to the statement.Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan underlined the measures taken by the government to resolve and streamline logistic issues related to transport of oxygen supply from manufacturing sources to hospitals.He also talked about the 24X7 Control Room of the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade (DPIIT) that is working to resolve all transportation-related issues of Delhi for smooth supply of oxygen.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-installs-drdo-tata-sons-oxygen-generation-plants-at-state-run-hospitals-101619190147838.html
23-04-2021||India||Govt sets up control room to monitor trade, essentials delivery amid Covid curbs||The Centre has set up a control room to monitor issues related to internal trade, manufacturing and the delivery of essential commodities to citizens amid curbs put in place by state governments to tackle the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Union ministry of commerce and industry said on Friday. “Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade(DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India has decided to monitor the status of transportation and delivery of goods, manufacturing, delivery of essential commodities to common man and the difficulties being faced by various stakeholders due to current restrictions imposed by various States/UTs,” the commerce ministry said in a statement.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The move comes against the backdrop of full or partial lockdown-like restrictions and other curbs announced by states to arrest the pace at which Covid-19 cases are increasing and the health infrastructure is gradually collapsing.Delhi is witnessing a six-day lockdown that ends on April 26 morning. Covid-19 cases in the city have reached 956,348 with 26,169 infections recorded in a single day, according to data released by the government on Thursday. Soon after the lockdown announcement, scores of migrants were seen rushing to railway stations and bus stops to return to their home states fearing an extension of the curbs.In Maharashtra, lockdown-like restrictions, almost one on the lines of the one in place last year, was imposed from Thursday. The western state has been breaking records in the daily surge of Covid-19 cases. Maharashtra reported 67,013 cases on Thursday taking the state’s tally past 4,094,800.In case any manufacturing, transportation, distribution, wholesale, or e-commerce companies face any difficulties in transportation and distribution of goods, they can contact the control room over the phone ((011) 23062383, 23062975) or email (dpiit-controlroom@gov.in). The phone numbers will remain operational from 8am till 10pm, the commerce ministry said.Reeling under the second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, India is currently reporting more than 300,000 cases daily. For the past two days, the country has recorded the highest single-day increase in Covid-19 cases in the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-sets-up-control-room-to-monitor-trade-essentials-delivery-amid-covid-curbs-101619188867095.html
23-04-2021||India||Andhra Pradesh announces night curfew from 10pm to 5am from Saturday to curb Covid-19 spread||Night curfew will be clamped across Andhra Pradesh from Saturday in a bid to curb the virulent spread of coronavirus as the state crossed the one million mark in total cases. "The night curfew will be in force daily from 10 pm to 5 am. Only essential and emergency services, like medical and health, milk supply, will be allowed," deputy chief Minister (health) A K K Srinivas (Nani) told reporters after a high- level Covid review meeting, chaired by chief minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy. "We had an extensive discussion with the Chief Minister on the steps to check the spread of coronavirus as the cases are peaking again. Night curfew was one option, along with intensive vaccination," Nani said. The deputy CM said the government has also decided to provide Covid vaccine free of cost to all above the age of 18 years. There are an estimated 2.04 crore people in the 18-45 age group in the state. Sources said the vaccine drive for this group alone could cost the state at least ₹818 crore to ₹900 crore.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/andhra-pradesh-announces-night-curfew-from-10pm-to-5am-from-saturday-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101619188175655.html
23-04-2021||India||UK variant could be behind current Covid-19 surge in Delhi, says NCDC chief||The current wave of the coronavirus pandemic in Delhi could have been fuelled by the UK variant as its prevalence in genomes sequenced nearly doubled from the second to the last week of March, Sujeet Singh, director of the National Centre for Disease Control, said on Friday.Speaking at a webinar, 'Genome Sequencing of SARS-CoV-19', Singh said the UK variant of coronavirus is also dominant in Punjab.In Delhi, there are primarily two types of variants -- B.1.617 and the UK strain -- found in the genome sequenced samples, the NCDC director said.The B.1.617 variant of coronavirus is also known as the double mutant strain.The UK variant was found in 28 per cent of samples in the second week of March. In the last week of the month, 50 per cent of samples had this variant, Singh said."If we try to co-relate, the surge we are observing in Delhi, it directly co-relates to the type of variant which we are observing," he said.So far, Singh said, 15,133 samples have been sequenced by INSACOG, a consortium formed in December last year to increase viral genomic surveillance in order to understand the spread of the coronavirus in a rapid and robust manner.This was also after the UK, South African and Brazilian strains, which have a higher rate of transmission, emerged.Singh said in Maharashtra, the B.1.617 variant was found in proportions of over 50 per cent in many cities.The NCDC is one of the 10 laboratories involved in the genome sequencing of coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-variant-could-be-behind-current-covid-19-surge-in-delhi-says-ncdc-chief-101619185835920.html
23-04-2021||India||Uttarakhand to give free Covid jabs to all above 18||The Uttarakhand government has decided to provide free Covid-19 vaccines to all residents above 18 years of age. The state government will bear the full cost of the vaccination drive estimated to be around ₹400 crore, said chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat on Friday in Dehradun. Rawat shared the information during a virtual press meet which he addressed from his residence in the capital. Citing the Centre’s decision to open the vaccination for every citizen above 18 years of age from May 1, Rawat said, “After the Centre’s move, we have decided to provide it free of cost to about 50 lakh of our residents falling in the age group of 18-45 from the first week of May.” “The total cost behind the vaccination drive would be about ₹400 crore which is a significant amount but would be borne solely by the Uttarakhand government,” Rawat said. He said, “The decision also includes vaccination for the above mentioned category in private hospitals also.” “We have already held a meeting with private hospitals on Thursday in which we have assured them of every possible help regarding ventilators and oxygen supply. In vaccination also, we will provide all possible help,” he said adding, “Right now our foremost priority is to fight this pandemic in our state with all possible resources available with us.” Earlier on Friday, the state government also held a meeting to ensure “unhindered” power supply to all oxygen manufacturing plants in the state during which it directed the authorities concerned to ensure proper power line maintenance for the oxygen power plants. It also directed the power department to immediately attend to any breakdown in the power lines leading to the oxygen plants along with ensuring required equipment for line maintenance. The state government in order to increase testing also shared the contact numbers of private Covid-19 testing laboratories in Dehradun who could collect samples from home. Private pathology laboratory Dr Lal Path Lab will be collecting samples from homes for RT-PCR testing with their laboratories in Connaught Place- 9627888836, Turner Road- 9760082031, Shimla Bypass- 7037853696, Nehru Colony- 9997266222, DAV College-639871485, Ballupur Chowk- 8630984970 and Doiwala-7895041062 Amid the spike in Covid-19 cases, Uttarakhand on Friday reported 4,339 new cases taking the total active cases in the state to 29,949. On the same day, 49 new deaths were also reported which is the highest in the state since the outbreak of the pandemic last year. The total Covid-19 cases in the state are 1,42,349 of which 1,07,450 have been treated. The total death toll in the state stands at 2021. Uttarakhand on Monday also vaccinated 62,872 people with total 14.91 lakh people given the first dose while 3.22 lakh having received both the doses. Currently, there are three oxygen manufacturing plants operational in the state.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uttarakhand-to-give-free-covid-19-jabs-to-all-above-18-will-bear-cost-of-rs-400-crore-101619185016632.html
23-04-2021||India||'Utilise full potential': PM Modi in meeting to review supply of medical oxygen||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday oxygen manufacturers need to utilise their full potential to meet the demand of medical oxygen in the coming days, saying there is a need to increase the availability of cylinders as well as to upgrade the logistical facilities for its transportation. PM Modi made the remarks during his virtual meeting with the country's leading oxygen manufacturers to address the crisis unfolding in hospitals across India due to the shortage of gas for Covid-19 patients. The meeting comes amid concerns flagged by some states on supply of the life-saving gas running short with a number of hospitals, including premier ones, sending out an SOS.“PM Modi said this time is not only to deal with the challenges, but also to provide solutions in a very short time. PM Modi stressed on the need to maintain good co-ordination between the government and the oxygen producers,” a statement from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said.The statement said that PM Modi praised the manufactures for increasing their production in the last few weeks and acknowledged the several steps taken to increase the production of liquid oxygen. PM Modi also thanked the industry for diverting industrial oxygen to meet medical requirements in the country."PM Modi noted that there is a need to increase the availability of oxygen cylinders as well as upgrade the logistics facilities for transportation of oxygen. He urged the industry to utilize tankers meant to transport other gases for oxygen supply," the PMO statement said.The government is working on effective use of the Indian Railways and Indian Air Force (IAF) to ensure timely availability of tankers at the production centre as soon as possible to meet the requirements of oxygen by Indian states, the statement added. "PM Modi remarked that the government, the states, the industry and the transporters, and all the hospitals need to come together and work in unison. The better the synergy and coordination, the easier it will be able to deal with this challenge," the statement read.The meeting was attended by Reliance Industries Limited chairperson Mukesh Ambani, managing director of Air Water Jamshedpur Noriyo Shibuya, Naveen Jindal of Jindal Steel and Power, Rajesh Kumar Sharaf (NOL), M Banerjee of LINDE, Sajjan Jindal of JSW, SAIL' chairperson Soma Mondal, Dilip Oommen of AMNS and Siddharth Jain of INOX.Amid a severe shortage of oxygen across the country amid rising Covid-19 cases, steelmaker Jindal Steel & Power Ltd (JSPL) on Thursday announced that more than 500 tonnes of liquid oxygen is available at its Angul plant in Odisha. "We have more than 500 tons of liquid oxygen readily available at our Angul plant. Apart from this, we can provide 100 tonnes/day to any government that needs it. We will continue to support the nation in all possible ways in this war against the pandemic. Jai Hind," JSPL chairperson Naveen Jindal said in a tweet on Thursday.Hospitals in Delhi have been sending out SOS messages about the escalating "oxygen emergency". Twenty-five of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s "sickest" Covid-19 patients died in 24 hours and the lives of 60 more hung in precarious balance, officials said on Friday morning as the scramble for oxygen got increasingly more frantic in hospitals across the national capital.India on Friday recorded more than 314,000 lakh new coronavirus cases, the highest-ever single-day count in any country, as many hospitals grappled with limited oxygen supply, prompting the Centre to issue strict directives to states and Union territories to ensure uninterrupted production and supply of medical oxygen and its transport.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/utilise-full-potential-pm-modi-in-meeting-to-review-supply-of-medical-oxygen-101619182439877.html
23-04-2021||India||Mamata Banerjee says would’ve taken part in PM Modi’s Covid-19 meet ‘had I been invited’||West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday said she would have participated in the meeting between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the chief ministers of states with the highest burden of Covid-19 cases, had she been invited.Addressing a press conference here, Banerjee said she heard that Friday's meeting on the Covid situation was meant for the worst-hit states, and hence she was not told about it.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here Chairing a meeting on the Covid-19 situation with chief ministers of 11 states and Union Territories with the maximum Covid-19 cases, Modi called for working together to fight the pandemic with collective power.The Trinamool Congress supremo alleged that the Centre's "inept handling has led to the present situation"."On March 7, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan had said COVID is on its way out. It means that the central government had no inkling about the impending crisis. It did not act on the recommendations of the World Health Organization to ramp up the stock of oxygen," she asserted.Alleging that Gujarat got 60 per cent of free vaccines, while other states received a little, she said, "We have nothing to say against one of the worst-hit states, but there should be a uniform policy."She said the Centre could have arranged for free vaccination for every citizen of the country by spending around ₹20,000 crore but it did not."When you (BJP leaders) have spent lakhs of rupees to book hotels, guest houses, charter flights and choppers and offered cash to voters to capture Bengal and hatch a conspiracy to win the elections here, could you not spend ₹20,000 crore for the health of every Indian?" she asked.Banerjee said the state will now procure additional 5,000 oxygen cylinders for hospital use.The CM said the Centre has adopted a "step-motherly attitude" towards West Bengal in allocating oxygen cylinders.Banerjee alleged that the BJP was disrupting the polling by involving central forces."Seven of my polling agents were kidnapped yesterday at Jagaddal to disrupt free and fair voting. Nothing was done. Security forces were influenced to open fire in another area," she claimed.Asserting that her party was ready to extend all cooperation to the Election Commission, Banerjee said, "I have cancelled today's public meetings after the EC issued fresh directives on Thursday."Noting that the Covid safety norms were being flouted in West Bengal during campaigning, the Election Commission banned roadshows and vehicle rallies in the state with immediate effect and said no public meeting having more than 500 people would be allowed."The EC always issues orders late in the evening, perhaps keeping in mind the itinerary of the PM. But, we are quick to abide by the norms as we work for the interest of people," she claimed.Six rounds of the eight-phased assembly elections in West Bengal have already taken place, and the remaining two will be held on April 26 and 29.The CM reaffirmed that the Election Commission should have conducted the assembly polls in five phases by clubbing the last three phases into one and said that "the poll panel acted at the behest of the BJP."||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/mamata-banerjee-says-would-ve-taken-part-in-pm-modi-s-covid-19-meet-had-i-been-invited-101619182604092.html
23-04-2021||India||IAF puts more aircraft on standby for Covid-19 relief||Pitching in to fight the Covid-19 pandemic, the Indian Air Force has deployed five types of aircraft to ferry essential items to different parts of the country. The IAF has carried out several sorties to airlift oxygen containers, cylinders, essential medicines and equipment required for setting up and sustaining Covid hospitals and facilities to deal with the surge in infections, the defence ministry said on Friday.Aircraft have also been kept on standby to cater to additional workload.“The IAF transport aircraft and helicopters have been pressed into service for carrying out these tasks. These include C-17, C-130J, IL-76, An-32 and Avro. Chinook and Mi-17 helicopters are on standby,” the ministry said in a statement, adding that tasks undertaken so far include airlift of doctors and nursing staff from Kochi, Mumbai, Vizag and Bangalore to Delhi. Transport planes and choppers are on standby for being deployed at short notice, it said.The IAF on Thursday airlifted three oxygen containers from Hindon to Panagarh in West Bengal where these will be filled up and supplied to different centres for Covid-19 relief. It also moved oxygen containers from Begumpet to Bhubaneswar on Friday. Once filled, the containers will be carried to Covid Centres by rail or road.“The C-17 and IL-76 aircraft of IAF have started airlifting big empty oxygen tankers from their place of use to the filling stations across the country to speed up the distribution of much needed oxygen. In addition to this, the aircraft have transported large quantity of load comprising bio-safety cabinets and autoclave machines for setting up of an additional Covid facility at Leh,” the statement said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/iaf-puts-more-aircraft-on-standby-for-covid-19-relief-101619182916489.html
23-04-2021||India||CJIs should have longer tenure, says attorney general KK Venugopal||Bidding farewell to the outgoing Chief Justice of India SA Bobde, attorney general KK Venugopal said on Friday said CJIs should have a minimum tenure of three years so that long-standing reforms can be made, reported Live Law. "It is a sad occasion. I feel the tenure of Chief Justice of India should be of a minimum three years so as to ensure that long-standing reforms can be made,” Venugopal said.Vikas Singh, the president of the Supreme Court Bar Association, expressed concern over the retiring age of 65 and said a constitutional amendment should be brought to increase the retirement age of judges. Singh said 65 is no age to retire, reported news agency PTI.CJI Bobde took the oath as the 47th CJI in November 2019 and is leaving after a term of nearly 18 months—from November 18, 2019, to April 23, 2021. His tenure included several key judgments, including the long-drawn verdict on the Ram Temple in Ayodhya. The CJI said he was retiring with satisfaction that he did his best. “I leave with the satisfaction that I did my best. I hand over the baton to Justice NV Ramana (the 48th CJI), who will I am sure will very ably lead the court,” Bobde said as he bid adieu.Also read| Saw hills...and even guns: Outgoing CJI Bobde recalls virtual court experience“I leave this court with happiness, goodwill with very fond memories of wonderful arguments, excellent presentation, good behaviour, commitment to the cause of justice from not only the bar but all connected with it,” the CJI said.Venugopal also spoke about the role played by the outgoing CJI during the unprecedented coronavirus pandemic that forced the court to work virtually. Commending CJI Bobde’s work during the year of the pandemic, Venugopal said, “In March 2020 the world was suffering from Covid-19. The Supreme Court also had to take a call and the bar thought the court will close down. But then CJI Bobde rose to the occasion and started virtual hearing and almost 50,000 cases have been disposed of. It's a great achievement.”The tenure of the 48th CJI Justice NV Ramana will be till August 26, 2022.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cjis-should-have-longer-tenure-says-attorney-general-kk-venugopal-101619182507282.html
23-04-2021||Today's||President Joe Biden, do the right thing||It’s time for President Joe Biden to display his compassionate side and statesmanship on the world stage. Biden needs to convince developed and high-income countries (starting with his own) to allow the World Trade Organization (WTO) to grant temporary waiver from intellectual property (IP) rights to Covid-19 vaccines, therapeutics and new technologies so that they can be accessible to people all around the world.A proposal to this effect was moved by India and South Africa at WTO on October 2 when Sars-CoV-2 looked invincible, with no vaccine in sight. Seven months and many millions of infected cases and deaths after, that proposal has not moved an inch, blocked by high-income countries such as the United Sates, at the behest of pharmaceutical companies who argue IP rights fund their research and innovation.A temporary waiver of these rights, such as patents, will not siphon off vaccines from these countries. Biden will not be forced by the waiver to part with vaccines from the US stockpile, which, he doesn’t want to do until all willing Americans have been vaccinated. That goal stands halfway accomplished. More than 219 million Americans — of the total population of 328 million — have received at least one shot of the Pfizer-BioNTech and Moderna’s two-dose vaccines and Johnson & Johnson’s single-dose alternative; 66 million, or 20%, have been fully vaccinated. The Washington Post estimates that the total number of vaccines secured by the US is twice the number of doses needed to inoculate all its citizens. Also Read | Global stocks mixed after Wall Street falls on Joe Biden tax reportAround 80 countries have lined up behind this appeal from India and South Africa so far, as have a growing number of US lawmakers, especially those from Biden’s own party. “To bring the pandemic to its quickest end and save the lives of Americans and people around the world, we ask that you prioritise people over pharmaceutical company profits by reversing the Trump position and announcing US support for the WTO TRIPS (the agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights) waiver,” said 10 US Democratic senators, including Bernie Sanders, in a letter to Biden on April 17.Overturning this WTO decision should be easy for Biden as reversing President Donald Trump’s policy imprint has been a key feature of his foreign policy. And it will be welcomed by India as fair and long overdue. Trump badgered India to release a consignment of hydroxychloroquine, an anti-malarial drug used as a prophylactic that he believed at the time could also be used for treating Covid-19, despite a ban. But he denied India a quid pro quo when it needed him, at WTO. While at it, Biden might also take a look at a supply bottleneck caused by his use of a war-time law, the Defense Production Act , in ramping up vaccine production in India. Indian vaccine-makers such as the Serum Institute of India have complained of being denied supplies of raw materials needed for Covid-19 vaccines because American suppliers are obligated under that law to prioritise domestic buyers.yashwant.raj@hindustantimes.com The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/president-joe-biden-do-the-right-thing-101619181656285.html
23-04-2021||Today's||Covid-19: Battling the second wave||India is in a war-like situation with a highly adaptable and unpredictable enemy. A few months ago, we thought the war was over, but have now discovered that was merely one battle — the next battle has turned out to be even more aggressive and unpredictable. So, how did we get here and where do we go now?The first wave took us by surprise. Our health system did not hold up to the challenge of the virus. We fought as best as the country could and built a plane while learning how to fly it. Economically and socially expensive lockdowns bought time; the administrative capacity of the country focused on this one emergency; a rudimentary test-trace-isolate capability was built, as was a critical care capacity; extensive communication campaigns were rolled out motivating people to wear masks and practise social distancing. We came through it all faring better than some of the predictions. With vaccines being developed surprisingly fast, it was hoped that the pandemic would be behind us.And then the virus outsmarted us. New strains, with higher infectiveness and virulence, surprised us in a second wave with a steep exponential rise.Also Read | Work as one nation to ensure no scarcity: Modi to CMs amid surge in Covid casesFrom the viewpoint of the health system, we are in better shape today in some respects. A large number of health workers have been vaccinated and are at work in the private and public sector, unlike last year. Processes of quarantine, isolation, tracking and clinical capabilities are stronger today, although the infrastructure like testing, Intensive Care Units (ICU)s and oxygen is completely overloaded and overwhelmed with a far greater number of patients than it can handle.The experience and learnings of the first wave have been organic and fragmented, without a systematic machinery that could have averted this second wave. In some ways, we are back to square one, struggling with grave shortages of infrastructure. Importantly, the second wave may not be the end, as the virus mutates further. So, the burning question is — where can we go from here?Global experience shows the value of building a responsive system to manage infectious disease outbreaks in an ongoing manner. There are at least three strands to this.The first is doubling down on surveillance and epidemiological research. An early warning signal in January and February, which tracked variants and disease trends real-time, could have given timely warning to change population behaviours and strengthen care capacity.The second is a transparent, continuously reinforced, and enforced protocol of citizen behaviour based on virus risk levels as done by countries such as South Korea and Vietnam. This would have led to adherence to social distancing before reaching the need for lockdowns, as has emerged now through outrightly irresponsible super-spreader events and diluted vigilance over preventive behaviours.And the third is the ability to scale up infrastructure capacity (ICUs, ambulances, oxygen and testing) for peak load, through the government paying for additional capacity, advance commitments, and establishing public-private partnerships. This could have ensured, for example, that the 150-plus oxygen generation plants planned eight months back, were now up and running.Also Read | Military importing oxygen generation plants from GermanyVaccines are a critical defence system against Covid-19 waves. The current rate of vaccination in India, 2.6 million doses a day on average in the week ending April 22, one of the highest in the world, has covered less than 9% of the population with one dose. This is a run rate grossly insufficient against this second wave, even as the vaccination rate per day in the past week is less than the 3.3 million doses per day rate in the week ending April 15. India should aim to cover at least 50% of population in the next four months to reduce risk of future waves, translating into at least 10 million doses a day. This will require unprecedented efforts.First, reduce the constraint on supply. Currently supply from local manufacturers is about 70 million doses a month. The government is removing key bottlenecks through liberalising procurement, advance commitments, and transparency in allocation. However, the supply gap is large and time is of the essence. Aggressive advance commitments by the Centre/states to manufacturers to secure supply may be required. While autonomy to states is welcome, differential fiscal and capacity contexts should not result in inequities across states.Second, ensure bottom-up local-demand generation, driven by local committees and leaders. Community ownership of vaccination can be a game-changer as seen with polio, and local governments can play a strong role here.Most importantly, India can gain from increased attention to the institutional capacity needed. India has many capable institutions, deeply engaged in the response, but the response till date has been fragmented. In contrast, focused infectious diseases institutions have led to coordinated and more effective Covid responses in other countries such as Germany, South Korea, Vietnam. Pandemic response planning, epidemiology and research capabilities, deep technical knowledge and coordination mechanism with local public health institution were housed in the Robert Koch Institute in Germany. Some countries which had a poorer response last year, have revamped their infectious disease institutions, such as the United Kingdom (UK), which established the new UK Health Security Agency on April 1, 2021, to lead future infectious disease responses.India needs a dedicated and empowered institution, technically and politically, for future Covid-19 waves and for other pandemics.Amrita Agarwal is a health systems researcher Sandhya Venkateswaran is fellow, Lancet Citizen’s Commission for Reimagining India’s Health System The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/covid19-battling-the-second-wave-101619180996600.html
23-04-2021||Today's||Exploring a US Green Marshall Plan for India||President Joe Biden used this week’s climate summit to reassert America’s leadership of the world’s most important multilateral issue. He announced an emissions target for the United States (US) and climate funds for developing countries. What the US wants to do with emerging economies could prove more decisive. Despite its unwieldy name, the India-US climate and clean energy agenda 2030 partnership, announced by Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi, bears watching. The US appetite on this front is enormous, the potential for India is almost as large, but the devil’s in the details, as US climate envoy John Kerry found on his earlier visit to India.Kerry outlined his green vision for India in early March. Given India needs $600 billion to make a complete green transition, finance is the country’s biggest challenge. But, he said, a “small consortia” of countries and “major investment houses and asset managers” are ready to help India with “some of the finance and transition.” The consortium already includes Japan, France, Denmark and Norway. The United Kingdom may sign up soon. There is an echo of the Eisenhower administration’s Aid India group of 1958 but this time with a carbon agenda.The initial US vision was burning bush stuff. Kerry told consortium members and Indian officials he could envisage paying for the closure of all of India’s coal-fired plants and mines. He didn’t stop there — perhaps New Delhi could be paid to drop its plans to use natural gas as a stepping stone fuel and go a deep forest green. The catch was he wanted India to announce a net-zero target. In other words, India would commit to contributing no more global carbon emissions in three or four decades.New Delhi felt this was too fast and furious. India pumps out about 2.5 billion metric tonnes of black stuff, about 7% of the global total. To take this to zero even while growing its Gross Domestic Product was more mythology than public policy. Before and during his visit to New Delhi in April, the US envoy was told not to make it all about net-zero. He got the message and kept mum when he met PM Modi.Also Read | At global climate summit, PM Modi unveils new US partnership to foster investments, tiesWhat New Delhi did tell Kerry was that India was more than willing to take a deep green path. Modi’s commitment to renewables and his concern about the climate crisis were second to none. But the journey needed to be mapped, demarcated and funded to the hilt. New Delhi was ready to seriously consider a “greenbacks for green energy” understanding. The new Modi-Biden clean energy partnership makes it public but also provides a testing period for both sides. Fixing a carbon peak year for India will be the likely first milestone. New Delhi is pleased at pushing Kerry back, but it also needs to give serious thought at what is on offer here. The world is going on a climate downslope that will accelerate rapidly. India needs lay out an aggressive carbon-reducing plan going beyond renewables and green hydrogen, one that brings in energy efficiency, electric mobility and more. This is about clean air, but also about guaranteeing the country’s economic future.The European Union will impose carbon tariffs on imports sometime this year. The Biden administration plans to follow suit. Similar laws will be imposed on investors — effective financial penalties if your money is going into infrastructure or projects that are carbon-lax. Soon an Indian car-maker will not be able to raise capital or export its products if it’s not wholly viridescent. The cars have to be electrical or hydrogen, the factory powered by renewables, and subcontractors environmentally certified. As NITI Aayog’s Amitabh Kant has argued, “The world will increasingly pay a premium for carbon-free products.”Then there are the coming technologies. Made in India will die a slow death if it is not among the best at batteries, electric vehicles, solar power widgets, smart grid equipment, biofuels and so on. The next Saudi Arabia will be the country that produces hydrogen better, cheaper and cleaner than anyone else. India gets this, but its weakness is evident in its recent National Hydrogen Mission, which has everything except money.Also Read | ‘You get away with it now, but...’: Greta blasts politicians over climate crisisWhich is why India should apply its mind to what amounts to a Green Marshall Plan. China is racing to grab the green future. PM Modi can be applauded for India’s solar accomplishments, even as he has spent six years struggling to shut down India’s ultra-dirty subcritical coal plants. Things will be much easier if the funding and knowhow for such moves is on tap, including for handouts and re-skilling to minimise the social costs.Trade, capital and technology will flow to the economies that are green and growing. If India sensibly leverages Kerry’s consortium and the new US partnership, the warp jump into the 21st century that it already wants to do will be smoother and cheaper. It could also become a partner to the US, Japan and others in all the relevant technologies. There is an obvious geopolitical undercurrent. India would automatically align with the standards and supply chains of the West rather than China. Then, Beijing has yet to come bearing green gifts. Even its Belt Road Initiative is wreathed with smoke and soot. The US is ready, willing and presumably now a bit more realistic. Indians, as Kerry said in early March on climate, “are determined to lead and to be an important player here…and we want to work with them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/exploring-a-us-green-marshall-plan-for-india-101619174696345.html
23-04-2021||Editorials||A new social welfare toolkit||The Centre, on Friday, announced that it would provide 5 kg free food grains to the poor for May and June, covering nearly 800 million beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA). The plan will be rolled out along the same lines as the PM Garib Kalyan Yojna, announced in the wake of the national lockdown last year. Friday’s announcement is welcome, and comes in the wake of a record number of coronavirus cases and deaths, lockdown-like restrictions in many states, and clear signs of economic distress. Like last year, this year too, the worst-hit is the informal sector. The ongoing reverse migration from cities to villages — though not of the same scale as last year, yet — is an example of this distress. However, providing just food grains will not be enough for the returning migrants as well as for the vulnerable across India’s towns and villages. What they need is a basket of options to sustain themselves. The first-ever task force on migration, the working group on migration, which was formed by the ministry of housing and urban poverty alleviation in 2015, had several sound proposals: Ensure social protection by setting up unorganised workers social security boards; institute simple and effective modes for workers to register; improve access to the public distribution system (PDS); provide access to skill development and financial inclusion.But the distress extends beyond migrant workers. The government must universalise the public distribution system (PDS). Last year, it unveiled the one-nation, one-ration card scheme. In February, the government said that the plan is under implementation by 32 states and Union Territories, reaching about 690 million beneficiaries — that’s a total of 86% beneficiaries covered. However, the plan will not have desired impact unless the PDS is universalised. Even more crucially, it is time for the government to consider direct cash transfers and income assistance to the poor. It did not do so last year, but given the intensity of the second wave, which shows no signs of abating, the distress this year will be acute. The country’s poor will need money to survive, access nutrition and health facilities, continue the education of their children, and cope with rising prices on one hand and lack of income-generating opportunities on the other. It is time to roll-out a new welfare toolkit.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/a-new-social-welfare-toolkit-101619185802762.html
