29-04-2021||Other||‘Why are some states getting more O2 than they need, while Delhi gets less?’ Delhi HC asks Centre to respond||New Delhi: The Delhi high court on Thursday questioned the Centre for allocating more medical oxygen then asked for to certain states while not providing the quantity being sought by Delhi, which is facing acute shortage.“We are not saying that people in the other parts of the country should die. But if the demand of a particular state is ‘x’, then why did you give it ‘x+y’? Why don’t you give ‘y’ to Delhi?” a bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Centre, represented by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta. The Centre has allocated 490 MT medical oxygen to Delhi, which has been demanding 700 MT.With cases in the Capital rising, and most hospitals not adding beds or intensive car units because they do not have access to adequate oxygen, the Delhi government , separately, on Thursday urged the Central government to raise the national capital’s daily quota of medical oxygen from 490 MT to 976 MT and provide logistics support for the enhanced allocation.Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, who is also Delhi’s nodal minister for Covid-19, wrote to Union minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday stating that the national capital will require more medical oxygen as the government plans to add around 15,000 beds in the next 10 days.“The people and the Government of NCT of Delhi will be extremely grateful to the Government of India if it can kindly increase the allocation from the present 490 MT per day to 976 MT per day, preferably from nearby oxygen plants, reducing the turnaround time,” Sisodia wrote to Goyal, who is also the minister of commerce and industry and the minister of consumer affairs. He is also the railway minister On Thursday, the high court rejected the submission of Mehta that the present oxygen supply to Delhi was sufficient, and asked the Centre to respond on why other states were getting more oxygen or almost as much as they demanded.The bench clarified that it was by no means interested in securing more oxygen for Delhi than required, and that too at the cost of any state or Union territory.“We make it clear that by no means are we interested in securing for Delhi more than what’s required, and that too at a cost of any other state or Union territory. However, if submissions of Delhi or amicus were to be accepted, it would appear the central government needs to explain this, for which we are granting time. It goes without saying the aforesaid reflect arguments advanced by amicus and (lawyer Rahul Mehra) Delhi,” the court noted in its order.The question was posed after senior advocates Rajshekhar Rao, amicus curiae in the matter, and Mehra, appearing for the Delhi government, told the court that as per the national allocation plan, Maharashtra demanded 1500 metric tonne (MT) of oxygen per day and was allocated 1661 MT; similarly, Madhya Pradesh demanded 445 MT and it was allocated 543 MT, and that the situation was similar for several other states.The discussion on the national allocation plan came about after Mehra told the court that Delhi’s demand of 700 MT is not being granted . He told the bench that the city was working to augment its bed capacity and would add 15,000 more beds to meet the surge in the cases in mid May predicted by experts; however, they do not have sufficient oxygen. “I will place it now and my instructions are from the top of the bureaucracy. They (Centre) are skirting the oxygen supply (issue). As a state government we are being put in the dock but the Centre has miserably failed the people of the country... Some responsibility should be fixed. Only paper orders have been passed. This is not oxygen in air, it’s oxygen in cylinders. Except giving sermons, the Centre has not done anything. There is complete apathy for the people of Delhi. We cannot be mute spectators just because they are the Centre,” Mehra argued. Solicitor General Mehta, justifying the allocation plan, said the Centre is making all possible efforts to augment the supply and claimed the current supply is sufficient to meet current needs. He said that oxygen has not reached Delhi because the Union territory has been facing difficulty in picking the allocated amount to them. He said that the national allocation plan should not be touched by the court because several factors have been taken into consideration while deciding. He also justified that Maharashtra has been given more oxygen because of the raging pandemic, while Madhya Pradesh’s population is three times that of the Capital..Maharashtra had 675,451 active cases as on Wednesday night, but Madhya Pradesh only 92,773, and Delhi over 100,000.“Suppose there is a huge, unprecedented surge tomorrow, which nobody can anticipate… I do not want to create panic… then the situation would be different. The Delhi government did demand 700 MT. For me, a Delhi citizen is as dear and important as a Kerala citizen. They did demand 700. Allocation is 480-490, the actual quantity coming to Delhi 335-340 which according to our assessment is sufficient,” Mehta submitted before the court.“Delhi is facing difficulty because it has not been able to pick up the allocated amount.. 90% of our time is going out firefighting for Delhi. There are transport and logistical issues,” he said. “No resources are unlimited and we are augmenting. There can be lapses but those could be rectified.” During the hearing, an agitated Mehta told a senior officer of the Centre, “You cut from MP and give it to Delhi. It would be at the cost of some lives in MP but let us do it for Delhi.”However, the bench objected to this and said, “Don’t give an impression as if we are asking something extra for Delhi. We don’t appreciate this. We are asking this on the basis of facts and figures. You can’t be emotional about it. You have to take this head on, you can’t duck it.”SG Mehta said that the Centre will file an affidavit on the court’s query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. “There are states which received less than what they had asked for. We have been rationalizing,” he said adding that hysteria should not be created and the situation is dynamic”. Earlier this week, Mehta said in court that Delhi was behaving like a “crybaby”. To this, the bench said the panic is because of lack of resources.“It’s not because of what judges or lawyers say; panic is on the ground. People are suffering but hospitals are not taking patients. We already had loss of lives in Delhi due to shortage of oxygen. It has fallen on you to resolve this. How you resolve is your problem,” the court said.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city. In his letter to Goyal, Sisodia said Delhi has been witnessing around 25,000 fresh COVID cases a day and about 10% of the patients require some form of hospitalisation, including oxygen support. Sisodia said that merely increasing oxygen allocation to Delhi will not do and that the Central government will also have to arrange transportation to bring the same to the national Capital. “It is also our humble request to provide transport infrastructure, including railways and tankers, for the additional allocation since Delhi is a non-industrial state and accordingly, does not have its own infrastructure,” he said. .||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/why-are-some-states-getting-more-o2-than-they-need-while-delhi-gets-less-delhi-hc-asks-centre-to-respond-101619720983391.html
29-04-2021||Other||After 4 die of Covid, Tihar asks govt to allow release of inmates on parole||New Delhi: The death of four prisoners due to Covid-19 in the past three days has prompted Tihar Jail authorities to write to the Delhi government, requesting them to release some prisoners under “emergency parole” as one of the immediate measures to decongest the prison. While two prisoners died of the viral infection on Tuesday, two more succumbed to the disease on Thursday. HT had reported that with over 20,000 inmates currently lodged there, Tihar is at its most congested ever. It is almost double the official capacity of the prison, which has made social distancing and isolation a major problem.  Delhi government officers, who wished not to be named, said they have received the jail’s proposal and were looking at different solutions to decongest the prison complex. Until April 6, the jail had only 19 infected prisoners. At that time, not a single jail staff had the disease. Currently, there are at least 261 Covid-19 positive inmates and 115 infected jail officers, underlining how fast the infection has spread throughout the jail in just 23 days. The Delhi high court also heard a petition on the issue on Wednesday and sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities. The petitioner demanded parole for prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of chief justice DN Patel and justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.The two prisoners, who died on Thursday, were admitted at the GTB hospital. One of them Kamaljeet, 75, an inmate of jail 3 was admitted to GTB on April 21. The second, Kehkashan, 41, was admitted to the hospital on April 22.On Tuesday night, prisoner Mukesh Talwar, 61, had succumbed to the disease. Talwar, who was arrested in a rape case last month, was lodged in jail 7 and had tested positive on April 22. Hours before Talwar’s death, a 43-year-old prisoner Mohammed Anis, who was lodged in jail number 4, too had died of the disease at the DDU hospital. Last year, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole and bail to decongest the jail when the pandemic spread in March. They were directed to later on dates decided by a high-powered committee of the high court, which included members of the state government, courts and prison.With cases declining after the third wave of the infection in October-November, the Delhi high court in December ordered the prisoners to surrender in a phased manner between February and March.Until February, the prison population was less than 13,000. However, with over 6,000 inmates back in jail, the total number of inmates went beyond 20500, twice the jail’s capacity of 10026. Officials said it is the highest population of inmates in the jail till date. A mid-level prison officer, who did not wish to be named, said, “ The government should act fast and decide. During the first, second and third wave, the cases were under control in our jails. Two persons died in June and July, last year. In February, there was a time, when there was not a single case. It is scary today. Even prisoners, like Rajan(Chhota Rajan) who were in isolation have tested positive. Four inmates have died in three days.” Among the famous prisoners who are currently Covid-19 positive are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and former politician turned gangster Mohammed Shahabuddin. While Rajan has been admitted to AIIMS, Shahabuddin is under treatment at the DDU hospital. Student activist Umar Khalid, arrested for his alleged role in the Delhi riots, too, is in isolation after testing positive.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-4-die-of-covid-tihar-asks-govt-to-allow-release-of-inmates-on-parole-101619720983985.html
29-04-2021||Other||Farmers will not clear protest sites amid rise in Covid cases: Tikait||Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader Rakesh Tikait on Thursday said that they will not leave the protest sites at Delhi borders, if the government asks them to do so amid rise in Covid-19 cases.Addressing a kisan mahapanchayat in Bhiwani’s Prem Nagar village by flouting Covid norms, Tikait said they will cancel their programmes only after the government concludes its programmes and rallies.“Government is trying to muzzle the voice of farmers amid rise in Covid cases. We are ready to hold talks with the government and the same are expected to be held by November and December. Farmers in Gujarat are worst affected and if the farmers’ issue won’t be resolved, the BJP government will implement this Gujarat model across nation,” Tikait added.“Instead of giving donations for Ram Mandir, donation drive should be started to build new AIIMS. The Haryana government has failed to build a medical college in Bhiwani even after remaining in power for the last six years,” he said.Farm leader Gurnam Singh Charuni said over 400 farmers have sacrificed their lives but none of them has died of Covid.“If patients don’t get bed, medicines and oxygen at hospitals, their kin should visit houses of their respective areas MPs and MLAs and ask them to make proper arrangements. Also, FIRs should be registered against the BJP government as it failed to provide adequate medicines, ICU beds and oxygen to people suffering from the virus. We will continue our protest even if the government imposes Section 144 of CrPC across country,” Charuni added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/farmers-will-not-clear-protest-sites-amid-rise-in-covid-cases-tikait-101619720926795.html
29-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana MLA’s gunman killed in accidental fire||The gunman of Lok Insaaf Party chief Simarjeet Singh Bains was killed after his service revolver accidentally went off at his house in Harkrishan Nagar on Thursday morning. Police said the deceased, assistant sub-inspector (ASI) Sewa Singh, 48, was with the MLA’s security cover for the past five months.The ASI’s son Maninder Singh said after getting ready for work on Thursday, his father was cleaning his service revolver when it suddenly went off and hit his head on the right side.Maninder and his mother rushed to Sewa’s room on hearing the gunshot and found him lying on the floor in a pool of blood. He was rushed to Christian Medical College and Hospital (CMCH), where he succumbed during treatment, police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP, City 2) Jaskiranjit Singh Teja said the revolver fired two shots, of which one hit the room’s ceiling and another hit the ASI’s head.The body was handed over to the family after autopsy at the civil hospital. Shimlapuri police have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure following the statement of the deceased’s son.In March, the gunman of Punjab BJP spokesperson Anil Sareen had died in a similar incident after his service rifle fired accidentally on March 22. The bullet had pierced through the head constable’s head after hitting the chin.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-mla-s-gunman-killed-in-accidental-fire-101619720924067.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Haryana issues posting, transfer orders of 26 IPS officers||The Haryana government issued posting and transfer orders of 26 IPS officers on Thursday.On his promotion to the rank of DGP, Shatrujeet Singh Kapoor was posted as director general of prisons (designate). IG, Karnal Range, Bharti Arora was posted as IG, Ambala Range replacing Y Puran Kumar. Arora will also hold the charge of Karnal range for a while. Kumar was posted as IG, Home Guard.Rakesh Kumar Arya on his promotion as IG was posted as IG, Hisar Range, replacing Sanjay Kumar who was posted as IG, administration and law and order.Desh Raj Singh, ADGP, SCB was posted as DG, Bhondsi police complex, Gurugram. Charu Bali, ADGP, IRB was posted as ADGP/SCB, Gurugram.Shashank Anand, managing director, UHVBN Ltd, was given additional charge of DIG, CID. B Satheesh Balan, DIG, STF was given additional charge of DIG, IRB Bhondsi.Waseem Akram, SP, telecommunication was posted as SP, Jind.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/haryana-issues-posting-transfer-orders-of-26-ips-officers-101619720804469.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||DU students want online classes suspended for at least two weeks||After losing his aunt to Covid-19 this week, Sashwat Pandey, 17, a first-year undergraduate student of history at Delhi University, is now worried about his 20-year-old cousin who is also battling the infection. Along with dealing with the grief and anxiety at his home in Varanasi, Pandey is also having to take time out for assignments and academic activities.“There is so much mental pressure. It is not humane to continue with classes at this point in time. Several teachers, who have Covid-positive family members, are having to take classes. Sometimes, the classes are cancelled at the last minute. Students too are struggling with Covid as well as the pressure of exams and assignments,” said Pandey, who studies at St Stephen’s College.Pandey along with several other first-year students are now petitioning St Stephen’s College and others such as Ramjas College, Lady Shri Ram College for Women, Gargi College, Indraprastha College For Women, Rajdhani College, and Miranda House, among others, to suspend academic activities and online classes for two weeks amid the continuous rise in Covid-19 among university staff and students. LSR students also held a meeting on Thursday to discuss the boycotting of online classes for a week.In their application, students said “the pressure of the rushed academic calendar is forcing students as well as teachers to continue classes and academics work but in reality, the stress of not being able to attend classes and keep up with academic rigour has made the environment highly unconducive for academic activities.”Due to several Covid-19 cases within the university, students said online classes are frequently suspended or rescheduled. Falit Sijariya, another first-year student, said, “In the middle of our class today [Thursday], our teacher received his mother’s Covid test report which was positive. He was visibly disturbed and had to suspend the classes midway. ”Delhi university Teachers’ Association said this week, roughly 600 teachers had tested positive for the novel coronavirus.DU dean of colleges Balaram Pani said college principals can take a decision on these temporary suspensions of online classes in their respective colleges. “Principals can analyse the situation and take a call on online classes as per the availability of teachers and taking into consideration other factors. Teachers can also push the deadline for submission of assignments as per the student requirements. The university has notified principals to act as the situation demands,” said Pani.Rajdhani College teacher Pankaj Kumar Garg said at least 18 teachers of their college are currently battling Covid-19. “The infection leaves people so weak that they are not able to speak. Taking classes in such a scenario will be difficult for them. The university must take steps to follow last year’s pattern and evaluate these [first-year] students on the basis of assessments already conducted,” said Garg, who has also tested positive for the coronavirus.Garg has also written to the university administration requesting them to reschedule the exam for final-year students, which is scheduled to begin from May 15. “Several teachers have confided that they are not in a position to set question papers. For students without access to devices, it will not be safe to come to the ICT centres to take the exam in the present circumstances,” the former academic council member wrote to the university administration.On Thursday, dean (exams) DS Rawat said the university was monitoring the situation with regard to the final year examination and would decide on the matter at the earliest.Meanwhile, students of Jawaharlal Nehru University have also asked for the cancellation of exams and urged the administration to consider alternative modes of evaluation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/du-students-want-online-classes-suspended-for-at-least-two-weeks-101619720803427.html
29-04-2021||Other||Delhi Police bust fake Remdesivir manufacturing unit in Kotdwar||New Delhi: The Delhi police on Thursday busted an industrial unit that was manufacturing fake remdesivir injections in Uttarakhand’s Kotdwar. Delhi Police Commissioner, SN Shrivastava, shared information about the raid on Twitter. He said the suspects have revealed that they sold nearly 2,000 fake remdesivir injections to people who were desperately looking for them.“Delhi Police working on useful information arrested 5 culprits in a prolonged investigation & unearthed a ‘pharmaceutical’ unit at Kothdwar, Uttarakhand manufacturing large quantities of fake Remdevisir injections (COVIPRI) sold at price over Rs. 25000/-” Shrivastava tweeted. The commissioner said that each injection was being sold for as much as ₹25,000.Shrivastava said that apart from 196 such fake injections, the police also seized packing machines and 3,000 empty vials in which the fake medicines were intended to be packed. He said that five suspects were arrested following a “prolonged” investigation.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-police-bust-fake-remdesivir-manufacturing-unit-in-kotdwar-101619720744520.html
29-04-2021||Other||Two in Delhi arrested for selling fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders||New Delhi: Two men in west Delhi’s Dwarka were arrested for passing off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders and selling them to people, whose relatives have contracted Covid-19, said Delhi Police on Thursday. In one of the cheating cases, the patient for whom the equipment was procured died of Covid-19, read the complaint lodged by the victim’s acquaintance. Police could not immediately ascertain if the alleged cheating, or a possible delay in providing relief to the patient, had any direct bearing on the death. However, a relative of Narender, the 32-year-old patient who died, alleged that the delay in getting an oxygen cylinder led to his demise. “Had we not been cheated, my brother-in-law could have survived,” said the relative. Police said suspects Ashutosh Chauhan and Ayush were rendered jobless during the pandemic and passed off fire extinguishers as oxygen cylinders to make a quick buck. “They sold one such empty cylinder for ₹10,000,” said Santosh Meena, deputy commissioner of police (Dwarka).Geeta Arora, a resident of Bindapur in West Delhi, was looking for an oxygen cylinder for her friend’s relative, who lived in Noida. “The relative, a patient of Covid-19, had breathing issues and low oxygen levels. Her family was unable to find her a hospital bed,” said Meena.After reaching out to many people for a cylinder, Arora finally got in touch with Chauhan and Ayush, who asked her to visit near Uttam Nagar metro station to collect the cylinder on Monday night.A red coloured cylinder was handed over to Arora in lieu of a payment of ₹10,000. The same night, Arora handed over the cylinder to the patient’s family in Noida. The cheating came to the fore when the patient’s family went to get the cylinder filled on Tuesday morning and realized that it was a fire extinguisher. When Arora asked the suspects to return the money, they refused. On Wednesday, Arora learnt that the patient, for whom the cylinder was purchased passed away, read her statement to the police. She again pursued the suspects. They allegedly called her near the metro station, but didn’t meet her, despite making her run around for two hours. She finally decided to lodge a complaint, based on which a case of cheating and criminal conspiracy was registered at Uttam Nagar police station.The DCP said technical surveillance and local enquiry facilitated the arrest of the suspects, from whom they recovered four fire extinguishers.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/two-in-delhi-arrested-for-selling-fire-extinguishers-as-oxygen-cylinders-101619720745039.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Police to create dedicated lane for emergency vehicles, hearse vans||To facilitate the speedier movement of oxygen tankers and emergency vehicles such as ambulances, hearse vans and those carrying oxygen cylinders within the city, as well as those coming from neighbouring states, the Delhi Police on Thursday asked all police stations to create dedicated lanes on roads, near police checkpoints.The directions were issued by the city police chief SN Shrivastava who also used his official Twitter handle to post the update and explain why the step was taken. These dedicated lanes are being created only near major vehicle checkpoints set up by police to verify motorists and prosecute those found violating the ongoing curfew (lockdown) orders.“All police stations in Delhi have been directed to dedicate a lane, on the extreme left of the road, for ambulances and other emergency vehicles, including oxygen tankers and those carrying cylinders (in emergency). This is being done to facilitate their smooth movement, even as lockdown violators are prosecuted on the (remaining) regular lanes,” Shrivastava, who also tweeted about the step along with an image of the dedicated lane around 2.30pm on Thursday.According to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority’s (DDMA’s) curfew guidelines, only exempted vehicles or those having valid movement e-passes are allowed to ply on Delhi roads. The new arrangement is in addition to the green corridor that the police are providing to oxygen tankers coming from other states or via airports.A senior police officer privy to the development said, on condition of anonymity, that the police chief’s direction came after he made a field visit on Wednesday, during which he saw firsthand the jams at several police checkpoints as motorists were stopped by police personnel to check their movement passes. Shrivastava and other officers observed that such jams may also be delaying the movement of emergency vehicles and oxygen tankers.“The chief later issued directions to all police stations in Delhi for creating a separate lane on the left side of the road near each checkpoint for such emergency vehicles and those that carry oxygen,” the officer said.Deputy commissioner of police (south-west) Ingit Pratap Singh said the personnel deployed at checkpoints have been asked to put up large visible signage, demarking the dedicated lane, so that drivers of emergency vehicles and oxygen carrying vehicles can see them from a distance and accordingly move their vehicles into the dedicated lane.“The personnel present there will also signal the drivers to use the dedicated lanes to avoid any congestion at the picket,” said DCP Singh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/police-to-create-dedicated-lane-for-emergency-vehicles-hearse-vans-101619720743957.html
29-04-2021||Other||IIT-D removes attendance clause, extend deadlines after 22% respondents of survey test positive for Covid||New Delhi: Officials at the Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi (IIT-D) announced several relaxations, including of deadlines and attendance norms, after 22% respondents of an internal online survey said they tested positive for the coronavirus disease between March and April.More than a tenth of students surveyed said they were considering withdrawing from the ongoing semester due to the stress caused by the pandemic and associated personal grievances, while over 40% said they wanted the semester halted for a while.Of the 3,910 students who participated the survey, which was conducted between Sunday and Tuesday, 857 said they contracted the infection since March, while 61% said a family member, or someone close to them, tested positive in the same period.HT has seen a copy of the survey report.The respondents included students enrolled in undergraduate, postgraduate and research programmes, as well as those pursuing diplomas and dual degree courses at the institute.The institute currently has over 10,000 students enrolled across courses.After the survey’s results were analysed, the college administration decided on several relaxations for students for the ongoing semester, including exempting attendance from its evaluation policy, and extending deadlines for assignments. The decision was approved by the IIT-D’s senate, the institute’s highest decision-making body, during a meeting on Wednesday. To be sure, not all the students tested positive for Covid-19 on campus. Most students who took the survey were at home. The campus has been closed for physical classes since March.Students were allowed to resume research and laboratory work with Covid-19 guidelines as laid down by a University Grants Commission (UGC) directive last November. Earlier this month, the administration advised all students who had returned to the campus to leave after a sharp rise in Delhi’s Covid trajectory.On April 18, the IIT-D administration said at least 30 students on campus tested positive in the previous 30 days.The survey revealed that 11% of the students were considering withdrawing from the ongoing semester. About 43%, or 1,688 students, said they wanted the current semester to be put on hold for a few weeks. Though the administration did not halt the semester, it has decided to extend deadlines for any student adversely affected by the pandemic. Students ill for more than four weeks will also be considered for these relaxations, officials said. Shantanu Roy, the institute’s dean of academics, said, “The senate did not think halting the semester was a solution, since we are towards its very end. It decided to give relaxation to students directly or indirectly affected by the pandemic. They can take the exams whenever it will be possible for them.”Several students continued to demand that the semester be halted by a few weeks for everyone. “It looks like the administration doesn’t trust students even after conducting a survey. They think all the stories of students suffering are cooked up,” said an undergraduate student, who wished not to be named. The institute also decided to give students a week off, from May 1-7, before the online exams begin on May 9. “Normally in the regular time, we ask for documents like medical reports and test reports in case students decide to not take an exam due to a medical reason. However, during the current situation, IIT-D has decided not to ask for any such document immediately. They can also decide to take exams later, whenever it is possible for them,” Roy added.The senate also recommended a six-month extension for PhD scholars to finish their research.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/iitd-removes-attendance-clause-extend-deadlines-after-22-respondents-of-survey-test-positive-for-covid-101619720743354.html
29-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana admn issues standard protocol to ferry bodies of Covid victims||Springing into action after finding hospitals violating safety guidelines while handling bodies of Covid victims, the administration on Thursday constituted a Covid cremation management cell. A standard operating procedure (SOP) has also been chalked out that mandates that all hospitals immediately intimate the cell’s nodal officer about a Covid patient’s death at 98154-77868. The body must then be kept at the hospital’s mortuary until the medical officer allots a van to transport the body to the crematoriums/cemetery, which is expected to be done within an hour.The health facilities have been warned against releasing any Covid victim’s body in the absence of adequate arrangements to move it. ALSO READ: Probe ordered as norms flouted while taking Covid victims’ bodies for cremation in LudhianaAnother medical officer from the cell will make sure that teams handling the bodies follow all safety protocols, while cops will ensure social distancing and masking at the crematoriums.On Wednesday, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma had marked an inquiry against Aastha Hospital for sending a female deceased’s body to the cremation ground without a PPE kit or a sheet. The action came after photographs emerged on social media, showing the elderly woman’s body lying abandoned on a cart at the ground.Before this, two families were forced to take bodies of their family members in an auto-rickshaw and a cycle cart in the absence of an affordable ambulance service. Even here, the bodies were transported in the absence of due protocols.“An SOP has now been issued so that the Covid victims are cremated with dignity and as per safety guidelines to limit the risk of infection,” said an MC official.10 vans arranged, more on the wayMC joint commissioner Swati Tiwana, who will supervise the cremation management cell, said the district administration had 10 mortuary vans, including five dedicated by NGO Samvedna.Stating that more vans and ambulances will soon be roped in with the help of the RTA secretary, Tiwana urged NGOs to assist the administration in this hour of need.Meanwhile, MC commissioner Pradeep Sabharwal held a meeting with all private hospitals with facilities for L2 (mild to moderate symptoms) and L3 (critical) patients to reiterate the safety protocols for bodies of Covid victims.Cremation helplines for familiesThe administration has released three helpline numbers for the deceased’s families – 9501-500-101, 7719-712-797 and 9501-500-102.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhiana-admn-issues-standard-protocol-to-ferry-bodies-of-covid-victims-101619720624239.html
29-04-2021||Other||Pandemic compelling non-Covid patients to keep away from hospitals||The Covid-19 pandemic is keeping non-Covid patients away from hospitals. In some cases, even cancer patients have requested doctors to postpone their chemo-therapy cycles and suggest alternate medicines for the next one or two months till the pandemic subsides. Amar Singh, 55, a native of Ayodhya district, suffers from oral cancer. He is undergoing treatment at the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, KGMU. After he successfully underwent three chemo-therapy cycles, the second wave of Covid-19 struck, with Lucknow reporting the maximum number of cases. Family members and friends advised Singh against visiting KGMU till the pandemic subsides. This was not an easy decision for him. Stopping chemo-therapy cycles in between was a high-risk decision that could harm recovery prospects. But travelling to Lucknow was a bigger risk in this pandemic. “After the surge in cases, I was afraid to move out of the house, forget about travelling to Lucknow. As chemo-therapy cycles are going on, my immunity level is down making me susceptible to all kinds of infection, including Coronavirus,” Singh said, adding, “My family consultant also suggested against going to Lucknow for chemo-therapy cycles, if possible.” Singh’s family contacted Prof Hari Ram of the department of oral and maxillofacial surgery, KGMU, who is treating him. “After consulting several doctors we decided not to visit Lucknow and requested Prof Hari Ram to suggest alternate medicines for the time being,” said Vikas, his son. “We forwarded the papers of the last chemo-therapy cycle to the doctor on WhatsApp. On its basis, he recommended medicines till the chemo-therapy cycle resumes,” he said. The family is also planning on consulting oncologists online through apps and seek their advice. But, Singh’s family members are praying for the pandemic to subside so that treatment is resumed. Even in private hospitals, the turnout of non-Covid patients has dropped. Only in extreme emergency cases where a visit to the doctor cannot be avoided, do patients visit hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pandemic-compelling-non-covid-patients-to-keep-away-from-hospitals-101619720563351.html
29-04-2021||Other||Hope resides in ‘tents’ on SRN campus, ready to lend a hand||A small park on the SRN Hospital premises has become the temporary shelter for attendants of Covid-19 and other patients admitted to the hospital. Some of them have arrived recently while others have been staying for over 10 days to look after their dear ones admitted here, hoping that their dear ones recover and get discharged soon. The attendants living under the shelter of foldable, mosquito nets give a scene of small tents in the garden. At least two attendants are accompanying each patient but as no one is allowed inside the Covid-19 wards, they usually stay in the small park or under a shade on the SRN Hospital premises. Some make do by seeking shelter under trees, braving all difficulties One among hundreds of such attendants is Sudhir Kumar, a resident of Kaushambi, whose relative is admitted to the Covid-19 ward, said he has been here for the last 10 days. He is allowed to send eatables and juice to the patient although he has been not allowed to enter and meet his relative. Enduring all difficulties which include those of food and water for themselves, attendants of patients are leaving no stone unturned in ensuring that their patients are taken good care of and return home healthy. Sajjan, another attendant, who has been living here for a week, said that his father is admitted in the Covid-19 ward. Each day, Sajjan makes several rounds to the ward to see his father from outside. He even asks about the well-being of his father from the hospital staff. While Sudhir and Sajjan have hope and continue to do all in their power for their sick relatives, weeping and panic-stricken relatives of dead patients have also become a regular scene on SRN Hospital premises. Soon after the death of a patient, attendants arrange for an ambulance to take the body to the ghat for cremation while making calls to inform of the demise to their relatives.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/hope-resides-in-tents-on-srn-campus-ready-to-lend-a-hand-101619720387428.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two held for remdesivir black-marketing in Panipat||The Haryana Police have arrested two persons from Panipat on charges of black-marketing of remdesivir injection, which is considered a life-saving drug. Three injections were recovered from them.On Wednesday, the Haryana government had restricted the sale and distribution of drugs like remdesivir and tocilizumab, the two injections that are used for treating patients with severe Covid infection.A police spokesperson said the arrested accused, Imran and Manoj, belong to Panipat. While Imran was posted as area manager at Lal Path Lab, Manoj runs a medical store in a hospital.The accused were trying to sell one vial of remdesivir for ₹20,000. The initial probe revealed that they have sold 12 injections so far.Meanwhile, the Haryana Police cautioned citizens against fraudsters who can dupe them on pretext of providing oxygen cylinders and life-saving drugs through e-commerce portal OLX and other social media apps.Director general of police (DGP) Manoj Yadava said the widespread requirement of remdesivir injection and oxygen cylinders has become an ideal pretext for cyber criminals trying to dupe people in need.MAN HELD WITH 10 REMDESIVIR INJECTIONS
29-04-2021||Other||L1, L2 hospitals for cops in 11 districts of Kanpur zone||Level 1 (L1) and Level 2 (L2) hospitals are being opened in all the districts of Kanpur police zone, comprising 11 districts, to assure all personnel that they and their families will be looked after, should the need so arise. “The idea behind the move is to assure police personnel and their families that they are well looked after in these trying times and all verticals of the department are working for them. Policemen are exposed to greater risk due to the nature of work. That is why we will be extending the facility to everyone, including the PRD jawans, village chowlidaars, homeguards and their families,” a senior police official explained.The SPs of the districts will set up special Coronavirus control centres to keep a track of the health of policemen and even village chowkidaars and their families. Four districts have set up these hospitals —the biggest being in Jhansi with 70 beds and oxygen support. Etawah, Kannauj, Farrukhabad have set up similar hospitals, while other districts were in the process of doing so. “We can accommodate policemen from other districts too. The facility has round-the-clock presence of doctors and nurses, and even has a mess,” said Rohan P Kanay, SSP, Jhansi. ADG Kanpur zone Bhanu Bhaskar has asked hospitals to map critical care resources at range and district levels for personnel and their families. The health status of police personnel affected will be monitored on a six-hour basis and updated in real time. Similarly, the district police chiefs will coordinate with policemen to donate blood and plasma in case of need. While immunity boosting dosages will be given to police personnel, digital consultation of policemen and their families from pulmonologists and general physicians will also be arranged.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/l1-l2-hospitals-for-cops-in-11-districts-of-kanpur-zone-101619720206375.html
29-04-2021||Other||No shortage of oxygen, ICU beds, ventilators in Haryana: Khattar||Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday said that there is no need to panic as there is no shortage of oxygen, ICU beds and ventilators in state.During his visit to Karnal, the CM said that the number of Covid cases have increased four-fold, leading to pressure on hospitals but now efforts are being made to ensure supply of oxygen. Patients from Delhi are also coming to Haryana for treatment.Over supply of oxygen in state, the CM said the Centre has also increased Haryana’s oxygen quota from 162 MT to 232 MT but the state requires around 300 MT oxygen every day and this has already been conveyed to the Centre.He said that supply of an increased quota of 70 MT will be made from Odisha and efforts are being made to ensure speedy arrival of oxygen from there via trains and by air.Khattar said that due to failure in oxygen plant at Roorkee, Uttarakhand, which supplies 20 MT oxygen everyday to Haryana, the supply of oxygen was hit but it will be restored soon.Earlier, the CM had held a meeting with officials of the district administration. He inaugurated a 30-bed ICU in the Covid ward of KCGMCH.He added that patients from Delhi are coming to Haryana for treatment as there is shortage of remdesivir injection and oxygen in some states.Over the protests by attendants of patients in hospitals across state, the CM said that there was problem with small private hospitals that were not on board but they are now admitting Covid patients.He said that strict action will be taken against people involved in black-marketing of oxygen and remdesivir.On allegations by the Opposition that spread of Covid is government’s failure, he said Opposition leaders should not politicise this issue and support the government in its fight against the virus.The CM inspected oxygen storage plant and said another tack of 10,000 kg liquid oxygen will be set up in the hospital. During a meeting, Karnal deputy commissioner Nishant Kumar Yadav told Khattar that of 444 oxygen beds only four are empty and of total 228 ICU beds, 19 are empty, but there is no shortage of oxygen.Khattar, while reviewing the Covid situation in Ambala, said he has instructed the officials concerned to take action against private hospitals for admitting infected patients without authorisation.“It has come to our notice that small private hospitals treating general illness have started taking Covid infected patients,” Khattar said at a civil hospital in city.Khattar met some patients at the trauma centre and OPD of the civil hospital and inspected the upcoming oxygen plant here.The CM said, “There is difficulty in meeting demands of essential drugs and injections at some places as these are coming in less quantity, hence a board of doctors has been constituted to allocate these only to those who genuinely need them.”In Yamunanagar, the CM chaired a meeting and inspected arrangements at ESI Hospital, Jagadhari. He said the administration and police are keeping an eye on those hoarding essential or non-essential commodities in state.Khattar also visited Jind civil hospital to check preparations made for Covid patients.FARMERS OPPOSE CM’S VISITAfter getting information of the CM’s visit to Jind, farmers protesting against Centre’s three farm laws reached near the PWD rest house but till then, the CM’s helicopter had taken off.The farmers alleged that the district administration had arranged the CM’s visit after declaring that area as a containment zone so that they cannot oppose the visit.Farmers thereafter moved towards local BJP MLA Krishan Midda’s residence and held a protest for over two hours. Farmers tried to break the barricading outside the MLA’s residence to stop farmers but police somehow pacified them.“We have called a sarv khap mahapanchayat on May 3 at Khatkar toll plaza where we will take further decisions against BJP-JJP leaders,” the farmers added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-shortage-of-oxygen-icu-beds-ventilators-in-haryana-khattar-101619720205946.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||With 13,947 new Covid cases, Haryana registers yet another biggest single-day spike||Haryana continued eclipsing previous day Covid-19 fatalities and new case tally with the state on Thursday detecting an all-time high of 13,947 fresh cases and 97 deaths, according to official data.In past eight days, since April 22, Haryana has recorded 92,898 new cases while 590 patients have died due to the contagion.Haryana has lost total 4,118 people ever since the pandemic has hit the state.The recovery rate that was 84.10% on April 22 and has slipped to 79.48% on Thursday while the positivity rate on Thursday stood at 6.48% up April 22’s 5.59%, when Haryana had recorded 9,742 new cases and 55 deaths.From April 22, the state has been logging unusually high number of cases and deaths.As per the health bulletin, the number of active cases has risen to 93,174 on Thursday from 10,362 on April 1. As many as 9,535 people were also declared as having recovered from the infection on Thursday.Twelve people succumbed to the virus in Hisar; 11 each in Ambala and Jind; nine each in Gurugram and Bhiwani; seven each in Faridabad and Panchkula; five each in Karnal, Palwal, and Fatehabad; four each in Rohtak and Kaithal; three in Sirsa, two each in Sonepat and Kurukshetra, and one in Nuh.In the last 24 hours, the state had tested 48,705 people.Gurugram recorded the highest 5,042 new cases, Faridabad 1,563, Sonepat 840, Hisar 822, Ambala 487, Karnal 750, Panipat 461, Rohtak 445, Rewari 192, Panchkula 407, Kurukshetra 92, Yamunanagar 255, Sirsa 492, Mahendergarh 410, Bhiwani 207, Jhajjar 223, Palwal 80, Fatehabad 313, Kaithal 252, Jind 462, Nuh 48 and Charkhi Dadri 104.The cumulative number of people tested positive so far has risen to 4,74,145 even as 3,76,852 patients have recovered from the contagion.UNREGISTERED HOSPITALS DEMANDING OXYGENHaryana health minister Anil Vij on Thursday said that private hospitals unregistered with the state government are demanding medical oxygen from the government.“In such a situation, government is facing difficulty in giving oxygen to Covid-infected patients admitted in these hospitals,” he said, during a meeting of the state-level Covid monitoring committee and crisis coordination committee in Chandigarh.He directed the private hospitals to get their registration done with the district administration. Vij said that in view of spike in Covid cases, Section-144 and night curfew should be strictly enforced.He directed the health department to ensure that all functional government and private laboratories in state prepare Covid test report within 24 hours of collecting samples so that patients get timely treatment.CRÈCHES, COLLEGES CLOSED TILL MAY 31The Haryana government ordered that anganwari centres and crèches will remain closed till May 31. An order issued by chief secretary Vijai Vardhan said all colleges, coaching institutions, industrial training institutions, libraries, and training institutes, bith government and private, will continue to remain shut till May 31.10-DAY VOLUNTARY LOCKDOWN BY PANIPAT HANDLOOM ASSOCIATIONSConcerned over spike in cases, six Handloom market associations have decided to keep the markets in Panipat closed for 10 days.The decision of voluntary lockdown was taken by members of the association in a meeting on Thursday. All the shops in these markets will remain closed till May 9.Harjinder Singh, member of an association, said there is need to break the chain of infection so we have planned this voluntary lockdown.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-13-947-new-covid-cases-haryana-registers-yet-another-biggest-single-day-spike-101619720148016.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid in Ludhiana: 18 deaths in a single day match first wave’s highest toll||Topping its daily Covid deaths for the third day in a row, Ludhiana on Thursday recorded 18 deaths, hitting a peak not only this year, but also matching the highest toll during the pandemic’s first wave in August and September last year.The district had last seen 18 deaths only on August 31 and September 3 in 2020. On Tuesday, Ludhiana registered 13 casualties, which rose to 15 on Wednesday and 18 in the latest count.Among Thursday’s fatalities, 12 were women, the youngest being 35 years old.On the uptick again, the daily cases hit 1,350 on Thursday, second only to the all-time high of 1,389 cases recorded on April 25.This pushed the active cases past the 8,000 mark and the total to 53,794.Of the 8,012 patients still recuperating, 119 are admitted at government hospitals and 1,160 at private facilities, while the majority are in home isolation. As many as 20 patients are on ventilator support.Recoveries reach 44,394The total recoveries so far stand at 44,394 (82.5%), slightly ahead of the national average of 82.1%. Among these, 28,888 patients have recovered through home isolation and tele-consulation, said civil surgeon Dr Sukhjeewan Kakkar.Dr Kakkar said rapid response teams had been constituted in each block of the district to look after patients in home isolation. “’Patients are immediately shifted to appropriate health facility if their condition deteriorates,” he added.A 24x7 helpline (0161-2444-193) is also available for information about Covid-19 symptoms, and testing and treatment facilities, the civil surgeon said.10 senior citizens among deceasedThe female fatalities on Thursday were a 77-year-old from Chandigarh Road, a 71-year-old from South City, a 69-year-old from Shimlapuri, a 65-year-old from Kohara, a 63-year-old from Civil Lines, a 60-year-old from Kabir Basti, a 59-year-old from New Amar Nagar, a 58-year-old from Doraha, a 50-year-old from Durga Colony, a 49-year-old from Focal Point, a 44-year-old from Rishi Nagar and a 35- year-old from Gagan Nagar.The male deceased were two aged 67, from Jeevan Nagar and Rishi Nagar, a 64-year-old from Shashi Mohalla, a 60-year-old from Surjeet Colony, a 53-year-old from Indira Colony and a 48-year-old from Model Town.Among the latest infections, 17 were reported from Dugri’s Urban Estate, Phase 1 and 2, which were declared containment zones on April 18. Over 500 residents of these areas have tested positive for the virus over the past two weeks.Eight more areas sealedTaking note of the surging cases, the district administration notified eight more areas as micro-containment zones. These are located at Durgapuri, Haibowal, Akalgarh village, Model Town, Rajguru Nagar, Geeta Mandir Ashram, Tharike, Basant Avenue and Maya Nagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-in-ludhiana-18-deaths-in-a-single-day-match-first-wave-s-highest-toll-101619719244007.html
29-04-2021||Gurugram||5,042 new Covid-19 cases reported, includes backlog of 1,000||The district on Thursday recorded 5,042 new Covid-19 infections, the highest single-day spike. However, officials said that this includes a backlog of 1,000 cases that could not be included in the bulletin over the past few days.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, confirmed that the results of 1,000 tests that were withheld over the past few days were included and that the actual positives over the last 24 hours were around 3,800 to 4,000. “The test results of 1,000 persons were accumulated in the past few days as they could not be traced or contacted. But we took the help of the police and traced all these persons. After verifying their details and addresses, the results were declared today,” said Yadav.With the spike, the total cases in the district reached 118,499, with active cases at 33,893, of whom 32,873 are in home isolation. Besides, 2,259 patients also recovered from Covid-19, according to the health department data.Health department officials said they were carrying out aggressive testing in large outbreak regions (LORs). “Over 12,000 tests were conducted today (Thursday) and we have constituted teams that will visit the LORs for testing, tracing and screening. We want to reduce the positivity rate, which is around 23% to 24% presently,” said Yadav.As many as nine Covid-related deaths were also reported on Thursday, taking the total number of deaths in the district to 462. Also, only 455 beneficiaries received the first dose of the vaccine on Thursday, as vaccinations were put on hold due to increased workload and reduced staff strength.Dr Yadav said that slots for vaccination of people aged above 18 years would be available after May 1, only if the state government get its quota of vaccines. “At present, vaccines have not been received and we may get it on Friday, but this is not confirmed. Session sites would be set up only after adequate doses are received by the state government,” said Yadav.In a move to involved the private sector for vaccine outreach, private clinics and health centres can participate in the vaccinate drive in collaboration with the health department, said Yadav. “A meeting of the district task force on Covid-19 will be held on Friday, in which all the modalities of vaccine roll out at local level will be finalised in line with the guidelines received from the government,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/5042-new-covid-19-cases-reported-includes-backlog-of-1000-101619718824396.html
29-04-2021||Gurugram||Gurugram may see light rainfall this weekend||Gurugram is likely to witness light rainfall over the weekend amid the rise in the temperature, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Thursday. Light spells of rainfall or thundershowers are expected between Friday and Sunday, and the next week too, said the IMD . As per the IMD’s weekly forecast, the maximum temperature is expected to be around 42°-44° Celsius (C), and the minimum temperature around 26° C. Gurugram recorded the maximum temperature at 43.8° C — 4° C above the normal, and the minimum temperature at 24.6° C on Thursday. Meanwhile, the air quality in the city has been in the ‘poor’ category for the past two days. According to the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the air quality index (AQI) was at 257 on Thursday, with PM 2.5 as the prominent pollutant. According to the Air Quality Early Warning System (AQEWS) for Delhi, the quality of air in Delhi-NCR is likely to deteriorate to the ‘very poor’ or the ‘poor’ category on Friday and Saturday, or just remain in the ‘poor’ category for the next five days — because of transported dust and biomass burning aerosol from neighbouring regions.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/gurugram-may-see-light-rainfall-this-weekend-101619718824965.html
29-04-2021||Gurugram||Vaccination suspended for healthcare staff training||The vaccination process for the public has been put on hold for two days, starting Thursday, to train healthcare staff on new technicalities in the process, officials of the health department said. With a rapid surge in cases, as Gurugram reported 5,042 new Covid-19 infections on Thursday, officials said that the staff strength has also dwindled with over a 100 workers testing positive last week and an increase in workload for contact tracing in large outbreak regions.The staff are being trained to upload details of vaccinations, including the vaccine name and dose wastage, on the CoWIN portal, said officials.Dr MP Singh, district immunisation officer, said, “For stage three of vaccination that is scheduled to start from May 1, there are certain technical changes in the CoWIN portal, which need to be conveyed to doctors, vaccinators, and other healthcare workers, due to which we have halted the vaccination process for two days. For the next stage, hospitals will have to update details, such as the number of vaccines, wastage, name of the vaccine, on the portals on their own. In these two days (Thursday and Friday), healthcare staff from both private and government hospitals are being trained on the technicalities of handling the data on the portal.”Officials said that the district, at present, has a stock of around 10,000 doses of vaccines for use at government vaccination sites, ahead of the next phase, for which private hospitals have been directed to procure vaccines directly from the manufacturers. Officials said that the health department will not be supplying it to them.Private hospitals have also been given time till 5pm on Friday, to inform the health department about the number of vaccine doses left with them and return the same to the health department.“All vaccinations that will be done from May 1 in private hospitals will be done based on vaccines that they are able to procure directly from the manufacturers. We have given them time till Friday evening to inform us about stock left with them, which they will have to return. Vaccination will continue at government centres, but for private centres, slots will be visible on CoWIN application, based on their stock availability,” said Singh.According to Singh, the vaccination will continue to be free of cost for beneficiaries above the age of 45 years, while government directives are awaited on the charges for beneficiaries aged 18 to 44.Officials also said that another reason for suspending vaccinations for two days is the lack of healthcare staff availability, as testing has been increased in large outbreak areas along with contact tracing.“With the increase in cases, our healthcare staff is also testing positive, which demoralises them. With limited healthcare workers, it is difficult to manage vaccination, contact tracing and training process. So, with staff who are still working, we are focusing on training for the next stage of vaccination and contact tracing with rapid testing,” said a senior health official, requesting anonymity.Virendra Yadav, chief medical officer of Gurugram, said, “The portal has certain changes with respect to the price of the vaccines and allotment of slots that need to be updated by private hospitals based on the stock of vaccine that they are able to procure. These two days, those updates are being done, after which vaccination will start in the district again.”However, the vaccination process was only stopped for the public, with 50 healthcare workers and frontline workers receiving the jabs at government session sites, while 1,458 were vaccinated at private facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/vaccination-suspended-for-healthcare-staff-training-101619718823800.html
29-04-2021||Gurugram||Over 700 beds likely to be set up by private companies||The district has received a timely boost in health infrastructure, with several automobile companies and real estate developers submitting proposals to set up temporary hospitals, provide medical equipment and create the infrastructure needed to treat the rising number of Covid-19 cases, even as Gurugram recorded 5,042 new infections on Thursday, its highest spike since the outbreak. Officials of the district administration said that over 700 beds, including those with oxygen support and ventilators, are likely to be set up.The deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Yash Garg, said these facilities are likely to come up in the city in the next two weeks and will be set up under the corporate social responsibility programme. “If all the proposals received by the district administration are realised, then the city is likely to add 700 to 800 temporary beds in the next 15 days,” he said.The hospitals would be run in partnership with private hospitals, said Garg.“The process to set up these hospital facilities has already been started and hospitals are being identified to partner with these companies so that patients with mild to moderate symptoms can be treated in these facilities. M3M and Medanta are setting up such a facility, while other companies have also given us proposals. We are also identifying health workers, retired doctors and paramedical staff to be deployed at these facilities,” he said.Officials privy to the matter said that motorcycle manufacturer Hero MotoCorp has already set up a 100-bed facility in Haridwar and a facility on similar lines, with oxygen and other facilities for Covid-19 patients, is likely to be set up in Gurugram. “They are looking for a centralised location with basic facilities so that a plug and play hospital can be set up at the earliest. We have also proposed to them a Haryana Shahari Vikas Pradhikaran (HSVP) banquet hall in Sector 43,” said an official who is familiar with the matter, requesting anonymity.An official of Hero MotoCorp confirmed the development but declined to comment.A spokesperson for real estate developer M3M Group said that they will set up a facility in phases, with 200 beds to be set up initially, with oxygen support and other equipment. “We have already started the work and service apartments which are already complete are fitted with health equipment,” the spokesperson said.Garg, meanwhile, said that they have received a proposal from a city-based developer for setting up a temporary hospital of 150 beds, which will be operated through a tie-up between the developer and a private hospital. “Non-serious patients can be hosted there, while serious patients will be treated at the main hospitals,” he said.A Manesar-based auto parts company has proposed to set up a hospital and install an oxygen plant, he said. “Land has been identified at Civil Lines where a facility for 100 beds will be created. These will include oxygen beds and ventilators,” he said.Dr Virender Yadav, chief medical official, Gurugram, said that 100 additional beds will be added to Civil Hospital in the next seven to ten days, with the help of a private company. “We have identified the land and will receive a proposal from the company in a day or two. The addition of these beds across the city will certainly increase the number of beds and help the patients,” said Yadav.Jitender Yadav, administrator, HSVP, said that the authority will provide companies that plan to set hospitals in their community centres or buildings with all possible assistance. “We will provide help and support for these facilities where Covid-19 patients will be treated,” said Yadav.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/over-700-beds-likely-to-be-set-up-by-private-companies-101619718823191.html
29-04-2021||Gurugram||Hospitals with fewer than 15 beds barred from treating Covid-19 cases||Hospitals having fewer than 15 beds will not be allowed to treat Covid-19 patients in Gurugram, Faridabad, Panchkula, Karnal, Hisar and Sonepat districts to ensure continuous oxygen supply, according to an order issued by the additional chief secretary (health) on Thursday. District administrations were directed to ensure that this does not lead to a reduction in the number of beds, with officials asked to increase the number of beds in larger hospitals.Dr Virender Yadav, the chief medical officer for Gurugram, said that hospitals that are not registered on the state Covid-19 website would also not be allowed to treat Covid-19 patients. “It has been decided that smaller hospital with bed capacity less than 15 beds won’t be allowed to admit Covid-19 patients as they are facing a lot of issues with regard to oxygen supply. This measure will ensure that hospitals which don’t have adequate facilities won’t be allowed to treat Covid-19 patients,” said Yadav.According to the order, hospitals in other districts having a minimum bed capacity of 10 were allowed to treat Covid-19 patients. Officials familiar with the development said that the directions would ensure rationalisation of hospital beds and optimum use of oxygen for critical Covid-19 patients, as smaller hospitals don’t have the capacity to store oxygen for longer durations, with some needing a refill every three hours.To meet the challenge of oxygen supply in Gurugram, the district administration also launched an oxygen helpline, 0124-2971110, for hospitals to reach out to the district administration for help in case of an emergency.According to the order, the district administration has to ensure that number of hospital beds is not reduced by this order. A committee under the deputy commissioner was also constituted to ensure these directions are followed, as per the order, said officials.The government order also said that every district will have a vehicle loaded with three to four oxygen cylinders, which shall be kept on standby to meet any emergency. Additional hospitals beds can also be created only if the district has adequate health Infrastructure, manpower, facilities and oxygen supply, the order stated.In a related development, the district administration also decided to implement a token system for hospitals that are sending their staff to refill oxygen cylinders at the three facilities in the district. “The modalities for distribution of gas through a token system is being worked out and it will be introduced in a day or two,” Hitesh Yadav, assistant commissioner of police, Manesar, who is also a member of the MCG team constituted for the supply of oxygen in the district.According to Yadav, around 30 to 40 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen, depending upon the supply, is distributed daily. “Real-time information is shared by the nodal groups and we escort trucks from Bhiwadi and Panipat from KMP Expressway. These trucks are sent to filling stations and hospitals as per the schedule developed by nodal officers of these two plants,” said Yadav.To ensure that the vehicles transporting oxygen do not face hindrances in the passage, dedicated corridors were created and police personnel posted at key points, including the Kherki Daula toll plaza, said Yadav.Police personnel were also deployed at the two filling stations in Manesar and the one in Gurugram to ensure cylinders are filled in an orderly manner. “Documents and papers of those coming to the filling stations are checked and oxygen is given only after that. All efforts are being made to ensure oxygen is distributed properly,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/hospitals-with-fewer-than-15-beds-barred-from-treating-covid-19-cases-101619718703180.html
29-04-2021||Lucknow||UP govt orders restrictions on several activities for 14 days||Uttar Pradesh chief secretary RK Tiwari on Thursday issued a government order for Covid containment asking the districts’ administration to ban social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural and religious activities at least for the next 14 days. Tiwari said weddings should be permitted with not more than 50 guests and the last rites must not have more than 20 people. All shopping complexes, cinema halls, restaurant and bars, sports complexes, gyms, spas, swimming pools and religious places should also be closed, the order added.Although the government has not used the term lockdown, the instructions issued by Tiwari are similar to many of those in force last year.In a statement, Tiwari said all essential services such as health, police, fire services, banks, power, water and irrigation will continue. Public transport such as buses, metro trains and cabs should run at not more than 50% of their seating capacity, the chief secretary’s order said.There will be no restriction on the movement of inter-state transport and intra-state transport. All offices —government or private — must work with not more than 50% employees on the premises. All industrial and scientific institutes, government or private, will follow social distancing.Tiwari sought the state administration to take effective steps to prevent the Covid spread. Because the virus spread from human-to human contact, there was a need to effectively control it by restricting human contact, he added.He asked the administration to ensure Covid appropriate behaviour to be implemented.“So, all must wear masks, maintain six feet distance, do hand sanitization and prevent crowding,” he said. Any person suspected to be a Covid-19 case should immediately be tested and quarantined if they were found positive, he added.He said if there was a cluster of Covid positive cases, it must immediately be declared a containment zone and all SOPs should be followed there. Such zones must physically be contained (like barricading etc). Tiwari said that test, track, treat, and vaccinate policy will be followed statewide.All these restrictions will be applicable till the next 14 days. He has asked the additional chief secretaries of revenue, panchayati raj and rural development departments, all divisional commissioners, all ADGs, all IGs, the police commissioners of Lucknow, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Kanpur and Varanasi, and all chief medical officers to implement the restrictions strictly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-govt-orders-restrictions-on-several-activities-for-14-days-101619717083219.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||395 Covid deaths in Delhi, positivity rate around 32% with over 24,000 new cases||The national capital on Thursday recorded 395 deaths due to coronavirus, the highest since the pandemic began a year ago, and 24,235 cases with a positivity rate of 32.82 per cent, according to a bulletin issued by the city health department.This was the eighth day in a row that Delhi has recorded over 300 deaths due to Covid-19.It had reported 368 deaths on Wednesday, 381 on Tuesday, 380 on Monday, 350 on Sunday, 357 deaths on Saturday, 348 on Friday and 306 on last Thursday, according to government data.Delhi had recorded 25,986 cases on Wednesday, 24,149 on Tuesday, 20,201 on Monday, 22,933 on Sunday, 24,103 on Saturday, 24,331 on Friday and 26,169 on Thursday.The positivity rate was 31.76 per cent on Wednesday, 32.72 per cent on Tuesday, 35.02 per cent on Monday, 30.21 per cent on Sunday, 32.27 per cent on Saturday, 32.43 per cent on Friday, and 36.24 per cent on last Thursday which is the highest so far.The cumulative case count in the city stands at 11,22,286, of which over 10.08 lakh have recovered. The death toll due to the viral disease stands at 15,772, the bulletin said.A total of 73,851 tests, including over 19,251 rapid-antigen ones, were conducted in the said period, it added.The city currently has 97,977 active cases. Out of 21,152 beds in city hospitals, only 1,628 are vacant. A total of 53,440 patients are in home isolation, the bulletin said.A total of 31,761 vaccine doses were administered to people in a day and they included 15,589 who took the first dose and 16,172 who received the second shot, the bulletin said.The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 35,924 from 33,749 the previous day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/395-covid-deaths-in-delhi-positivity-rate-around-32-with-over-24-000-new-cases-101619715824787.html
29-04-2021||Kolkata||Covid-19: West Bengal adds record 89 single-day deaths, 17,403 fresh cases||West Bengal on Thursday registered its highest single-day deaths of 89 people due to Covid-19, pushing the toll to 11,248, the health department said.The coronavirus tally topped the 8-lakh-mark to settle at 8,10,955 after 17,403 tested positive in the last 24 hours, it said.The state now has 1,10,241 active cases, the department said in a bulletin, adding, 12,885 patients recovered since Wednesday.At least 53,724 samples were tested during this period.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/kolkata-news/covid19-west-bengal-adds-record-89-single-day-deaths-17-403-fresh-cases-101619711358144.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra logs 66,159 Covid-19 cases, 771 deaths; 68,537 recover||Maharashtra on Thursday reported 66,159 fresh coronavirus cases and 771 fatalities, taking the tally of infections to 45,39,553 and the toll to 67,985, the state health department said.Also, 68,537 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the number of recoveries to 37,99,266, a health department official said.Maharashtra now has 6,70,301 active cases, he said.Of the 771 fatalities, 383 occurred in the last 48 hours and 165 during the last week. The remaining 223 deaths had occurred in the period before the last week, but were added to the toll now as part of a data reconciliation exercise, the official explained.With 2,88,213 new coronavirus tests, the number of samples examined so far in Maharashtra has gone up to 2,68,16,075, the official said.Maharashtra's Covid-19 recovery rate stood at 83.69 per cent, while the fatality rate was 1.5 per cent, the department said.The case positivity rate - proportion of samples that showed positive result among the total tested - was 16.93 per cent.Mumbai recorded 4,174 new cases and 82 deaths, raising the overall tally to 6,44,583 and the toll to 13,036.The Mumbai division, including Mumbai city and its satellite towns, recorded 11,344 fresh cases and 144 deaths, taking the coronavirus caseload to 13,59,739 and the toll to 23,159, the official said.In the division, the Kalyan-Dombivli Municipal Corporation reported 17 deaths, Thane city 15 and Panvel city 11, the official said.The Nashik division reported 9,967 new cases and 129 fresh deaths. In the division, Ahmednagar district recorded 2,117 cases followed by 1,754 in Nashik district and 1,161 in Nandurbar district.Out of 129 fresh deaths in the Nashik division, 26 occurred in Nandurbar district, 24 in Ahmednagar district and 20 in Nashik district, the official said.The Pune division saw 16,470 fresh infections, including 5,097 in Pune city, 4,332 in rural areas of Pune district, 2,457 in Pimpri-Chinchwad industrial township, 2,089 in Solapur district and 2,175 in Satara district, he said.Thus, Pune city (4,332) reported more Covid-19 cases than Mumbai city (4,174).Of 214 fatalities in the Pune division, 94 occurred in Pune city followed by 36 in other parts of Pune district, 32 in Satara district, 27 in Solapur city and 16 in Pimpri- Chinchwad, he said.The Kolhapur division added 3,436 new cases and 53 deaths. Among the deaths, 19 occurred in Sangli district, 14 in Kolhapur and 12 in Sindhudurg district, the official said.The Aurangabad division reported 3,577 fresh Covid-19 infections and 57 fatalities. Of the total deaths, most came from Aurangabad city and Jalna district (18 each), he said.The Latur division reported 4,376 cases along with 38 deaths, of which 16 occurred inBeed district, he said.The caseload in the Akola division went up by 4,320 - of which 1,487 and 1,131 were added by Yavatmal and Buldhana districts, respectively.Of the total 40 fatalities in the Akola division, 16 occurred in Yavatmal district and 15 in Washim district.The Nagpur division registered 12,669 fresh infections, including 5,808 in Nagpur city, 2,967 in other parts of Nagpur district, 1,435 in Wardha and 1,106 in Bhandara district.The Nagpur division reported 96 deaths of which 42 occurred in Nagpur city and 23 in other parts of Nagpur district. Bhandara district registered 17 deaths, the official said.Currently, 41,19,759 people are in home quarantine, while 30,118 people are in institutional quarantine in Maharashtra, the health department said.Maharashtra's coronavirus figures as follows: Total cases 45,39,553, new cases 66,159, deaths 67,985, recoveries 37,99,266, active cases 6,70,301, people tested so far 2,68,16,075.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-logs-66-159-covid-19-cases-771-deaths-68-537-recover-101619716014417.html
29-04-2021||Other||Lucknow’s Covid-19 case tally cross 200,000-mark||The total number of Covid-19 cases in Lucknow crossed the two-lakh mark with 4,126 fresh infection cases reported on Thursday and the death toll went up to 1,762 with 37 more fatalities, according to official data.The state capital has reported 200,832 cases in 424 days since the first case was reported in March 2020, an average of about 473 cases per day. The overall case positivity rate in Lucknow is about 7%. The state capital has tested over 28 lakh Covid-19 samples since the pandemic began.“With 152,771 recovered patients, the recovery rate in Lucknow is 76.06%,” said Dr Abhishek Shukla, secretary general, Association of International Doctors.The state capital has 46,299 active cases under treatment and a majority of the patients are in home isolation. Owing to poor oxygen levels, the request for hospitalisation is piling up at the Covid command centre here. Besides, many patients in home isolation are looking for oxygen cylinders and their attendants have been seen standing in long queues outside filling stations during the day.“I had asked my friend to arrange for an oxygen cylinder so that I can raise the oxygen level if it falls. But he could get the cylinder filled only after trying for the entire day,” said a Covid patient and resident of Jankipuram.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/lucknows-covid-19-case-tally-cross-200000mark-101619715103085.html
29-04-2021||Other||105-year old World War II veteran, Lieutenant Shridhar Gopal Ballal, no more||PUNE A World War II veteran, honorary Lieutenant Shridhar Gopal Ballal, passed away due to a brief illness on April 22 at Kamshet near Pune, at the age of 105, according to Col Vinay Dalvi, founder and director of ‘Mission Victory India’. Ballal was born on November 29, 1915, in Pahur, district of Yavatmal in Maharashtra, and joined the Ordnance Corps of the Army in 1941. He was posted in Iraq during World War II, where he saw an action at Shaiba, Mosul and Kirkuk. “Ballal was decorated with 1939-1945 Star, The Defence Medal and Indian Independence medal for his dedicated service. He retired from the Indian Army in February 1969 after 28 years of active service,” said Col Dalvi. Post-retirement he had settled at Ghorawadi, Talegaon-Dabhade. He followed a strict regimen of exercise, walk and a balanced diet. He also kept his mind spiritually active by reading philosophical books. This ensured a good health even after crossing the age of 100 years.After WWII, he was posted in Mardaan and Chaklala, which are now in Pakistan. Post- Independence he saw action during the conflicts in 1947 and 1965 with Pakistan, and in 1962 with China. He is survived by a son, a Naval Commander and two daughters, all settled in Pune. He also has six grandchildren and seven great grandchildren.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/105year-old-world-war-ii-veteran-lieutenant-shridhar-gopal-ballal-no-more-101619714202976.html
29-04-2021||Other||Police raid farmhouse party, arrest nine, rescue 5 bar dancers||PUNE The Pune police arrested nine persons, including four contractors associated with the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), during a night raid on a farmhouse on the outskirts of Pune.The police also rescued five dancers who were brought in to perform, officials said on Thursday. According to police, four of the girls are from Mumbai and one is from Katraj. A case has been registered under sections of the Indian Penal Code, the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956, and the Mumbai Police Act, at Uttamnagar police station.A number of bottles of liquor have also been seized during the raid. Police added that during the investigation it was revealed that a 39-year-old Sameer Paigude, a manager at the farmhouse, had organised the party at near Kudje village and had asked one of the accused, Prajkta Jadhav, a resident of Mumbai, to bring in the girls from Mumbai for the party. The other accused have been identified as Mangesh Shahane, Nikhil Pawar, Dhwanit Rajput, Sujit Ambwale, Nilesh Bordhe, Aditya Madne, and Vivekanand Badhe. “During the raid, a man and a young woman were found in compromising position in a room located on the farmhouse,” said the officer.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-raid-farmhouse-party-arrest-nine-rescue-5-bar-dancers-101619712462795.html
29-04-2021||Other||Bokaro emerges as lifeline of 7 states||As crisis due to shortage of medical oxygen deepens across the country amid the ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, Bokaro Steel Limited (BSL) has become lifeline seven states with the company maintaining a continuous supply for last 15 days. According to per official sources, it has supplied 2,124 tonnes of liquid oxygen to seven states, including Jharkhand, between April 12 and 25.Besides, hospitals in five states were also directly supplied oxygen by either road or rail transport. Chas (Bokaro) sub-divisional magistrate (SDM) Shashi Prakash Singh said on Thursday, “Bokaro-based companies have enough stock of liquid oxygen and gas. As soon as an order is placed from any corner of the country, oxygen is supplied without delay.”Official sources in Steel Authority of India Limited, under which BSL comes, said the highest 498 tonnes of oxygen have been sent to Jharkhand, followed by Uttar Pradesh (812 tonnes), Bihar (619 tonnes), Punjab (117 tonnes), Madhya Pradesh (40 tonnes), West Bengal (19 tonnes) and Maharashtra (19 tonnes).BSL was also supplying oxygen directly on demand to hospitals in Madhya Pradesh ( 464 tonnes), Uttar Pradesh (243 tonnes), Bihar (66 tonnes), Jharkhand (66 tonnes) and West Bengal (9 tonnes).“On Tuesday, six tankers left for Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh and three tankers for Lucknow in Uttar Pradesh through Oxygen Express. From April 1 to 12, we supplied 67 tonnes liquid oxygen,” the SAIL official said , requesting anonymity.The official said the total 2,124 tonnes oxygen that has been supplied so far can fill up 2.40 lakh jumbo cylinders and cater to the requirement of over 2.5 lakh patients for 30 to 36 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bokaro-emerges-as-lifeline-of-7-states-101619712163487.html
29-04-2021||Other||Former state BJP chief dies of Covid-19||Former Singhbhum MP and state BJP president Laxman Gilua succumbed to Covid-19 at the age of 57 years here at Tata Motors Hospital in the wee hours of Thursday, officials said. As per hospital officials, Gilua was admitted on April 22. He breathed his last during treatment around 2.30am Thursday. Meanwhile, Gilua’s wife, two sons and a daughter, who also tested positive for Covid-19, were currently undergoing treatment.Gilua was a two-time MLA from Chakradharpur and represented the Singhbhum Lok Sabha seat twice. He became an MLA for the first time after winning Assembly election from Chakradharpur seat in 1995, while he won the parliamentary election for the first time in 1999 after defeating Congress strongman Vijay Singh Soy.BJP fought the last Lok Sabha and Assembly elections under his leadership when Raghubar Das was the chief minister.His eldest son Amit Gilua performed his last rites at Jata village in West Singhbhum district. Central minister Arjun Munda, chief minister Hemant Soren, former chief ministers Babulal Marandi and Raghubar Das, state BJP president Deepak Prakash, Kunal Sarangi and a host of BJP leaders and politicians from other political parties expressed shock and grief over Gilua’s death. Another former MLA Sanatan Majhi from Potka died at Kolkata-based Medical Research Institute recently on Tuesday. Majhi used to live in Sonari area of Jamshedpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/former-state-bjp-chief-dies-of-covid19-101619712162802.html
29-04-2021||Other||Revenue officers resent survey work amid pandemic||PATNAEven as the state government has issued guidelines for government staff to work from home with only 25 % attendance in offices owing to the massive surge in Covid cases, revenue and settlement officials posted in the districts are miffed over the latest directive from the revenue department to ensure land survey related work is carried out and completed as per targets set.In a letter issued by the land revenue department’s land records and survey directorate on Wednesday, it has been instructed that all officials in districts would take part in the review meeting every fortnight by giving information about progress of ongoing land survey related work and other updates through online mode.It has also been directed that district revenue and settlement officers would hold review meetings with officials posted at the camps in villages to take updates on survey work through online mode. The emphasis has also been that survey work should be carried as per targets.“Though the department has asked us to attend review meetings through online mode, the survey work is continuing and we have make field visits to get updates Field officers are also working with great risk.At this point, when Covid cares are surging, is it feasible to interact with people at village level for different aspects of survey work to complete pending works in a targeted manner?” asked a settlement officer, seeking anonymity. He said the department should have suspended the survey work for the time being in light of Covid cases.“In many districts, the survey work has progressed while in some districts in central and north Bihar, it is still in initial stages where camp officials are required to interact with villagers for map verification and boundaries. This will only expose people to the risk of Covid infections since cases are rising in rural areas too,” said another revenue officer, posted in Begusarai.Reports said that in Munger, around 25% of officials engaged in survey work have been infected. “Even villagers are now refusing to co-operate in the survey work and asking us not to come to their villages. Many mukhiyas have given in writing to the department to suspend the work,” said another survey officer, pleading anonymity.In Bihar, the special survey to update land records is going on in 90 circles covering 5,099 villages in 20 districts.However, Jai Singh, director, land records and survey, said that the letter issued to district settlement officers was in context of holding review meetings through online mode. “ Yes, the survey work is going on and has to be completed as per targets set. But we are not insisting on people to take outdoor work right now . Things like uploading data and other documentary work can be done at office level,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/revenue-officers-resent-survey-work-amid-pandemic-101619712042809.html
29-04-2021||Other||Bihar reports over 13,000 Covid cases 2nd day in a row||PATNABihar recorded over 13,000 new Covid cases and 89 related deaths even as the new restrictions imposed by the state government came into force on Thursday.The state recorded 13,089 positive cases on Wednesday as against 13,374 cases the previous day. The total number of active cases in the state is now 100,821. The oxygen crisis, meanwhile, continues to haunt the state government. On Thursday, Patna district magistrate Chandrashekar Singh wrote to principal secretary (health), requesting him to form a technical group immediately to audit the demand for medical oxygen and actual need of premier hospitals in Patna. “The three hospitals of Patna, PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS, have demanded 1,000 jumbo-sized oxygen cylinders each per day. PMCH and NMCH were supplied with 1,000 cylinders while IGIMS was given 600. These three hospitals have 700-800 beds dedicated for Covid patients whereas there are around 2,000 beds in 90 private hospitals identified for Covid treatment,” the DM said in his letter. He further said these private hospitals are demanding 4,000 cylinders per day whereas the total production capacity of oxygen in Patna district is 7,000 cylinders per day. Singh requested the health department to ensure supply of additional 1,770 cylinders through industries department. Meanwhile, junior doctors of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMHC), a dedicated Covid hospital, called off their strike after talks with health minister Mangal Pandey on Thursday. They had decided to boycott work after attendants of a Covid patient, who died in course of treatment, allegedly went berserk and assaulted them and other hospital staff on Tuesday night. A seven-member delegation of the Junior Doctors’ Association, led by its president Ram Chandra and secretary Kushagra, met the minister and apprised him of the situation. The association also placed a charter of demands, including deploying MBBS final-year students for duty in Covid wards and giving powers to NMCH superintendent to appoint ward boys and other medical staff and immediate supply of medicines. The minister accepted the demands and assured them to redress them at the earliest. Patna DM inspected the ESIC hospital at Bihta and announced that 100-bed dedicated Covid care centre will start functioning from Friday. This will be in addition to 50-bed hospital being run by the Army.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/bihar-reports-over-13-000-covid-cases-2nd-day-in-a-row-101619711984637.html
29-04-2021||Other||No vaccination for 18-plus category in Bihar from May 1||PATNAThe next phase of vaccination for those above 18 years of age will not begin in Bihar from May 1, a top health official said, citing inability of Serum Institute of India (SII) in supplying the vaccines in bulk. Manoj Kumar, executive director of Bihar State Health Society said on Thursday that Serum Institute of India had refused to supply one crore vials of the vaccine demanded by the Bihar government. Instead, the Institute wanted the state government to place its monthly requirement. According to Kumar, the SII has informed the central government that it was difficult to meet the demand as several states had placed their orders simultaneously. “The central government has, therefore, decided to make a population-based quota for vaccine supply for states. As a result, the vaccination would not start from May 1. However, the registration for the vaccination will continue,” he said. The state government had earlier decided to start registration for vaccinating people above 18 years of age. Nearly 5.47 crore people in this category are to be vaccinated free of cost at government hospitals. Meanwhile, BJP MP and former deputy chief minister Sushil Kumar Modi has suggested that the Bihar government keep its options open for importing foreign-made vaccines. “The SII, following an appeal from prime minister Narendra Modi, has reduced the price of Covishield from ₹400 to ₹300, which will reduce pressure on state governments. The Bihar government, given the necessity to vaccinate those aged 18 and above, should keep its options open for a global tender of foreign-made vaccines as well. The Centre has already given consent for Russia-made Sputnik and five other foreign vaccines,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/no-vaccination-for-18-plus-category-in-bihar-from-may-1-101619711984039.html
29-04-2021||Other||State launches home delivery of vegetables in Patna, Motihari||PATNAThe state’s co-operative department on Thursday launched the online delivery system for vegetables in Patna and Motihari.Under the new system, people can go to website “www.tarkarimart.in” where a list of vegetables, including potatoes, onions, cauliflower, bitter gourd and others, are on display with prices mentioned.“We have launched the facility from today so that people staying indoors amid the surge in Covid cases get supplies at their doorstep and visit markets less,” said Bandana Preyashi, secretary, co-operative department.She said vegetables would be procured by primary vegetable co-operative societies from farmers and unions would ensure the delivery of supplies as per orders from customers. Preyashi, who inaugurated the e-commerce platform of the vegetable processing and marketing scheme, said the facility had been launched in Patna and Motihari in the first phase and would be extended to other cities based on feedback from people in the coming days. This initiative, she said, would ensure remunerative prices for growers, delivery of fresh vegetables at competitive prices to customers while adhering to strict hygiene norms during the pandemic and also create employment opportunities in rural areas.Earlier in the day, chief minister Nitish Kumar, while reviewing schemes being implemented by the co-operative department, asked the secretary to ensure that the doorstep delivery of vegetables through online orders is extended to other districts and towns at the earliest.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/state-launches-home-delivery-of-vegetables-in-patna-motihari-101619711983403.html
29-04-2021||Other||Cops solve woman’s murder in 24 hours: Boyfriend arrested||PUNE The Vimantal police station, on Thursday, arrested a man for the murder of his girlfriend. The case was solved within 24 hours after the murder took place by the Pune police.The accused has been identified as Santosh Mahadev Rathod (31), of Sai Park labour camp, near Ajeenkya DY Patil University, Lohegaon.Police said corpse of a young woman was found in a field opposite Kuber Park on Ajeenkya DY Patil University-Lohegaon road on Tuesday morning. After getting the necessary information, senior police officers, including DCP (Zone 4) Pankaj Deshmukh, ACP (Yerwada division) Kishor Jadhav, senior police inspector Gajanan Pawar, police inspector (Crime) Mangesh Jagtap and detection branch officer Sachin Jadhav, began the investigation.The cops later identified the woman and learnt that she had been missing after going out with Rathod around 10 pm on April 26. Rathod on detention confessed to having murdered her because she used to talk to other men. They had quarrelled over the issue earlier, investigators said.Police said that Rathod took her to the field on a bike and strangled her. Later he smashed her face with a stone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/cops-solve-woman-s-murder-in-24-hours-boyfriend-arrested-101619711982809.html
29-04-2021||Other||Oxygen crisis: HC picks gaping gaps in state’s claims||PATNAThe Patna High Court has directed the Union government and ministry of health and family welfare to take all possible measures to ensure Bihar gets 194 metric tonnes (MTs) of oxygen per day as per the quota fixed for the state and that it should not remain on papers only. “There is requirement of continuous supply of oxygen. In our opinion, any discontinuity shall lead to virtual collapse of the health care system. From the material available on record, shortage of medical oxygen in the state is acute and it is obligatory for the Centre and the state government to ensure that the state’s quota of 194 MTs of liquid medical oxygen, as allocated by the Central government, reaches its destination physically,” the bench of Justice Chakradhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah observed Wednesday evening. The bench also rejected Bihar government’s stand that “the supply of 90 MTs of oxygen from the Central quota on April 26 coupled with the availability of oxygen generated in the State through various sources was adequate to meet the requirement for treating patients in the state”. “Certain disturbing facts have emerged during hearing of the present matter under public interest litigation relating to deficient health care infrastructure in Bihar to meet the challenges posed by exponential rise in Covid-19 cases in its second wave. Acute shortage of medical oxygen in the state, particularly in the hospitals treating Covid patients, is an admitted fact,” the bench observed. The bench said it has formed an opinion that “Bihar is not in a position to increase the number of Covid-19 beds in government and private hospitals because of shortage of oxygen and is unfortunately determining the requirement of oxygen merely on the basis of minuscule number of beds which have been made available compared to the actual need”. The court also underlined the report of the central team, which pointed at inadequate infrastructure even in the state’s big government hospitals like the IGIMS and PMCH. Huge vacancies The court was also surprised by the huge number of vacancies at various levels in the health sector. “It is noteworthy that 4,149 posts of specialist doctors and 3,206 of general doctors are vacant. As against total sanctioned posts of 91,921 at various levels, 46,256 posts are vacant. It is high time the state government looked into this aspect and took remedial measures. We will be taking up this aspect of the matter in future proceedings,” the court observed. The court also wanted to know from the state government the basis for determination of number of Covid deaths in the state and what are the sources which feed data in relation to such deaths. The query is significant as there have been several allegations of underreporting due to growing rush at the crematoriums. Lack of storage tanks In course of the hearing , it came to light that except three hospitals, none of the government and private hospitals in Patna has cryogenic storage tank, a basic requirement for big hospitals. As a result, full utilization of hospital beds is not happening due to lack of oxygen supply. The Central team’s report said All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Patna), Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital at Bihta and private hospitals Paras in Patna have cryogenic storage tank for oxygen. Even old and big hospitals like Patna Medical College and Hospital, Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) and state’s first dedicated Covid hospital, Nalanda Medical College and Hospital (NMCH) don’t have the facility. The government’s announcement to convert Medanta-Jai Prabha Hospital, which has come up on the government land, into a Covid hospital has also remained a non-starter. The court directed the health department to ensure that Medanta, which did not have oxygen supply facility at present, could provide a 50-bed facility. It also directed that facility created for Covid patients at the Pataliputra Sports Complex be put to use. The report of the central team said the PMCH has 1,750 beds, but nearly 1,000 remained unused for want of oxygen. The ailing systemDemand and supplyBihar’s quota for medical oxygen per day,as fixed by Centre, is 194 MTs. It received only 90 MTs on April 26. State says the supply, coupled with oxygen generated in the state, is adequate to for treating patients, a claim trashed by the HC. Storage problemsOnly three hospitals in Pana — AIIMS, ESIC Hospital at Bihta and private Paras Hospital, have cryogenic storage tanks for oxygen, a basic requirement for big hospitals. Even premier hospitals like PMCH, NMCH and IGIMS don’t have the facility.Manpower gapAs against the total number of sanctioned posts of 91,921 at various levels, 46,256 having been lying vacant at various state-run hospitals. State has now decided to hire doctors and nurses on a one-year contract through walk-in interviews.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/oxygen-crisis-hc-picks-gaping-gaps-in-state-s-claims-101619711922784.html
29-04-2021||Other||Thunder, lightning, light rain... but max temp at 38.6 deg C||PUNE Pune city on Thursday witnessed thunderstorms and lightning, followed by light rainfall. Aundh, Baner, Pashan, Fergusson College toad, Vishrantwadi, Pune Station, and Kothrud witnessed light rains. Pune, on Thursday, reported 0.2 millimetres of rain, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD), with dense black clouds towards the evening.Pune also recorded a maximum temperature of 38.6 degrees Celsius and minimum temperature of 21.9 degrees Celsius, on Thursday.“Thundery activity with lightning is likely to continue in the city till May 3. The day temperature will be around 39 degrees Celsius and the night temperature will be 21 degrees Celsius,” said IMD officials.As per IMD, thunderstorms accompanied with lightning, rain and gusty winds with speed reaching 30 to 40 kilometres per hour, are very likely to occur at isolated places across Maharashtra till May 2.“These conditions will prevail in Marathwada, Madhya (central) Maharashtra and Konkan and Goa from Thursday till May 2,” said IMD.Kolhapur, Nashik, Sangli, Satara and Mahabaleshwar also reported rainfall On Thursday.IMD officials said that due to local instability and various weather systems at work over Maharashtra, there is moisture incursion leading to light rainfall.The highest maximum temperature reported in Maharashtra was at 44.6 degrees Celsius at Brahmapuri in Vidarbha. The lowest minimum temperature reported was at 19.6 degrees Celsius in Mahabaleshwar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thunder-lightning-light-rain-but-max-temp-at-38-6-deg-c-101619711682703.html
29-04-2021||Other||ACs, lifts in all Pune hospitals, Covid centres to go under audit by energy dept||PUNE A total of 146 Covid care centres in Pune will be inspected and audited by the department of energy. This is following recent incidents of fire in hospitals. The audit is to inspect electrical installations in government, as well as in private Covid hospitals. A major area of the audit will be AC systems and lifts.State energy minister Nitin Raut has asked the chief electrical inspector to conduct the audit.Dinesh Khonde, chief electrical inspector, issued an order for inspections on April 28. The order consists of a check-list and SOPs for the inspections, to follow Covid 19 lockdown protocols and observe safety measures to prevent infection.“Fire incidents in some ICU wards have happened due to a short circuit in the AC system in some hospitals. Hence, the AC systems will be inspected carefully. The task is now to bring to the notice lacunae, if any, to hospital authorities in time to prevent mishaps. It is mandatory that all Covid hospitals or centres must have a standby for electricity supply in case of any power break down. If any Covid centre doesn’t have this we will not give permission to operate,” said Thorat, electrical inspector, energy department, Pune. “Faulty electric installations will be rectified. If height of the building is above 15 metre, then they should have all necessary clearances,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/acs-lifts-in-all-pune-hospitals-covid-centres-to-go-under-audit-by-energy-dept-101619710962694.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maha minister’s district has 7,800 cases, got 30,000 Remdesivir vials, HC told||The Bombay high court ordered a top Maharashtra official to report the district-wise allocation of anti-viral drug Remdesivir and the basis on which this allocation had been made.The directions by the Nagpur bench of the high court came after being told that public health minister Rajesh Tope’s home district Jalna, which has just 7,800 active Covid-19 cases, received 30,000 vials for 7,600 active cases on Wednesday while Nagpur didn’t get a single vial though it has over 78,000 Covid positive patients.“In case he (state’s Nodal Officer) finds that more number of vials than what should have been sent to a particular district has been sent, the Nodal Officer shall withdraw the same from that district proportionately and send them to the districts which have been unjustly and unequally deprived of these vials, and this would include Nagpur as well,” the high court bench comprising Justices Sunil Shukre and Avinash Gharote said.The officer has been told to report compliance to the court order by Friday afternoon. The bench was hearing a suo-motu public interest litigation that blames the state government for mismanagement of the resources.Indian Medical Association (IMA) lawyer Shreerang Bhandarkar, who was appointed amicus curiae (friend of the court), told the high court that the Centre had initially allotted 2.69 lakh Remdesivir vials for Maharashtra for April 21-30. This allocation was enhanced to 4.35 lakh on April 24.Considering the number of active cases, Nagpur district should have received 49,177 vials during the nine days, but only received a fraction of this figure. In contrast, Jalna district received 30,000 vials of Remdesivir vials on Wednesday from one or two pharmaceutical companies, he said.Bhandarkar said according to their calculations based on the number of active patients, the per day quota of these vials for Jalna district is 598 vials which would translate into 5,980 vials over a 10-day period. But it received 30,000 vials yesterday.Lawyer Tushar Mandelkar said Nagpur hadn’t received a single vial on some days during this 10-day period leading to a precarious situation.Ketaki Joshi, the government pleader in-charge, however, told the court that the nodal officer had not passed an allocation order for the districts and blamed the central government and pharma companies for the shortage of the drug.In response, the high court asked the state government to come up with the details of the allocation of the antiviral drug among districts, the backlog of vials from pharmaceutical companies and the steps taken to procure the drug from the seven pharmaceutical companies by Friday.The judges also reiterated its previous order of finalising district-wise allotment in a just and equitable manner and asked the nodal officer to also report if pharma companies were deliberately dragging their feet on supplying Remdesivir to the state or particular districts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maha-minister-s-district-has-7-800-cases-got-30-000-remdesivir-vials-hc-told-101619710184147.html
29-04-2021||Other||Police arrest man for selling fake e-passes for Rs800 each||PUNE The Crime Branch of the Pune police has arrested a man for allegedly cheating people by selling fake e-passes for inter-district travel. He sold over 50 such passes at ₹800 each.Due to Covid-19 , the Maharashtra government has restricted travel and people with the e-passes only can travel to other districts.On April 28, sub-inspector Shridhar Khadke of the Social Security Cell, Crime Branch, received a tip-off that a man was selling fake e-passes in Hadapsar. A trap was laid and a decoy was sent to the accused, identified as Dhanaji Muralidhar Ganganamle (29) of Bhekrai nagar, Fursungi. The accused makes the fake e-passes on his laptop, preliminary investigation revealed.A case under sections 420 (cheating); 465 (punishment for forgery); 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating); 471 (using forged document as genuine); and 484 (counterfeiting); of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) has been registered at the Hadapsar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/police-arrest-man-for-selling-fake-e-passes-for-rs800-each-101619710182641.html
29-04-2021||Other||Damage to underground cables blamed for regular power cuts in Mundhwa, Kharadi||PUNE After Sangvi in the western part of Pune, some areas in east Pune, Mundhwa and Kharadi, are also experiencing frequent power outages. The main reason, residents say, is a lack of coordination between the PMC and the Maharashtra state Electrical Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL).Under the Mundhwa sub-division, MSEDCL supplies electricity to Keshavnagar, Mundhwa gaon, Magarpatta, Loknagar vasti, Koregaon park road, and the Sade Satra Nali areas. There are a total 33,000 residents who get power supply from 30 different low-tension and high-tension underground cables.Over the last few days, people have been facing power failure problems frequently. Given it is summer, residents are facing very annoying conditions staying at home.As per MSEDCL statistics, 85 underground electrical cables have been damaged over the last one yearSheetal Kanoje, a resident of Plenum Park society, Keshavnagar, said, “It is a very difficult situation to stay at home without electricity. We have had power cuts more than thrice a week, of almost one-to-two hours, either in the afternoon or late evening.”Vishal Bhosale, an IT professional from Magarpatta city said, “Our online work is hampered due to the power cuts. Lot of IT professionals are living in Magarpatta. MSEDCL should know that due to lockdown, all IT professionals are working from home. We cannot tell our clients or bosses that there is a problem with electricity. We consider Pune a smart city, but have to struggle to get uninterrupted power supply.”Nishikant Raut, public relations officer, of MSEDCL said, “We are trying to supply uninterrupted power supply to citizens, but, sometimes, it becomes difficult due to the damage to underground electricity cables. We are insisting PMC officials depute officers who can coordinate with MSEDCL before digging for any development work. Our officials would have to rush to spots at night to restore electricity. It takes some time to identify the spot.”He added, “If PMC officials tell in advance about development work, we will take measures to use another source to supply power to local residents.”The PMC has started road and drainage work. Besides that, PMC allows private mobile companies to lay down underground cables. The corporation is utilising the lockdown period to complete development works by May. VG Kulkarni, chief superintendent Engineer of PMC, said, “We have started development work in different areas. Therefore, there may be some incidents of damaging electrical cables. However, we have given strict instructions to contractor and road officials to monitor work and report to MSEDCL officials to avoid interruption of power supply.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/damage-to-underground-cables-blamed-for-regular-power-cuts-in-mundhwa-kharadi-101619709882830.html
29-04-2021||Pune||Pune faces severe shortage of ventilator beds||PUNE The district faced a severe shortage of ventilator beds on Wednesday as it had only three vacant ventilator beds and the city zero, as per the Covid dashboard.These three beds were available one in Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) and two in rural areas, however, when contacted both the numbers were switched off.A 30-year-old woman had to travel along with her family from Uruli Kanchan, which is about 30 kilometres from the city, to get admitted to Sassoon general hospital.A relative from the city who helped the woman get a bed said, “We got her through an ambulance after they could not get a bed in their area. The patient was made to sit on a chair and get oxygen supply through the night (on Tuesday).”“On Tuesday night when she arrived at the hospital, there were already 40 people waiting for an oxygen bed so they made her sit on a chair and supplied her oxygen. Finally, on Wednesday morning she got an oxygen bed,” she said.Another patient from a rural area is trying to get a ventilator bed since April 26, but could not get it anywhere in the rural areas, even in the interiors of Bhor. Relative requesting anonymity said, “Since the past two days we were searching for a ventilator for a 57-year-old male who was admitted in a small hospital that did not have a ventilator.”“The patient was on a ventilator with oxygen saturation levels between 80-85 with oxygen 10 litres a minute. The High-resolution computed tomography (HRCT) score was about 22 to 25. Finally, after much waiting we got one at Navale hospital,” he said.The situation in Pune seems to have spiralled out of control of the officials too who constantly get calls to either find a bed or get drugs. Even if one is lucky enough to find a bed, getting Tocilizumab has become another problem.A senior Pune Food and Drugs Administration (FDA) official said, “We have heard that the state has been allocated around 800 injections of Tocilizumab. However, we are yet to get any. We are hoping to get at least 300 injections for Pune considering the high demand and because the district has the highest number of active Covid-19 cases in the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/pune-faces-severe-shortage-of-ventilator-beds-101619707483547.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid: Maharashtra extends lockdown-like restrictions till May 15||The Maharashtra government on Thursday extended till May 15 the existing lockdown-like restrictions enforced to stem the spread of Covid-19 in the state.An order issued by chief secretary Sitaram Kunte said the decision to extend the restrictions has been taken as the state continued to be threatened with the spread of Covid-19.It was imperative to continue the emergency measures to prevent and contain the spread of the virus, he said.The sweeping curbs on movement of people and a host of other activities, imposed early this month, were to continue till 7 am on May 1.The restrictions were further tightened on April 14 and then last week, brining more activities under their ambit.Prohibitory orders under section 144 of the CrPC, banning assembly of five or more people at one spot, are in force.Local train services in Mumbai and public transport are open only for essential services staff of the government.At present, vegetable shops, grocery stores and milk outlets are allowed to function only between 7 am and 11 am.Essential services have been exempted from the purview of the curbs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-maharashtra-extends-lockdown-like-restrictions-till-may-15-101619706340267.html
29-04-2021||Other||22 railway cops transferred for dereliction of duty after “extortion” video goes viral||PUNE Twenty-two police personnel from the Group Railway Police in Pune have been transferred to Railway Police headquarters after a video posted on social media claimed to show police personnel extorting cash from labourers returning to their home states at the Pune Railway station.Superintendent of police (SP), Group Railway Police, Pune, Sadanand Wayse Patil, explaining the case, said, “We have registered an FIR against those persons who posted the video, which aims to defame the railway police. There are 72 cameras installed on the railway station is to keep a watch on illegal activities. We believe that the policemen in the video are fake cops. Since our policemen did not take action against these fake cops, we have transferred 22 of them on grounds of negligence.” MNS corporator Vasant More, who was informed about the extortion video, furnished pictures of it as evidence before senior railway police officers on Wednesday. More said, “After getting complaints of extortion I personally went to the station as a commoner and investigated the allegations. We submitted photos to the police as proof and appreciate the action.”Patil added: “If the Railway Police staff does not put an end to this menace more will be transferred. However, defamation of police on social media is wrong. We have lost four policemen to corona and 100 others have contracted the infection while working for commuters.” To replace the 22 cops transferred, Patil claimed that 50 police personnel have already been brought to patrol the Pune railway station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/22-railway-cops-transferred-for-dereliction-of-duty-after-extortion-video-goes-viral-101619706882532.html
29-04-2021||Other||Number of fines issued for mask violations by PMC lower in April than in March||PUNE The number of fines issued by the Pune municipal corporation (PMC) to residents found not wearing a mask dropped from 4,417 in March to 2,597 in April, till the 28th of the month.PMC had collected a total of Rs22,08,500 from mask violators in March 2021.In February 2021, PMC had taken action against 2,162 mask violators. The fines levied by the PMC in March are the highest for a particular month since the pandemic began. In September 2020, 3,438 were fined for not wearing masks, the month with the second-highest number after March 2021.According to PMC officials the number of fines have reduced as people’s movement is currently restricted. “People are mostly out on the roads from 8 am-11 am. We are carrying out actions during this time. Action against Covid violators has not stopped,” said Vaibhav Kadlakh, assistant municipal commissioner (Yerawada ward office). “We have continued site inspections and fines have been imposed on those found in violation,” Somnath Bankar, assistant municipal commissioner (Hadapsar-Mundhwa ward). Mask violators in the bookJan 2021Number of fines levied - 241 Fines collected - Rs1,20,500 Feb 2021Number of fines levied 2162 Fines collected - 10,81,000 March 2021Number of fines levied 4417 Fines collected – 22,08,500 April 2021 (till the 28th)Number of fines levied 2497 Fines collected – 12,48,500||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/number-of-fines-issued-for-mask-violations-by-pmc-lower-in-april-than-in-march-101619705862494.html
29-04-2021||Other||Standing committee clears Rs20 lakh for foreign language courses in PMC schools||PUNE Even as schools run by the Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) keep classes online due to the Covid-19 lockdown, the standing committee has approved Rs20 lakh on Thursday, to be invested in teaching foreign languages to students of the PMC’s Vidhyniketan schools. The Vishwa Bharati institute of foreign language will be contracted to conduct the classes.The ₹20 lakh aims to include teacher’s salaries, preparation of course module, books, internet and online examinations, and audio-visual material. Vishwa Bharati will charge the PMC ₹1,300 per student, as per the proposal.The civic body has decided to offer foreign languages to secondary school students under the “Global Punekar” initiative in online mode.The standing committee passed the proposal last week to teach German, Japanese, Spanish and French to secondary school students (Classes 8 and 9), for the academic year 2021-22. PMC has six Vidya Niketan schools with 400 students studying in Classes 8 and 9. Hemant Rasane, standing Committee chairman said, “The course will not start right now. When the academic year starts, it will precede it. The aim is to provide professional and career-orientated course to PMC school students under the Global Punekar initiative.” A senior official of the PMC school board, requesting anonymity, said, “We don’t have the budget to run foreign languages courses. Schools have not opened. There is a prediction of a third wave of Covid-19. Therefore, no one knows when the new academic year is going to start. The most important is that PMC cannot allot work to one institute without calling for an expression of interest (EOI).” Mukund Kirdat, coordinator, Pune Parent’s Association, said, “It is a waste of money. This is not the right time to start any such courses. The entire education system has collapsed due to Covid-19. “||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/standing-committee-clears-rs20-lakh-for-foreign-language-courses-in-pmc-schools-101619704905838.html
29-04-2021||Other||Pune police have taken action against 571 persons in last 23 days, for violating lockdown rules||PUNE The Pune police have taken action against 571 persons in the last 23 days, for violating lockdown rules. A case has been registered against the violators under section 188 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). “This year people are following the Covid guidelines as compared to the previous year, Therefore, the police choose not to take strict action. Action is being taken against those who are not following the rules,” said a police official, requesting anonymity. Last year, at least 27,000 violators faced action and some were even beaten-up by the police. While inter-district and intercity travel is allowed only with an e-pass, the city police have made a Covid- negative report mandatory for those applying for an e-pass.Till April 25, the police rejected 5,100 applications for an e-pass due to there being no Covid-19 negative certificate.Pune police commissioner Amitabh Gupta tweeted on Thursday: “Punekars, lockdown extended till 15th May! Interstate and Inter-District travel will require E-Pass. Till date approximately 9000 E-Passes have been issued. Travel if it’s absolutely required or stay home.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/pune-police-have-taken-action-against-571-persons-in-last-23-days-for-violating-lockdown-rules-101619703582323.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai T20 League deferred due to Covid, says Mumbai Cricket Association||The Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) on Thursday decided to postpone the T20 Mumbai League due to the spike in Covid-19 cases in the country, the cricket body said in a statement just a day after the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) approved the league.Milind Narvekar, the chairman of the T20 Mumbai governing council and a close aide of Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, said he took the decision in consultation with MCA president Vijay Patil.“In the view of the current situation, president Vijay Patil and I, in my capacity as the Chairman, have taken the decision to not conduct the T20 Mumbai League till further notice. This is our way to reduce load on the state machinery and also make sure everyone is safe,” said Narvekar, who is also one of the secretaries of Shiv Sena.He added: “I spoke to Vijay Patil and he supported my decision which is a right one looking at the current circumstances.” Later, MCA issued a statement regarding deferring the third edition of the tournament. “In the view of the current Covid-19 pandemic situation in the country and keeping in mind the safety and interest of all the stakeholders involved, the Mumbai Cricket Association has decided to defer the conduct of third edition of the T20 Mumbai League till further notice,” read the statement which was signed by Narvekar and Patil.On Wednesday, BCCI had bent its own rule to allow four associations to organise their respective T20 leagues straight after the IPL finishes. According to the BCCI rules, local T20 tournaments can’t be held 15 days before or 15 days after the IPL and also between September 15 and end of February as BCCI domestic tournaments are held during this period. In an email to the state associations, BCCI interim CEO Hemang Amin stated: “Your request for organising the tournament falls within the 15-day period after the IPL 2021. The issue was discussed at the Apex Council meeting of the BCCI and after some deliberations it was decided that owing to the current Covid-19 pandemic situation, the BCCI is giving permission to organise the tournament within the 15-day period after the completion of IPL 2021.” The mail added: “The BCCI is pleased to grant you approval to organise the tournament for the year 2021. You are instructed to adhere to the advisory and guidelines issued by BCCI in this regard. We reiterate that this is a one-time permission provided due to the pandemic situation and is not the norm,” the BCCI official wrote. Besides MCA, the other associations who have been given permission are Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Saurashtra. Tamil Nadu Premier League (TNPL) schedule was released later in the day with the tournament to be held from June 4 to July 4. The MCA had applied for permission when the Covid situation in the city was still considered to be under control.According to people familiar with the matter, MCA had proposed to start the tournament by June 4 if there weren’t too many Covid-19 cases in the city. The plan was to follow the biosecure bubble protocols that were in place during the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, Vijay Hazare Trophy and the IPL.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-t20-league-deferred-due-to-covid-says-maharashtra-cricket-association-101619701663108.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chitkara University holds vaccination drive for staff||Chitkara University launched a vaccination drive for its staff on the varsity campus on Thursday. The vaccination campaign was led by Chitkara University chancellor Ashok Chitkara and pro-chancellor Madhu Chitkara. The vice-chancellor, deans, faculty and staff participated in the drive. The pro-chancellor said the vaccine is the best weapon to combat Covid and urged all staff members to get vaccinated as per policy. She appreciated the efforts of Yuvsatta to spread awareness and thereby instil confidence among citizens.“Chitkara University has been on the forefront in the fight against Covid. The University has made all attempts to adhere to Covid protocols,” said a spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chitkara-university-holds-vaccination-drive-for-staff-101619697822964.html
29-04-2021||Lucknow||UP sees highest single day spike of 298 Covid deaths; 35,156 new cases added||A record single-day rise of 298 Covid-19 fatalities in Uttar Pradesh pushed the death toll to 12,241 on Thursday, while the infection tally mounted to 12,17,955 with 35,156 fresh cases.A total of 25,613 people have recovered from the disease in the past 24 hours, while the active cases stand at 3,09,237.So far, 8,96,477 patients have recuperated from Covid-19 in the state, Additional Chief Secretary Amit Mohan Prasad told reporters.More than 2.25 lakh samples were tested for Covid-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the total samples tested so far to 4.03 crore, the highest in the country, Prasad said.Among the active cases, 2,38,856 are in home isolation, while 7,663 are undergoing treatment in private hospitals and rest of them are in government hospitals, he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-sees-highest-single-day-spike-of-298-covid-deaths-35-156-new-cases-added-101619695635536.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Industrial units, private hospitals in Kangra asked to declare O2 stock||To ensure adequate stock of medical oxygen for Covid-19 patients, the Kangra district authorities on Thursday asked industrial units, private hospitals and individuals to declare their stock of oxygen cylinders. Deputy commissioner Rakesh Kumar Prajapati said Kangra district has more than 4,000 active cases and the infrastructure dedicated for Covid-19 patients is under stress due to referral cases from neighbouring districts. He said it has been brought to his notice that industrial units, MSMEs, traders, dealers, private hospitals, commercial establishments and persons in Kangra district are holding stocks of unutilised medical and industrial oxygen cylinders. “Therefore, all traders, dealers, industrial units, MSMEs, commercial establishments, private hospitals and private persons have been directed to declare their complete stock of oxygen cylinders to the general manager, industries, through e-mail or fax ,” he said. Any stock which remains undeclared and is discovered thereafter shall be liable to confiscation. He said all sub divisional magistrates shall immediately constitute teams to inspect godowns, industrial units, MSMEs, establishments, and private hospitals in their jurisdiction and prepare an inventory of oxygen cylinders stored in their jurisdiction. The general manager, industries, of Kangra will share the details with the district administration within two days. All unutilised oxygen cylinders in possession of any person shall be placed at the disposal of the health department. “In case of severe emergency and shortage for Covid positive patients, the SDMs shall immediately take into possession all the stock of oxygen cylinders available with any person,” Prajapati said. He said any violation of the order would make the offender liable for prosecution. Meanwhile, the deputy commissioner said a godown with capacity of storage of 150 cylinders has been created at the Zila Parishad Hall in Dharamshala. The oxygen cylinders can be supplied immediately to the Zonal Hospital, Dharamshala, from the storage facility in case of any emergency. The Zonal Hospital has been designated a dedicated Covid hospital and has a 130-bed capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/industrial-units-private-hospitals-in-kangra-asked-to-declare-o2-stock-101619696082616.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi doesn’t have vaccines for 18-44 age group: Health minister||With no vaccine doses available, Delhi will not begin Phase 3 of the vaccination drive for those between the ages of 18 and 44 years on May 1, Delhi health minister Satyendar Jain said on Thursday. “We don’t have enough vaccines. We have requested for procurement of vaccines from the respective companies. Despite all preparations being made, vaccines should be available for inoculation to begin. As soon as these things are made clear and we receive the vaccines, we will let you know in a couple of days or so. We haven’t received the schedule from companies yet, which includes how many vials will reach on which dates,” the minister said at a press briefing. Delhi has placed an order for 13.4 million doses of the vaccine, chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said on Monday. Adding to the confusion, private hospitals also have no clarity on how to procure vaccine doses on their own. “So far, there is no clarity on whether we will receive any more doses from the state government or if we will have to depend on the doses that we purchase ourselves. If it is the latter, we are likely to not have any doses on May 1 to vaccinate even those above 45 who need their second dose,” said an official from one of the major private hospitals in Delhi, asking not to be named. Government hospitals and district officials too are unsure about where the doses will come from and how they are to be distributed. “We haven’t received any communication about what to do with the vaccine doses or whether we will get any additional doses on May 1. We have vaccination centres ready at the hospital. We will immunise people whenever we get the doses,” said a senior administrator from Lok Nayak hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-doesn-t-have-vaccines-for-18-44-age-group-health-minister-101619695482627.html
29-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan High Court seeks Centre’s response on Covid-19 vaccine pricing||The Rajasthan High Court has sought responses from the Centre, state and vaccine manufacturers on a petition challenging the liberalised pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccination strategy which offers differential pricing for the central and state governments to purchase vaccines from the manufacturers, HT has learnt. The court has set May 12 as the next date of hearing.The division bench of Justice Sabina and Justice MK Vyas passed the order while hearing a PIL filed by the petitioner Mukesh Sharma.“After the new strategy was introduced, the vaccine manufacturers announced their new rates. Serum said in its statement that the vaccine will be given to the central government at the prevailing rate but the vaccine will be given to the state government for ₹400 and private hospitals for ₹600. Bharat Biotech announced the rate to be ₹600 for the state and ₹1200 for private institutions, which is against the spirit of Article 14 and 21 of the constitution, Sharma said.The petition stated that the emergency approval to the vaccine manufactured and supplied by Serum Institute of India under the name of Covishield was granted on January 3 by the Central Drugs Standard Control Organization (CDSCO). It was reported that the vaccine would be sold to the central government at the rate of Rs. 150/- per dose. The vaccine indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech International Limited was also approved for emergency use. It was stated that the vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech shall also be sold for Rs. 150/- per dose to the central government.Initially, the process of vaccination was opened to healthcare workers of the country from January 16 as part of the national Covid-19 vaccination strategy. Subsequently, the vaccination drive was extended to those above the age of 60 years and also for those above the age of 45 years with comorbidities.The vaccination coverage was extended to all persons above the age of 45 years from April 1. Recently, the central government has announced liberalized pricing and accelerated national Covid-19 vaccine strategy, whereby, it was stated that from May 1, vaccine manufacturer would be bound to supply 50% of their monthly doses to the Government of India and the remaining 50% can be supplied to the different state governments and other private channels.The petition pointed out that the prices quoted by manufacturers are not just higher but extremely discriminatory and arbitrary. The rate quoted by Serum Institute is the highest it has quoted in the world. Under the new strategy, which is coming into effect on May 1, people ageing 18 years and above will be eligible for vaccination but not under the Government of India vaccination programme.If a person above the age of 18 years is to be vaccinated, they have to pay hefty amounts for vaccination or remain at the mercy of the state government for providing free vaccination, the petition stated. The state government, in turn, has to pay exorbitantly higher rates for every dosage of vaccination, it added.Recently Rajasthan’s chief minister announced that the state government shall bear the cost of vaccination of all those above the age of 18 years. Contrary to the cost borne by the Government of India at ₹150 per dose, the state has been thrown in the turmoil to vaccinate more than 75% of the population at ₹400 and ₹600 per dose.The Mumbai High Court had earlier in the day declined to hear a similar petition, pointing that this issue should be placed before the Supreme Court since vaccine pricing impacts all states and not just one.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-high-court-seeks-centre-s-response-on-covid-19-vaccine-pricing-101619695002549.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Create provision for oxygen tanks on campus’: National Medical Commission to medical colleges||Amid oxygen shortage and rising Covid-19 cases across the country, the National Medical Commission (NMC) has made draft amendments to their existing rules, henceforth making it compulsory for medical college hospitals to set up Pressure Swing Adsorption (PSA) oxygen units in their campuses. As per the latest circular released by the NMC, the arrangements have to be made within the next six months.Addressed to all affiliated medical institutions in the country, the NMC statement revealed that this move is being introduced through a draft amendment made to the Minimum Requirements for Annual MBBS Admissions Regulations.“Central oxygen and suction points shall include the provision of piped oxygen supply to all patients in critical care from liquid oxygen tanks installed at an appropriate place in the hospital complex,” said the circular released on April 28. The circular further stated that all medical college hospitals should have a “dedicated PSA technology produced oxygen supply in addition to the supply from liquid oxygen tanks, which is installed and made operational within six months”.This move comes days after the central government recently asked respective state governments to make captive oxygen a norm in medical colleges in the future. At present, Maharashtra has more than 60 medical colleges offering undergraduate medical programs.“Most medical colleges in the state already have an oxygen generation unit on campus and we are now going to make sure that all colleges install the PSA technology for future needs,” said TP Lahane, director of the state Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/create-provision-for-oxygen-tanks-on-campus-national-medical-commission-to-medical-colleges-101619694522886.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi Police seize 170 oxygen concentrators; arrest 4 for hoarding;||A total of 170 oxygen concentrators, two luxury cars – Audi and Mercedes – were seized from four persons, including two brothers, who have been arrested for their alleged involvement in hoarding and black marketing of oxygen concentrators, important life-saving equipment in huge demand in Delhi because of their use in saving lives of Covid patients, and hence the shortage, police said. The arrested persons were selling each oxygen concentrator on prices ranging between ₹90,000 and Rs1.1 lakh, nearly double its retail price. Two of the arrested persons are said to be distributors of such equipment. The total worth of the seized concentrators as per the average market price is between ₹85 lakh and ₹90 lakh. The alleged racketeers would have earned between Rs1.53 crore and ₹1.87 crore, more than double their investment, had they managed to sell the machines in black market, the police said.Also Read | MHA issues clarification on Act making L-G effective in-charge of DelhiDeputy commissioner of police (north district) Anto Alphonse said that in view of the prevailing Covid-19 emergency situation in the city, apart from facilitating hospitals with their oxygen supply, the district police have also been keeping a vigil on black marketeers. The police have also been monitoring SOS messages for such items on social media.The police received a complaint on Twitter that oxygen concentrators are being sold for ₹95,000 each at Mittal’s Store in Shastri Nagar, Delhi. The complaint also had the mobile number of the supplier, said DCP Alphonse. “In view of the gravity of the allegations and sensitivity of the matter, several teams of the district were assigned the task,” he said.The teams put the mobile number on electronic surveillance and it was found to be registered in a woman’s name in Shastri Nagar. The person using the mobile number constantly changed his location and did not respond to calls, the police said.“Our teams continued conducting raids for two days and eventually arrested Pawan Mittal,34, with two oxygen concentrators and two adapters on Wednesday,” said the DCP.After interrogation, he accepted that he tried to sell each concentrator between ₹90,000 and ₹1.1 lakh, depending upon the desperation of the customer, senior police officers associated with the operation said.DCP Alphonse said Mittal revealed that he purchased the oxygen concentrators from Himanshu Khurana, who runs a shop in Sadar Bazar. Khurana,26, was arrested and he disclosed that the distributors and suppliers of the equipment were two brothers – Himanshu Handa, 34, and Ayush Handa, 28, -- from Delhi’s Model Town Part-3.“Our special staff team conducted a raid at the two brothers’ under construction building in Model Town and seized 168 oxygen concentrators along with the same number of adapters from its basement, where they had hoarded them. We also seized their two luxury cars – Audi and Mercedes – as some machines were kept in them and they were using the vehicles to transport and deliver the equipment to Mittal and Khurana,” said DCP Alphonse.The police said they were interrogating the two brothers to ascertain the source through which they procured the oxygen concentrators in bulk.On Tuesday, the Delhi Police asked its personnel to activate their human intelligence network, keep a close watch on social media posts, visit scrap godowns, and use decoy customers to trap hoarders fleecing Covid patients and their kin by demanding hefty sums for a single cylinder, oxygen concentrator or medicine vial. It came on the day the Delhi high court pulled up the AAP-led Delhi government, and said the government’s entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines is rampant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-police-seize-170-oxygen-concentrators-arrest-4-for-hoarding-101619693623503.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Two booked for misbehaving with Ambala CMO, civil hospital staff||Two attendants of a patient were booked for misbehaving with Ambala civil surgeon Dr Kuldeep Singh and civil hospital staff on Wednesday night. The incident occurred when the health department staff was checking arrangements on the eve of chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s visit to review the Covid situation in the city. Also read: PM Modi reviews Army’s preparedness, initiatives for management of Covid crisisThe accused were identified as Puneet and Narender Singh, both residents of Ambala. They allegedly misbehaved with the CMO and three doctors besides a nurse. They wanted the doctors to check on their patients and started making videos after losing their cool. “The two started instigating the relatives of other patients against the doctors. They entered the isolation ward and started making videos, disrupting the treatment of patients,” Dr Kuldeep Singh told the police. The two were booked under sections of the Disaster Management Act, Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, Epidemic Diseases Act and the Indian Penal Code at Baldev Nagar police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/two-booked-for-misbehaving-with-ambala-cmo-civil-hospital-staff-101619693022520.html
29-04-2021||Pune||“Chill Baba! Do we have to do all these assignments?”||The post-Covid world is different. But, that’s not why I cook. I cook because I love cooking. Because I like listening to the ingredients talking to each other, watching the chemical reactions, anticipating the transformation of energy, predicting the tastes that will emerge from the combination of ingredients … and the uncertainty of the outcome. Our children love the spectacle, sometimes joining in to help with the washing, sorting and cutting of ingredients, sometimes stirring the pot, or taking one component of the meal right through by themselves. Now this does not happen all the time, because they are children: they love cooking, but not necessarily enough to stop playing Minecraft or abandoning Troll Hunters in the middle of an episode.The last 12 months has forced educators to innovate and one exciting new discovery is that food is a good way to keep children occupied. One can indeed teach a lot of physics, chemistry, design, and art through cooking. But, should one? Apparently yes, and so I find schools incorporating cooking into curriculum. I think someone should ask children what they think of new activities before they introduce them. Our children don’t wait to be asked, they are quite good with dishing out opinions. After the third food assignment in a month, mine decided to have a conversation with me. “Baba, do we have to do all these assignments?”“Why don’t you want to do it?”“It’s stupid stuff. Cutting food photos. Colouring exercises. It’s for babies,” said the youngest who’s in Grade 1 and cooks fish curry from scratch. “Writing a recipe for Szchewan stir-fry noodles is a waste of my time. If they want to know if I can cook, they should ask me to make it,” piped our fourth grader.“I am supposed to create a ‘healthy’ menu and they have told us what is healthy and what isn’t. You cannot construct a menu with stereotypes,” said our eldest who’s in Grade 8.“I thought you guys liked cooking.”“We enjoy cooking because we cook with you guys. We learn how to use a knife, how to cut quarters and cubes, to stir, to watch for how food changes during cooking, how to wash ingredients properly, the feel … it’s exciting. Writing random recipes for a task, or giving my opinion on a food topic, or using food items for science experiments - that doesn’t teach me anything, except wasting food and how to keep my mouth shut and getting it done to get a grade,” the eldest stated his case.Makes perfect sense to me. Learning is an intuitive, individual, internal journey. Forcing an external context is what takes the learning out of the learning experience. And what kind of example would I set as a parent by asking them to do things for the sake of doing it? Yep, the post-Covid world is a different world, but the rules of engagement with children are still the same. It starts exactly where it always has: talking with and listening to them. Now all this wisdom didn’t just come to me. I had to work for it. And since all my work wasn’t amounting to much, my kids told me: “You have to listen to us, don’t just pretend to pay attention and nod your head, and then tell us we have to do the assignments anyway!”I think often times I tend to forget that they are children. And yes children are resilient, but do I have to test that resilience every hour, every day? To be honest, I had initially thought it was great that the school was introducing some food … till I saw the assignments. I get it. It’s difficult for everyone. But, children are children and it’s much more difficult for them. The last thing they need is for us to pass on our difficulties, or lack of ideas on to them and make it impossible for them to be children. In the end, it was what our fourth grader said to me: “I am a kid. I am going to play. Why do you want me to work hard at everything like you do? Chill a little Baba.”I am going to print that. Bold, 100-point font size.Mukherjee, a former journalist, is a blogger and author, and dad to three children||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/chill-baba-do-we-have-to-do-all-these-assignments-101619692962440.html
29-04-2021||Other||Thane hospital fire: Local youths save 9 patients||A group of 10-12 men, up early on Wednesday for Ramzan Sehri, helped rescue patients from Prime Criticare Hospital, where a fire broke out, killing four patients. The toll would have been higher if not for these good Samaritans, all in their 20s, breaking open the grilles and glass of the windows at the back of the hospital to rescue at least nine patients. They also carried 30 unused oxygen cylinders away from the site, so as to avert any explosion.The men live in three chawls — Dongre, Parkar and Jahur —surrounding the hospital in Rashid Compound. Farhan Ansari, 29, an advocate, said, “I was up for Sehri, when around 3.45am I heard few women shouting. I opened the window and saw flames rising from the building. I thought some house is on fire and alerted few others in my chawl and we rushed to the spot without a second thought. When we reached, the entire hospital was engulfed in fire, the entrance was in flames and the patients could not escape.” The group decided to go to the back of the hospital. He added, “There was a window with grilles at the back of the hospital. We saw patients crying for help from this window. We decided to try and break open the window, which was difficult as we tried different tools, but managed it after several attempts. We asked for a digging bar from one of our neighbours and using the iron rod, pulled the grille out. We also broke the glass using the same rod. We saw a nurse and asked her how many patients are there inside. She told us the hospital was almost full.” Some of them climbed inside. Mohsin Shaikh, 27, another resident, said, “There were patients from all age groups, some of them were in ICU and critical. The smoke from the fire was suffocating them. We started shifting them on stretchers and took them to the ambulance to be shifted to different hospitals.” Shaikh added that while rescuing, they saw over 30 oxygen cylinders, which they decided to move away from the hospital. “We carried them on our back and outside the hospital to safety.” Ansari added that the fire brigade, too, had reached the spot by the time they rescued a few of the patients from the window side. Insurance advisor, Sayyed Rehan, 50, a patient who was rescued from the window, said, “I was admitted in the general ward on April 22 for pneumonia. On Wednesday morning, my son had gone for Sehri, while I was sleeping. I woke up due to the commotion and saw smoke in the entire room. I tried to run, but the door was jammed, when I saw few people at the window. For almost 10-15 minutes, they were trying to break the window. They managed to raise the grille and those of us who could walk, crawled from the space. If not for these men, I would have not survived.” He was shifted to Bilal Hospital in Mumbra.(Inputs by Faisal)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/thane-hospital-fire-local-youths-save-9-patients-101619692721837.html
29-04-2021||Other||High Court quashes 8 allotments of JMC flats in Jammu’s posh Gandhi Nagar||Acting upon a PIL, a division bench of the Jammu and Kashmir High Court comprising Chief Justice Pankaj Mithal and Justice Rajnesh Oswal on Wednesday quashed eight allotments as well as consequential rent deeds made by the Jammu Municipal Corporation (JMC) in respect of municipal flats situated at posh Gandhi Nagar locality in Jammu city. The bench observed, “We have reached an un-escapable conclusion that impugned allotments are illegal and contrary to the principle of equality as enshrined in Article 14 of the Constitution of India.” The division bench directed the allottees to vacate the premises under their occupation within a period of six months from the date of this order. The division bench also directed that so far as 587 municipal shops, 191 flats and 30 garages are concerned, the UT government and Municipal Corporation Jammu are directed to examine the individual cases and proceed in accordance with the law laid down by the apex court in numerous decisions mentioned in this judgment and take appropriate action within a period of six months, extendable by another period of six months only. The beneficiaries of the JMC flats include Jeet Lal Gupta (IAS), former commissioner secretary, housing and urban development department; RS Jamwal (KAS) former joint commissioner of Jammu Municipal Corporation, Madan Mohan Khajuria, former PA to commissioner JMC; Narender Sharma president of an NGO ‘PEACE’; Surinder Kumar, PSO to former commissioner secretary housing and urban development department; two drivers Balbir Singh and Bharat Bhushan besides two others Chain Singh and Khairati Lal. The PIL was filed by a practising lawyer Irtiza Mushtaq Salaria, who had challenged eight allotments of prime municipal flats situated at posh Gandhi Nagar area. After hearing advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmed for the petitioner and senior AAG SS Nanda for the housing and urban development department, the division bench referred to several judgments of the apex court. Advocate Sheikh Shakeel Ahmed vehemently argued that in absence of any policy, the Municipal Corporation has adopted a pick and choose a policy in allotting the flats and quarters to the blue-eyed persons and the Municipal assets being a public property could not have been distributed in a manner as has been done by the JMC. “Rather the allotments were required to be made via auction only, so as to enable the wider participation of the common public in so far as allotments to private persons are concerned,” he argued. He also vociferously argued that in the posh area of Gandhi Nagar, the JMC has allotted a flat to former commissioner secretary, Jeet Lal Gupta at a nominal rent of ₹990/- per month for a period of 40 years and similarly a cattle pond at Gandhi Nagar in Jammu was converted into flat after making a renovation and repair to the tune of ₹35 lakhs and thereafter it was allotted to former joint commissioner of JMC RS Jamwal at a modest rent. The attention of the bench was also drawn towards 587 shops, 191 flats and 30 garages which have also been allotted in a fishy manner.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/high-court-quashes-8-allotments-of-jmc-flats-in-jammu-s-posh-gandhi-nagar-101619692302310.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||'Doesn't alter...': MHA's clarification on Act making L-G effective in-charge of Delhi||The recent amendments to the Government of National Capital Territory (GNCTD) Act, 1991, do not alter the Constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government in respect of the transferred subjects in state and concurrent lists, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) said in a press release on Thursday.The amendment, which came into effect on April 27, made Delhi’s lieutenant governor the effective in-charge of the national capital and said that the city's government will now have to seek the opinion of the L-G before taking any executive decision. Even if the decision is regarding health, education, agriculture, forest and transport, all state subjects, the city would need to take into consideration the L-G's take on it, before passing it.Also Read: Law giving more power to Delhi L-G now in force"The objective of the Amendment is to make it more relevant to the needs of the Capital; further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lt. Governor; and, create a harmonious relationship between the legislature and the executive. The Amendment would ensure better governance in the Nation Capital Territory of Delhi and lead to improved implementation of schemes and programmes meant for the common people of Delhi," the release said.The MHA, in its release, reiterated that the amendment was consistent with the existing legal and constitutional provisions and was in line with the Supreme Court's July 2018 judgement on the powers of the L-G and the government of Delhi. "The amendments to the GNCTD Act, 1991, in no way alter the constitutional and legal responsibilities of the elected government to take necessary action, in respect of the subjects transferred to them in the state and concurrent lists of the Constitution of India, including subjects such as health, education, etc," the release added.After the bill in this regard was passed by the Parliament last month, in the Lok Sabha on March 22 and in the Rajya Sabha on March 24, Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said it is a "sad day for Indian democracy".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/doesnt-alter-mha-s-clarification-on-act-making-l-g-effective-in-charge-of-delhi-101619691447785.html
29-04-2021||Patna||Bihar oxygen crisis: Hospitals lack cryogenic tanks, not enough tankers to lift Central allotment||Bihar’s capital city, Patna, is among the few towns in the country with four medical college hospitals, besides hundreds of private nursing homes and other hospitals. However, amid the surge in Covid-19 patients, only three of such health facilities have cryogenic storage tank – a basic requirement for big hospitals, a central government report has found. As a result, full utilisation of hospital beds is not happening due to lack of oxygen supply, the report submitted to the Patna High Court. According to the report, the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (Patna), Employees’ State Insurance Corporation (ESIC) Hospital, and a private Paras Hospital in Patna have a cryogenic storage tank each for oxygen. Even old and big hospitals like PMCH, IGIMS and the state’s first dedicated Covid-19 hospital NMCH don’t have the facility. Creating new facilities will take time, the report added. The government’s announcement to convert Medanta-Jai Prabha Hospital, which has come up on the government land, into a Covid hospital has also remained a non-starter. The bench of Justice Charadhari Sharan Singh and Justice Mohit Kumar Shah was informed that Medianta did not have an oxygen supply facility at present, and it could at best ensure a 50-bed-facility. The facility created for Covid-19 patients at the Pataliputra Sports Complex also remains unused. The report stated that the Patna Medical College Hospital (PMCH) has 1750 beds but nearly 1,000 remained unused for want of oxygen, while Bihar was unable to lift its full quota of 194 mt of oxygen allocated by the Centre. In fact, Bihar has hardly lifted around 100 mt of oxygen allocated under the central quota, as it does not have tankers. At PMCH, just 450 beds out of 1750 are used for Covid-19 patients, while 50 are reserved for staff who may get infected and 250 for other ailments.With most of the hospitals dependent on oxygen cylinders for the supply, the issue of hoarding and black-marketing also came up before the bench. Some of the voluntary organisations also said they need oxygen as they have cylinders to supply to the needy. The three-member technical team had been constituted by the Centre on the directive of the Patna HC to examine the facilities available at the hospitals in Patna. The team was headed by Dr Umesh Kumar Bhadani of AIIMS, Patna. Two days ago, the Indian Medical Association (IMA) wrote to chief minister Nitish Kumar about the selective supply of oxygen to some big private hospitals and said that lack of oxygen supply could force closure of around 90 private hospitals in the city, causing risk to the lives of admitted Covid and non-Covid patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/bihar-oxygen-crisis-hospitals-lack-cryogenic-tanks-not-enough-tankers-to-lift-central-allotment-101619691762740.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi child rights body reaches out to kids who lost parents to Covid||Children in Delhi who lost their entire families, or even their caregivers, to Covid have help at hand. The Delhi Commission for Protection of Child Rights (DCPCR) is now taking steps to assist children who lost their parents to the disease or are left with no caregivers in the wake of hospitalisation of either one or both of their parents.Commission chairperson, Anurag Kundu, has reached out on social media, appealing to people to call on their helpline number and report cases where children need essential supplies, have lost their parent/s, or are struggling to support themselves due to the illness.“If you know of any child who is in need of essential supplies, has lost the parent/struggling to support because of illness Report @ +91-9311551393. Delhi Commission For Protection of Child Rights shall intervene in [less than] <24 hours,” Kundu tweeted Thursday.Officials at DCPCR said that the commission is working with several non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to care for these children in terms of food, medical benefits, and other needs along with providing counselling for them. For instance, NGO Protsahan, which works for children, has offered grief and trauma counselling for frontline workers and their children.Also Read | Delhi doesn’t have sufficient vaccine doses for 18-44 age group: Health ministerThe commission got an SOS call about three children in Rohini, all aged below 10, living with their grandmother after their father died of Covid and mother was hospitalised to treat the infection. Volunteer groups provided essential supplies in response to SOS call on social media. However, they pointed out that their grandmother was “very old to feed and manage them.” Kundu instructed his team to “make sure the children have all medical help, food and make sure to daily check-in on them for at least the next 15 days. Also, see if the children can talk to their mother over the phone.”In most cases, the commission is making efforts to keep the child with the family instead of opting for institutional care – which is often chosen as the last resort. DCPCR chairperson responds to various SOS messages on childcare on social media ensuring help reaches the children.Sonal Kapoor, founder of Protsahan, said the most important thing is to work on closure for these children. “We aren’t taught how to deal with emotions involving grief, trauma, and death. A lot of adults, including caregivers and NGOs, are also in denial and children too struggle to process these emotions. The challenge is to establish a routine in the child’s life. While government agencies can put children in shelter homes and provide essentials, focus should also be on psycho-social needs on grief and trauma healing,” she said.Retired IPS officer Amod Kanth, founder of NGO Prayas, said, “We have such children in our shelter homes and have been providing them with all modes of assistance. We are also offering space to those children who may not have isolation facilities at their homes and need space. Anyone can get in touch with us through the child helpline number 1098.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-child-rights-body-reaches-out-to-kids-who-lost-parents-to-covid-101619688162398.html
29-04-2021||Bhopal||'Criminal negligence': Kamal Nath accuses MP govt of mismanaging Covid crisis||Former Madhya Pradesh chief minister Kamal Nath on Thursday accused the BJP government in the state of mismanaging the Covid-19 crisis and termed it as "criminal negligence" on part of the administration.Talking to reporters here, the senior Congress leader also alleged under-reporting of Covid-19 deaths in MP.The state government has denied such allegations.Nath claimed hospitals in the state have no beds, injections, oxygen, medicines and ambulances."I want to know from Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan about a single hospital where all these facilities are available. It is total criminal negligence," Nath said.The state government should have taken note of the second wave of Covid-19 in advance, but it failed to gauge the situation, he said.He also claimed the actual number of Covid-19 deaths in the state was being hidden and that the figures were much higher than the official statistics.MP Home Minister Narottam Mishra on Tuesday denied that there was underreporting of Covid-19 deaths in the state.Kamal Nath said during his interaction with Congress district presidents, he was told the coronavirus had entered villages and no testing facilities were available there."The tests are not being conducted and even if they are done, then the reports are not being declared even in three days. By that time, there is a chance of such people spreading the infection among others," he said.Nath also alleged that Remdesivir injections (key anti-viral drug) were being given by BJP leaders "to their own people", instead of members of the general public suffering from Covid-19.Even vaccines are not available in the state and people are facing lot of problems in getting the jabs despite the state government making "tall claims" about it, he said.Government officials should be sent to oxygen plants and drug manufacturers to get these essential medical supplies for the people, but "principal secretaries were sitting in Bhopal and doing nothing", he said."The mismanagement has been criticised in the international media across the world...the government should focus on managing the crisis instead of managing headlines in the media," Nath said.On Wednesday, Madhya Pradesh reported 12,758 fresh cases of coronavirus, taking the infection count to 5,38,165, while 105 deaths pushed the state's fatality count to 5,424, as per official data.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/criminal-negligence-kamal-nath-accuses-mp-govt-of-mismanaging-covid-crisis-101619686709059.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi doesn't have sufficient vaccine doses for 18-44 age group: Health minister||Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said the city does not have sufficient doses of vaccine for the inoculation of those in the 18-44 age group and orders have been placed with manufacturers for the same.The minister, however, said preparations to give jabs to this category have been completed."At present, we don't have vaccines. We have requested the companies to provide it,” Jain told reporters when asked if there were enough vaccines available for the 18-44 age group."We will tell you in a day or two,” he replied to another query about starting the inoculation drive for this category on May 1.He also said that the manufactures are yet to provide a schedule of vaccine supply to the Delhi government.Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday had said that everybody aged above 18 would be administered anti-coronavirus vaccines free of cost in Delhi.He had said his government had approved the procurement of 1.34 crore vaccine doses from various manufacturers.Jain ascribed the dip in the number of testing over the few days to the restricted movement of people due to the lockdown.Health authorities in the capital have been conducting around 75,000 tests a day over the last few days. Before that, the average number of tests was around 1 lakh.Also Watch| 'Delhi doesn't have sufficient doses for phase 3 vaccination': Health ministerOn the opposition's claim about a big difference in data related to deaths compiled at crematoriums and that released by the Delhi government, Jain, said, “This is not the time to play politics. They had raised the issue six months ago also. Everything was fine.”"Who has the right to hide the number of deaths? Everything is being done in a transparent manner in Delhi,” he added.The minister said there were a few discrepancies in the health bulletin issued on Wednesday night and these have been rectified.Delhi recorded 368 more Covid-19 deaths and 25,986 cases with a positivity rate of 31.76 per cent, according to the latest bulletin issued by the city health department.This was the seventh day on the trot that Delhi had recorded over 300 deaths due to coronavirus.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-doesn-t-have-sufficient-vaccine-doses-for-18-44-age-group-health-minister-101619686090026.html
29-04-2021||Other||Good Samaritans come to the rescue of Covid-19 patients in Odisha||One in every two calls that young Sikh businessman Satbir Singh receives these days pertains to oxygen cylinders. For Bhubaneswar-based Singh, who started Sikh Aid, a non-profit organisation last year, the day starts with people calling up for oxygen and ends with lugging filled oxygen cylinders till late evening.“While I feel happy taking cylinders to people who need it most, I don’t like when we have to say no to people as there not enough cylinders available. We have very few cylinders and I am unable to get any new ones due to restrictions imposed by the government. My team and I are trying my best,” said Singh. With Covid-19 cases escalating in Bhubaneswar, the demand for oxygen cylinders has gone up in the last fortnight.“We have provided at least 60 cylinders in last fortnight,” said Singh, whose fellow volunteers have pooled in money to buy cylinders, fill them and provide them at the doorsteps of Covid-19 patients who need them. Sikh Aid members are also sending cooked meals to many patients who are living alone.Like Singh, several good samaritans in Odisha are trying their best to provide help to Covid-19 patients, particularly a large number of patients who are in home isolation. Of the 55,000-odd positive patients, more than 40,000 are in home isolation who would need lunch and dinner at their homes. As Covid-19 cases surge in Odisha, several organisations, like Sikh Aid, are providing free lunch, dinner to Covid-19 patients while others are donating oxygen cylinders, masks and medicines to the patients.In Rourkela, journalist Sanjiv Mohapatra and his family have been sending cooked lunch and dinners to families for the last three days. Rourkela municipal area has been the worst-hit in Sundargarh district that currently has a TPR of 43. With close to 700 positive patients in Rourkela, Mohapatra said he has been getting several calls from many Covid-19 positive patients for dinner and lunch.“Many of the patients are senior citizens whose children live abroad. After they tested positive, they are unable to go to the kitchen. There are also many single parents who also require meals and we are sending them food. On average, we are sending 170 meals every day,” said Mohapatra, who wants to carry on the free meal scheme for at least a month.In Bhubaneswar, where there are around 6,500 active Covid-19 cases, the So Am I (SAI) Foundation Trust and FICCI FLO have jointly started free lunch and dinner services for Covid-19 patients under home isolation and attendants of patients admitted in government-sponsored hospitals in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack. For the past two days, Vandana Gupta from the SAI Foundation Trust has been sending 200 vegetarian lunch and dinner packets to senior citizens, small families as well as single parents who have tested positive.“We have tied up with Pick Up Ninja to deliver hot lunch parcels at their doorsteps by 1.30 pm and dinner packets by 9.30 pm in the BMC area. Our volunteers will deliver in Cuttack and distribute food to the attendants of the patients across different hospitals. We are planning to provide food as long as the cases surge,” said Gupta.The Narula family in Bhubaneswar runs vegetarian restaurants and is known for its special kulfis. The family has started a similar home delivery service of free lunch and dinner for Covid-19 patients. Nitesh Narula, who is looking after the home delivery, said as of now they are providing vegetarian meals to 200 people in Bhubaneswar. “Delivery is still an issue. We are in talks with delivery agencies like Rapido and then we can scale up. We are prepared to provide food to as many people as we can for the next few months,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/good-samaritans-come-to-the-rescue-of-covid-19-patients-in-odisha-101619686482335.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||50 vehicles gutted as short circuit sparks off fire at Bathinda showroom||Fifty vehicles were gutted after a fire broke out at the showroom of a Mahindra group car dealer on Mansa Road in Bathinda early on Thursday. The incident took place at AVC Motors at Harbans Nagar at 5.30am, police said. There was no casualty. Also read: Char Dham Yatra suspended; only priests to perform rituals at four shrinesCanal police station SHO Ganeshwar Kumar said a short circuit sparked off the fire. “Besides new cars, vehicles parked in the service area were also burnt,” he said. Kumar said all members of the family that owned the showroom are undergoing Covid treatment at a private hospital in Bathinda city. District fire officer Gurmail Singh said it took 20 fire tenders three hours to control the blaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/50-vehicles-gutted-as-short-circuit-sparks-off-fire-at-bathinda-showroom-101619686362069.html
29-04-2021||Lucknow||Covid-19: UP extends weekend curfew by 24 hours, to be in effect till 7am on Tuesday||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced an extension to the existing weekend curfew in the state imposed to tackle the rising numbers of coronavirus disease cases. The curfew which was earlier imposed from 8pm on Friday till 7am on Monday has now been extended until 7am on Tuesday, an official from the state government said. The official also hinted that the move is here to stay for the next few weeks.According to the new orders, the curfew will now begin from 8pm on April 30 and would be in effect till 7am on May 4. The decision was announced after a meeting between chief minister Yogi Adityanath and top officials of the state government.However, the state government has also said that all essential activities, including industrial activities, will continue as usual and the Covid-19 vaccination drive will also not be affected by the curfew.Uttar Pradesh has been reporting a significantly high number of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) since the second wave of the pandemic. Earlier on Wednesday, as many as 29,824 new Covid-19 cases and 266 more deaths were reported in the state which pushed the cases tally to 1,182,848 cases and death toll to 11,493, news agency PTI reported.The active caseload in the state currently stands at 300,041 cases, according to the latest data of the Union health ministry. It is the third-highest in the country only after Maharashtra and Karnataka. The state was also flagged by the ministry as one among 10 states that added 72% new cases and among another set of 10 states that added almost 79% to the new deaths on Wednesday.On April 20, the UP government imposed a curfew in the state on top of an existing night curfew in all districts with more than 500 active cases of the disease. Chief minister Adityanath announced, “We are committed to safeguarding the life and livelihood of every citizen. We have decided to implement the ‘Corona Curfew’ strictly on the basis of the current circumstances so that no livelihood crisis due to the lockdown. Your cooperation is expected,” in a tweet in Hindi.The move followed as the Supreme Court directed the state government to submit before the Allahabad high court, the measures taken to curb the transmission of the disease.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/covid19-up-extends-weekend-curfew-by-24-hours-to-be-in-effect-till-7am-on-tuesday-101619684775480.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Bombay HC refuses to hear plea seeking uniform price of Covid-19 vaccines||The Bombay High Court on Thursday refused to hear a PIL seeking a direction to the Serum Institute of India and the Bharat Biotech to sell their Covid-19 vaccines at a uniform rate of ₹150 (plus GST) per dose.The public interest litigation (PIL), filed last week by Mumbai-based advocate Fayzan Khan and three law students, had challenged the different rates of Covid-19 vaccines for the Centre and state governments.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here The plea was mentioned on Thursday by the petitioner's advocate, Vivek Shukla, before a division bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G S Kulkarni, seeking urgent hearing.The HC, however, said the petition should have been filed before the Supreme Court which, while taking up suo motu (on its own) cognisance of matters pertaining to Covid-19, had said it would hear all pan-India issues."The Supreme Court has said issues that have pan-India effect will be dealt with by them and pricing is a phenomenon applicable all over India. We are not entertaining it (PIL) as the apex court has fairly covered it," the court said.The HC also said the pricing of Covid-19 vaccines is a universal issue that concerns the whole nation and hence, the petitioners should approach the Supreme Court.Advocate Shukla agreed and said the petition would be withdrawn.The PIL, filed on April 24, said the Covid-19 vaccine is presumed to be an essential commodity and hence, its management and distribution cannot be left in the hands of private companies."These pharma giants are milking the fear psychosis of the increased death rates due to COVID-19," it said.Under the third phase of the national vaccination drive commencing next month, the vaccine manufacturers would supply 50 per cent of their monthly Central Drugs Laboratory (CDL) released doses to the central government and would be free to supply the remaining 50 per cent doses to state governments and in the open market, the government had said."In a situation where the entire country is gripped with the Covid-19 pandemic, price control by the government is a must and such kind of loot and blackmail should not be permitted," the PIL said.The petition further said the Serum Institute of India (SII) was selling its 'Covishield' vaccine at ₹150 (plus GST) per dose to the Centre, ₹400 to state governments and ₹600 to private hospitals.On Wednesday, the SII announced that it would reduce the price of its vaccine from ₹400 to ₹300 per dose to the state governments.The Bharat Biotech has fixed the rate of its vaccine, 'Covaxin', at ₹600 for state governments and ₹1,200 for private hospitals.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/bombay-hc-refuses-to-hear-plea-seeking-uniform-price-of-covid-19-vaccines-101619681930562.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Move to make Bathinda cancer hospital Covid centre opposed||With the Punjab government deciding to convert the Bathinda-based Advanced Cancer Institute (ACI) into a 75-bedded Covid care facility, the line of treatment for scores of cancer patients is likely to be hit. ACI medical superintendent Dr Deepak Arora said on Thursday that the institute has started making arrangements to house level 2 Covid patients or those who need oxygen support. Also read: Govt allows import of medical equipment like oxygen devices, O2 concentratorsHe agreed that the ACI should not be used to treat both cancer and Covid patients in the same building due to the highly infectious coronavirus. “Cancer surgeries are already suspended for the past two days and now we may have to shelve other treatments as well. At present, we do not have any alternative venue to treat cancer patients. ACI offers affordable treatment to cancer patients,” Arora said. Institute caters to 500 cancer patients daily Health activists and families of those suffering from cancer have objected to suspending all operations for fear of Covid infection. According to sources, ACI caters to 500 cancer patients daily. Unlike, other illnesses, any delay may cost life or quality of life to those battling the disease. “On an average 100 patients undergo chemotherapy and almost a similar number need radiotherapy treatment every day. The daily footfall at the outdoor patient department (OPD) is 300. The institute performs about 3-5 surgeries per day,” says a hospital staff member, requesting anonymity. ACI is a constituent of Baba Farid University of Health Sciences (BFUHS), Faridkot, and caters to cancer patients from Bathinda and adjoining districts of Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan. Low immunity of cancer patients a concern Medical experts say cancer patients maintain low immunity due to the disease and treatments. Association of Physicians of India (Malwa chapter) president Dr Vitull K Gupta said the cancer patients should not be exposed to the virus that is highly contagious. “The state authorities should take over any public complex in Bathinda, including schools, colleges or the Maharaja Ranjit Singh University Technical University, to treat Covid patients. Covid-19 protocol demands oxygen support to such patients and additional beds can be made available even in stationary railway compartments,” said Gupta. A local resident said treatment in the private sector is beyond the reach of most of the patients enrolled at ACI. “In April last year, the state authorities had to withdraw a similar decision after hospital staff, including doctors and attendants of cancer patients, had protested against moving Covid-19 patients to ACI. State finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal, who represents Bathinda, should intervene and ensure ACI is not used as a Covid care centre,” said a cancer patient’s husband.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/move-to-make-bathinda-cancer-hospital-covid-centre-opposed-101619681621897.html
29-04-2021||Other||Odisha planning 7-day lockdown in Bhubaneswar, western districts amid high TPR||Odisha government is planning to impose a lockdown for at least a week in Bhubaneswar, Cuttack and several western districts later this week as the state reported a single-day surge of 8,386 cases and a high test positivity rate of nearly 20 per cent, officials said.Director of health services, Bijay Mohapatra, said community transmission is one of the reasons behind the spike. “The number of cases in Bhubaneswar and Cuttack is increasing as many people are coming to the city from different places. One person can infect many others. As there are many returnees in the Bhubaneswar and Cuttack from outside the state, the number of cases is increasing in the two places. One positive person is infecting multiple persons. Hence the cases are increasing,” he said.Mohapatra said the state government is monitoring the situation daily and accordingly increasing the number of beds when and wherever it is required.Senior state government officials said lockdown in the state capital, as well as nearby Cuttack and western districts like Kalahandi, Nuapara, Sambalpur, Jharsuguda, Sundargarh and Nabarangpur, seemed to be the only way out as weekend shutdown since last week has not helped in bringing down the TPR. While the rise of TPR of 1.5 on April 1 to 19.7 on April 27 has been swift, in western districts it has been staggering.Kalahandi on Wednesday reported 55.7 TPR while Sundargarh reported a TPR of 42.64. Sambalpur had a TPR close to 40 while Bhubaneswar’s was around 20.Noted neurosurgeon and former director of AIIMS Bhubaneswar, Dr Ashok Mohapatra, said gatherings at vegetable, fish markets and liquor shops are the main reason behind the exponential rise in cases. “New strategies are need of the hour,” he said. The Bhubaneswar Municipal Corporation on Wednesday sealed the city’s busy market building for 48 hours as people were not following Covid appropriate behaviours.“Social distancing is being blatantly violated here. Many people are roaming freely without masks and there are no systematic arrangements at shops here to avoid crowding. We are amid a pandemic, we can never beat the virus if the safety protocols are flouted in such a manner. Therefore, we were forced to seal the market area for 48 hours,” said BMC Additional Commissioner, Laxmikant Sethi.As Covid-19 cases continued to surge in Odisha there has been a mad rush for hospital beds, oxygen cylinders, injections and medicines with the health infrastructure in the state almost stretched to its limit.Though health officials said Odisha has now over 31,471 beds in Covid care centres, as well as dedicated Covid hospitals with oxygen facilities available in 17495 beds, in Bhubaneswar, Covid patients were running from pillar to post in getting themselves admitted in various hospitals. Covid hospitals run by SUM, AMRI, Apollo, CARE as well as other hospitals reported full occupancy. Many were seen posting messages on Twitter, seeking beds and oxygen cylinders for their kith and kin.Bhubaneswar Municipal Commissioner Prem Chandra Chaudhary said steps are being taken to augment the capacity at Covid hospitals by 3,000 more beds in the next 10 days. “Of the present capacity of around 3,000 beds at the Covid hospitals, 50% beds are occupied. However, in view of the relentless surge, the city’s bed capacity will be increased to 6,000 in the next 10 days to meet the demand,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/odisha-planning-7-day-lockdown-in-bhubaneswar-western-districts-amid-high-tpr-101619680841772.html
29-04-2021||Noida||Noida's air quality in 'very poor' category||The overall air quality of Uttar Pradesh's Noida was in the 'very poor' category with the Air Quality Index (AQI) being recorded at 357 on Thursday morning according to the Centre-run System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research (SAFAR).The Particulate Matter (PM) concentration stood at 10.According to SAFAR, the AQI for Noida is likely to slightly improve on Friday.The reported air quality over the area would be 307, however, it would fall under the 'very poor' category of the Air Quality Index with a PM concentration of 10.Meanwhile, Delhi's Lodhi road recorded an AQI of 326, the PM concentration was at 2.5. Friday's forecast states that it might improve marginally to 315 with the PM at 2.5.As per the government agencies, an AQI with the range of 0-50 is regarded as 'good', 51-100 is 'satisfactory', 101-200 is 'moderate', 201-300 is 'poor', 301-400 is 'very poor' and 401-500 is deemed as 'severe'.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noidas-air-quality-in-very-poor-category-101619678489760.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab starts distribution of food ration bags to Covid positive families||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Thursday informed that the state government has started the distribution of food ration bags to underprivileged families who have tested positive for Covid-19.Singh also said that at present around one lakh bags have been prepared for the purpose and if needed the government will prepare more."We have started distribution of food ration bags containing 10-kilogram atta (flour), two-kilogram of sugar, and two-kilogram channa to underprivileged families who have tested Covid-19 positive. Right now one lakh bags have been prepared and if needed we will prepare more. Take care of yourself and stay at home," the Chief Minister tweeted.Punjab has 53,426 active Covid-19 cases. The state has recorded 8,772 related deaths so far since the onset of the pandemic.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-starts-distribution-of-food-ration-bags-to-covid-positive-families-101619678500717.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Shanty fire kills couple, their four children in Delhi’s Bijwasan||A couple and their four minor children were charred to death in a blaze that occurred in two shanties located in agricultural fields in south-west Delhi’s Bijwasan in the early hours of Thursday, the police saidIngit Pratap Singh, deputy commissioner of police (south-west), said that the six members were trapped inside their jhuggis even as there was a cylinder blast inside. Also Read | Delhi student refuses to share phone password, friend kills him: PoliceThe officer identified the dead as Kamlesh, 37, his wife Budhni, 32, their daughters aged 16 and 12, and sons aged six years and three months. The call for the blaze in the two shanties was received around 12.30am on Thursday. Local residents and fire fighters doused the flames, but those trapped inside were charred to death.Five residents in the second shanty escaped alive. The police are probing the cause of the fire and are registering an FIR.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/shanty-fire-kills-couple-their-four-children-in-delhi-s-bijwasan-101619678501751.html
29-04-2021||Lucknow||UP Panchayat polls: 10.51% voter turnout till 9 am||Uttar Pradesh recorded a voter turnout of 10.51 per cent till 9 am across 17 districts in the fourth and final phase of the Uttar Pradesh panchayat elections, according to the State Election Commission (SEC).Voting began at 7 am. People were seen queued up to cast their votes at various polling booths while following Covid-19 protocols.The polls are being held for the posts of members of zila panchayats and kshetra panchayats. Over 5.27 lakh candidates are in the fray for more than 2.10 lakh seats across 17 districts in this round of the election. More than 2.98 crore voters will be casting their votes in the final phase of the polls.Voting is being held in the districts of Ambedkar Nagar, Aligarh, Kushinagar, Kaushambi, Ghazipur, Farrukhabad, Bulandshahr, Basti, Bahraich, Banda, Mau, Mathura, Shahjahanpur, Sambhal, Sitapur, Sonbhadra and Hapur.According to the State Election Commission (SEC), there are 10,679 candidates in the fray for 738 posts of zila panchayat members in the final phase. A total of 55,408 candidates are contesting for 18,356 posts of kshetra panchayat members.While 1,14,400 candidates are in the fray for posts of gram panchayat members, 3,47,436 contestants are fighting for 1,77,648 posts in gram panchayat wards, it said.The first, second, and third phases of the polls were held on April 15,19 and 26 respectively. The counting of votes will be done on May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/lucknow-news/up-panchayat-polls-10-51-voter-turnout-till-9-am-101619677177062.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid-19 vaccine back in stock in Mumbai, vaccination to begin at 12 noon: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) received a fresh stock of Covishield vaccine doses against the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) on Wednesday night following which it will be distributed at the vaccination centres, resuming the inoculation drive from the afternoon, news agency ANI reported on Thursday.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“Good News Mumbai! We are receiving a fresh stock of #Covishield tonight to be distributed only in Gov & MCGM hospitals/ centres (not Pvt) tomorrow morning. So, all Gov & MCGM, CVCs will be functional but only post 12 PM See you getting #Vaccinated #MyBMCVaccinationUpdate,” the Mumbai civic body said in a tweet on Wednesday evening after it was announced that 40 out of 73 private Covid-19 vaccination centres in the city will remain closed on Thursday due to insufficient vaccines stock.The crucial development comes at a time when Maharashtra is witnessing a massing surge in daily Covid-19 cases, which has also prompted the state government to consider extended the statewide lockdown by 15 days till May 15. On Wednesday, overall cases in the state witnessed a jump of 63,309 cases whereas Mumbai reported 4,926 fresh cases.Maharashtra has announced free vaccination for all in the age group of 18-44 years in the third phase of the Covid-19 vaccination drive that begins on May 1. It would cost the state government ₹6,500 crore to vaccinate around 57.1 million citizens in this age group. The state, however, has said that it will not be able to roll out the phase 3 of the drive on May 1 for want of enough stock, adding that the drive will be rolled out as per the availability of the vaccine."We are all eager to know whether the vaccination will start from May 1. The answer is that the vaccination will not start from May 1. The reason is that (sufficient vaccines) are not available immediately with us today itself," the state’s health minister Rajesh Tope earlier said.He added that the state shall form a committee that includes health department representatives and some senior ministers to do micro-planning about implementing the vaccination programme. The panel will discuss if people can be categorised into 18-25, 25-35 and 35-44 age groups for inoculation.” The committee will discuss whether the 35-44 age group can be vaccinated first or those with co-morbidities among these will be inoculated first," he said.Chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will hold a meeting on the immunisation campaign later in the day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid19-vaccine-back-in-stock-in-mumbai-vaccination-to-begin-at-12-noon-bmc-101619676808876.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Shiv Sena hits out at Centre over Covid-19 crisis, calls SC 'mute spectator'||In an editorial in its mouthpiece "Saamana", the Shiv Sena on Thursday slammed the Central government over the 'Covid-crisis' across the country. It has also hit out at the Supreme Court for being a 'spectator' till now.The Supreme Court, itself 'confirmed' that the Narendra Modi-led Central government has failed in handling the Covid-19 situation across the country, Shiv Sena said.It said that the health infrastructure in the country has collapsed and the shortage of medical oxygen, beds, and vaccine is a matter of concern.Taking a jibe at Bharatiya Janata Party, the publication said, "From whom the BJP leaders will seek resignation over the remarks made by the apex court? The BJP asked for resignation from the state government over the fire incidents in COVID hospitals in Maharashtra. The cremation grounds across the country are flooded with bodies."The party, through his mouthpiece, also slammed the Supreme Court for being a mute spectator over the elections in West Bengal and Kumbh in Uttarakhand."Whatever it may be, the country is facing the crisis due to the Supreme Court being a mute spectator till now. Power tussle in West Bengal, the Kumbh Mela of Haridwar, and a role of a mute spectator is behind the crisis," it said.The Shiv Sena also hit out at Union home minister Amit Shah for not wearing a mask while addressing election rallies in West Bengal. The party pointed out that the people were seen without masks at the rallies and during the Kumbh."The Election Commission, police, and courts were a mute spectator then," it said."The Modi government should put political enmity aside and a should frame a comprehensive national plan with the help of leaders from different political parties," it said."The Supreme Court has awakened, it is time that Central government should awake," it added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/shiv-sena-hits-out-at-centre-over-covid-19-crisis-calls-sc-mute-spectator-101619674836621.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra CM to hold meeting on Covid-19 vaccination drive||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray will on Thursday chair a meeting on Covid-19 vaccination drive via video conferencing, news agency ANI reported. This comes a day after Thackeray announced that the state has decided to vaccinate citizens in the age group of 18 to 44 against the coronavirus disease free of cost in government-run hospitals.Interacting with reporters, Maharashtra health minister Rajesh Tope on Wednesday said that the state will cover 5.71 crore citizens from this age group and it would cost ₹6,500 crore to the government.Tope, however, said the vaccination drive beginning May 1 cannot be launched in the state due to unavailability of sufficient number of vaccine doses. But the state government plans to vaccinate the citizens in the next six months in a planned manner, he added.Tope stated that people in the age group of 18 to 44 years will receive free vaccines at state-run centres, but they will have to pay for the jabs at private facilities."We are all eager to know whether the vaccination will start from May 1. The answer is that the vaccination will not start from May 1. The reason is that (sufficient vaccines) are not available immediately with us today itself," he said."...we are going to vaccinate for free. But we (18 to 44 age group citizens) will have to go about it with patience and sensibly. Using the Co-WIN app is compulsory. You will have to take an appointment and register yourself first," Tope added.He further said that a committee comprising health department representatives and some senior ministers will be formed to do micro-planning about implementing the vaccination programme."The committee will think whether people from the age group can be categorised into 18-25, 25-35 and 35-44 age groups. The committee will discuss whether the 35-44 age group can be vaccinated first or those with co-morbidities among these will be inoculated first," he added.Tope said that centres meant for vaccinating citizens from 18-44 age group will be separate from the ones meant for 45 and above age category. "We need not hurry and congregate...We will have to take care that the vaccination centres do not turn into Covid-19 spreading centres," he said.Maharashtra on Wednesday reported 63,309 new coronavirus cases and 985 deaths, the state health department said. It took the tally of infections in the state to 44,73,394 and the death toll to 67,214.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-cm-uddhav-thackeray-to-hold-meeting-on-covid-19-vaccination-drive-101619671894147.html
29-04-2021||Jaipur||Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19, is ‘fine and asymptomatic'||Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot announced on Thursday his test report for the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) was positive, a day after he said he was going into isolation as his wife Sunita Gehlot was found to have contracted the infection.Also Read | Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot goes under isolation after wife tests Covid +ve“I underwent testing for Covid-19 and my report has come positive. I am asymptomatic and feeling absolutely fine. I will follow all Covid-19 protocols and continue to work from isolation,” a rough translation of Gehlot’s tweet, posted in Hindi, read. Rajasthan, which is currently under a month-long curfew till May 21, on Wednesday registered an unprecedented 16,613 new Covid-19 cases and 120 related fatalities, pushing the infection tally to 563,577 including a death toll of 3,926, as per a health department bulletin.कोविड टेस्ट करवाने पर आज मेरी रिपोर्ट भी पॉजिटिव आई है। मुझे किसी तरह के लक्षण नहीं हैं और मैं ठीक महसूस कर रहा हूं। कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का पालन करते हुए मैं आइसोलेशन में रहकर ही कार्य जारी रखूंगा।The western state is also observing a 15-day “Jan Anushasan Pakhwada” which will be in force till May 3.Also Read | 'Jan Anushasan Pakhwada': Rajasthan announces curbs to contain Covid-19On Wednesday evening, Gehlot announced that his wife tested positive, tweeting, “My wife, Mrs. Sunita Gehlot, is Covid-19 positive but is asymptomatic. As per the protocol, she is receiving treatment in home isolation. As a precaution, I will now chair the Covid-19 review meeting with doctors and officials, which takes place daily at 8:30pm, from isolation.”मेरी पत्नी श्रीमती सुनीता गहलोत कोविड पॉजिटिव आ गई हैं (असिम्प्टोमैटिक)। प्रोटोकॉल के अनुसार होम आइसोलेशन में उनका ट्रीटमेंट प्रारम्भ हो गया है। अब मैं एहतियातन आइसोलेशन में रहकर चिकित्सकों एवं अधिकारियों के साथ सांय 8.30 बजे रोजाना होने वाली कोविड समीक्षा बैठक लूंगा।In recent days, a number of leaders from Gehlot’s party, the Congress, have tested positive for the viral disease. Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan Singh, former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor, West Bengal unit chief Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury and senior leader Anand Sharma are some of the leaders who have contracted the virus.Also Read | Congress leaders Shashi Tharoor, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury test Covid-19 positiveGehlot's chief ministerial counterparts in Uttar Pradesh and Kerala, Yogi Adityanath and Pinarayi Vijayan, too, recently contracted Covid-19.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/jaipur-news/rajasthan-cm-ashok-gehlot-tests-positive-for-covid-19-is-fine-and-asymptomatic-101619670057966.html
29-04-2021||Patna||In Bihar, one vice-chancellor holds charge of four universities||One vice-chancellor (VC) holding charge of four universities may not appear feasible to many but is a reality in Bihar. On Wednesday, Lalit Narayan Mishra University’s (Darbhanga) VC Professor Surendra Pratap Singh was given charge of one more university – Aryabhatta Knowledge University (AKU), Patna - to take the total number of universities under his charge to four, HT has learnt.“I am a performer. At Pataliputra University, I did what was not done in the last two-and-half years. As long as the additional charge is there, I will discharge my duties with full devotion,” he said after taking charge at AKU. The post at AKU fell vacant after pro-VC SM Karim, who was officiating as the acting VC by the Raj Bhawan, was reportedly asked to resign over the controversy surrounding the continuance Rajiv Ranjan as the registrar. Karim tendered his resignation after accepting Ranjan’s resignation. The Raj Bhawan issued the notification Wednesday, accepting Karim’s resignation as acting VC and handed over additional charge to SP Singh. The registrar at AKU is also under additional charge from another university. AKU was set up in 2010 to regulate all technical institutions by bringing them under one umbrella. It has been without a regular VC since September 20, 2020, when the term of Arun Kumar Agarwal ended. Since then, Karim had been holding the additional charge of VC. Earlier, Bihar Raj Bhawan had also given SP Singh the additional charge of Pataliputra University and Maulana Mazharul Haq Arabic and Persian University in Patna in addition to LNMU to make it four. Besides Singh, TM Bhagalpur University VC Neelima Gupta is also holding the additional charge of Munger University, while BRA Bihar University VC Hanuman Prasad Pandey holds the additional charge of Nalanda Open University (NOU). This is not the first time when any VC has been given charge of up to four universities in Bihar. It also happened during the time of former Bihar Governor late Devanand Konwar when the government and the Raj Bhawan were at loggerheads over the appointment of VCs and the matter landed up in the Supreme Court. Meanwhile, in view of the pandemic, the vice-chancellors of LNMU and TMBU have moved a proposal to the Raj Bhawan for advancing the summer vacation in universities to May. Earlier, Patna University teachers association and employees association had also approached the VC for it. However, the Raj Bhawan has not yet taken any decision on it.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/patna-news/in-bihar-one-vice-chancellor-holds-charge-of-four-universities-101619670941650.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Partly cloudy sky today; Delhi AQI improves slightly to be in poor category||Delhi is likely to see a partly cloudy sky on Thursday, as per the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast.The minimum temperature on Thursday is likely to be 22 degrees Celsius (°C) while the maximum temperature is predicted to reach 42°C.The minimum temperature on Wednesday was 22°C, and the maximum temperature was 42.2°C -- four degrees above normal.Meanwhile, Delhi’s air quality improved slightly to reach poor category on Thursday morning. Data from the Central Pollution Control Board showed that the hourly air quality index (AQI) at 7am stood at 294. On Wednesday, the average 24-hour AQI was 312, which is the lower end of the very poor category. Also Read | ‘100 bodies per day’: Long wait for last rites as fatalities rise in DelhiAn AQI between zero and 50 is considered good, 51 and 100 satisfactory, 101 and 200 moderate, 201 and 300 poor, 301 and 400 very poor, and 401 and 500 severe.On Wednesday, the Union ministry of earth science’s air quality monitoring centre, System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting And Research (Safar) said, “The overall Delhi air quality is in the very poor category. Surface winds are moderate and southwesterly. Satellite fire data indicate effective fire counts have increased and are touching around 1100 which are mainly wheat crop burning in the Northern part of India. Model trajectory and transport-level wind direction are favourable for fire-related intrusion leading to the deterioration of air quality in Delhi. SAFAR Model forecast that dust emissions from the dry arid region of Rajasthan are likely on 29th and 30th April. Hence, AQI is likely to stay in the very poor to poor category for the next three days where external transport would be the dominating factor from the two fronts.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/partly-cloudy-sky-today-delhi-aqi-improves-slightly-to-be-in-poor-category-101619665661372.html
29-04-2021||Bhopal||'Corona curfew' in Madhya Pradesh extended till May 7||The Madhya Pradesh government extended the 'corona curfew' in the state till May 7 to break the chain of Covid-19 transmission, a minister said on Wednesday.At present, 'corona curfew' is underway in several districts of the state, including Bhopal, Indore and other prominent cities, till May 3."Chief Minister (Shivraj Singh Chouhan) has decided to extend the corona curfew (or Janata curfew) till May 7," state Home Minister Narottam Mishra said here.He was talking to reporters about the meeting in which chief minister reviewed the coronavirus situation in the state along with the cabinet members.The district-level crisis management committees are authorised to take a decision about the corona curfew in consultation with the state government, he said.Mishra said the number of Covid-19 positive cases in 10 districts has reduced and these numbers are static in 13 other districts.Less than 50 cases were reported in six districts, while the spread has been effectively curbed in three districts, Mishra said.The coronavirus spread in some districts, including Indore, Bhopal, Gwalior, Jabalpur and Ujjain, is worrying and the chief minister himself is monitoring the situation at these places, he said.The minister said that the state government's focus is on breaking the chain of infection.According to him, the state's districts have been divided into three groups for the purpose of reviewing the coronavirus situation.The Covid-19 situation in the districts of the first group was reviewed on Wednesday.Mishra said the state government was also in discussion to stop plying of buses from Niwari and Datia districts, located along the Uttar Pradesh border.Talking about the availability of the life-saving gas, Mishra said that 29 tankers of oxygen reached the state in two days.An Oxygen Express train carrying six tankers also reached Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday, he said."The result of efforts being made to control the pandemic is being seen today as the state reached 11th spot from 7th in the country as far as the number of active cases is concerned," he said.The recovery rate in the state reached 85 per cent on Wednesday from 80.49 a day before, he said.Madhya Pradesh on Wednesday reported 12,758 Covid-19 cases, which took the caseload in the state to 5,38,165 and 105 deaths took the fatality count to 5,424.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/bhopal-news/corona-curfew-in-madhya-pradesh-extended-till-may-7-101619662744670.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi student refuses to share phone password, friend kills him: Police||A class 12 student was allegedly strangled to death by his 20-year-old friend in northwest Delhi's Pitampura area after he refused to share his iPhone's password, police said on Wednesday.The incident took place on April 21 at a park. The accused, Mayank Singh, a BBA student of Maharaja Agrasen Institute of Management Studies in Rohini, was nabbed on Monday from Pilkhuwa in Uttar Pradesh, they said.The victim's father, who runs a factory, lodged a missing report of his son when he did not return home. The victim left his home on April 21 morning, police said.On Sunday, police received information regarding a decomposed body lying at an isolated place inside a park at Pitampura. A large-sized teddy bear was also lying near the body, a senior police officer said, adding that the police also recovered drugs from the spot.During investigation, police scanned over 100 CCTV cameras near the spot and saw the victim and the deceased entering the park. Singh was missing from his house since April 23, the officer said.Later, he was arrested from Pilkhuwa, where he was hiding in a village of his friend, police said.The accused disclosed that on April 21, he met the deceased in the park.Singh asked the victim to share his phone's password but he refused, following which an argument erupted between them. Later, the accused first hit the victim with a stone and then allegedly strangled him with a cloth, police added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-student-refuses-to-share-phone-password-friend-kills-him-police-101619656075808.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||CBI records statement of IPS officer in Anil Deskhmukh graft case||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) has recorded senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer Rashmi Shukla’s statement in connection with the probe into the corruption allegation by former police commissioner Param Bir Singh against former home minister Anil Deshmukh.Confirming the development, a senior officer in the central agency said Shukla’s statement was recorded in Hyderabad by a CBI team related to the case on April 21.Earlier, the CBI had recorded the statement of Deshmukh and his two personal assistants (PAs), Sanjeev Palande and Kundan Shinde. The agency also recorded the statement of suspended cop Sachin Vaze and two of his drivers among several others in connection with the case.Meanwhile, Shukla failed to turn up at the cyber department of Mumbai Police on Wednesday for questioning in connection with the alleged illegal phone tapping case.The IPS officer, who is presently posted in Hyderabad on Central Reserve Police force (CRPF) deputation, was asked to appear before assistant commissioner of police (Cyber) Nitin Jadhav.Citing the Covid-19 pandemic and her present responsibility in CRPF, Shukla, in an email, told cyber police that she will not be able to appear for the probe and requested that a list of questions be instead sent to her to avoid any delay.An FIR was registered under the Official Secrets Act at the BKC cyber police station against unidentified persons for allegedly tapping phones illegally and leaking certain confidential documents on the complaint filed by the State Intelligence Department.The FIR also invoked section 30 of the Indian Telegraph Act and section 43(B) of the Information Technology Act.The alleged tapping of phones had taken place when Shukla headed the Maharashtra intelligence department.BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis had cited a letter purportedly written by Shukla to the then Director General of Police about alleged corruption in police transfers. The letter also had details of intercepted calls, leading to an uproar with leaders of the Shiv Sena-led ruling coalition alleging that Shukla tapped phones without permission.Before registration of the FIR, Maharashtra Chief Secretary Sitaram Kunte had alleged in a report submitted to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray that it appears that Shukla herself had leaked the confidential report (to Fadnavis).||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/cbi-records-statement-of-ips-officer-in-anil-deskhmukh-graft-case-101619656324749.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Man in home isolation, cops cremate parents||Police helped cremate the bodies of an elderly couple who died in their homes while in quarantine on Tuesday in north Delhi’s Burari.The couple’s son said his parents showed symptoms of Covid-19, although they had not been tested for the virus.The woman passed away around 6pm on Monday. Her son, also under quarantine, tried to get help from his neighbours but to no avail. His wife earlier tested positive for Covid and was in hospital for the last two weeks. At 1am on Tuesday, the man lost his father too.At around 9am, a call to the police control room was made. After several hours, a hearse was arranged to ferry the bodies to the crematorium at Nigam Bodh Ghat. The bodies were cremated observing all Covid protocols.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/man-in-home-isolation-cops-cremate-parents-101619655616979.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||'100 bodies per day': Long wait for last rites as fatalities rise in Delhi||Around 8am on Wednesday, Munna, a worker at the Ghazipur crematorium, had already helped facilitate 18 cremations while 30 more bodies were awaiting at the entrance for their turn. Some of the bodies had been queued up since Tuesday night.“The bodies either lie outside or in the ambulances for many hours. Nowadays, with the soaring heat, it’s very hard working in PPE kits with two layers of masks,” Munna said.On Wednesday, HT contacted at least six big crematoriums dedicated to Covid-19 victims in the national capital. The waiting time was between 18-26 hours in each of these facilities. The soaring mercury levels in the city are making matters worse. On Wednesday, Delhi’s maximum temperature touched 42.2 degrees Celsius.Since April 20, Delhi has recorded 2,648 deaths till Tuesday evening. Crematoriums and burial sites, which received 20-30 bodies, are now getting over 100 bodies per day.Senior officials of the three municipal corporations in Delhi said they are aware of the problems, but said it was difficult to find an immediate solution.“This time, many patients died because of lung infections and infected bodies anyway tend to decompose faster even if you keep them under ideal conditions. We cannot help much here. We can cremate a body after the ones on the pyres are fully burnt and the pyre is sufficiently cool,” said Krishna Prasad, a manager at the Nigambodh Ghat crematorium.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash agreed that while arrangements are being made for the relatives accompanying the dead bodies, there was no provision to prevent the bodies from starting to decompose. “These facilities cannot be arranged overnight. While we are trying our best to keep up with the rising Covid deaths, we are not receiving any help from the Delhi government,” said Prakash.Crematorium staff also said the shortage of space was a major factor behind the wait at these facilities, and limited manpower also slowed the process.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/100-bodies-per-day-long-wait-for-last-rites-as-fatalities-rise-in-delhi-101619655397401.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||As Covid-19 claims teachers’ lives, Delhi’s classrooms altered forever||\Several educational institutions in the national capital have lost staff members to Covid-19 during the fourth wave, which has left over 2,731 dead in the past seven days alone, forcing many schools to inform students about the deaths of their teachers, while leaving institutions to contend with a vital question — how much will classrooms change in the aftermath of the pandemic?A Delhi government school body said at least 15 teachers died of the viral infection last week alone. Among them was VK Arora (54), who taught commerce at Sarvodaya Co-ed in Mansarovar Garden. Colleagues termed his demise as a “huge loss” for the school, which has endlessly received calls from his students.“He was the staff secretary and was very close to all his colleagues. He was such a lively person. None of us could believe it when we heard about his demise on Monday morning. All of us are in shock. We have received calls from several of his students, and it was extremely difficult to console them. I don’t know how we will face each other without crying when we return to campus once this storm is over,” said his colleague and friend Meenakshi Khantwal.A government school in Rajouri Garden lost 35-year-old Sanskrit guest teacher Anil Kumar to the disease last week.Anmol Kumar (15), one of his students at the school, said: “It’s so difficult to believe that he is gone. I am even more scared about the safety of my parents and other teachers now. I don’t know how many more people will die in this pandemic.”Similarly, several teachers who work at municipal corporation-run schools in Delhi have died during the fourth wave. According to the civic body teachers’ association, at least nine teachers lost their lives last week.Shiv Nath Prasad, the principal of a north civic body-run school in Nithari, died on Wednesday.Suraj Dabas, a teacher at school, said: “Everything will change when we go back to school. There is so much fear and grief among the staff right now.”The infection has claimed several lives in colleges as well.The Delhi University Teachers’ Association (DUTA) said at least 13 teachers have succumbed to the infection over the past few days.Ravi Bhushan, a psychology teacher at DU’s Aryabhatta College who was in his early 30s, died at a hospital on Monday.Manoj Sinha, the principal of the college, said: “Our college is in shock right now. We organised a virtual condolence meet in his memory on Tuesday, and even non-teaching staff members were inconsolable.”Suraj Kumar, a final-year student at DU’s College of Vocational Studies, said he will never forget his teacher Richa Malhotra’s ever-smiling face. Malhotra, who taught history, passed away on Monday.“She was a mother figure to me. When I came to Delhi, I was very conscious about my rural background. But she made me feel so comfortable. I was not very comfortable with English language, and she helped me a lot. I worked with her on a book club as well. It feels absolutely devastating that she has left us forever,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/as-covid-19-claims-teachers-lives-delhi-s-classrooms-altered-forever-101619655010230.html
29-04-2021||Noida||Noida Authority to set up 50-bed makeshift Covid hospital by May 8||Amid the Covid-19 crisis, the Noida Authority on Wednesday said it is setting up a makeshift hospital that will have 50 beds with oxygen support for patients and the facility is likely to go functional by May 8.The facility is coming up in the shooting range compound of the stadium in Sector 21A of the city, the Authority said, adding that NGOs and private companies like the Adani Group are chipping in with resources for the initiative.Noida in western Uttar Pradesh's Gautam Buddh Nagar district is one of the worst-hit places in the state during the Covid-19 pandemic. The district has a death toll of 192 and over 7,000 active cases, official figures showed on Wednesday.“Witnessing the rising crisis of coronavirus, the Noida Authority is setting up a makeshift hospital at the Noida Stadium in Sector 21A. There will be a PSA-based oxygen manufacturing plant with availability of 50 oxygen beds, cylinders and ventilators,” the Authority said in a statement.“There will be trained medical staff for taking care of the patients. This staff will be provided by the support of Delhi-based NGO DFY (Doctors For You). The oxygen manufacturing plant is being set up with support from private companies under their CSR head in which the Adani Group is making key contributions besides others,” it added.According to the Noida Authority, the facility is likely to go functional for public by May 8.The Adani Group is also helping with supplying oxygen to hospitals through the Noida Authority and as part of the effort, the private company would provide 300 D-type cylinders to it, according to the statement.“Of these, 100 oxygen-filled cylinders will be provided to the Gautam Buddh Nagar administration on Thursday morning while 200 empty cylinders would be provided by it to the Noida Authority over the next two-three days for oxygen transportation,” it added.The Authority said oxygen supply to hospitals is being managed by the district administration and as part of its help to in future it will have coordinated efforts with the administration to ensure uninterrupted oxygen supply.Over the last few days, some hospitals have allegedly claimed shortage of oxygen supply in the district, resulting in panic among patients and their attendants.Several other people who are not hospitalised have also been claiming difficulties in finding oxygen cylinders and cans for Covid-19 patients whose saturated oxygen levels drop during the deadly infection.The district administration, however, has maintained that it was making efforts to ensure oxygen supply to all hospitals in Noida and Greater Noida.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/noida-news/noida-authority-to-set-up-50-bed-makeshift-covid-hospital-by-may-8-101619654711599.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Widened vaccinations lead to blood bank shortage fears||With Covid-19 vaccinations for people aged 18-44 set to begin from May 1, blood banks and patients with blood-related disorders said they are concerned about the availability of blood due to rules that disallow an inoculated person from donating blood for 28 days after their jab. As a result, blood banks and non-governmental bodies are asking people to donate blood before getting vaccinated, with lower turnouts — due to the alarming spike and subsequent lockdown — causing reserves to deplete fast.The National Blood Transfusion Council mandates that a person can donate blood 28 days after their last Covid vaccine jab.“There are no blood donation camps, and the number of voluntary donations has also dropped significantly,” said Vanshree Singh, blood bank director, Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS).While the current shortage had made arranging blood difficult for patients of thalassemia and other blood-related illnesses, they worry that the shortages may get more severe once the Covid-19 vaccination programme opens up on Saturday.“Thalassemia patients need fresh blood (donated within a 7 to 10-day period) for transfusion. People aged between 18 and 45 donate blood most frequently. But few people come in for donations, and we worry this number will decrease in the coming days,” said Shobha Tuli, secretary of Thalassemics India.Tuli has written to the Union health ministry, asking it to review the 28-day deferral period. “The rule will result in a shortage of blood and create problems for thalassemia patients. The government should either revise it or give us a plan to maintain the supply of fresh blood for patients who need transfusion regularly,” Tuli said.The Union health ministry did not respond to requests for comment on the matter.Blood banks in Delhi say that though there is no shortage of blood right now, their stocks are rapidly running out.Dr Dinesh Deepak Joshi, president of the Lions Blood Bank, said: “Currently, we are facing a huge problem providing blood to our thalassemia patients from our two banks. We used to get more than 2,000 donations in a month, which has now come down to just 100.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/widened-vaccinations-lead-to-blood-bank-shortage-fears-101619654779494.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab suspends OPD services in 3 govt colleges amid Covid-19 spike||Amid rising number of Covid-19 cases and fatalities, the Punjab government on Wednesday decided to suspend outpatient department (OPD) services in three government medical colleges and hospitals in the state till further orders.Directions were also issued to reserve all the beds in these facilities for Covid-19 patients, said Medical Education and Research Minister O P Soni in an official release here.However, he said emergency services will continue in government hospitals and colleges at Patiala, Amritsar and Faridkot.Soni further instructed the authorities that prompt action is needed if any eventuality comes up regarding any obstruction in oxygen and any other medical supplies.He said if any report of medical oxygen shortage came to their notice then it should be immediately reported to higher authorities so that required steps can be taken.The minister also directed the Principal Secretary, Medical Education and Research to reserve 75 beds in Advanced Cancer Institute, Bathinda for Covid-19 patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-suspends-opd-services-in-3-govt-colleges-amid-covid-19-spike-101619654727589.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Districts prepare plans to expand shots for all||The Delhi government plans to increase the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres once inoculation opens for the 18-44 age group next month, said senior government officials.A delay in vaccine supply may push the start of the next phase of vaccination from its May 1 schedule, officials aware of the matter said.Although the state government is yet to share details of the plan, the 11 district administrations in Delhi are drawing up strategies to augment the number of vaccination sites and provide adequate staff to run the centres smoothly.Staffing of these centres is the major issue, official said, as many health care and frontline workers are currently down with Covid-19.The chief minister’s office earlier stated that free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs.Delhi has around 500 vaccination centres in 192 hospitals and dispensaries. A majority of the sites are in government hospitals and while some districts are planning to increase the number of sites in hospitals and dispensaries, others are looking at schools as possible sites.A senior official with the New Delhi district said, “We are in the process of working out the number of new sites that will be needed to ensure a hassle-free vaccination process. We are planning to have dedicated vaccination sites for this group.”The municipal bodies have also made requests to increase the number of their vaccination sites.North Delhi mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have sent the list of 20 additional centres to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority for approval.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/districts-prepare-plans-to-expand-shots-for-all-101619654636936.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Expedite supply of oxygen and help to those in home isolation: CM Kejriwal||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to expedite the process of scaling up oxygen beds and intensive care unit (ICU) beds across the city – the national capital had run out of both on Tuesday – and asked for the home isolation surveillance system to be strengthened.As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds.Kejriwal issued the directions in a review meeting on Wednesday evening which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and several senior officials. It comes at a time when an acute shortage of oxygen is becoming the major obstruction to the government’s plan to augment beds across hospitals.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal convened a meeting today (Wednesday) with the health officials on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. In the meeting, the CM deliberated on the plan to increase the number of oxygen beds in the coming days, along with strengthening the home isolation system,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.Kejriwal said in a statement, “We have to further strengthen our home isolation system. Every patient who is recovering from Covid in home isolation should receive regular calls from Delhi government doctors and they should be supplied with an oximeter. We have to monitor the daily condition of every patient recovering at home,” he said.On Tuesday, Kejriwal had said by May 10, Delhi will have at least 1,200 more ICU beds --- 500 being prepared at a facility attached to GTB hospital, another 500 at a facility being set up at the Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi which will be attached to Lok Nayak hospital, and 200 ICU beds at the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang Beas campus in Chhatarpur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/expedite-supply-of-oxygen-and-help-to-those-in-home-isolation-cm-kejriwal-101619654415398.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||‘Do you want people to die?’: High Court on medicine rules||The Delhi high court on Wednesday said that it appeared the Union government wanted people to die, pointing out that the new protocol on use of remdesivir said that the drug was to be given only to those on oxygen support. “This is wrong. This is a complete non-application of mind. Now people who do not have oxygen will not get remdesivir either. It appears you want people to die,” justice Prathiba M Singh said after the central government submitted that under the protocol being followed now only patients on oxygen support were being given remdesivir as Covid-19 treatment.The court also said it will consider later whether a medical committee should review if the protocols or guidelines for administering remdesivir need any modification.The court’s observation came during a hearing on a plea by a lawyer who is suffering from Covid-19 and was able to get only three out of the six doses of remdesivir prescribed to him.Give data on testsHearing a separate plea, a Delhi high court bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli asked the Delhi government to give the number of RT-PCR tests conducted in the last seven days while also asking them to specify why fewer tests were being conducted.The bench took note of a submission made by a lawyer for one of the petitioners, who said that the testing in the city has gone down. The petitioner said the time taken for certification and testing has to be brought down where the reasons cited by the labs are either “backlog” or “push down from the government”. The court asked the Delhi government to provide the details while noting that the testing staffs of various labs are infected with Covid-19.The bench was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who along with several hospitals had sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.Black marketing of medicinesThe court also took note of the black marketing of essential medicines and remdesvir injections, and directed the Delhi government to come up with an online portal displaying live information on the supply chain of such drugs.The bench also asked senior advocate Rahul Mehra, who represented Delhi government, to look into the suggestion if the mohalla clinics could also serve people while also examining the use of old DTC buses for the ferrying of dead bodies so that the ambulances could be used for the sick persons.Ensuring oxygen supplyMehra, during the hearing, informed the court that the government passed an order on Wednesday that each hospital has been linked with a refiller and also a link refiller, so that if the primary one is not available, the SOS calls of oxygen are met.The court said that order should be widely communicated and necessary instructions should be followed by all the stakeholders.Approve insurance claims soonerDuring the proceedings, the court directed the insurance companies and third-party administrators (TPA) to ensure that time taken to grant approvals to bills was reduced to a reasonable amount as there were long queues of people outside hospitals waiting for beds during the massive surge in Covid-19 infections.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/do-you-want-people-to-die-high-court-on-medicine-rules-101619654208383.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Law giving more power to Delhi L-G now in force||A month after Parliament passed a controversial bill giving sweeping powers to Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor (LG), the Centre on Wednesday notified a law that makes his prior opinion a must before every executive action by the Arvind Kejriwal-led Delhi government, and every legislative action by the state assembly.An order by the LG’s office on Wednesday evening -- hours after the amended Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (Amendment) Act, 2021 was notified -- said that matters on which his opinion will have to be obtained include those falling under any law with respect to any matter in the state or concurrent lists. It also mentioned “subordinate legislations i.e. rules, regulations, schemes, bylaws”, and establishment, constitution or reconstitution of statutory bodies such as authorities, boards, committees, commissions, etc, under laws made by the legislative assembly.“Matters relating to recommendations of the Delhi finance commission” and “grant of parole under the Delhi Prisons Act” were also part of the order. Matters specified under Rule 23 of the Transaction of Business of the Government of NCT were also mentioned.Experts said all files on governance, decisions taken by the cabinet, proposed projects, welfare schemes, etc, will have to be sent to the LG first for his opinion before implementation. Whether the amendment shall mean a concurrence of the LG or will act as a tool to enable the Delhi government take an informed decision is a crucial question that remains unanswered in the text of the amended Act. It will also need a clarification whether the “opinion” rendered by the LG shall be binding or will only have persuasive value.According to the new law, passed by Parliament on March 24, “government” in Delhi now means the LG.Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leaders and other opposition parties have criticised the new law, saying it obstructs the functioning of an elected government.Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal has termed the passage of the bill an “insult” to the people of the national capital. His deputy Manish Sisodia has also attacked the Centre, alleging that it was feeling insecure as Kejriwal was “emerging as an alternative” to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.The Centre has said that the Act promotes “harmonious relations between the legislature and the executive, and further define the responsibilities of the elected government and the Lieutenant Governor, in line with the constitutional scheme of governance of Delhi, as interpreted by the Supreme Court”.Union minister of state for home G Kishan Reddy said in Parliament last month that Delhi is not a full-fledged state and does not have full powers.“Bringing this law was necessary to remove ambiguities because Delhi is a UT (Union Territory) and the powers of L-G are different from state governors,” another official said, asking not to be named.On July 4, 2018, the Supreme Court ruled that the L-G cannot interfere in every decision of the Delhi government and must act on aid and advice of the council of ministers.The Centre has, however, said the new act seeks to clarify the expression of government in order to give effect to the interpretation made by the Supreme Court.Its amendment has not been challenged in court yet.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/law-giving-more-power-to-delhi-l-g-now-in-force-101619653101867.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Uncertainty over supply dogs roll-out of jab drive||Even as the government on Wednesday opened up Covid-19 vaccination registrations for those aged between 18 and 44, and jabs scheduled to begin on Saturday, hospitals said they still have no clarity on who will supply the doses for the expanded inoculation drive, while just a few private hospitals in the city said they have been assured of supplies from either of the two vaccine manufacturers in India.Adult beneficiaries in Delhi who were able to register on the CoWIN portal despite the glitches on Day 1 were, however, not able to find any available slots at any of sites.Further, adding to the uncertainty, private hospitals and state officials said the Centre has asked them to return the current stock of vaccines on April 30.“So far, there is no clarity on whether we will receive any more doses from the state government or if we will have to depend on the doses that we purchase ourselves. If it is the latter, we are likely to not have any doses on May 1 to vaccinate even those above 45 who need their second dose,” said an official from one of the major private hospitals in Delhi, asking not to be named.Dr Suneela Garg member of the Lancet Commission Covid India Task force said, “Everything will not happen on Day 1. Delhi has placed an order of 13.4 million, but all the doses will not come together.”Delhi on Monday announced that it will vaccinate its entire adult population for free once the immunisation drive is widened from May 1. Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Monday said a purchase of 13.4 million doses has been approved and that his government will make efforts to speed up the process.An official from Fortis hospital said, “We might get some doses from the government at revised rates – whatever the state pays the vaccine manufacturers – after returning the old stock that came from the central government to immunise those above 45.”The hospital in a statement said, “We are in discussions with vaccine manufacturers to understand the availability and are making all necessary preparations to launch vaccinations for 18+ age groups, as soon as vaccines are made available.”Vibhu Talwar, managing director of Moolchand hospital said, “As of now, we do not have any procurement orders. Suppliers haven’t given us any clarity on pricing or when stock will be available. Hopefully, this will be clarified in the next 48 hours.” The hospital just has vaccine stocks for the next two days, officials said.Government hospitals and district officials too are unsure about where the doses will come from and how they are to be distributed. “We haven’t received any communication about what to do with the vaccine doses or whether we will get any additional doses on May 1. We have vaccination centres ready at the hospital. We will immunise people whenever we get the doses,” said a senior administrator from Lok Nayak hospital.A senior district official who asked not to be named said, “We will vaccinate people whenever we get the vaccine doses. But I’m unsure where the doses will come from.”“Only 50% of the production will be picked up by the central government, and the rest is open for sale to states and private players. Nothing is going outside the country, so how can anyone say there will no supplies for states or anyone else,” said a central government official aware of the matter.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/uncertainty-over-supply-dogs-roll-out-of-jab-drive-101619652197642.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Centre pulled up for oxygen supply deficit||Noting that Delhi has not received its allocated quota of 490 metric tonnes (MT) of oxygen even for a single day, the Delhi high court on Wednesday slammed the Centre for not supplying the promised quota, and asked it to work out an allocation plan.A bench of justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli noted that Delhi has not received the allocated amount of 490 MT oxygen even on a single day --- five days since the court passed an order. The bench observed that the principal reason behind he lag in supply appeared to be the distance between Delhi and the sources of supply in West Bengal and Odisha.“What is the point of allocating 490 MT (oxygen), when they (Delhi) have not got it? Now there are also tankers. We do not have a bureaucratic answer….It is not an efficient way of working out. The proof of the pudding lies in the eating. Things have not improved despite the lapse of five days. We are still hovering around 400 or even less and that amount of 490 MT has still not achieved…This has to be done on an SOS basis. It pains my heart. It should not take five days. Your allocation is bad..We have again and again asked you to work out your allocation plan,” the bench remarked.The court told the Centre that it might look at sources of supply closer to the Capital. “It does not make sense to get something from 1,600km. Maybe you could increase the supply from UP and it could be made as it reduces travel time... This is simple common sense,” the court said, directing the newly appointed amicus curiae advocate Rajshekhar Rao to look into the state wise allocation plan of the Centre and give suggestions to the Solicitor General (SG) Tushar Mehta on this.During the hearing, senior advocate Rahul Mehra who was representing the Delhi government, said one of the major reasons for the shortage of oxygen in Delhi hospitals is the delay supplies from West Bengal and Odisha. He told the court that as on April 27 midnight, the city received a supply of 402MT, whereas there demand was 700 MT.He urged the court that allocation to Delhi may be made from some nearby states. He also cited an instance where his industrialist friends in Rajasthan and Ludhiana were ready to refill 200 oxygen cylinders but the state administration was not allowing this.Reacting sharply to this, justice Palli told the Centre, “People will keep dying and you will not do anything even if you might show on paper. If you have an extra cylinder in some other state, then make it available. No other state is in such a condition now as Delhi is.”Additional Solicitor General Chetan Sharma, appearing for the Centre, told the court that everything possible is being done from their side. He said that all the factors have been taken into account while deciding the allocation plan.During the proceedings, the bench also appealed to the people to not hoard oxygen cylinders and medicines required Covid-19 patients, to avoid creating “artificial scarcity” remarking that “we get what we deserve”.“The nation is facing an unprecedented crisis. It is we the people who need to stand up and showcase our qualities and virtues which all of us….We therefore appeal to the good sense of people to not resort to black marketing or hoarding of either oxygen cylinders or medicines and to make them available to the needy people.“Hoarding of medicines or oxygen cylinders leads to artificial scarcity to an extent which may not be there,” it noted in the order.The court was hearing a plea by lawyer-petitioner Rakesh Malhotra, who, along with several hospitals, sought directions to the Centre and the Delhi government for better facilities and continuous supply of oxygen in the hospitals and nursing homes of the city.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/centre-pulled-up-for-oxygen-supply-deficit-101619651876175.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Fewer SOS calls from hospitals, but new Covid patients facing oxygen crisis||SOS calls for medical oxygen have reduced from Delhi’s hospitals over the past two days, with most of them now able to maintain stocks till replenishments arrive, but this has also come at the cost of not being able to offer critical emergency support even if they have beds available for fear of not being able to get the oxygen required to care to a larger pool of patients.With the procurement of more cryogenic tankers to transport liquid oxygen from the central pool, and the creation of more plants in the city to create medical oxygen from ambient air, the situation is likely to stabilise slightly over the week, according to government officials and calculations by HT. Dozens of new oxygen generators are expected to start functioning the Capital, and more tankers are expected to be pressed into service to bring in stocks from large plants in neighbouring states.“The oxygen supplies are still reaching hospitals just a couple of hours before they run out of their stock. However, the coordination has improved. Still, some smaller hospitals in need of filling cylinders are facing challenges,” said a government official who asked not to be named.The situation is an improvement from last week, when hospitals – crushed by an unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases – began running out of their medical oxygen supply. The crisis came to light when GTB Hospital, with 500 Covid-19 patients, received its replenishments with minutes to spare in the early hours of April 21.The crisis deepened over the next few days, with the worst of it hitting the Jaipur Golden hospital, where 20 Covid-19 patients died after their oxygen support stopped.The matter reached the courts on multiple occasions, after hospitals exercised all options they had, including by raising alarm on social media. The Union as well as Delhi government were pulled up on several occasions, and have since announced several steps to ease the crisis.“We are working extensively on procuring cylinders, which a lot of the smaller hospitals are facing a shortage of. We are also now working on regulating a lot of the refilling stations. Just like we managed to stabilise the oxygen flow in the main hospitals, we will be able to stabilise them as well in the next few days itself. We are working on fixing this to help smaller hospitals resume oxygen supply as well,” said a Delhi government spokesperson.But while patients already admitted to hospitals may be getting oxygen now, a major problem still persists for new patients who are in need of urgent care.Officials in several hospitals said that new admissions have been halted for now. “The situation is still the same; hospitals are anxious about their oxygen supply. We have had to stop new admissions now because we are not sure when and how much oxygen we will receive,” said an official at one of the biggest private hospitals in Delhi.“The situation is much the same even though a lot has happened on paper. The problem is that the government has directed the oxygen companies to fulfil the quota of oxygen, but the companies refuse to comply. I had received a refill day before and then again today, which was half the promised supply. We have been told that we will get another supply by tonight, but I do not know,” said Dr SCL Gupta, medical director of Batra hospital, while adding: ”Of course hospitals will have to restrict admissions if there is no surety of oxygen supply.”An official at another hospital said there was some improvement. “I think the situation is improving slowly, quotas have been fixed and suppliers have been fixed for each hospital by the government. There is still some anxiety and uncertainty; we have experienced this for a week, it will take time for the nerves to settle down. Earlier the distribution was completely haphazard,” said Dr PK Bharadwaj, chief executive director, Saroj hospital and secretary of Delhi Voluntary Hospital’s Forum.Officials and Delhi Police personnel have also launched crackdowns after receiving reports of black marketing and pilfering of oxygen supplies.The Delhi government on Tuesday received five cryogenic tankers from the Centre, which were being fitted on to trucks and pressed into service.The state expects to receive 18 more such tankers from Bangkok, which were scheduled to arrive on Wednesday but got held up due to formalities, according to another government official.A second significant difference is likely to be when 48 pressure swing adsorption (PSA) medical oxygen generation plants begin functioning in tranches over the next month. These devices work by drawing oxygen from ambient air and concentrating them to medical grade.According to an official, the generators being installed by the Union government at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (main), Ram Manohar Lohia hospital, Lady Hardinge medical college hospital, AIIMS Jhajjar, Safdarjung Hospital, GTB Hospital and Lok Nayak Hospital are expected to be in place between April 30 and May 10.According to official documents, the eight plants being set up by the Union government have a cumulative capacity of 4,700 litre per minute day, which translates roughly to 10MT of liquid oxygen per day.Among the generators being installed by the Delhi government, two are set to be in place by the first week of May and roughly 19 others by the middle of the month. By the end of April, officials may be better poised to increase critical care capacity, although this will depend on the evolution of the outbreak and if more turn critical.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fewer-sos-calls-from-hospitals-but-new-covid-patients-facing-oxygen-crisis-101619651640592.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi plans to increase vaccination centres, but supply delays may hit vaccination of 18-44 age group||The Delhi government plans to increase the number of Covid-19 vaccination centres as inoculation opens for the 18-44 age group on May 1, said senior government officials. But a delay in vaccine supply may delay the start of vaccination for this age group, which is a sizeable chunk of Delhi’s 20 crore population, officials in the know of the matter said.Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal had said his government had approved the procurement of 1.34 crore [13.4 million] vaccine doses from various manufacturers to boost a massive vaccination drive.Although the state government is yet to share the plan details, the 11 district administrations in Delhi are drawing up strategies to augment the number of vaccination sites and provide adequate staff to run the centres smoothly. Staffing of these centres is the major issue, official said, as many health-care and front-line workers are currently down with Covid-19.The chief minister’s office had earlier stated that free vaccines will be available in all government-run Covid-19 vaccination centres in Delhi while those who opt for private centres will have to pay for the jabs.At present, Delhi has around 500 vaccination centres spread across 192 hospitals and dispensaries. A majority of the vaccination sites are in government hospitals and while some districts are planning to increase the number of sites in hospitals and dispensaries, other districts are looking at school buildings as possible vaccination sites.A senior official with the New Delhi district said on condition of anonymity, “We are in the process of working out the number of new sites that would be needed to ensure a hassle-free vaccination process for the 18-44 age group. We are planning to have dedicated vaccination sites for this group.”Another official said new centres are also needed to ensure that there is not much crowding at the vaccination site.The New Delhi district, which has 80 vaccination sites, is also planning to set up a mega vaccination centre to cater to the rush, as the number of people in this age group will be more, said a senior official there.Senior district officials involved in the identification of the new vaccination sites said a number of new centres are being planned as per the availability of manpower, which is the crucial aspect, as districts are facing a manpower crunch as a lot of health-care and essential service providers are currently down with Covid-19.A north-west Delhi district official said, asking not to be named, “We have identified 16 new sites in government schools. We will scale up the number of vaccination sites later, once we get more manpower, especially vaccinators.”A vaccination site must has five staff members, including a vaccinator. A district magistrate, who did not wish to be named, said, “We will be roping in teachers and civil defence volunteers for data entry and management of observation rooms. But we still need more vaccinators and accordingly, we will increase the number of sites.”The municipal corporations have also sent their request to increase the number of sites to the Delhi government. North Delhi Municipal Corporation mayor Jai Prakash said, “We have sent the list of 20 additional centres to the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) for approval.”District authorities have to share their plan for new vaccination sites with the health department and the DDMA. A Delhi government official said no decision has been taken so far on whether to open dedicated sites for the 18-44 age group or not.A third senior district official said, also on condition of anonymity, “We are just working out the plan. A final decision regarding new centres has to be taken by the government.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-plans-to-increase-vaccination-centres-but-supply-delays-may-hit-vaccination-of-18-44-age-group-101619647253045.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Two held for fleecing Covid patients desperate for oxygen cylinders||Two businessmen were arrested for allegedly hoarding oxygen cylinders and selling them at exorbitant rates in Delhi to desperate Covid-19 patients and their families, said police on Wednesday.The suspects -- Abhishek Nanda (32) from Shalimar Bagh and Shrey Oberoi (30) from Vikaspuri -- allegedly sold cylinders for ₹50,000 each when their market price was only around ₹6,000 for a 10 litre cylinder, said police.The high profit margin encouraged them to approach people posting SOS messages on social media for oxygen, said police. When informed of the scam, west Delhi’s Punjabi Bagh police said they deployed decoy customers to trap the suspects.Four small oxygen cylinders each of 10 litres capacity and one large cylinder of capacity 67litres were seized from the suspects along with a Hyundai Verna car that they allegedly used to transport and deliver cylinders, said additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam.DCP (crime) Monika Bhardwaj, also holding the additional charge of DCP (West), said Nanda and Oberoi were originally into the business of electrical equipment and toys, respectively.“Their businesses were hit by the Covid pandemic and the curfew in Delhi that had been imposed for more than a week,” said Monika Bhardwaj. “For quick and easy money, Nanda sold the unused oxygen cylinders that he had arranged for Covid patients in his family.”Soon Nanda saw an opportunity in the scarcity of oxygen cylinders in Delhi-NCR and involved Oberoi in a plan to make a profit, said another police officer associated with the probe but who did not wish to be named.“Nanda’s job was to arrange oxygen cylinders, while Oberoi delivered them to people who he contacted over social media. At least two cylinders that they sold are currently being used to treat Covid patients at different places in Delhi,” said the officer.The officer said the Punjabi Bagh police received information from a credible source about the duo’s operation. Their decoy customer convinced Oberoi to deliver two small cylinders to northwest Delhi’s Shalimar Bagh and agreed to pay ₹1 lakh for both, said the officer. Oberoi was arrested with the cylinders from Shalimar Bagh and his questioning led police to Nanda and recovered of three more oxygen cylinders from him, said the officer.“We are now questioning them for the source of the cylinders. Efforts are on to recover more oxygen cylinders,” added DCP Bhardwaj.On Tuesday, the Delhi Police asked its personnel to activate their intelligence network, keep a close watch on social media posts, visit scrap godowns, and use decoy customers to trap hoarders fleecing Covid patients and their kin. It came on a day when the Delhi high court said the government’s entire system has failed as black marketing of oxygen cylinders and crucial medicines was rampant.“High demand for oxygen, injection, medicine etc; miscreants indulge in hoarding, black marketing, faking to deceive needy buyers. Seven cases registered with arrest of 21 persons and remdesivir, oxygen seized. Delhi Police is checking those cheating on social media to protect public interest,” the Delhi Police tweeted on Tuesday||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-held-for-fleecing-covid-patients-desperate-for-oxygen-cylinders-101619647257009.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||In new pecking order, Delhi L-G to retain law, land||After the Union home ministry notified the Government of National Capital Territory of Delhi (GNCTD) (Amendment) Act, 2021 on Wednesday, the office of Delhi Lieutenant Governor (L-G) issued an order asking the Delhi government to seek opinion of the L-G before the Cabinet or any of its minister takes any executive action with regard to matters related to land, police, law and order, subordinate legislations, granting of parole, Delhi finance commission, establishment or re-constitution of statutory bodies and matters specified under Rule 23 of the ‘Transaction of Business of the GNCTD Rules, 1993’.The new law passed on by Parliament on March 24 gives sweeping powers to Delhi’s Lieutenant Governor for running day-to-day business of the Capital and almost takes away administrative control from the chief minister Arvind Kejriwal-led government.Senior officials also said that the notification is going to set new protocols for the Delhi Cabinet and all bureaucrats as the ‘Transaction of Business of the GNCTD Rules, 1993’ are going to be amended for the first time in nearly 20 years.The order issued by the L-G office specified in three points as to which areas the Delhi Cabinet and individual ministers will have to seek prior opinion of L-G Anil Baijal. None of the subjects, however, seemed to be excessively out of the areas over which the L-G already has control.“.... the Lieutenant Governor of Delhi, hereby specifies the following matters for obtaining opinion of the L-G....before taking any executive action in pursuance of the decision of the Council of ministers or a minister..” read the order.“The matters falling under any law, made by the Parliament or extended to the national Capital by the Central government, with respect to any matter enumerated in the state list or concurrent list of the seventh schedule of the Constitution,” it stated.The Delhi government did not comment on the matter, but the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) said it “really hoped” that the Central government would have waited at least till the current wave of Covid-19 abated to enforce the Act.In a statement, the AAP said, “Delhi is in the midst of the Covid-19 crisis and by notifying this right in the middle of the second wave, it can lead to a lot of chaos. This could definitely adversely affect Covid management in the national Capital.”“Under the leadership of CM Kejriwal, we are working on every possible aspect to tackle the second wave of Covid. The Central government and the Delhi government are working together. But such a notification will bring a lot of confusion and when the work is going on war footing the last thing people can expect is chaos and confusion in the administration,” the AAP said.On Wednesday, even as the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) notified the amended GNCTD Act, Delhi government officials said they were too busy in Covid-19 management to find out about the intricacies of the new law.“Now is not the time for all this. From the Lieutenant Governor (L-G) to the chief minister, everyone is closely monitoring aspects such as oxygen supply to hospitals, Covid-19 deaths, augmentation of beds and so on. Bureaucrats cannot afford to be caught up in politics during such a crisis, everyone knows that. So, what the government is doing to contain Covid is a collective effort and that is what Delhi needs right now,” said one of the top officials of the Delhi government, wishing not to be named.NO IMMEDIATE CHANGESWhile L-G Anil Baijal’s office did not comment on the matter, a senior official in his office said nothing can change on the ground until a fresh set of transaction of business rules (TBR) is issued by the MHA.“For a start, the L-G has scheduled a Covid-19 review meeting tomorrow (Thursday). But, it is not because of this GNCTD Act. He has been holding such meetings from time to time. With regard to the GNCTD Act and what administrative changes it could bring, there is not much that can happen at the moment because there is lack of clarity on certain procedures and subjects where the L-G can have direct control. The MHA is likely to issue amended TBR in a few days after which things would be clearer,” the official said.The key issues which the L-G wants to look into are the low testing numbers, reducing the waiting time at crematoriums and decreasing case fatalities, the official added.However, a section of officers in the Delhi government said the law has already created doubt among several officials with regard to various orders being issued every day to curb the spread of Covid-19 in the city and manage patients better. But they added that an immediate change in the plans was unlikely.“The Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) anyway has the L-G as its chairperson, so a major policy or strategy shift in terms of Delhi’s Covid response system is unlikely to happen as the Central government, to whom the L-G reports, is already providing help. More importantly, the Delhi high court is directly monitoring the situation and issuing orders from day to day in this regard,” said a second government official.The current Covid wave has overwhelmed Delhi’s heath care infrastructure with hospitals sending out SOS messages while running out of medical oxygen and almost all beds taken up across hospitals. According to government’s Corona app data, only 18 ICU beds were available in the city at 9pm on Wednesday.A few district officials wondered whether the new law would mean DMs and SDMs now have to send all their orders such as setting up new Covid care facilities by attaching hotels or increasing vaccination.“It is not like that. Only major decisions such as those taken by the Delhi Cabinet led by Kejriwal or individually by the ministers will have to be sent to the L-G, in all likelihood. Otherwise, the L-G’s office, which does not have so much staff, will be inundated with files and getting them back to get the schemes or project moving could take time,” the second official explained.He said the impact of the law on the day to day administration can be gauged only in about a week or two. “There could be increased friction between the legislature, the executive, and the Union government. Delhi has seven ministers, including Kejriwal, and each of them issue dozens of orders/directives daily. The back-and-forth of files will only delay a lot of projects,” the official said.Constitution expert and former secretary of the Lok Sabha and the Delhi assembly SK Sharma said the biggest casualty of the Act is going to be the assembly. “It may well be disbanded in that case as the law now even raises questions over the validity and necessity of having the Question hour in the House. The law will impact the assembly in more way than just taking away the rights of the committees set up by the House,” he said.PDT Achary, former secretary-general of Lok Sabha said Under Art.239AA of the constitution and as per the interpretation given by the Supreme Court the government means the L-G aided and advised by the Council of ministers.“It simply means the executive power is vested in the Council of ministers. This being so the definition contained in the new Act, namely, government means the L-G has no special significance. The Act cannot override the constitution and also the interpretation of law made by the Supreme Court. The executive power is vested in the elected government and therefore, the definition of government given in the Amendment Act has no special significance. The same shall remain in terms of accountability as well,” said Achary.A senior Delhi government official, on condition of anonymity, said the law effectively implies that most of the House panels will become void, and the assembly rules from which these committees have been formed, will also be void. “The public accounts committee, which looks into the accounts of the government and the budgetary allocations, might also go in such a case,” the official said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/in-new-pecking-order-delhi-l-g-to-retain-law-land-101619647268035.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Kejriwal directs officials to speed up process to add new beds||Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Wednesday directed officials to expedite the process of scaling up oxygen beds and intensive care unit (ICU) beds across the city – the national capital had run out of both on Tuesday – and asked for the home isolation surveillance system to be strengthened.As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds.Kejriwal issued the directions in a review meeting on Wednesday evening which was also attended by deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia, health minister Satyendar Jain and several senior officials. It comes at a time when an acute shortage of oxygen is becoming the major obstruction to the government’s plan to augment beds across hospitals.“Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal convened a meeting today (Wednesday) with the health officials on the Covid-19 situation in Delhi. In the meeting, the CM deliberated on the plan to increase the number of oxygen beds in the coming days, along with strengthening the home isolation system,” said a senior government official, asking not to be named.Kejriwal said in a statement, “We are noticing that this new strain of coronavirus is quite dangerous and often leads to respiratory and breathing issues. It has become very important to provide beds to every patient who needs oxygen. We have to expedite the process to add more ICU and oxygen beds in the coming weeks.”“We have to further strengthen our home isolation system. Every patient who is recovering from Covid in home isolation should receive regular calls from Delhi government doctors and they should be supplied with an oximeter. We have to monitor the daily condition of every patient recovering at home,” he said.On Tuesday, Kejriwal had said by May 10, Delhi will have at least 1,200 more ICU beds --- 500 being prepared at a facility attached to GTB hospital, another 500 at a facility being set up at the Ramlila Maidan in central Delhi which will be attached to Lok Nayak hospital, and 200 ICU beds at the Covid care centre at Radha Soami Satsang campus in Chhatarpur.The number of ward beds and ICU beds across hospitals in the city have increased by a little more than half against the Delhi government’s targets of 4,625 and 1,126, respectively, so far during the ongoing lockdown that was introduced to scale up medical infrastructure in the wake of the fourth wave of Covid-19 in Delhi, shows government data tracked by the Hindustan Times.As of Wednesday night, Delhi had 21,014 Covid-19 beds, of which 19,379 are occupied. Also, out of the 4,809 ICU beds in the city, 4,791 are occupied, said the government’s real-time application on hospital beds.Of the 18 vacant ICU beds, five are in a hospital which is reserved for children and women in advanced stages of pregnancy, and nine are in a hospital that is low on oxygen at present.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/kejriwal-directs-officials-to-speed-up-process-to-add-new-beds-101619647274076.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Delhi High Court seeks response on plea seeking parole of prisoners||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities on a plea seeking parole of prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.Advocate Ajay Verma, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that recently, 190 inmates and 304 prison staff of Tihar jail tested positive for Covid-19 and the infection has spread across the prison.The petitioners-- three lawyers and a law student --have contended that at a time when there is a surge in Covid -19 infection, decongestion of the prisons is necessary as they are filled much beyond their capacity.“That the present total number of inmates as on April 7 is 17,285 as against a total capacity of 10,026 of the three jails -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini,” states the petition.Meanwhile, another single bench of the Delhi HC, directed the Delhi government and the prison authority to ensure proper medical supervision of former RJD MP Mohammed Shahabuddin, who is suffering from Covid-19 and is currently admitted in Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital.Justice Prathiba M Singh said the doctor on duty looking after Covid-19 patients shall monitor Shahabuddin’s health and if required, also consult senior doctors of the hospital.The court also directed that the former RJD MP, serving life sentence for murder, be permitted to speak to a family member twice a day and disposed of his plea seeking protection of his life and monitoring of the treatment being administered to him at DDU Hospital.In his plea, Shahabuddin said he apprehended that he will not get proper treatment as there is a scarcity of oxygen and other medicines in Delhi. He also alleged that he is “apprehending the mismanagement of his health situation at the hands of the doctors at the behest of the opposite political leaders” in Delhi.According to the petition, he was lodged in a cell, in the high risk ward of Tihar Jail, which he was sharing with another inmate.Despite the other inmate testing positive for Covid-19 early April, Shahabuddin was kept in the same cell with the infected inmate and “no separate arrangement was made by the jail authorities,” read the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/delhi-high-court-seeks-response-on-plea-seeking-parole-of-prisoners-101619647278123.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Fraudsters con people as pleas for help pour in on social media||Rashmi Mehra, a public health professional, came across a phone number in a WhatsApp group on April 24. She had received the number from another acquaintance who had spotted the message on Twitter. The tweet read: “Oxygen cylinders available for all. Contact number- (mentioned number) (Dheeraj) Location: Delhi (Rohini). ‘Available, Just Spoke on call’ (sic)”Mehra passed on the number to her friend, whose father, along with other family members, are down with Covid-19. With the oxygen saturation levels of her friend’s grandmother dipping, oxygen was the need of the hour.“My friend needed an oxygen cylinder for her grandmother. On her behalf, I found a lead. Even though he was charging a lot, we settled for him. In a state of distress, my friend made an advance payment of ₹10,000 as sought by the vendor. He was not reachable after she made the payment in the noon. By evening, even our messages were not getting delivered,” said Mehra.She said the family is still battling Covid. “My friend’s family members are battling for life right now. In such a situation, filing a complaint is the last thing on her mind,” said Mehra.Mehra’s friend is among the scores of people who are getting scammed as they desperately seek help amid the ongoing crisis. The second wave of Covid-19 across the county – and the fourth in Delhi— has spelt doom with a record number of people testing positive for the virus daily and at least 300 people dying of the infection in the Capital everyday over the past few days.Amid this unprecedented surge in cases, social media platforms are flooded with desperate pleas for help to find vacant hospital beds, ventilators, oxygen cylinders, and medicines such as remdesivir. While there are many citizens who have stepped up to help, some fraudsters are exploiting the situation and cashing in on people’s misery in these trying times.Outlining the gravity of the situation, Mehra said her friend was a doctor but had failed to secure a bed for her own family members. Driven by the helplessness of the situation, she was compelled to make the transaction. “I know someone who lost ₹30,000 she had paid for a vial of remdesivir. The vendor blocked the number soon after receiving the payment. In a normal situation, one would think before making any payment. But the crisis is so bad that one is left with no choice but to take decisions fraught with great risk,” she said.Harish Arunachalam, who works with a multi-national technology company in Dublin, paid an advance of ₹10,000 for an oxygen cylinder for a family member whose oxygen levels had started dropping. Sitting miles away from home, Arunachalam made desperate calls to friends in Delhi who were able to find a lead on Twitter. Soon after the payment, the calls on the vendor’s number went unanswered and the promised oxygen cylinder never came.“Since I am not in the country, my friends were coordinating on my behalf. They found a lead on Twitter and called the number. The vendor seemed genuine to us. He sought our Aadhar number and other details. We made a calculated risk but the delivery never happened,” said Arunachalam.He said with so many verified leads floating on social media and other users vouching for the authenticity of these leads, people fall for such vendors. “The word verified has lost its meaning. When friends tell you that a lead is verified, it just becomes more believable. We didn’t realize that there are others trying to use the crisis to their advantage,” said Arunachalam.The cases are one too many.When 25-year-old Feroze’s father’s oxygen levels started dipping below 90 this week, the banking professional started hunting for an oxygen cylinder. A lead, originally shared on a social media platform, came his way. He called on the number and was asked to make an advance payment of ₹5000, which he promptly complied with. “Since the situation was critical, I immediately made the payment only to realize that the vendor was a fraud. In these terrible times, along with the loss of life, we are also witnessing loss of money,” said Feroze.Another citizen, who declined to give his name, lost ₹12,000 for Remdesivir vials that he ordered for his aunt, who is undergoing treatment for Covid-19. The vendor seemed genuine and even shared a picture of the medicine, which prompted the journalist to go ahead with the payment. However, the number was switched off soon after and there has been no response since then.“My friend had arranged the number from another acquaintance, who had procured the vials from the vendor. It didn’t work for us,” said the journalist, who is yet to arrange the required medicines. “I am desperately trying to arrange the medicine but have had no luck so far. I am not in the space to go after the vendor,” he added.Delhi police officers said they would take action against fraudsters misusing pleas for help on social media. Chinmoy Biswal, spokesperson for Delhi Police, said, “If people who have been duped file complaints, we will conduct investigation and take strict action against the fraudsters if the allegations are found to be true. We are already keeping a vigil on hoarding and black marketing of life-saving medicines, injections and oxygen. More than 20 people have been arrested for such offences in the last one week or so.”Deputy commissioner of police (cyber cell) Anyesh Roy said given the current situation, people are desperate and as a result, verification--that they would have done in normal circumstances, have taken a back seat. Roy said while there are some people who have not delivered since they had exhausted their capacity, there were instances of frauds too.“If you are asked to pay in advance, you should meet the vendor once. Insist on getting the physical location. This is a basic precaution. People should go through proper channels, such as hospitals, instead of informal means,” said Roy. He said that now medicines were being available through the formal channels which meant that anyone still claiming to sell these medicines is likely to be a fraud.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/fraudsters-con-people-as-pleas-for-help-pour-in-on-social-media-101619647289188.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra likely to extend lockdown till May 15||The Maharashtra government has decided to extend the full lockdown, likely to be another 15 days — till May 15. A decision to extend the lockdown was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday but the duration is yet to be decided. The state government is expected to issue an order to this effect in next two days.“The issue of extending lockdown was discussed in the state cabinet meeting and all the ministers were of the view that it should be extended to break the transmission chain. It is likely to be extended by 15 days, but the decision on the number of days will be taken by April 30,” said state health minister Rajesh Tope.He was talking to reporters after a state cabinet meeting held on Wednesday. The ongoing lockdown is ending on May 1 at 7am.Tope also said the lockdown has helped in stabilisation of daily Covid-19 cases. “Lockdown has brought stability in cases to some extent as there were concerns that daily figures will cross the 70,000 mark, which is not happening as of now. The daily cases are hovering around the 60,000 mark. We are hoping that this was the peak of the second wave in the state and daily cases will start declining from here,” the health minister.On April 22, the state government decided to impose full lockdown across Maharashtra. The decision was taken considering no decline in daily Covid-19 cases despite a partial lockdown that was imposed in the state on April 14.Currently, people can’t step out, unless they need medical attention or are working in an essential sector or want to buy essential commodities that, too, under restricted timings — between 7am and 11am. While local train and metro train travel have been restricted to essential sectors, other public transport modes such as buses have been allowed to ply but at 50% of the sitting capacity. Stricter curbs have been imposed on inter-district or inter-city travel, including 14-day quarantine. Attendance in government and exempted-category offices have also been reduced to 15%, while those coming under essential category have been allowed to work at maximum 50% capacity.“Daily cases are not going up, but they are also not coming down, which is a cause for concern for all of us. The same was discussed in the cabinet meeting and it was decided that the lockdown will have to be extended else things may go out of control,” said a senior minister, requesting anonymity.The health minister also said the situation will come under control in less time if people will start following Covid protocols strictly. “Besides, the state government has also decided to bring herd immunity in the people by undertaking a large-scale vaccination drive in the state,” he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-likely-to-extend-lockdown-till-may-15-101619644645952.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||11 J&K districts to go under 84-hour lockdown from April 29||Amid spike in Covid cases and spiraling death rate in Jammu and Kashmir, the government on Wednesday announced complete lockdown for 84 hours in 11 of total 20 districts in the Union territory. State executive member Simrandeep Singh said, “Srinagar, Anantnag, Baramulla, Budgam, Kulgam, Pulwama, Ganderbal, Jammu, Kathua, Reasi and Udhampur will go under curfew/lockdown from Thursday 7pm till Monday 7am. Detailed orders will be issued by DCs under the Disaster Management Act, listing out the prohibitions as well as permissible activities.” On Tuesday, the UT had recorded 25 deaths while the death toll was 2,197. Jammu and Kashmir has recorded around 700% rise in active Covid cases in four weeks of this month — from 2,874 cases on April 1 to around 22,283 on Tuesday. In the same period, 199 deaths related to Covid-19 were reported out of the total 2,197 deaths, which is over 9% of fatalities in just 27 days. Financial commissioner, health and medical education, Atal Dulloo, had said that the situation was challenging, but not out of control. Kashmir’s Jamia Masjid closed for prayersKashmir’s grand mosque, Jamia Masjid, in Srinagar was closed on Wednesday owing to the surge in Covid-19 cases and imposition of Section 144 of the CrPC.The mosque’s administrative body, Anjuman Auqaf Jama Masjid (AAJ), in a statement said that police officials visited them in the morning asking the Auqaf to suspend all congregational prayers at the masjid as section 144 has come into effect. J&K sees its deadliest day of pandemic as 30 succumb to virusWith 30 Covid-related deaths in the last 24 hours, Jammu and Kashmir recorded the highest single-day toll since the outbreak, health officials said on Wednesday. The latest fatalities have taken the UT’s overall toll to 2, 227. While 12 of the deaths were reported from Jammu division, 18 people lost their lives in Kashmir. This month, 233 people have lost their battle to the virus so far. The UT also recorded 3,023 new infections, taking the case tally to 1,69,077. Of the new cases, 2,034 cases are from Kashmir while 989 are from Jammu, besides 186 are travellers. For the past two consecutive days, the UT has been recording over 3,000 cases every day. Officials said with 951 cases, Srinagar had the highest number of new infections, followed by 499 in Jammu district, 246 in Baramulla, 199 in Budgam, and 160 in Anantnag. The number of active cases, which has been rising exponentially, reached 24,313, officials said. As many as 963 patients also recovered, including 657 from Kashmir and 306 from Jammu. The recovery rate, as on Monday, was 84.30%. Over 7.17 million tests have been conducted in the UT so far. The month of April has already witnessed 38,117 Covid infections. J&K admn: Have sufficient oxygen to meet any exigency The J&K government on Wednesday said they have sufficient oxygen to meet any exigency.“The factual position of oxygen supply in the UT of J&K is as follows: The present consumption of oxygen in the UT of J&K is approximately 25,000 cubic metres daily, as of April 28. The present generation capacity of oxygen in the UT of J&K is 54,500 cubic metres (Hospitals: 24,500 cubic metres and Industrial: 30,000 cubic metres) daily. The UT of J&K has ample supply of oxygen. The UT of J&K also has substantial number of filled oxygen cylinders,” tweeted the J&K government’s official spokesman.However, like other places, many people have been flagging the issues about shortage of oxygen in hospitals or could be seen seeking help regarding oxygen and medicines on Twitter and other social media platforms.“Right now, we are able to provide oxygen to every admitted patient in the hospital, but if the cases start rising things can get difficult. We hope the things don’t go out of hand and more and more facilities are setup in J&K,” said a senior doctor posted at GMC Srinagar.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/11-j-k-districts-to-go-under-84-hour-lockdown-from-april-29-101619642562979.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||With Covid care centres full, Kangra DC orders pvt hospitals to reserve 50% beds||With the two Covid care hospitals in the district full to capacity, authorities in Kangra have ordered the eight major private hospitals in the district to reserve 50% beds for corona patients.An order to this effect was issued by Kangra DC Rakesh Kumar Prajapati under Section 34 of the Disaster Management Act.He said the health facilities dedicated for Covid patients in Kangra were under stress due to recent surge and critical patients from neighbouring districts were being referred here.“Rajendra Prasad Government Medical College, Tanda, (108 beds)and Dharamshala zonal hospital (120 beds) are almost full to capacity and the situation has created a dire need to expand the capacities,” said Prajapati.“So, the district disaster management authority has decided to reserve 50% of all 50 bedded and above private hospitals for treatment of Covid patients,” he added.This would help the district authorities to add 300 more beds. The eight private hospitals are Surya Hospital, Shri Balaji Hospital, Fortis Hospital, Kangra; Maple Leaf Hospital, City Hospital, Vivekananda Medical Research Institute, Nav Jeevan Hospital and Delek Hospital.These hospitals will function as secondary-level dedicated isolation dacility under the overall supervision of the Kangra CMO and admit patients after referral from district surveillance officer/CMOThese hospitals may also directly admit Covid patients on confirmed positive report from ICMR approved lab.Kangra CMO will nominate a nodal officer for each such facility who would ensure proper functioning and adherence to the guidelines.The rates for the patient requiring ventilator support and oxygen has been fixed ₹8,000 per day and for those requiring only oxygen support ₹3,000, while for the patient not requiring any of the two, the rate would be ₹800 per day. The state health department would wear the expenditure on referred patients while those admitted directly will individually bear the cost.Sudhir Sharma’s house, Pathania’s nursing college to Covid care centresThe authorities have accepted the offer by Congress leader Sudhir Sharma’s and forest minister Rakesh Pathania to use their premises as Covid care centre subject to the fulfilment of perquisites essential to create such facility.Sharma had offered his Dharamshala house and Pathania his family-run nursing college at Nurpur The district administration intends to take over the premises May 1 onwards. 33 fatalities, 2,539 new cases drive HP to another grim milestone Himachal Pradesh on Wednesday recorded steepest single-day spike of 2,539 Covid-19 infections ever since the outbreak of pandemic, taking the state’s caseload 93,889.The death toll mounted to 1,407 after HP also registered highest 33 fatalities in a single day. Of the new cases, maximum 693 were reported in Kangra. This is highest ever single-day spike registered in any district ever.Sirmaur was second on the list with 295 cases while Mandi recorded 283 cases, Solan 283, Shimla 215, Bilaspur 207, Una 182, Kullu 109, Hamirpur 108, Chamba 93, Kinnaur 50 and Lahaul-Spiti 12.Sixteen fatalities were reported in Kangra, four each in Mandi and Solan, three in Shimla and two each in Hamirpur, Sirmaur and Una.Meanwhile, active cases in the state have reached have reached 16,098 while recoveries stood at 76,335 after 1,407 people recuperated.Kangra is the worst hit district with 16,581 cases, followed by Shimla where 14,169 people have been infected so far and Mandi with 13,610 cases.Solan’s caseload climbed to 12,157 while Una has 6,529 cases, Sirmaur 6,570, Hamirpur 6,029, Kullu 5,725, Bilaspur 5,016 , Chamba, 4,051, Lahaul-Spiti 1,764 and Kinnaur 1,688.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/with-covid-care-centres-full-kangra-dc-orders-pvt-hospitals-to-reserve-50-beds-101619642561870.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||First conviction: Woodcutter found guilty in Kotkhai rape-murder case||The district and sessions court in Shimla on Wednesday convicted a 27-year-old woodcutter in connection with the rape and murder of a 16-year-old schoolgirl in Kotkhai town four years ago. Special judge Rajeev Bhardwaj held Anil Kumar alias Neelu guilty and reserved the pronouncement of punishment for May 11. CBI had on April 13, 2018 arrested Anil, who was identified by DNA testing. This is the first conviction in the case that saw dramatic twists, including the custodial death of a man earlier suspected of having committed the crime and the arrest of a senior police officer in that connection. The judge said 12 of the 14 crucial points of evidence presented by the CBI went against the convict. The most important of them was the matching of his DNA with samples found at the crime spot, he said. The judge ruled that the crime was committed on the spur of the moment when Anil Kumar came across the girl as she walked home through the forested area.Anil Kumar, who attended the hearing from a prison in Shimla, pleaded innocence.The Class-10 girl was found dead in the Halaila forest in Kotkhai on July 6, 2017, two days after she was reported missing.Days later, the state police set up a special investigation team headed by Inspector General Z Zahur Zaidi.Police arrested six men on July 13. One of them, Suraj, died in police custody on July 19.Amid public outrage, the Himachal Pradesh High Court handed over the case to the CBI, which arrested nine policemen including the IGP for the custodial death. The custodial death case against the police officers was later transferred to Chandigarh, where it is currently being heard.A 40-member CBI team had camped in Kotkhai for weeks and collected blood samples of 250 people living in areas nearby. The investigators subjected the five suspects, arrested by state police, to various types of forensic examinations including the DNA, narco and lie-detector tests, but their DNA samples didn’t match with those lifted from the crime scene. (with inputs from PTI)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/first-conviction-woodcutter-found-guilty-in-kotkhai-rape-murder-case-101619642560776.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Woman burnt alive, six houses reduced to ashes in Shimla blaze||A 75-year-old woman was burnt alive in a major fire that broke out in Fanail village of Kotkhai’s Ramnagar in Shimla on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. Seven families were rendered homeless as six houses were gutted. The victim is Bimla Devi. Kotkhai tehsildar Kailash Koundal said the fire broke out around 1am. Fire tenders were rushed to the spot after villagers informed the authorities about the incident. The cause of the fire could not be ascertained so far. Koundal said kin of the deceased and other affected families have been provided ex gratia relief of ₹10,000 each. Governor Bandaru Dattatreya has expressed grief over the loss of life and property in the fire incident. The governor, who is also the chairman of the State Red Cross Society, also sent relief material, including blankets, kitchen sets and sanitation kits, to the affected families. Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur tweeted, “Sad to hear about the death of a woman in a major fire that gutted six houses in Kotkhai. I pray the Almighty to grant peace to departed soul and strength to the family to bear the irreparable loss. I have directed the district administration to provide every possible help to the affected families.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/woman-burnt-alive-six-houses-reduced-to-ashes-in-shimla-blaze-101619642559732.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Sharad Pawar discharged from hospital after eight days||Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar was discharged from the Breach Candy Hospital on Wednesday. He was advised by the doctors to take complete rest for the next few days. He was at the hospital for the last eight days.“Our party president Sharad Pawar saheb has been discharged from hospital today and is in good health. He will be resting at home as advised by his doctors,” tweeted Nawab Malik, minority affairs minister and chief spokesperson of NCP on Wednesday.On April 25, Pawar was operated for a mouth ulcer. He was admitted to the hospital for a postoperative procedure that was conducted on April 21. Before that, he had undergone gallbladder surgery after being diagnosed with multiple stones in the gallbladder on April 12. Pawar underwent laparoscopic surgery (keyhole surgery) which requires a minimal invasive surgical procedure.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/sharad-pawar-discharged-from-hospital-after-eight-days-101619641539116.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||25K kids out of school or have not gone to school ever in Maha: Survey||More than 25,000 students in Maharashtra have either not gone to school ever or have been out of school due to their inability to attend classes, data compiled by a state-organised survey has revealed. This includes 10,820 (43%) students from Mumbai city and suburbs. Responding to concerns around dropouts during the last few months due to Covid-19 and the resultant lockdown, the state education department had launched a drive between March 1 and 10 to identify out-of-school students across the state. Officials in the education department and staff members and teachers of schools in the state undertook a survey of students in their localities to collate this data. Of the 36 districts, data could be collected in 33 districts. Districts such as Amravati, Aurangabad and Buldhana could not be surveyed due to rising Covid-19 infections during the time. As per the data, only 288 students were found engaged in child labour, while 1,212 students could not attend, as they were children with special needs. The education department now plans to come up with guidelines to ensure all these students are re-enrolled into schools. Students who have never gone to school and those who have not attended regularly are considered to be out-of-school students as per the survey. As per data shared by the education department, more than 14,000 students have migrated from the state to other states, of which majority students – 8,801 are from Mumbai city and suburbs. In all, over 10,000 students have migrated from Mumbai to other districts or states as per the data. During the lockdown, data shows an in-migration of 7784 students in the state. Experts said numbers that have come out of the survey cannot be taken seriously, as they are underreported. “The number seems to be severely underreported. We need to understand that the survey was conducted in a situation where it was not safe to conduct door-to-door surveys. Hence, we do not know if the teachers and staff members have been able to reach each student,” said Ghanshyam Sonar, convenor of the All-India RTE forum. Sonar said in the coming days, the government should devise a mechanism wherein students and parents themselves will be able to register the fact they are not able to attend schools. “A phone number can be created where students or parents can give a missed call and then details of such students can be checked and reported. The drive however should be widely popularised to get a more realistic figure,” he added. Heramb Kulkarni, a Pune-based educationist, said, “It is unbelievable that the number of out-of-school students and those engaged in child labour can be this low. Year after year, these surveys happen and realistic numbers never come forward. The government should engage NGOs and other organisations working on the grassroots if it really wishes to get a real picture of out of school students and act towards bringing them back into schools.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/25k-kids-out-of-school-or-have-not-gone-to-school-ever-in-maha-survey-101619641479112.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Videos emerge of verbal abuse: IIT KGP professor apologises; SC commission initiates an investigation||Three days after a video emerged of a professor of the Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur (IIT KGP) verbally abusing a preparatory class for students belonging to the scheduled castes and scheduled tribes categories and those with physical disabilities, she has now apologised to the students. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC) has taken suo motu cognisance of the matter and initiated an inquiry. On Wednesday morning, Seema Singh, an associate professor from the department of humanities and social sciences at IIT KGP, wrote an email to the students apologising for her behaviour. The recordings, which are under review of the institute, were posted on Sunday afternoon anonymously on the confessions page of IIT KGP, an informal group of students on social media. The recordings are reportedly of the online preparatory classes taught by Seema, professor of English, which were attended by over 100 students and parents. In it, she can be heard repeatedly hurling abuses at them. “I am writing this to express my sincerest apology for what happened last week. It was not my intention to hurt anyone… It was never the slightest intention to be discriminatory towards any segment of the student community,” said Seema in her email, which has been reviewed by HT. Despite repeated attempts, she was unavailable for comment.In her email to the students, Singh said she ‘went overboard’ as she was under stress, which attributed to her testing positive for Covid-19. “I feel like this (the incident) may have been due to extreme stress of being Covid positive, suffering from poor health, social isolation, lack of any kind of support, and other incriminating personal factors which I cannot share,” she wrote.Institute director Tamal Nath said, “We want to reiterate that we do not support such behaviour. We have received a complaint from the students’ representatives and are reviewing the complaint. Once we verify the claims in the complaint, we will decide on the next course of action.” Nath confirmed that an official complaint has been made by Shivam Singh, officiating vice president of IIT KGP’s Students’ Gymkhana —an officially recognised student body—, however, Shivam did not respond to calls or messages. Science Education Group (SEG), a students’ forum at IIT KGP, stated on Wednesday: “There have also been previous unverified reports that state her (Seema’s) brazen and abusive behaviour with students. She has an alleged history of doing these things. One thing that can be concluded from all this is that primarily this is systematic power abuse, which often goes under the carpet and secondarily, underlines the casteist behaviour of the system…” The forum has demanded that Seema face disciplinary action and be terminated from her post. It has also demanded the creation of an autonomous body across all IITs which acts as a check towards the behaviour of professors towards students. “Our statement is addressed to students of the institute as well as the administration,” said a member of SEG, on the condition of anonymity. “Create SC/ST/OBC cells in all IITs which must be an autonomous body tied up with the NCSC, so that people from oppressed communities can go and express their grievances and concerns about caste-based harassment in confidence without having to worry about the repercussions because they tried to speak up,” said SEG. The demand for the creation of autonomous SC/ST/OBC cells resonated across campuses as the incident and Seema’s response has sparked outrage among the student community across various campuses of IIT as well as other institutes. At least five online petitions have been started by students and alumni of various institutes such as IIT Delhi, KGP, Bombay and Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. They seek action against Seema and the creation of safe spaces for students to speak about caste-based discrimination.“The initial shock and disbelief aside, what’s crucial to note is that this is not an isolated incident by any means. A narrative that is reiterated by the administrative authorities of these Institutes is that such incidences of caste atrocities are rare and that they don’t deserve too much attention… This incident compels us to look at the larger issue of reservations and the savarna concept of merit in higher education. The very nature of the prep course is based on the merit-based education system, wherein it is assumed that SC, ST, OBC students are not eligible to study in IITs as they are less “meritorious”, that they need a preparatory English course to enter this institution,” said the IIT-Bombay chapter of the Ambedkar Periyar Phule Study Circle, a student group with chapters across various IITs.At least five online petitions have been started by students and alumni of various institutes such as IIT Delhi, KGP, Bombay and Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai. They seek action against Seema and the creation of safe spaces for students to speak about caste-based discrimination.Close to 850 alumni members of IIT KGP, ranging from batches in 1970s to 2020, have signed a petition demanding an unconditional apology from Seema as well as her termination. “IITs are already notoriously hostile to Dalit, Adivasi and backward caste students. It is evident from the videos that Professor Singh is a habitual offender and believes her casteism and abuse will go uncensured. We cannot allow this,” read the petition by alumni members addressed to the institute’s administration.Meanwhile, on Tuesday, the NCSC issued letters to the institute, union ministry of education, West Bengal government, and director-general of police, WB, informing them that the commission will now investigate the matter. “The commission has taken a suo-motu cognisance of use of unparliamentary language and casteist remarks made by professor Seema Singh… while taking a class of SC/ ST students… Her remarks have hurt the sentiments of many Indians, specifically the SC community,” the commission wrote. “The commission has taken note of the incident at IIT KGP. We have issued letters to the authorities and given them 15 days to respond to us with what action they have taken. Based on their responses we will take action,” said Ajit Kumar Sahu, director, NCSC. If the authorities fail to respond within the stipulated time, the commission may summon representatives for a hearing, he added.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/videos-emerge-of-verbal-abuse-iit-kgp-professor-apologises-sc-commission-initiates-an-investigation-101619641419149.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Virar hospital fire was due to presence of alcohol from sanitiser, O2’||The blaze at Vijay Vallabh Hospital in Virar spread rapidly owing to the presence of alcohol in the air from excess use of sanitisers over months and oxygen in the intensive care unit (ICU), according to Nilesh Ukunde, fire engineer and private forensic expert from Nagpur, deputed by the divisional commissioner of Nagpur Municipal Corporation to study the fire in Virar. Meanwhile, the Vasai court on Wednesday remanded chief executive officer (CEO) Dr Dilip Bastimal Shah, 56, and director Dr Shailesh Dharamdev Pathak, 47, in judicial custody till April 30. Fifteen Covid-19 patients were charred to death in the fire, last Friday. Ukunde was deputed to study the incident as it was similar to the fire that broke out at ICU at Wadi, Nagpur hospital, claiming four lives, on April 9. “The fire could have been avoided had the management used suction pumps to pump out the alcohol every eight hours. The process hardly takes two minutes. There was no cross-ventilation and the curtains were not fire-retardant. There was only one entry and exit point in the ICU, when there should have been a rear emergency door too,” said Ukunde. “The hospital did not have a water sprinkler system and how the fire audit was done is questionable. The local Vasai civic body and fire brigade, too, are to blame for giving the hospital fire clearance. The fire brigade personnel are trained only in firefighting and rescue of victims, but are not capable of conducting a fire audit, which involves detailed study of structural, electrical and even the paints, type of electrical switches to be used. The management follows what the architect, contractors and interior designers’ plan. Even if a small amount of alcohol settles inside the switchboard, it is enough to cause a huge fire,” said Ukunde. “The heat from the sparks in the air-conditioning unit led to the fire as it came in contact with alcohol and only two nurses in the nursing station were present and they called the management and wasted precious time and did not call the fire brigade,” he said, adding that the findings have been submitted to the Nagpur and Vasai civic bodies.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/virar-hospital-fire-was-due-to-presence-of-alcohol-from-sanitiser-o2-101619641359125.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||‘Mumbra hospital fire exit was blocked’||The fire in Prime Criticare hospital in Mumbra on Wednesday morning, which killed four patients in the intensive care unit (ICU), was a wake-up call for the Thane Municipal Corporation (TMC), which had claimed several times in the past few weeks that nearly all hospitals in their jurisdiction are “fire-compliant”. Prime Criticare Hospital is a 16-year-old structure, which was earlier known as Life Care Hospital and later Saboo Siddique. While the corporation claimed two notices were served to the said hospital, the last notice was served in February, after which there was no follow-up. Locals claimed there was only one exit and the fire exit, too, was blocked. “Although there was a fire exit on the premises, it was getting difficult to rescue, as the pathway was closed with storage material. We have served two notices to the hospital, however, there was no response,” said TM Mishra, fire chief, Mumbra. An officer from TMC said, “Over 70 per cent of the hospitals are in illegal buildings. We can’t seal all these hospitals, as patients need them. Moreover major structural changes for fire safety, too, are not possible owing to lack of space.” Despite repeated attempts, the hospital was unavailable for a comment. A local resident said, “The hospital is congested and fire exit was obstructed with storage material. There is one exit for patients. So we had to break open the grille of a window at the back of the hospital. Moreover there was only one staircase, the other was a ramp.” TMC officials on Tuesday held a meeting with all private hospitals, after which the fire department started sending notices to hospitals that were not fire-compliant. However, Prime Criticare was yet to receive a notice. Girish Zalke, chief fire officer, said, “We often give enough opportunities to hospitals to submit their fire compliance. Owing to the current medical situation, we could not take drastic measures. The incident happened due to panel overheating. It is an accident that occurred due to electric faults on the premises.” As the fire audit was not conducted, the mandatory report from the electrical inspection was also not available.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbra-hospital-fire-exit-was-blocked-101619641299751.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Railways suffer revenue loss of ₹1,274 crore due to lockdown||As local train services were suspended for nearly a year amid the surge in Covid-19 cases and resultant lockdown in 2020, the suburban railway suffered a loss of nearly ₹1,274 crore.With over eight million people travelling daily in Mumbai and the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), the suburban train services are the biggest public transport system in the financial capital. All of 3,141 local train services were suspended from midnight of March 22, 2020; resulting in losses to Central and Western Railway.“The suburban local trains are always under losses particularly due to the low fares. The complete suspension of local train services has increased the loss for the suburban railway network. Loss of ₹600 crore on Central Railway and ₹674 crore on Western Railway was incurred in the entire year (2020-2021),” said a senior railway official on conditions of anonymity.Local train services for the general public were resumed by the Maharashtra government on February 1, 2021. Passengers were allowed to travel in stipulated timing from the first local train service till 7am; then between 12pm and 4pm; and from 9pm till the last local train service.Further, train services resumed partially for employees working in essential care services on June 15, 2020. However, with a limited number of train services, both the zonal railways continued to incur losses.“When a limited number of train services are operated, the manpower required to operate and maintenance of trains and tracks are required in its complete capacity. The operational loss was also incurred after services resumed partially.” said a senior Central Railway official.Local train services were suspended again on April 15 for the general public as a part of the Maharashtra government initiated Break The Chain lockdown measures.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/railways-suffer-revenue-loss-of-1-274-crore-due-to-lockdown-101619641299161.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||FIR against Param Bir, 32 others under atrocities act||Late on Wednesday, a first information report was registered against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and 32 others in Akola city by police inspector BR Ghadge. Ghadge had recently written to the chief minister and home minister, levelling serious corruption allegations against Singh and sought an FIR. Singh did not respond to calls and messages, at the time of going to press.Ghadge, who is posted at the Akola city police control room, is from the Mahar community that comes under the scheduled caste category. He alleged in the FIR, a copy of which is with HT, that as he had not followed Singh’s illegal orders to benefit some accused in a 2013 Kalyan civic body criminal case, he [Singh] conspired with others and registered a criminal case against him in order to harass him as he was from a scheduled caste. Fifteen other officers who were posted in Thane police when Singh was commissioner there have also been named. Twenty-seven sections have been invoked, including those of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, Indian Penal Code, Maharashtra Police Act and Civil Rights Protection Act. Singh was shunted out as the city police commissioner last month in the aftermath of a bomb scare outside industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence, the murder of businessman Mansukh Hiran, and the arrest of police officer Sachin Vaze.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/fir-against-param-bir-32-others-under-atrocities-act-101619641241107.html
29-04-2021||Other||Week on, no headway in PAU museum burglary case||Over a week has passed since burglars broke into the museum of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) and fled with rare artifacts depicting the heritage and culture of Punjab but police are still groping in the dark for leads. The theft had taken place when the varsity was closed for outsiders and entry was allowed only from one point, Gate Number 4. PAU officials had found out about the theft on April 19 when the varsity reopened. They, however, waited for two days before filing a complaint on April 21. On April 26, police had apprehended a youth, who was said to be the son of a Class 4 employee working at the varsity. They had recovered two brass plates from him but the university authorities said the recovered articles did not belong to the museum.Police are now keeping tabs on the internet as there is a possibility that the thieves may try to sell the stolen artifacts online for a huge amount. According to university officials, the stolen items were antique and some of these were centuries-old artwork depicting life in rural Punjab. These included bells, brass utensils, traditional jewellery, such as Rani haar (necklace), earrings, anklets and phulkari. “These items were rare and priceless. The collection process of the museum began in 1971,” said Sandeep Bains, dean, College of Community Science, who is the custodian of the museum. PAU security in-charge Shiv Kumar said there was no closed-circuit television (CCTV) camera in and around the museum. When asked how the thieves could have entered the university when there was security cover to bar the entry of outsiders, Shiv Kumar said the matter is being probed. “The thieves may have scaled the wall of the university. Right now, we can only speculate. Also, we only keep tabs on the registration number of vehicles entering the campus and ask the driver about the purpose of visit. No vehicle is searched before entry or exit,” he said. Ashok Kumar, the university’s estate officer, said police are probing the matter and hopefully, the accused will be behind bars soon.Sarabha Nagar assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Gurpreet Singh said there have been lapses on the part of the varsity. “They should have informed the police immediately after they found out about the theft. Since, the museum was of historical importance, CCTVs should have been installed around the premises for safety. However, we are working on many theories. A man was rounded up with two brass plates but the PAU authorities said that these plates did not belong to the university,” said the ACP.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/week-on-no-headway-in-pau-museum-burglary-case-101619641240549.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Under pressure, hospitals expand infra, neglect fire safety||The recent spate of blazes in hospitals, which are under tremendous strain owing to the pandemic, have brought the focus on how fire safety is neglected on the premises. A fire in a Mumbra hospital on Wednesday morning killed four patients from the intensive care unit (ICU). Fire brigade officials have claimed short-circuit in the meter room to be the cause of the fire. M V Deshmukh, director, Fire Safe India Foundation and former director and fire advisor to the state government, said most of the hospitals have strained their electrical load capacity, especially in the pandemic. “Hospitals have been adding ventilators, air-conditioning units and electrical equipment indiscriminately without enhancing their load. The electrical infrastructure has not been refurnished to meet this enhanced load and all these factors are bound to backfire. More patients mean more use of power and this is playing havoc,” he said.Last week, 15 people lost their lives in a fire at a private hospital in Virar. The fire brigade was called 43 minutes after the first spark was noticed, wasting precious time. A massive fire broke out on the first floor of the Dreams Mall at Bhandup late on March 25 which spread to the third floor, which housed a Covid hospital, claiming nine lives. A Mumbai Fire Brigade (MFB) inspection carried out last October pointed that the building’s manual fire alarm and automatic smoke detector system were not functioning. There were 23 observations that signalled flouting of fire safety norms in the building, including the absence of alternative electrical supply and rusty pipes in the firefighting system. Namdeo Sable, proprietor, Sai Industries, which have been conducting fire and electrical audits for 19 years, said, “Fires are mainly due to the glitches in electricity and this aspect is neglected by the hospital administration. They appoint unlicensed electricians who hardly have any technical knowledge and cut corners. Audit reports should be used to rectify the errors, but here it is more of an eyewash.” Deshmukh said lack of evacuation plans is another issue. “In Virar, they could have saved at least 10 of the 15 patients had there been a plan in place,” said Deshmukh. Deshmukh warns that jumbo Covid-19 centres are also at a risk.“Most big hospitals have regular fire mock drills and an evacuation plan,” said the senior administrator of a hospital in south Mumbai. Most others refused to comment. State urban development minister Eknath Shinde said hospitals have been told to conduct both fire and oxygen audits and rectify the errors.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/under-pressure-hospitals-expand-infra-neglect-fire-safety-101619641239131.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Maharashtra sees sharpest one-day toll of 985 Covid-19 deaths||With 985 deaths, Maharashtra reported its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day, taking the toll to 67,214. The state also added 63,309 infections, taking the tally to 4,473,394. Active cases stood at 673,481. Although cases saw a slight dip last week with a lockdown, the state has seen a 71% increase in deaths from the previous week. A week after Maharashtra announced a lockdown from April 22, the weekly growth of infections has seen a dip. Between April 15 and April 21, the state recorded 387,972 cases, which came down to 378,554 between April 22 and April 28. Deaths, however, increased in the period. In the past seven days, Maharashtra saw 4,735 deaths, a 71.29% increase from the previous week — 2,758 deaths. A senior health official said it would be early to gauge the impact of lockdown. “The state had imposed a curfew from April 13, which got a mild response from people. This slight dip could because of that. We will know the impact of lockdown in the next week,” he said.Meanwhile, the state cabinet on Wednesday has decided to extend the lockdown by 15 days from May 1. A formal order is expected to be issued by April 30, senior officials said. Dr Subhash Salunkhe, former director-general of health services and advisor to the state government on Covid-19, said some decline is seen, but it is not a trend. “Mumbai, Pune and a few places are showing a decline, but it has to sustain for a couple of weeks. Every wave has a fluctuation. So, whether this is a trend or minor low we cannot say,” he said. On Wednesday, Mumbai showed higher case-count with 4,926 new infections. The city recorded under 4,000-cases on April 26 and 27. However, the positivity rate was much lower compared last week at 12.58%. Mumbai also recorded 78 deaths to take its death toll to 12,954. Mumbai has 67,984 active cases. Pune district topped the districts with 169 fatalities, of which 117 came from Pune city. Thane district reported 91 deaths, Nagpur saw 83 deaths, and Aurangabad 81 fatalities. Nashik and Nandurbar reported 41 and 43 deaths, respectively. Satara reported 38, Yavatmal and Ahmednagar districts saw 32 deaths each, while Latur reported 31 deaths. Of the 985 deaths reported on Wednesday, 392 occurred in the past 48 hours and 251 in the last week. The remaining 342 deaths are from the period before last week, the health department said. As the state has been clocking over 800 deaths for the past three days, high death rate noted in some rural areas, according to a presentation given to chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday on the Covid situation. Sindhudurg district’s weekly case fatality rate (CFR) has risen from 1.1% between April 12 and 18 to 3.66% between April 19 and 25. Nanded district has seen as similar rise in CFR from 1.46% to 3.46% during the same period. Osmanabad, Solapur and Amravati districts too have seen a spike in fatality rate in the last two weeks. Dr Salunkhe added the administration and health department are trying their best to contain the deaths. “We are fighting shortage of oxygen and drugs. Unlike last year when the growth of cases was steady, this year we have seen cases mount in matter of a few weeks. Due to the sheer accelerated growth in cases, the death has increased,” he said. According to the data presented, the state’s weekly average increase in cases was 1.52%, which is down from 1.72% the previous week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/maharashtra-sees-sharpest-one-day-toll-of-985-covid-19-deaths-101619640999108.html
29-04-2021||Other||Family feud turns ugly as cop shoots brother in Ludhiana||A family feud turned ugly after an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) in the police department who is currently posted at the PAU police station shot at his elder brother, who is also a cop, after a scuffle at Pavitar Nagar Puli in Haibowal on Wednesday.The injured cop, identified as Vijay Kumar, was rushed to Dayanand Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), where his condition is stated to be stable.The incident took place in the morning when ASI Janak Raj learnt that his elder brother, who is an ASI attached with the anti-encroachment squad of the municipal corporation (MC), was visiting the area to supervise the anti-encroachment operation. Janak was upset that he was not invited to the wedding of his sister’s daughter scheduled for Thursday. He suspected that his brother, with whom he was in a property tussle, was behind the boycott.The brothers got into a heated argument and in no time, their sister also reached the spot. In a fit of rage, Janak pulled out his service revolver and fired one shot in the air and aimed the second at his brother. The second bullet hit Vijay in the stomach following which he started running to get away from his brother, triggering panic in the area. The accused fled after the incident. The MC officials who were present at the site for the anti-encroachment drive took him to the hospital. Joint commissioner Deepak Pareek said the brothers were having a long-pending dispute which resulted in the incident. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-3) Sameer Verma said efforts are on to nab Janak Raj.Haibowal station house officer Neeraj Choudhary said the case was being registered against Janak Raj on the complaint of Vijay’s sister Veena.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/family-feud-turns-ugly-as-cop-shoots-brother-in-ludhiana-101619640822976.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||7 weeks on, amended Punjab Excise Bill 2021 awaiting governor’s nod||The Punjab Excise (Amendment) Bill, 2021, to ensure deterrent punishment for those involved in smuggling and selling of illicit liquor has been waiting the governor’s approval for the last seven weeks.The new bill was passed in the Punjab Assembly on March 8 during the last budget session. Besides amending sections 61 and 63 of the Punjab Excise Act 1914, a new section (61-A) was inserted in the Act, with provision of capital punishment or life imprisonment in case death is caused due to spurious liquor.The new amendments were promised by the Captain Amarinder Singh-led Congress government after the state’s worst-ever hooch tragedy killed nearly 140 people in Tarn Taran, Amritsar and Gurdaspur districts in July-August last year.“We are waiting for the notification to invoke amended sections of the Act against the accused, which will be issued once it gets the governor’s assent,” said Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) Dhruman H Nimbale. Another police official said, “Most of the people we are arresting in cases of illicit liquor get bail in a week or two due to the lenient sections of the old Act. The illegal trade will continue to flourish until the deterrent punishment, especially for the organised cartels, is approved.”Also under the new Act, if disability or grievous injury is caused due to spurious liquor, the accused will be handed over imprisonment for a term not less than six years or even life besides fine up to ₹10 lakh. If any other consequential injury is caused to any person, the accused will get a term up to 1 year and with fine extendable to ₹5 lakh. But if no injury is caused, the accused may get 6-month imprisonment with fine extendable to ₹2.5 lakh.Also, as per the section of 63, the imprisonment has been increased from 1 to 3 year, and fine from ₹1,000 thousand to ₹10,000.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/7-weeks-on-amended-punjab-excise-bill-2021-awaiting-governor-s-nod-101619640820786.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Days on, probe panel yet to submit report on Amritsar hospital deaths despite 48-hour deadline||The two-member inquiry committee set up to look into the death of six patients, four of them suffering from Covid-19, due to shortage of medical oxygen in a private hospital in Amritsar on April 24 is yet to submit its report on the incident despite the 48-hour deadline to do so. The Neelkanth Hospital management had blamed the district administration for the incident, saying they had intimated the officials about the shortage of oxygen a day before the incident. Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had directed the Amritsar deputy commissioner to constitute an inquiry panel with instructions to submit a report within 48 hours. Deputy commissioner Gurpreet Singh Khaira had set up a committee comprising deputy director (local bodies) Rajat Oberoi, who is also incharge of the death analysis committee in the district, and Amritsar civil surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh to look into the matter.“Two of the victims were from Gurdaspur, one from Tarn Taran and three from Amritsar district. We had called their families to record their statement but only three of the six families reported to us. The rest of the families will report on Thursday. We will conclude our findings after recording their statements,” said Rajat Oberoi.He added, “We have taken the medical records of the six patients in our custody to ascertain the exact cause of their death. We have recorded the statements of the hospital management and doctors who were on duty at the time of the incident. Also, information has been sought from the suppliers to share details on oxygen supplied to the hospital. The report will be submitted on Friday morning.”The suppliers had restricted the supply of oxygen cylinders to the hospital as it did not clear the pending dues for previous deliveries, it is learnt.Civil Surgeon Dr Charanjit Singh had claimed that the hospital was authorised to admit level-2 Covid-19 patients only but it allowed even critical level-3 patients without informing the health department. Also, the hospital didn’t have any senior doctor on night duty in the intensive care unit (ICU).Neelkanth Hospital managing director Sunil Devgan had said, “We had been seeking oxygen supply for the last 48 hours but the administration bought cylinders for government hospitals only.”On the other hand, the DC had said the hospital authorities were at fault as they didn’t inform the administration about the shortage.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/days-on-probe-panel-yet-to-submit-report-on-amritsar-hospital-deaths-despite-48-hour-deadline-101619640760924.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab cabinet approves hike in Ashirwad Scheme aid from ₹21,000 to ₹51,000||The Punjab cabinet on Wednesday approved an increase in financial assistance under the Ashirwad Scheme, earlier known as Shagun Scheme, from ₹21,000 to ₹51,000 per beneficiary for the marriage of women belonging to low-income families and directed to clear all pending dues. The decision was taken in a meeting chaired by chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh through video conferencing. The cabinet was informed that payments under the scheme till December 2020 were already cleared, a government spokesperson said. The increase will come into effect from July 1. This is the second hike in the scheme amount by the present government which enhanced the aid from ₹15,000 to ₹21,000 after it took over in 2017. At that time, the cabinet had also decided to make payment directly into the bank accounts of the beneficiaries. The chief minister clarified that the scheme was also applicable to Muslims girls aged 18 or above along with scheduled caste, Christian, backward class/caste, economically weaker section families, and daughters of widows of any caste. The Dalit widows/divorcees are also entitled to the benefit at the time of their re-marriage. The latest increase will benefit 60,000 girls or women, putting an addition burden of ₹180 crore on the state exchequer, the spokesperson said. Ensure prompt lifting of grain: CM Reviewing the wheat procurement, the CM directed all procurement agencies to ensure prompt lifting of the grain and timely payment to farmers through the newly introduced direct benefit transfer (DBT) system. Principal secretary (food, civil supplies and consumer affairs) KAP Sinha informed the CM that the issue of shortage of gunny bags had been sorted out. Few instances of shortage were reported in some mandis earlier as the Union government had allocated fewer bales, he said. But there was no shortage of bags after the permission for use of good quality used bags arranged by arthiyas was obtained from the Centre on April 18, , the cabinet was informed. The CM expressed satisfaction at smooth procurement amid the challenges faced by the state due to the ongoing farmers’ agitation against the Centre’s agriculture laws, the initial opposition of arthiyas to DBT, scarcity of labour and shortage of gunny bags amid the pandemic. Unauthorised telecom towers regularised The cabinet also decided to regularise all unauthorised telecom towers installed between December 5, 2013 and December 7, 2020. It decided to extend the scope of provisions in section 2.0 (I) (a) of the Telecom Guidelines issued on December 7, 2020 for the purpose. The spokesperson said the regularisation would be subject to fulfilling of conditions in clause 1.4(I)(a) of the Telecom Guidelines, along with one-time payment of ₹20,000. Former chief secretary’s death condoled The cabinet also condoled the death of former state chief secretary YS Ratra. It placed on record its appreciation for “Ratra’s service and contribution” to Punjab, with the CM remembering him as a “competent civil servant and a fine gentleman”. Chief secretary Vini Mahajan described Ratra as an upright officer with the highest integrity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-cabinet-approves-hike-in-ashirwad-scheme-aid-from-rs-21-000-to-rs-51000-101619640759660.html
29-04-2021||Other||15 more lose battle to contagion in Ludhiana||A day after recording the highest single-day toll of the year with 13 fatalities, Ludhiana shattered its own record, logging 15 more deaths on Wednesday. Of these, eight are men while seven are women, the youngest being a 33-year-old woman from Khanna. The district’s cumulative death count has now gone up to 1, 377. Among the women who died are an 81-year-old resident of Golf link, a 63-year-old of Ajit Nagar, a 62-year-old of Shimlapuri, a 57-year-old from Dugri, a 50-year-old from Meharban, a 47-year-old from Sukhdev Avenue, besides the 33-year-old Khanna resident. The men who succumbed to the virus include a 79-year-old resident of Rara Sahib, two 77-year-old residents of Shivaji Nagar and Nehru Nagar, a 76-year-old of Sunder Nagar, a 71-year-old resident of Hiran village, a 69-year-old resident of Tajpur road, a 64-year-old resident of Subhash Nagar and a 49-year-old resident of Vikas Nagar. The rising deaths are putting pressure on cremation grounds and mortuaries, prompting the Ludhiana administration to issue orders that bodies of Covid victims can be cremated in any cremation ground in the city. As many as 952 residents also tested positive, taking the cumulative count of cases to 52,444, of which 7, 853 are active cases. Currently, 1, 313 beds in private hospitals are occupied while 113 beds are occupied in government hospitals. As many as 30 Covid patients are on ventilator-support. Healthcare system overstretched, need residents support: DC Reiterating that the current healthcare system has already been stretched a lot due to unprecedented rise in Covid cases, especially Level-III patients, deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma urged residents to “hibernate” for 14-days to help flatten the second Covid wave which is more ferocious than the previous one. He said due to the sudden surge in Level-III patients, who require ventilator support, and inflow of patients from other states including NCR, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and other parts of Punjab, the district administration was supplying 3,600 oxygen cylinders daily to Ludhiana hospitals. He said that every system has its own limitation and if people continue to be negligent towards Covid protocols, this will create conditions similar to Delhi and Mumbai. Administration to hires specialised doctors To combat the second wave of Covid-19 more efficaciously, the district administration on Wednesday announced to hire medical specialists on daily honorarium basis in the district. Sub-divisional magistrate (east) Baljinder Singh Dhillon said qualified medical specialists must come forward to help the administration in the battle against the contagion. He said interested candidates could contact the senior medical officer of the Civil Hospital, Ludhiana. Dhillon said the decision has been taken to enhance the manpower resources for ensuring quality treatment for infected patients. He said the state government has decided to give daily honorarium for the medical specialists being hired for Covid duty. The SDM added that walk-in interviews will be organised for applicants applying for these posts.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/15-more-lose-battle-to-contagion-in-ludhiana-101619640641139.html
29-04-2021||Other||Ludhiana’s Good Samaritans send home-cooked meals to Covid patients||As Covid-infected patients in home isolation battle cold, fever and body aches which are rendering them unable to cook, a few women’s groups and clubs are helping them in the recovery process by providing them free home-cooked food at their doorsteps. To keep their morale up during the fight, these Good Samaritans are also pasting motivational messages, wishing them speedy recovery, on these food packets. Maneet Makkar, the owner of Club Sixty Nine, who is one of the persons running the free food delivery service, said, “We came to know that a lot of families are unable to cook food as they are not even able to get up from their beds. So we decided to start a Covid kitchen to provide meals free of cost to the patients.”“We are just a phone call away and want to help everyone going through these tough times. Our chefs prepare simple and healthy meals that include yellow dal, mix vegetable, rice and chapatti for delivery,” she said. “This morning, we got a call from a family on Dhandara road and we delivered the meal to them through a private delivery platform. Another call came from a Delhi-based family, which is getting treatment from a city-based hospital,” she revealed.‘Got to fight this battle as a community’Fifty-five-year-old Dimple Kant, who is another resident helping Covid patients in their battle, said that she started her initiative just two days ago. “I am very fond of cooking so I decided to support the infected patients through this initiative. On the first day, I received calls from four people and yesterday, the number went up to eight. I am receiving calls from South City, Barewal road and Aggar Nagar.”“Many told me that they are so unwell that they are not in a position to cook. This morning, I got a call from a woman who was crying. We sent food to everyone who called us. On Wednesday, we delivered food to 25 to 30 patients and received thank you messages from everyone,” she said, adding that this fight has to be fought as a community and everyone can do their bit by helping infected patients in their own area. Dimple said she packs dal, seasonal vegetables, curd, chappati and rice in these food packets and her own family members help her in the delivery.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/ludhianas-good-samaritans-send-home-cooked-meals-to-covid-patients-101619640279747.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Mumbai: Covid-19 vaccine for 18-44 age group at 227 new centres||After the Maharashtra government’s announcement on Wednesday that vaccination for all above 18 years of age will be free at government and civic facilities, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) stated that these beneficiaries can get vaccinated at 227 new municipal vaccination centres that will be opened across the city. The BMC had on Tuesday announced that vaccination for beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group will only be done at private vaccination centres. State health minister Rajesh Tope said vaccination for the 18-44 age group was unlikely to start from May 1, but the civic body did not clarify its stand on Wednesday. To prevent crowding at vaccination centres, the BMC had on Wednesday announced that the beneficiaries would be vaccinated only at 73 private hospitals, while 63 BMC and government-run centres would cater to those above 45 years of age. Currently, there are 136 vaccination centres in Mumbai of which 73 are private, 46 are municipal, and 17 are state-run.Municipal Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal on Wednesday announced, “The existing 63 BMC and government centres will vaccinate beneficiaries above 45 years of age; 227 new BMC centres will be opened for all beneficiaries above age 18 years; presently 73 private vaccination centres will be increased to over 100 centres and will cater to vaccination of all beneficiaries above age 18 years.” Each of the 227 electoral wards in the city would have one vaccination centre in addition to 63 that are already being run by the BMC and state government. All these would be free vaccination centres. The opening of 227 new centres would take about a month, said civic officials. Paid vaccination is being done at 73 private hospitals which will continue and those in 18-44 age group can also get vaccinated there. However, the civic body had not officially announced the beginning of vaccination for the 18-44 age group till late on Wednesday. Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner incharge of BMC’s public health department, said, “Infrastructure-wise, the BMC is ready to start administering vaccines to beneficiaries in the 18-44 age group from May 1, provided we get sufficient vaccine doses.”Meanwhile, vaccination will be affected on Thursday due to shortage of stock. The civic body’s vaccination centres will take in beneficiaries only after noon, while private hospital centres will remain closed. The BMC is expecting to receive more vaccine doses by Wednesday midnight. Forty of the 73 private vaccine centres will be closed due to shortage of stock. The remaining 33 private vaccination centres will be open only till stocks last. Owing to the shortage in vaccine doses, a BMC statement on Wednesday evening urged only those beneficiaries receiving their second dose to turn up at vaccination centres on Thursday. Kakani said, “We are expecting Mumbai to receive some doses of vaccine on Wednesday late night. These will then be distributed to municipal and government centres in the morning on Thursday, so normal vaccination can resume by noon on Thursday at municipal and government facilities.” Mumbai received 2,458,600 vaccine doses till April 25, of which 2,410,860 vaccine doses were utilised. Hence, 47,750 vaccine doses are available at respective centres at the end of Wednesday’s vaccination drive. On Wednesday, the BMC vaccinated 44,629 beneficiaries, of which 20,271 received the first dose of their vaccine, and 24,358 received the second dose of their vaccine.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/mumbai-covid-19-vaccine-for-18-44-age-group-at-227-new-centres-101619639078995.html
29-04-2021||Other||Covid care centres can open sans nod: Chennai civic body||As people scramble to find hospital beds amid the raging second wave of Covid-19, the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) on Monday allowed private hospitals to open Covid Care Centres in collaboration with private hotels without approval from the civic body. GCC commissioner G Prakash said the centres with necessary facilities can begin operations “straight away” by just informing the civic health officer via email. “This is to ensure that less symptomatic and asymptomatic patients go here. It will therefore relieve the load of hospital beds particularly,” he said, adding that pricing will be decided by the market.The move comes as Tamil Nadu reported 16,665 new Covid-19 cases and 98 deaths on Wednesday, with Chennai recording 4,764 cases and 32 deaths. The state has, so far, recorded 1,130,167 infections and 13,826 fatalities due to viral disease.Chennai accounts for 23% of the 100,000 tests conducted across the state daily. As beds in the city’s top private hospitals are occupied, the civic body has turned educational institutions in the city into Covid Care Centres where more than 11,500 beds are available free of cost. Over the past one week, the bed occupancy has increased from 1,487 to more than 2,700. As per government protocol, those who test positive for the viral disease are brought to the corporation’s screening and triage centres from where they are allotted home quarantine, Covid care centres and hospitalisation, depending on the severity of the symptoms. The care centres are for those with mild or moderate symptoms and those who do not have the facilities to isolate at home.“Patients who require admissions but can wait for a day or two are reserving their beds to avail them when they become available after discharges,” said a doctor working with a private hospital. More than 12,000 oxygen supported beds are scheduled to be made operational across Tamil Nadu, of which 2,000 will be ready by the end of the week, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said.Officials, meanwhile, said that the Sunday lockdown and stricter restrictions have helped curb the steady rise in infections and, if the trend continues, the state could even see a plateau.On Tuesday, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said: “In Tamil Nadu, we do not have a high number of infections like other states but we should keep our guard. 30% of those diagnosed require hospitalisation.”“With cases falling over the last two days, we can plateau or reduce if we continue to wear masks and do not go out unnecessarily,” he added. Gearing up to vaccinate the above 18 population from May 1, Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC) on Wednesday placed orders for 1.50 crore vaccines. The state has vaccinated 5,551,744 people so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/covid-care-centres-can-open-sans-nod-chennai-civic-body-101619638959067.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Covid vaccine makers must sell doses at uniform rate: PIL||Three law students and a lawyer have moved a petition in the Bombay high court (HC) on Wednesday seeking directions to Covid vaccine makers to sell the doses at a uniform rate. The petition was prompted after a vaccine manufacturer disclosed the differential pricing in vaccines for Centre, state and private hospitals. The petition alleges that Pharma giants are milking the fear psychosis of increased death rates due to COVID-19 disease and hence sought directions to the Central government to acquire the entire manufactured stock of vaccines and apply a uniform price. The petition filed by lawyer Fayzan Khan and others through advocate Vivek Shukla has alleged that the pharmaceutical companies are engaged in organised loot and the high court should intervene to protect the fundamental right to equality and life under the Constitution are not left to the mercy of pharmaceutical companies and to safeguard national public health. The plea while referring to prices declared by Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech for central, state government and private hospitals say that they are aggrieved as charges of ‘Covishield’ vaccine quoted and published by SII as ₹150 per dose for Central government, ₹400 per dose for states and ₹600 for private hospitals. The PIL also states that the Covaxin price by Bharat Biotech, of ₹600 vaccine price for state governments and ₹1,200 for private hospitals was unreasonable and discriminatory. The plea also challenges the permission granted by the centre to these vaccine manufacturers to commercially exploit the same by having a huge price difference. “This is unreasonable, illogical, amounts to blackmailing the citizens who badly need this vaccine,” the petition states. The petitioner further state that they are aggrieved over the “unreasonable and discriminatory” charges levied on vaccines meant to be sold for states and private hospitals. The advocates have contended that 100% vaccination of the citizens is the only ray of hope to combat the present pandemic and as the National Disaster Management Act empowers the Central government to fix the costs of vaccines, it should act accordingly rather than leaving it in the hands of greedy management of SII and black-marketers. The PIL alleged that the cost difference will create discrimination in terms of BJP-led state governments being supplied the vaccine by the Central government and the non-BJP ruling states will be forced to purchase vaccine at a higher rate from the SII.“This cannot be permitted in a pandemic-like situation of Corona pandemic. This is jeopardizing the national security, safety and integrity with which no private entity can be permitted to play,” the plea read. The PIL also stated that leaving state governments at the mercy of vaccine producing companies would amount to leaving the health of citizens to the “vagaries of the open market” competition during a pandemic. “Such kind of inter-state competition would only yield disaster. This would amount to playing with the health of the citizen to benefit the private players.” It added that asking the state Governments to compete in the “open market” for vaccine procurement with the Central Government and private hospitals is unreasonable. “The Central Government is keeping an assured quota for itself. This conduct is arbitrary, discriminatory and does not fit into the definition of the welfare state’s policy. The PIL is likely to be mentioned before HC this week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/covid-vaccine-makers-must-sell-doses-at-uniform-rate-pil-101619638538954.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Slum areas the focus even as sero survey says spread going down, says Mumbai civic body||While the third serological survey in the city indicated that seropositivity was on the decline in slum areas, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has maintained that slum areas remain its focus when it comes to detection of cases and vaccination.According to BMC officials, focusing on slum areas becomes important considering the new variant of the current virus spreads fast, and keeping in mind the density in slum areas, one has to keep the focus intact when it comes to both - detection of cases and vaccination.Experts also opine that another solution to control spread in densely populated slums is also to ensure that vaccination is done on a priority basis.A serological survey indicates a population-level prevalence of antibodies against Sar-CoV-2, the virus causing the Covid-19 pandemic. It indicates that a person has been exposed to the virus and has recovered from it, but it does not detect the level of antibodies in the person.The findings of BMC’s third serological survey released on Saturday stated that among the 10,197 samples collected in March 2021, the survey found that 41.6% of the residents of slums had been exposed to the virus, while 28.5% of people living in non-slum areas like high rises, chawls and other residential areas, had been exposed to the coronavirus.However, in the first two surveys conducted in 2020, 57% of samples collected from the population residing in slums were seropositive in the first survey, while in the second survey, 45% were seropositive when it comes to slum areas. In contrast, 16% of samples collected from residents of non-slum areas showed seropositivity in the first survey, which increased to 18% in the second survey. This indicates that the spread in non-slum areas has increased and declined in slum areas.In terms of areas that have maximum containment, zones are Kandivli, Andheri East, Kurla, Byculla, Chembur and Govandi. There are a total of 120 containment zones in which 165,000 households are covered having a 768,000 population.Suresh Kakani, additional municipal commissioner of BMC said, “The third ser survey does indicate declining antibodies level in slums areas, and we are focusing on slum areas where cases are increasing. We are making localised strategies, accordingly.”Kakani added, “But this does not mean we are not concentrating on non-slum areas considering maximum cases are being reported from non-slum areas currently. Along with detection of cases, we are also coming up with strategies for vaccinating both in slum and non-slum areas.”For example, the BMC has opened up dedicated vaccination centres for Dharavi and Worli Koliwada that were the two most hit areas last year during the first wave. For non-slum areas, the BMC has appealed to housing societies to tie up with private hospitals to get vaccinated.On Wednesday, the city reported 4,926 cases followed by 78 deaths. This takes the total case tally to 640,409 and the toll to 12,954. The city’s recovery rate is 87% with 557,948 recoveries and a mortality rate is 2.02%. There are 67,984 active cases in the city.Meanwhile, Dr Siddarth Paliwal, a city-based physician said, “The BMC should not only focus on the detection of cases from a slum or non-slum areas due to declining or increase of antibodies but mainly focus on vaccination now. This considering we need to understand that the long-term ultimate aim is vaccinating maximum citizens to fight with the virus.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/slum-areas-the-focus-even-as-sero-survey-says-spread-going-down-says-mumbai-civic-body-101619638478929.html
29-04-2021||Other||Delhi HC seeks response on plea seeking parole of prisoners||The Delhi high court on Wednesday sought the response of the Centre, the Delhi government and the prison authorities on a plea seeking parole of prisoners involved in non-heinous crimes from three jails in the city in view of the unprecedented surge in Covid-19 cases.A bench of Chief Justice D N Patel and Justice Jasmeet Singh issued a notice to the ministries of law and health, the Delhi government, police, office of the Lieutenant Governor and the director general of prisons, seeking their stand on the petition by May 4.Advocate Ajay Verma, appearing for the petitioners, told the court that recently, 190 inmates and 304 prison staff of Tihar jail tested positive for Covid-19 and the infection has spread across the prison.The petitioners-- three lawyers and a law student --have contended that at a time when there is a surge in Covid -19 infection, decongestion of the prisons is necessary as they are filled much beyond their capacity.“That the present total number of inmates as on April 7 is 17,285 as against a total capacity of 10,026 of the three jails -- Tihar, Mandoli and Rohini,” states the petition. Meanwhile, another single bench of the Delhi HC, directed the Delhi government and the prison authority to ensure proper medical supervision of former RJD MP Mohammed Shahabuddin, who is suffering from Covid-19 and is currently admitted in Deen Dayal Upadhyay (DDU) Hospital.Justice Prathiba M Singh said the doctor on duty looking after Covid-19 patients shall monitor Shahabuddin’s health and if required, also consult senior doctors of the hospital.The court also directed that the former RJD MP, serving life sentence for murder, be permitted to speak to a family member twice a day and disposed of his plea seeking protection of his life and monitoring of the treatment being administered to him at DDU Hospital.In his plea, Shahabuddin said he apprehended that he will not get proper treatment as there is a scarcity of oxygen and other medicines in Delhi. He also alleged that he is “apprehending the mismanagement of his health situation at the hands of the doctors at the behest of the opposite political leaders” in Delhi.According to the petition, he was lodged in a cell, in the high risk ward of Tihar Jail, which he was sharing with another inmate.Despite the other inmate testing positive for Covid-19 early April, Shahabuddin was kept in the same cell with the infected inmate and “no separate arrangement was made by the jail authorities,” read the petition.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/delhi-hc-seeks-response-on-plea-seeking-parole-of-prisoners-101619638301700.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||29 succumb to Covid amid record deaths across Chandigarh tricity||Amid mounting numbers of Covid-19 cases and deaths, 29 people succumbed to the virus in the tricity on Wednesday, the highest single-day figures since the outbreak last March.The tricity has been breaking its own record for the past three days, which account for 67 deaths.On Wednesday, Mohali recorded 12, Chandigarh 11 and Panchkula six deaths, which are also their all-time highs.Meanwhile, 2,159 people tested positive, the second highest after the record 2,201 logged on April 23.While Mohali reported 867 cases, 772 people tested positive in Chandigarh and Panchkula crossed the 500 mark for the first time with 520 fresh cases.P’kula logs 500+ cases for first timeThough Panchkula reported the least number of cases and deaths in the tricity, it broke its own previous records, nonetheless.Among the six dead, there were two men, aged 28 and 50, who had no underlying conditions. The remaining were senior citizens with comorbidities.The district also crossed the 20,000 mark with 520 new cases. As many as 20,312 people have tested positive so far, of whom 17,672 have been cured and 194 have died, leaving 2,446 active cases.After recording 11 deaths thrice in four days, Mohali district set another record with 12 fatalities on Wednesday. The death toll has climbed to 579, with April accounting for 143 (or 25%) of the total. Meanwhile, the infection tally stands at 44,825, of which 8,757 cases are active and 35,489 have been cured. In Chandigarh, a 22-year-old man was among the 11 people who succumbed to the virus. The number of active cases has gone beyond 6,000 for the first time, with 6,306 people still to be cured. As many as 41,122 people have tested positive so far, of whom 34,359 have recovered and 457 have died.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/29-succumb-to-covid-amid-record-deaths-across-chandigarh-tricity-101619638301184.html
29-04-2021||Other||After killing wife, man tries to jump off Covid centre building||A 40-year-old man from Panvel who allegedly killed his wife on Saturday, was rescued by police and fire brigade officers after he tried to jump off the 15th floor of a Covid care centre on Wednesday. The man was unwell for the past few days and instead of taking him to a doctor, his wife Sandhya had allegedly forced him to isolate himself in the balcony of their house. Patil was upset with her and on Saturday following a dispute, he hit her with a sickle on her head and killed her. “We arrested him on the same day and also conducted his Covid test. After he was found Covid positive, he was admitted to a Covid care centre at Indiabulls building in Kon village,” said an officer. “On Wednesday, as he was going to the 15 floor, a security officer spotted him and informed us about it. We along with the fire brigade officers reached the spot in no time. Even as Patil was repeatedly heading towards an open window, we convinced him not to do so and finally took him out of the premises,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/after-killing-wife-man-tries-to-jump-off-covid-centre-building-101619638239532.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Four members of a family suffer severe burns after LPG leak triggers fire||Four members of a family, two of them children aged 9 and 15, suffered burns after a leakage in their cooking gas cylinder triggered a fire in their house in west Delhi’s Ravi Nagar Extension on Wednesday, police said. The injured persons are undergoing treatment at Safdarjung hospital and their condition is critical. They have between 30% and 80% burns, the police said.Additional deputy commissioner of police (west) Prashant Priya Gautam said on Wednesday, two calls were made to the police control room regarding the fire in a LPG (cooking gas) cylinder in a flat on the third floor of a building. A police team immediately reached the building and found that four members of a family had suffered burns and were rescued from the flat by locals.The injured persons were identified by their first names as Shalender,45, his wife Koshlender,30, and their two children Rani,15, and Shubham,9. While Shalender and Rani suffered 80% burns, Koshlender received 30% and Shubham 40% burns. All of them were rushed to a nearby hospital, from where they were referred to Safdarjung Hospital as their condition was serious, the police said.During the initial inquiry, the additional DCP said it was learnt that the husband and wife were replacing the empty gas cylinder with a filled one when the leak happened from the new cylinder and the gas spread quickly through the entire house.“Someone may have tried to light the gas stove and the fire broke out and quickly engulfed the house. The exact reason will be known only when statements of the injured persons are recorded. They are currently not fit enough to give their statements,” said a police officer, asking not to be named.Additional DCP Gautam said a case of negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible substance and causing hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others was registered under the Indian Penal Code sections 285 and 337 was registered and investigation has been initiated.A forensic team also visited the spot and collected evidence that would help the police ascertain the exact cause of the fire, the police said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/four-members-of-a-family-suffer-severe-burns-after-lpg-leak-triggers-fire-101619638178897.html
29-04-2021||Delhi||Two die of Covid-19 at Tihar jail; prison reports 261 active cases||Two prisoners housed in Tihar jail died of Covid-19 on Tuesday night, even as the infection is spreading rapidly through the country’s most populated prison complex, prison officials said Wednesday. Since April, Tihar has reported 284 cases of Covid-19 among prisoners and 115 among jailers, raising fears of a mass infection spread inside the jail. At over 20,500 prisoners currently, the inmate count at Tihar jail is the highest ever in its history. Prison officials said on Tuesday night, the officials of GTB hospital informed them that prisoner Mukesh Talwar, 61, had succumbed to the coronavirus infection. Talwar, who was arrested in connection with a rape case last month, was lodged in jail number 7 and had tested positive for Covid-19 on April 22. As his condition worsened, he was admitted to GTB hospital the same day. Hours before Talwar’s death, 43-year-old prisoner Mohammed Anis, who was lodged in jail number 4, too, died of the disease at the DDU hospital. Anis was in prison since December 17, 2019, in a drug-related case.Director general (prisons) Sandeep Goel also confirmed the two deaths without offering more details. Currently, there are 261 active Covid-19 cases among prisoners. Experts such as former law officer Sunil Gupta and Ajay Verma have suggested that the government either set up temporary jails outside the prion complex -- such as school buildings -- or release some of the prisoners who are not a threat to society.Last year, when the pandemic broke out, nearly 6,000 prisoners were released on special parole/bail to ensure social distancing within the jail. However, between February 6 and March 18, 2021, almost all these prisoners surrendered and returned to jail, after spending nearly 10-11 months outside. Their return meant that the prison was once again crowded, leaving little space for isolation of suspected Covid-19 patients and new inmates. Among the many prisoners, who are currently Covid-19 positive are underworld gangster Chhota Rajan and former politician turned gangster Mohammed Shahabuddin. While Rajan has been admitted to AIIMS, Shahabuddin is being treated at DDU hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/delhi-news/two-die-of-covid-19-at-tihar-jail-prison-reports-261-active-cases-101619638120748.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Haffkine gets Maharashtra govt nod, ₹94-crore grant for Covaxin||After the Central government allowed the state-owned Haffkine Bio-Pharmaceutical Corporation Limited to start production of Covaxin, a Covid-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech, the Maharashtra government on Wednesday approved the project that will cost ₹154 crore. It has also decided to fund the project by granting ₹94 crore.The decision was taken in the state cabinet meeting The funds for the project will be given from the state contingency fund, officials said.The Central government too has approved ₹65 crore for the project under Covid Suraksha Yojana.“With the help of the ministry of science and technology, a project is going to be set up by Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Corporation Limited at Parel in Mumbai for manufacturing Covaxin in collaboration with Bharat Biotech that has developed the first indigenous Covid-19 vaccine in the country. The state government will provide ₹94 crore for setting up the plant from the state contingency fund,” said a release issued by the chief minister office on Wednesday.“With all the permissions in place, we will now start construction activity, get validations and take further steps according to our plans,” said Dr Sandeep Rathod, managing director Haffkine Institute.Haffkine Corporation sought permission for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech in January, which was approved by the department of biotechnology of the Union ministry of science and technology on April 15.Haffkine will be producing (228 million ( 22.8 crore) doses of the Covaxin vaccine in a year. The stock will be in addition to what other private firms will be producing in the country. It will take at least a year for setting up the project as is now required to develop a Biosafety level 3 (BSL-3) laboratory that is going to be developed at its Parel premises.HT was the first to report on March 18 that the Haffkine Corporation has sought permission for the transfer of technology from Bharat Biotech for developing Covaxin.Haffkine Corporation is a subsidiary of Haffkine Institute for Training, Research and Testing, owned by the state government.“The manufacturing of the vaccine will be done in two phases — manufacturing of raw material which we called as drug substance and then fill and finish of the product. With the technology in place, we will be manufacturing the drug substance at our BSL -3 laboratory and as part of the next step the vaccine will be filled in bottles and the product will be finished,” Dr Rathod has said.Saurabh Vijay, secretary, medical education department said that the state has also allowed the Haffkine Corporation to hold talks with other firms for manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine. “The state government has allowed the corporation to sign a privacy agreement with Bharat Biotech for manufacturing vaccine doses. It has also been allowed to hold talks with other firms manufacturing Covid-19 vaccine for expanding its production,” Vijay said.He informed that the plant will be used for producing other vaccines once the need for producing Covid-19 vaccine is over.Haffkine Institute is one of the oldest biomedical research institutes in the country. It was established in 1899 and is named after the scientist — Dr Waldemar Mordecai Haffkine — who invented the plague vaccine. Since then, Haffkine Institute has emerged as a multi-disciplinary Institute engaged in training, research and testing of various aspects of infectious diseases. It has developed an anti-rabies serum, anti-venom serum, oral polio vaccine etc.To expand the production activities and to meet the growing demands for medicines and life-saving drugs, the state government bifurcated the Haffkine Institute in 1975 and the production activities were entrusted to Haffkine Bio Pharmaceuticals Corporation Limited, a firm fully owned by the state government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/haffkine-gets-maharashtra-govt-nod-94-crore-grant-for-covaxin-101619638059512.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Now, night curfew in Chandigarh from 6pm||The Chandigarh administration on Wednesday decided to extend the night curfew timings in the city to 11 hours. Effective from Thursday, the curfew will be imposed from 6pm to 5am daily and will remain in force till further orders. The decision comes on the day the city recorded 11 deaths related to Covid-19, which is the highest since the outbreak last March. Positivity rate in the city is consistently being recorded around 20%, which means of every five people sampled, one is found infected daily.The administration has also decided to close all cinema halls and multiplexes, impose a blanket ban on social, political, religious or cultural gatherings, and further limit the attendance at marriages and funerals. While these decisions will remain in force till further orders, the closure of educational institutes has been extended till May 15.The decisions were taken during the Covid review meeting chaired by the UT administrator VP Singh Badnore. During the second wave, the administration had first imposed the night curfew on April 6, from 10pm to 5 am. The timings were revised to 9pm-5am on April 23, which have now been further revised. According to the orders, all shops and malls are to close by 5pm, though home delivery is allowed till 9pm. All non-essential activities will remain banned during the curfew hours. Any breach of this order will invite action under Section 51 to 60 of the Disaster Management Act, 2005, and Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code along with other applicable laws. No decision on weekend lockdownUT adviser Manoj Parida said the decision was taken to ensure uniform curfew timings in the tricity. On the prospects of a weekend lockdown, he said: “It is under consideration. We will wait for Haryana’s decision, before taking a call on weekend lockdown and longer lockdown in the city.” Notably, the Punjab government had announced fresh restrictions on movement on Monday, extending the night curfew by two hours, from 6pm to 5am, and ordering a strict weekend lockdown. Earlier, Haryana had also directed the closure of non-essential shops from 6pm. In the meeting, Badnore also expressed serious concern over the increasing number of Covid-19 cases. He directed the hospital authorities to enhance ICU beds, and suggested that non-critical patients or mild and moderate cases can be shifted to Covid Care Centres or home isolation. “All beds should be kept in reserve for severe and critical cases only,” he said, while also directing the health department to set up a control room to track oxygen availability and other needs of various hospitals and take remedial steps quickly.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/now-night-curfew-in-chandigarh-from-6pm-101619638001811.html
29-04-2021||Other||Probe ordered as covid norms flouted while taking covid victims’ bodies for cremation in Ludhiana||Ludhiana deputy commissioner Varinder Kumar Sharma has marked an inquiry against a private hospital for sending bodies of Covid victims to cremation grounds in violation of norms. This was after photographs emerged on social media, showing an elderly woman’s body lying at a cremation ground. The body was not wrapped in Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) kit and did not have even have a bedsheet as cover. “Not only is the infection being spread, but the dead are being brought in the most undignified manner to the cremation ground. This is unacceptable. I have spoken to the authorities of the Aastha Hospital. Strict action will also be taken against employees for negligence. I have asked the civil surgeon to complete the inquiry in 24 hours,” the DC said. The DC’s action comes just two days after bodies of two Covid-19 victims were taken to the cremation ground in a cart and autorickshaw. “This is the second day that we have had to face this. Blood is oozing out of the mouth of the body. It was not even covered, leave alone having a PPE kit,” said a worker at the cremation ground. Dr Sanjeev Gupta of Aastha Hospital said, “One of our junior staffers might have made this mistake. We are trying to fix responsibility and to ensure this is not repeated. We have separate wards for covid and non-covid patients and are discharging six-seven patients everyday from our hospital.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/probe-ordered-as-covid-norms-flouted-while-taking-covid-victims-bodies-for-cremation-in-ludhiana-101619638000184.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Chandigarh MC to link staff’s attendance on smart watches with salaries||The municipal corporation from May 1 will restart the practice of linking wearing of smart watches and the attendance marked through these for the calculation of salary of more than 4,000 of its employees.The MC is paying ₹18 lakh per month for the watches, which were introduced in February last year to track employees and calculate their salaries. But for several months now, after opposition from workers and a section of councillors, the GPS-enabled wrist watches are not being worn by most employees, particularly sanitary workers. Consequently, the MC has restarted calculating salaries on the basis of physical marking of attendance.A committee comprising councillors and officials was constituted to look into the matter. But after six months of deliberations, the committee was split in the middle over whether the civic body would continue to provide GPS-enabled wrist watches. The committee’s report was tabled in the MC General House meet on Wednesday.During the heated debate on the issue, MC commissioner KK Yadav stated that the watches had helped in detecting 250 ghost employees, adding that except for a few glitches, they had helped in improving the efficiency of the employees.BJP city chief and councillor Arun Sood questioned the officials on the cost of the watches. While the officials claimed that the price of one watch was around ₹8,000, Sood contended that the watches could be bought at a price range of ₹1,200 to ₹1,500. The MC is paying around ₹2 crore as rent for the watches.Sood also asked the commissioner to submit the list of 250 ghost employees reportedly detected through the watches. He demanded that a penalty should be imposed on MC officials who allowed such ghost employees to be paid, and an FIR should be registered against the ghost employees.Increased cost of 24/7 water supply project approvedThe MC House approved the revised cost of the 24/7 pan-city water supply project. The ambitious project, which in 2019 was pegged to cost ₹440 crore, will now cost ₹591 crore, ₹151 crore more. The MC would have to pay an additional ₹22 crore, while most of the increased cost will come from European Union grant of ₹98 crore.While treasury benches and most of the opposition councillors supported the move, Congress councillor Saitsh Kainth objected to the project: “When city residents without getting any improved water supply are already burdened with higher water tariff, this would increase the financial burden on them. It is awful that MC is now being pushed to run on borrowed money.”In response, Yadav listed several benefits of the project and said, “It is time the MC stops running to the UT administration or Centre for funds. MC can generate its own funds.”Covid surge didn’t stop meeting||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/chandigarh-mc-to-link-staff-s-attendance-on-smart-watches-with-salaries-101619637880436.html
29-04-2021||Other||In public perception, Capt and Badals hand in glove: Pargat||After former minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, Congress MLA Pargat Singh attacked chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh on Wednesday for the state government’s sloppy handling and legal setback in the 2015 Kotkapura police firing case. Pargat, who met the CM along with other MLAs from Doaba region as part of the two-day consultation exercise held by the latter on the emotive issue, said that Capt Amarinder should take responsibility being the home minister of the state. “I told the CM about the perception among the people that he (Amarinder) and the Badal family are hand in glove with each other. We have to work to remove this perception. The new SIT should get cracking and produce results in a time-bound manner by taking action against culprits in these cases,” he said, after attending the meeting. The Jalandhar Cantonment MLA said the party won the 2017 assembly elections under Capt’s leadership and in his name, but he should now get a survey done to see where his popularity stands today. “It is due to the attempts to cover-up on just about everything…they do not want anyone to speak up,” he said in blistering remarks. Considered close to Sidhu, Pargat is the second Congress MLA to directly target the CM for failing to deliver justice in the politically sensitive cases in four years. In 2019 also, he had, in a letter to the CM, asked him about the doubts people had about the steps taken by the government to put the culprits in the dock. On the CM’s challenge to Sidhu to fight the election against him from Patiala, Pargat said such a statement did not befit a leader of his (Amarinder’s) stature. “He should not have talked in this manner. We should not digress from the real issue (justice in sacrilege cases),” he said. On day two of the CM’s meetings, a number of other party MLAs from Majha and Malwa also spoke about the public mood, which, in their words, varied from trust deficit to anger in different parts of the state. “The MLAs spoke about the loss of face they have suffered. Majha MLAs said this was the only issue in their region. I hope these meetings are not just a formality,” said one of the participants who did not want to be named. Congress MLAs from Malwa, who met the CM on Tuesday, had conveyed to him their apprehensions about the adverse political fallout of the state government’s handling of this issue, if justice is not delivered quickly. Punjab Congress president Sunil Jakhar, advocate general Atul Nanda, director general of police Dinkar Gupta and Justice Mehtab Singh Gill (retired) were also present on both the days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/in-public-perception-capt-and-badals-hand-in-glove-pargat-101619637519414.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Punjab seeks more time for views on PU reforms||The director of public instruction (DPI, colleges), Punjab, who is a member of the high-level committee constituted to look into governance reforms in Panjab University (PU), has recently communicated to the head of the panel that the process of receiving comments from the state government would take some time.It has been learnt that the DPI has not received comments over the proposed changes— regarding the registered graduates’ constituency and the nominated members by the varsity chancellor in PU senate—from the state government yet. The nominees of Punjab in the last meeting of the panel had sought time for the same.The comments were to be sent to the chairperson of the committee by April 26. The DPI has communicated that the government is busy in Covid-19 management in the state.The high-level committee during the last meeting on April 19 had resolved that as a substitute to registered graduates’ constituency, four eminent PU alumni would be nominated by the chancellor. They had also resolved that 18 persons would be nominated by the chancellor instead of the existing provision for 36.The DPI (colleges), Punjab, has also requested that the draft recommendation on governance reforms may not be finalised till the inclusion of views from the Punjab government. During the last meeting of the high-level committee, the chairperson was authorised by the members to prepare the report after incorporating the recommendations of the panel as well as the comments of the state government.The 11-member panel of experts was constituted by the chancellor in February to recommend governance reforms in light of the National Education Policy (NEP-2020) after the University Grants Commission (UGC) in November had informed PU to initiate governance reforms as per the provisions mentioned in the PU Act and regulations.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/punjab-seeks-more-time-for-views-on-pu-reforms-101619637459474.html
29-04-2021||Other||Excommunicated Langah’s parents move Akal Takht for his pardon||Over three years after former minister Sucha Singh Langah, 55, was excommunicated from the Sikh Panth his octogenarian parents on Wednesday approached the Akal Takht, the highest temporal seat of Sikhs, to seek pardon for him. The action against Langah was taken after a video clip showing him in an objectionable position with a woman had gone viral in October 2017. Langah’s father Tara Singh, 89, and mother Pritam Kaur, 88, have submitted an application in the Akal Takht secretariat. They said the family had suffered mentally and socially as the acting Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Harpeeet Singh has been rejecting Langah’s repeated pleas of clemency. Langah had been spotted outside the Akal Takht for a few days last week. On April 21, Sikh bodies had submitted a memorandum to the jathedar requesting him not to entertain Langah’s clemency plea. Langah and his family have been trying to secure pardon ahead of the 2022 assembly elections in Punjab. Langah’s son Sukhjinder Singh Sonu Langah may contest the election.“We are old and in the final stages of life. We have faith in Gurmat (teachings of the Sikh religion). Our son has been seeking pardon for his mistakes by visiting the Akal Takht time and again. He has also assured that he would comply with the orders of the Akal Takht in future. We request that he should be brought back into the panth,” Langah’s parents say in their application to the Takht, while also citing their infirmity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/others/excommunicated-langah-s-parents-move-akal-takht-for-his-pardon-101619636919418.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Fake RPF chairman who duped youths of lakhs arrested in Punjab’s Kharar||The crime investigating agency (CIA) of Mohali police have arrested a man, who posed as the chairman of the Railway Protection Force (RPF) and duped youths of lakhs by offering them fake jobs for a fee.The accused, Gautam Kumar, is a resident of Baltana, but currently lives in a rented accommodation in Kharar. Police have also arrested his aide, Chunni Lal, of Pinjore, Panchkula.A Ford Endeavour, bearing “Government of India” and “Chairman, Delhi Board” plates, uniforms of RPF personnel of various ranks, a dummy revolver, six fake cartridges and a computer have been recovered from them.“Following a tip-off, Kumar was arrested from Kharar with his Ford Endeavour (CH-01-AZ 6402) and his accomplice from his computer centre in Pinjore, Haryana,” said Mohali senior superintendent of police (SSP) Satinder Singh.Previously worked as stenographer for railwaysDuring interrogation, the police discovered that Kumar had previously worked as a contractual stenographer with the divisional railway manager, Ambala, which gave him an insight into RPF recruitments. Through Lal’s computer centre in Pinjore, Kumar would prepare fake RPF joining letters and ID cards, complete with the RPF logo and fake signatures, to convince gullible youths about RPF jobs in exchange for money.Through this modus operandi, they duped Mohali resident Harinder Singh and an Uttar Pradesh native, Hari Om, of ₹4.5 lakh each by offering them jobs of ASI and SI, respectively.Similarly, they conned Gurdev Kumar, Lachhman and Pardeep of Agra and Amritsar resident Manish of ₹25,000 each for labour jobs.The SSP said all victims were provided fake five-year agreement and joining letters, IDs and uniforms. A case under Sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating), 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will, etc), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document or electronic record, 170 (personating a public servant) and 171 (wearing garb or carrying token used by public servant with fraudulent intent) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the accused at Kharar City police station.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/fake-rpf-chairman-who-duped-youths-of-lakhs-arrested-in-punjab-s-kharar-101619636379620.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||In Mohali, long and painful wait for Covid victims’ families to say final goodbye||Running helter-skelter for oxygen and beds, and still losing their loves ones to Covid-19 is not where the trauma ends for families in Mohali.Thereon looms large the uncertainty over when they can bid the final farewell, for the body will not be moved to the cremation/burial ground until the civil surgeon’s office is informed and an ambulance is sent. The wait can last over 24 hours, during which the mourning family is given a new task – arranging 1 litre sanitiser and four PPE kits for the crematorium staff and the one family member, who will be allowed to go in to light the pyre.“We went through hell and still couldn’t save my 70-year-old father. Despite appeals, we were turned away by three private hospitals in Zirakpur and my father finally breathed his last at a hospital in Sector 69 on Monday,” said Ankur Singh of Zirakpur. “But it didn’t end there. They refused to hand over my father’s body, stating that only an ambulance from the civil surgeon’s office will transport the remains to the crematorium. When we did finally reach there, preparing ourselves for the last rites, we were told to bring four PPE kits and 1 litre sanitiser,” he said.A Phase 10 resident, who lost her 65-year-old mother at a Sohana hospital on Tuesday, underwent the same ordeal. “The hospital insisted that the body will be handed over only to the Covid nodal officer, who arrived the next day. It’s tragic that a grieving family doesn’t even get to say the final goodbye peacefully,” she complained.Civil surgeon Dr Adarshpal Kaur said as per Covid safety protocols, the bodies cannot be given to the family members and were transported only by government ambulances to limit the risk of infection.Separate enclosure at crematoriumMeanwhile, with the number of cremations going up in April, the city’s only crematorium in Sector 73 has created a separate enclosure for the last rites of Covid victims.“Till last month, we were cremating only three to four bodies of Covid victims in the electric crematorium. But, now nearly 10 bodies arrive every day. So, we have set up a dedicated area for these cremations, as the electric crematorium has a daily capacity of only four cremations,” said Narinder Pandey, the head priest at the crematorium.The civil surgeon said more bodies were also coming in, as even suspected cases were cremated in line with Covid protocols. “These include critical patients, who succumb at the hospitals before they are tested, and people who are declared brought dead without confirmation of presence of Covid,” she said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/in-mohali-long-and-painful-wait-for-covid-victims-families-to-say-final-goodbye-101619635959399.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Covid vaccine for 18+: Time slots inaccessible for now in Chandigarh||As Covid vaccine registrations for the 18-44 age group began on Wednesday, residents struggled to book an appointment through the day.Awaiting a nod from the central government for free doses for this age group, the UT administration said though registration had started, time slots for Phase 3 of the drive will be opened in a phased manner. “We are awaiting a response from the central government on the rates. Many states and UTs have already said that free doses will be given. However, we have yet to receive the centre’s approval,” said UT adviser Manoj Parida.UT health secretary Arun Gupta said initially, they were aiming to inoculate around 1,500 people in this age group and gradually ramp up the drive.Unable to book time slots, residents took to Twitter to express their disappointment. “The site doesn’t go beyond registration. The link for an appointment does not open,” said R Verma, a city resident.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/covid-vaccine-for-18-time-slots-inaccessible-for-now-in-chandigarh-101619635239401.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Panchkula reserves depleting vax stock for second-dose shots||Even as the local MLA has been claiming vaccination sites will be increased in Panchkula, the district is grappling with severe shortage of vaccine, forcing authorities to reserve the jabs for only those coming for the second dose.The shortage has also cast uncertainty over the commencement of the third phase of vaccination from May 1, which will cover the 18-44 age group.“We received additional stock of vaccine on Wednesday, but it will be reserved for people, aged above 45 and awaiting the second dose,” said Dr Jasjeet Kaur, civil surgeon, Panchkula.The drive for the 18-44 age group will depend on the arrival of stocks in the next two days, she added.While in the beginning of April, over 3,000 people were getting the shot daily, the figure has reduced to its half now. Over the last four days, only around 1,000 people were covered, while the vaccination sites have been reduced from 35 on April 1 to 22 on April 28.On Thursday, the drive will be held at all primary health centres and community health centres. However, the civil surgeon urged only those eligible for the second dose to reach the sites. “Those who got their first shot at a private centre can also visit the government facilities for the second dose, which will be free,” she said.There is no shortage, says MLAAfter receiving the first shot on Wednesday, Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta said there was enough stock of Covaxin in the state. “The number of vaccination centres will also be increased from April 30 onwards,” he said, while urging people to get the shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/panchkula-reserves-depleting-vax-stock-for-second-dose-shots-101619634999337.html
29-04-2021||Chandigarh||Sukhbir holds political event at his residence in violation of Covid norms||Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal on Wednesday held a large political gathering of youth activists at his residence in Muktsar district in violation of pandemic protocols. Arshdeep Singh Robin Brar, the newly appointed president of the Students Organisation of India (SOI), SAD’s student wing, reached Sukhbir’s residence at Badal village with his supporters. Even as the Punjab government has imposed a ban on all social, political and cultural events, more than 100 activists of SOI and SAD were present when Sukhbir addressed the gathering. The violation was leaked on social media. In a video, a leader is heard asking the attendees not to take pictures or film those present. Among those present were Sukhbir’s political aides, including Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Rozy Barkandi, senior SAD leader Tejinder Singh Midhukhera, and the party’s public relations team. Sukhbir asked the activists to start working for the next assembly elections. He asked Brar to start mass enrollment of students at the district level. Sukhbir’s media coordinator Rajya Deep declined to comment, saying the SAD chief was not available. Brar admitted that a large gathering at Sukhbir’s residence should have been avoided.“After my appointment as SOI president two days ago, I had a programme to meet the SAD president in a small group. Since SOI activists were aware of today’s event, they reached in large numbers. I urged them to maintain social distancing and wear masks but my repeated requests went unheard,” said Brar.Muktsar senior superintendent of police (SSP) D Sudarvizhi said she has asked for details about the Covid-rules violations for further legal action in the matter. On April 22, Sukhbir visited six wheat purchase centres in Bathinda and Moga districts with a large number of party workers and close aides. No social distancing was maintained at his meetings with farmers and party workers. Muktsar district on Wednesday reported 269 new cases and now has 1,925 active cases. Three Covid-related deaths were reported in the district.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/chandigarh-news/sukhbir-holds-political-event-at-his-residence-in-violation-of-covid-norms-101619633499370.html
29-04-2021||Gurugram||2,934 new cases, 7 deaths recorded as officials tighten curbs||The district on Wednesday recorded 2,934 new Covid-19 infections, taking the total number of cases in the district to 111,345, and seven deaths due to the infection, taking the toll to 453. To curb the spread of infection and to avoid a lockdown, the district administration notified 91 areas as large outbreak zones where strict curbs will be enforced, said the officials familiar with the matter.Officials said that the state government has decided against imposing a complete lockdown as it would adversely affect the economy.Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, while addressing a press conference on Wednesday, said that imposing a lockdown would certainly affect the state’s economy, due to which the government has allowed industries to operate with strict Covid-19 protocols in place.Khattar said that instead of imposing a lockdown, deputy commissioners were directed to ensure strict implementation of Section 144 of the CrPC, restricting gatherings of more than four people, in their respective districts.Officials of the district administration said that personnel are being deployed to ensure there is no crowding in public areas. Also, permissions should be sought for conducting social events and functions, including weddings.Meanwhile, the total number of active Covid-19 patients reached 31,119, according to the health department data on Wednesday, with 29,974 of them in home isolation.Virender Yadav, chief medical officer, Gurugram, said that to stop the surge in cases, they will start intensive testing, screening and contact tracing in the large outbreak regions. “The key to control the spread is to stop the movement of people and enforce social distancing norms,” said Yadav.On Wednesday, 1,490 patients recovered from Covid-19 infections, while 92 people were to institutional quarantine facilities, as per the health department data. On the testing front, the health department collected 11,609 samples.According to district administration officials, the positivity rate of Covid-19 patients in the district is currently at 22-23%. Officials said that around 2,500 to 3,000 cases are being recorded daily, of whom 200 to 300 patients require hospitalisation.The health department also vaccinated 3,441 beneficiaries with the first vaccine jabs and 3,878 with the second dosage on Wednesday, taking the total number of vaccinations to 475,163.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/gurugram-news/2934-new-cases-7-deaths-recorded-as-officials-tighten-curbs-101619633439993.html
29-04-2021||Pune||Punekars, traders unhappy as lockdown likely to be extended||As the Maharashtra government has decided to extend the full lockdown, likely to another 15 days (till May 15) Punekars and traders have expressed disappointment.A decision to extend the lockdown was taken in the state cabinet meeting on Wednesday, but the duration is yet to be decided. The state government is expected to issue an order to this effect in the next two days.“I am at home for over a month now and getting half of the salary from the company. We are already suffering financially due to the pandemic. Keeping offices, shops and others closed is not the solution. Lockdown affects lives of common people,” said Parag Kenjale, an accountant working in a private tax consultant firm.Archana Soni, a housewife, said, “We lost our father-in-law due to Covid last year, my husband is working in a manufacturing company which is closed due to lockdown. Extending restrictions till May 15 will make our situation worse, we have already borrowed around ₹1 lakh from our friends and relatives till now.”“Day to day management of finances has become an issue for middle-class people like us. The government should our situation as well,” she said.Fatechand Ranka, president of the Federation of Trade Association of Pune (FTAP), said, “We strongly oppose this extension of lockdown and it seems to be a wrong decision taken by the state government.”“When partial restrictions are been imposed its purpose doesn’t seem to be fulfilled and now when the cases are dropping some restrictions needs to be relaxed. Shop owners and traders should be allowed to open their business in some given time slot,” he said.Umesh Chavan, a stationery shop owner from Karvenagar area, said, “From last one month I have closed my shop due to lockdown, but I daily get calls from our regular customers for taking a photocopy of hospital, government documents and for other necessary material. But I cannot help them as the restrictions are there and cannot open the shop, this lockdown extension is not right.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/punekars-traders-unhappy-as-lockdown-likely-to-be-extended-101619626238422.html
29-04-2021||Pune||Covid tests in Pune drops from 46k to 33k||PUNE The number of Covid tests in Pune district has dropped from 46,000 on April 8 to 33,000 on April 27. The positivity rate in the district has remained the same, around 26%, in this time period of 19 days. However, the case fatality rate (CFR) has gone north, more than double, during the same period. The number of deaths increased from 70 as of April 8, to 151, as of April 27. Although Pune has been witnessing a fall in the number of new Covid-19 cases being reported, the positivity rate is still at 26%. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC) conducted 16,650 tests on Wednesday, April 28, and reported 3,871 new cases. This puts the day’s positivity rate at 23.24%. On April 8, PMC conducted 23,595 tests and reported 7,010 new cases which put the positivity rate at 29.7%. Dr Sanjiv Wavare, assistant health officer, PMC, said, “We are following the ICMR protocols which states that 20 high-risk and low-risk contacts must be traced for every index case. However, due to the lockdown most people are staying at home and so there are only four-five contacts who come in close connection with the patient, mostly family members. Last year, after the first wave we were asked to do eight thousand tests, but we are doing minimum 16,000 now.” The central government in its letter to all state chief secretaries dated April 28, stated that large containment zones could be framed in areas where the testing rate is above 10%. The letter issued by home secretary Ajay Bhalla dated April 26, to all chief secretaries stated: “The decision on where and when to go for large containment zones (CZ) has to be evidence-based and done at the State/UT level after proper analysis of the situation, such as; population affected, geographical spread, hospital infrastructure, manpower, ease of enforcing boundaries, etc. However, in order to facilitate objective, transparent, and epidemiologically sound decision making, the following broad-based framework is provided to aid States UTs in selection of districts/areas which includes test positivity of 10% or more in the last one week OR bed occupancy of more than 60% on either oxygen supported or ICU beds.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/covid-tests-in-pune-drop-to-33000-101619622458126.html
29-04-2021||Pune||One-fourth of Pune police staff infected by Covid since last year||The Pune Police are one of the most affected by Covid along with medical staff and frontline workers in the city.According to Amitabh Gupta, Pune police commissioner, at least 2,144 police personnel out of a total of 8,494 have been infected by Covid since last year.He stressed that police are the most vulnerable and 16 personnel have succumbed to the infection.“At least 2,144 police personnel out of 8,494 workforces in the city have been infected by Covid since last year. This is almost one-fourth of the staff and underlines that police are most vulnerable,” said Gupta.Also, 1,812 personnel has recovered while 316 are still infected and are undergoing treatment or are in home isolation.“We have instructed senior officials from the department to take necessary precautions and also appointed a wellness officer at every police station to guide officials to take necessary precautions to curb the infection,” he said.According to Gupta, most of the police personnel have been vaccinated so far. “In the vaccination drive that we started for police officials and their family members, 95 per cent of vaccination is complete. While 85 per cent of officials had received their first dose, around 10 per cent officials have got the second dose.”Krishna Prakash, Pimpri Chinchwad police commissioner, said, at least four personnel succumbed to the Covid infection during the first wave.“We have 3,248 police personnel out of which 791 are infected, while 720 have recovered. We have 12 personnel admitted to hospitals while the rest are home quarantined. We have also completed 85 per cent of the first dose of vaccines and 42 per cent for the second dose,” he said.Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) has also set up a corona cell dedicated to enquire, check and provide help to the infected police personnel and their families.“Through the welfare fund, we also bought 40 life-saving injections, immunity boosters and medicines to help the police post corona to regain strength,” said assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Nandkishor Pinjan, corona cell, PCMC.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/pune-news/onefourth-of-pune-police-staff-infected-by-covid-since-last-year-101619613217707.html
29-04-2021||Mumbai||Indian archaeologist elected to American Academy of Arts and Sciences||Indian archaeologist and Padma Shree awardee Sharada Srinivasan is among the 250-odd global artistes, researchers and scientists to be elected as an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (AMACAD), one of the oldest societies for scholars in the United States of America.On April 22, AMACAD announced the list, which includes at least half a dozen resident Indian Americans. However, 55-year-old Srinivasan, a professor at the School of Humanities of National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, is the only resident Indian to have been elected to the society this year.Probability theorist Kavita Ramanan, who is the Roland George Dwight Richardson University Professor in the division of Applied Mathematics at the Brown University in Rhode Island, has also been elected as a member. Others on the list include Indian-American neurosurgeon Sanjay Gupta, literary theorist and feminist critic Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak and theoretical physicist Ashvin Vishwanath.Founded in 1780, AMACAD honours excellence and convenes leaders from around the world every year to examine new ideas, address issues of importance to the nation and the world, and work together “to cultivate every art and science which may tend to advance the interest, honour, dignity, and happiness of a free, independent, and virtuous people.”With their election to the society, members such as Srinivasan and Ramanan now join an elite group of scholars that have included the likes of Albert Einstein, Charles Darwin, Winston Churchill, Akira Kurosawa and Nelson Mandela.“The Academy’s mission is to advance the public good. The diversity of newly elected members helps us achieve that goal by creating greater awareness of the range of extraordinary individuals around the world who are excelling in their fields. It’s wonderful when election to the Academy raises the visibility of members and helps younger people see their own potential and new possibilities,” said David Oxtoby, president of AMACAD, in an email response.“As an Indian woman, and as a woman representative of the Global South, it is thrilling to be counted amongst its international luminaries ranging from Einsten to Mandela and Nobel Laureates and past presidents. In these globally and nationally challenging times, when the Academy has sought to illuminate how knowledge, art, ideas and leadership could contribute to a better world through its election of new members, this confers not only recognition, but also a sense of responsibility,” said Srinivasan, who is also a Bharatanatyam dancer.Ramanan, in an email interaction, said she views her election to the academy as an acknowledgement of her family, friends, mentors, collaborators and students, all of whom have not only supported her research journey, but also made it enjoyable.“I feel fortunate to be in a profession that I really enjoy, and so this recognition comes as a wonderful bonus. I am particularly attracted by the multidisciplinary nature of the academy, and look forward to meeting and working with people from diverse disciplines, including the Arts, as a member of the academy. Having recently initiated a seminar series on “Social Equity and Applied Math” at Brown University, I am interested in the Academy’s programmes on Democracy and Justice, in addition to STEM and Education issues,” said Ramanan.Both Srinivasan and Ramanan have been advocates of multidisciplinary research and hope that their election to the academy increases the visibility of women in the fields of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM).Srinivasan’s research areas include archaeometallurgy, archaeological sciences and archaeometric studies, where she has tried to explore how scientific techniques of materials and metals characterisation can better help understand the history of metallurgy in the Indian subcontinent.“The election to the AMACAD gives a unique opportunity to further project such activities to an international platform and to take it to an international standard and to engage and learn from the top international scholarship to both expand the frontiers of knowledge and to learn about the best practices for heritage conservation and management, since in many ways in India we still lag behind to a fair extent in terms of scientific studies in the areas of cultural heritage,” said Srinivasan, who resides in Bengaluru with her husband and 20-year-old daughter.Incidentally, both women are alumni of the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay (IIT-Bombay)—Srinivasan graduating a year before Ramanan joined in 1988—and have lived in the same hostel building at different times. Last year’s selectees, Shobhana Narasimhan, a professor at the Jawaharlal Nehru Centre for Advanced Scientific Research, Bengaluru, and Sarita Adve from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, too, have shared the same hostel during their time at IIT-Bombay.IIT-Bombay director Subhasis Chaudhuri said, “IIT-Bombay has always believed in providing equal opportunities to women students and we are delighted to see that it is paying rich dividends. We are happy that many of our women students use IIT-B opportunities to springboard into successful careers. Membership to the academy is very prestigious and the fact that all recent Indian women inductees are IITB alumni attests to the importance of the role of the institute in shaping the career of bright minds. We hope that such a stellar performance of the women batches of the 80s will further motivate the younger batches.”Srinivasan said that young women shouldn’t be afraid to think out of the box. “I would say to the young women of today… to take the road less travelled if that is where the instincts are, since passion and commitment will find its rewards,” she said.“Surround yourself with people who support and believe in you, aim high but keep expectations low, and do not limit your role models to people who look or talk like you, but take inspiration from different qualities in a variety of people,” Ramanan advised.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/cities/mumbai-news/indian-archaeologist-sharada-srinivasan-elected-to-american-academy-of-arts-and-sciences-101619540672015.html
29-04-2021||World||Firmly support India in fight against Covid-19: Wang Yi writes to Jaishankar||Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Thursday promised to do the utmost in supporting India's fight against the COVID-19 surge and said that anti-pandemic materials produced in China were entering India at a faster pace.In a letter to External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar, Wang said that the Chinese side "shares empathy for the challenges facing India and expresses sincere sympathy"."The coronavirus is the common enemy of mankind, and the international community needs solidarity and coordination for a concerted response. The Chinese side firmly supports the Indian Government and people in fighting the pandemic," he wrote in the letter, a copy of which was tweeted by Chinese Ambassador to India Sun Weidong.Wang said that anti pandemic materials produced in China are entering India at a faster pace to help India fight the epidemic."The Chinese side will continue to do its utmost to provide support and help according to the needs of India. We hope and believe that under the leadership of the Indian Government, the Indian people will surely prevail over the epidemic at an early date,” he added.Wang's letter came even as the militaries of the two countries are yet to resolve the disengagement from the remaining areas of eastern Ladakh after the withdrawal from Pangong lake area in February.Meanwhile, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin on Thursday termed as "fake news" the reports of the US-India Strategic Partnership Forum's (USISPF) allegations that Beijing has stopped shipments of oxygen concentrators being procured from China to be delivered to India to meet the oxygen shortages in view of the surge of COVID-19 cases.Asked about the media reports quoting Mukesh Aghi, President and CEO of Washington based USISPF, stating China has stopped all-cargo flights delaying his organisation’s efforts to source one lakh oxygen concentrators from China to India, Wang Wenbin said it is a "fake news".Aghi was quoted as saying that in order to overcome logistics challenges, his organisation is sourcing the oxygen concentrators from China for easy transportation to India.He alleged that in view of Chinese action to stop the logistics flights to India, the concentrators are to be routed through Tokyo and Dubai resulting in delay."This is fake news…reports that China has stopped transport of oxygen generators procured by the USA to India is fake news," the spokesman said.He, however, declined to respond to questions about when state-run Sichuan Airlines which had suspended all 11 of its cargo flights to India resulting in disruption of procurement of oxygen concentrators would resume its flights.After the announcement to suspend the flights on April 26 in view of the COVID-19, the airline retracted its decision and said it is working out a new plan to resume the services. But so far it has not announced any new schedule.Asked when the airline would resume its operations, Wang Wenbin said, "I would refer you to the relevant airline"."China shows deep sympathy to India as the country struggles with rampant COVID-19 and China expresses its sincere condolences to the Indian people. We reiterate China’s willingness to help and support India as per its needs,” he said."Chinese companies have been led by the government to take actions. The first batch of oxygen concentrators have arrived in India. We would like to cooperate with India in multiple ways to provide assistance. We believe India will defeat the virus," he said.Asked how many oxygen concentrators have been sent to India, he said, “for specific numbers you may refer to websites of Chinese embassy and Consulates in India”.China’s Ambassador to India Sun Weidong in a tweet on Wednesday said Chinese medical suppliers are working overtime on orders from India, “at least 25000 orders for oxygen concentrators in recent days. Cargo planes are under plan for medical supplies. Chinese customs will facilitate relevant process”.Wu Zunyou, a chief epidemiologist with the Chinese Centre for Disease Control and Prevention told the media here, the ‘Indian strain’ of the coronavirus has been detected in some Chinese cities.The surge in COVID-19 cases in some Asian countries has again sounded the alarm that the prevention and control of COVID-19 is far from over, which, instead, is difficult, complex, recurrent and long-term, Wu said, the state-run CGTN-TV reported.According to official media reports, about 11 Chinese crew members of a cargo ship tested positive for the coronavirus after returning from India.Wu also pointed out that the mutation of the novel coronavirus has been occurring since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, and will not stop as long as the pandemic continues. But the transmission of different virus variants can be stopped, Wu said."Implementing containment measures is crucial both to stop the spread of the mutant strains and to prevent the occurrence of new mutations," he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/firmly-support-india-in-fight-against-covid-19-wang-yi-writes-to-jaishankar-101619714772524.html
29-04-2021||World||Facebook to pay $5 million to local journalists in newsletter push||Facebook Inc on Thursday said it will give $5 million to pay local journalists in multiyear deals as part of its new publishing platform to help independent writers attract an audience and make money through the social media network.The move is part of Facebook's answer to the trend of email newsletters, led by platforms like Substack, as it focuses on reporters "who are often the lone voice covering a given community," the company has said.The publishing platform, which Facebook announced last month, will be integrated with Facebook Pages and include a free self-publishing tool for journalists to send out newsletters or create their own website.Independent journalists in the United States can apply to the program beginning on Thursday, and priority will be given to reporters who plan to cover "Black, Indigenous, Latinx, Asian or other audiences of color," in locations that lack an existing news source, Facebook said.Journalists will be able to earn additional money from publishing stories using Facebook's tools, starting with subscriptions, and each writer can set their own price, the company added.Emily Bell, director of the Tow Center for Digital Journalism at Columbia Journalism School, tweeted Thursday that while journalists and their communities will, hopefully, benefit from Facebook's funding, the news industry will "have to reckon with the economic foundation of this Faustian pact," because Facebook has been used as a tool to oppress reporters around the world and its business relies on news workers like content moderators who are "not unionized or paid well."The growth of paid newsletters has shaken up the news media world, as high-profile journalists from outlets including the New York Times and Vox Media have left to strike out on their own on platforms such as Substack and Patreon, lured by cash advances and uncapped earning potential from subscriptions.Substack announced "Substack Local" this month, a $1 million program to pay up to 30 local reporters to build their own subscription-supported business.Facebook said it would partner with the Washington-based International Center for Journalists and National Association of Hispanic Journalists to evaluate applications, and would give the journalists selected access to experts and services to help them build a news business.The social network has long had a strained relationship with the news industry, which came to a head in February after a showdown with the Australian government over paying news outlets for content. Following the conflict, Facebook pledged to invest $1 billion in the news industry globally over the next three years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-to-pay-5-million-to-local-journalists-in-newsletter-push-101619708223816.html
29-04-2021||World||Dutch government pauses Covid-19 app over data leak fears||The Dutch government has temporarily disabled its coronavirus warning app amid data privacy concerns for people who have the app installed on phones using the Android operating system.Health Minister Hugo de Jonge announced late Wednesday that the CoronaMelder app will stop sending warnings for 48 hours while the government checks if users' data is secure.The Dutch app uses “exposure notification” technology developed by Google and Apple that generates random codes that can be exchanged by phones whose users are close to one another for long enough to possibly transmit the virus.The Dutch health ministry says that it is possible for other apps on Android phones to access data about whether its user's had been infected and its contacts with other phones.“The privacy of users is always a priority. While Google must solve the problem, I can limit the consequences. That’s why we’re taking this decision,” De Jonge said in a statement.Most EU nations have designed contact tracing apps around the same technology, the European Commission said. The Commission said that it has informed controllers of national apps in the 27-nation EU “so that Member States take the necessary steps if necessary.”According to the Dutch health ministry, Google informed the government Wednesday it has fixed the issue. The government halted messages from the app for 48 hours to check if the leak has been fixed.In a statement emailed to The Associated Press, Google said it has been “rolling out a fix for an issue where random Bluetooth identifiers used by the Exposure Notification framework on Android were temporarily accessible to a limited number of pre-installed applications.”The tech giant said that the rollout began several weeks ago and it expects the fix "to be available to all Android users in the coming days.”Google said that random Bluetooth identifiers “on their own have no practical value to bad actors, and it is extremely unlikely that developers of pre-installed apps were aware of the inadvertent availability of those identifiers.”The company added that it has no indications that any data from coronavirus exposure apps was accessed inappropriately.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/dutch-government-pauses-covid-19-app-over-data-leak-fears-101619700435855.html
29-04-2021||World||India’s ‘double mutant’ strain detected in some Chinese cities: Top official||China has detected the novel coronavirus strain found in India in some Chinese cities, the country’s chief epidemiologist said on Thursday.The Indian Covid-19 strain has been detected in “…some cities in my country, and everyone is very concerned, and also worried,” Wu Zunyou, chief epidemiologist at China’s Centre for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) said at a press conference on Thursday.China wasn’t one of the 17 countries where, according to the World Health Organisation (WHO), the Indian strain of Sars-CoV-2, also known as B.1.617 or “double mutant”, had been detected.The WHO on Tuesday said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19 had been detected in over 1,200 sequences “from at least 17 countries” that had been uploaded to the GISAID open-access database. “Most sequences were uploaded from India, the United Kingdom, the U.S. and Singapore,” the WHO said in its weekly epidemiological update on the pandemic.Wu’s statement comes two days ahead of Labour Day holidays beginning Saturday when hundreds of millions of people in China are expected to travel across the country. Public transport bookings have exceeded pre-pandemic 2019-levels.Though Wu did not share details about the cities where the strain was detected, his statement comes after state media reported that 11 Chinese nationals on a cargo ship tested positive for coronavirus after returning from a journey, which included a stop at the Indian port of Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh.Health officials in Zhejiang, a coastal province, said 11 cases of “imported” Covid-19 infections from India were reported from among the 20 Chinese crew members of the cargo ship in the province’s Zhoushan port.The ship, Huayang Chaoyang, had docked at Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh during its journey, had also stopped at Chittagong in Bangladesh, Singapore, and Xiamen in China.The crew was tested this week after the ship docked at Zhoushan Xinya Shipyard in Zhejiang province for repairs.It’s not clear where the Chinese crew members were infected with the Indian strain of the coronavirus.In Beijing, the chief epidemiologist Wu said the surge in Covid-19 cases in some Asian countries has again underlined that the prevention and control of Covid-19 is far from over and the disease is going to be difficult, complex, recurrent, and long-term.Wu was responding to questions on the pandemic situation in India and whether Chinese authorities were taking measures to guard against it.He pointed out, according to state broadcaster, CGTN, that the mutation of the novel coronavirus has been occurring since the onset of the Covid-19 pandemic, and will not stop as long as the pandemic continues.But the transmission of different virus variants can be stopped, Wu said.“Implementing containment measures is crucial both to stop the spread of the mutant strains and to prevent the occurrence of new mutations.”China’s national health commission (NHC) said on Thursday that all of the 20 new cases reported in the past 24 hours were imported infections originating from overseas.A total of 5,644 confirmed cases have been reported in the country, the NHC said.The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed cases, fell to 14 from 17 cases a day earlier.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in mainland China now stands at 90,642, while the death toll remains at 4,636.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/indias-double-mutant-strain-detected-in-some-chinese-cities-top-official-101619701723046.html
29-04-2021||World||US jobless claims fell last week to fresh pandemic-era low||Applications for U.S. state unemployment insurance fell last week to a fresh pandemic low as more Americans get vaccinated and return to work.Initial claims in regular state programs decreased by 13,000 to 553,000 in the week ended April 24, Labor Department data showed Thursday. The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of economists was 540,000 claims. The prior week’s total was revised up to 566,000.The drop in unemployment benefits applications is the latest sign the job market is steadily returning to its pre-pandemic strength. As more businesses and states reopen in the coming months, hiring is expected to continue to accelerate. Claims data have been volatile during the pandemic amid backlogs, fraud and new programs.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-jobless-claims-fell-last-week-to-fresh-pandemic-era-low-101619700072789.html
29-04-2021||World||Alexei Navalny's political network disbands ahead of 'extremism' ruling||A key aide to jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny said Thursday his organisation was disbanding its national network ahead of a court ruling expected to declare it an extremist organisation.The announcement came as Navalny made his first video appearance in court since ending a hunger strike last week, appearing gaunt in a prison uniform and with a buzz haircut.During the hearing, which is part of an appeal by Navalny against a defamation sentence imposed in February for insulting a World War II veteran, the opposition figure said he had lost more weight but had started eating again."I was taken to a bathhouse yesterday... there was a mirror there, I looked at myself -- I am just a horrible skeleton," Navalny told the court, according to an audio recording released by the independent Dozhd television channel.Another court was holding a hearing Thursday into a request from prosecutors that Navalny's regional network and his Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK) be recognised as extremist, equating the organisations with the Islamic State group and Al-Qaeda.If the request is met, their activities would be banned, putting members and supporters at risk of lengthy jail time.The head of the regional networks said Thursday it had already been decided to shutter the network."We are officially disbanding Navalny's network," Leonid Volkov said in a video posted on social media.He said some of the offices would continue their activities as independent organisations.Earlier this week, prosecutors ordered the network to suspend its activities ahead of the ruling and a court imposed sweeping bans on FBK.FBK was launched in 2011 and routinely releases investigations into alleged corruption by officials at all levels of government, often accompanied by YouTube videos.The regional network was founded during Navalny's presidential campaign in 2018, although the opposition figure was barred from running.It later supported his graft investigations as well as the Smart Voting strategy, which directs voters to cast their ballots for candidates best placed to defeat Kremlin-linked opponents.Navalny was arrested in January after returning to Russia from Germany, where he had spent months recovering from a poisoning attack that he says was orchestrated by President Vladimir Putin.He is serving a two-and a-half year sentence in a penal colony outside Moscow for violating parole terms on old fraud charges he and his allies say are politically motivated.The opposition figure refused food for three weeks, demanding adequate medical treatment in prison for severe back pain and numbness in his limbs.Last week he ended the 24-day hunger strike after he was examined at a civilian hospital.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/alexei-navalny-s-political-network-disbands-ahead-of-extremism-ruling-101619693969355.html
29-04-2021||World||China launches key module of space station planned for 2022||China launched an unmanned module on Thursday containing what will become living quarters for three crew on a permanent space station that it plans to complete by the end of 2022, state media reported.The module, named "Tianhe", or "Harmony of the Heavens", was launched on the Long March 5B, China's largest carrier rocket, at 11:23 a.m. (0323 GMT) from the Wenchang Space Launch Centre on the southern island of Hainan.Tianhe is one of three main components of what would be China's first self-developed space station, rivalling the only other station in service - the International Space Station (ISS).The ISS is backed by the United States, Russia, Europe, Japan and Canada. China was barred from participating by the United States."(Tianhe) is an important pilot project in the building of a powerful nation in both technology and in space," state media quoted President Xi Jinping as saying in a congratulatory speech.Tianhe forms the main living quarters for three crew members in the Chinese space station, which will have a life span of at least 10 years.The Tianhe launch was the first of 11 missions needed to complete the space station, which will orbit Earth at an altitude of 340 to 450 km (211-280 miles).In the later missions, China will launch the two other core modules, four manned spacecraft and four cargo spacecraft.Work on the space station programme began a decade ago with the launch of a space lab Tiangong-1 in 2011, and later, Tiangong-2 in 2016.Both helped China test the programme's space rendezvous and docking capabilities.China aims to become a major space power by 2030. It has ramped up its space programme with visits to the moon, the launch of an uncrewed probe to Mars and the construction of its own space station.In contrast, the fate of the ageing ISS - in orbit for more than two decades - remains uncertain.The project is set to expire in 2024, barring funding from its partners. Russia said this month that it would quit the project from 2025.Russia is deepening ties with China in space as tensions with Washington rise.Moscow has slammed the U.S.-led Artemis moon exploration programme and instead chosen to join Beijing in setting up a lunar research outpost in the coming years.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-launches-key-module-of-space-station-planned-for-2022-101619689648898.html
29-04-2021||World||BioNTech expects vaccine trial results for babies by September||BioNTech expects results by September from trials testing the COVID-19 vaccine that it and Pfizer have developed in babies as young as six months old, German magazine Spiegel cited the company's CEO as saying."In July, the first results could be available for the five to 12 year olds, in September for the younger children," BioNTech Chief Executive Ugur Sahin told Spiegel. He added it takes about four to six weeks to evaluate the data."If all goes well, as soon as the data is evaluated, we will be able to submit the application for approval of the vaccine for all children in the respective age group in different countries," he said.BioNTech and Pfizer asked U.S. regulators this month to approve emergency use of their vaccine for adolescents aged 12 to 15.Sahin was quoted by Spiegel as saying the company was "in the final stages before submission" to European regulators for children aged 12 and older.A trial published at the end of March found the companies' COVID-19 vaccine was safe, effective and produces robust antibody responses in adolescents.The Pfizer/BioNTech two-shot vaccine is already authorized for use in those aged 16 and above.Young people are less likely to suffer severe cases of COVID-19 and more likely to have asymptomatic infection, allowing them to unwittingly transmit COVID-19 to others.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biontech-expects-vaccine-trial-results-for-babies-by-september-101619689050732.html
29-04-2021||World||This French biotech may be dark horse of vaccine race with 'variant-proof' shot||As the battle with Covid-19 rages around the world, a small French biotech has a possible solution for the long-term war against the virus and the rapidly spreading mutations.The company, Valneva SE, has a vaccine that could be more variant-proof, giving it an edge over other shots in what may be an annual campaign against a disease that’s already killed more than 3 million people. The first participant in its phase three trials will be dosed this week. If successful, that could lead to an approved shot in the fall.Valneva’s shot is the only candidate in clinical trials in Europe that uses a tried-and-true vaccine technology involving an inactivated version of the whole virus it’s targeting. Inactivated vaccines — a century-old approach adopted for flu and polio — take a sample of the disease that has been killed and use it to stimulate an immune response without creating infection.With all the other Covid-19 vaccines in the region focused on the virus’s spike protein, the shot could protect against variants that might compromise others, making it the perfect booster.The company already has a deal with the U.K. to supply up to 190 million doses. Kate Bingham, former head of the U.K.’s Vaccine Taskforce, says that if the shot is successful it will probably be used as a winter booster for older adults.“Having that broader antigenic real estate from a whole virus vaccine really matters,” she said. “Viruses mutate. So by having a broader immune response, which you get with a whole vaccine, you can potentially provide that ongoing protection.”The healthcare implications in a post-Covid world are huge. And for Valneva, with a $100 million listing planned on Nasdaq this year, the financial stakes are high. The U.K. contract is worth up to 1.4 billion euros ($1.7 billion), more than 10 times its annual revenues last year. The company said Thursday that it will sell about 7.1 million shares in the offering, and use the proceeds to fund the Covid vaccine as well as the development of other products in its pipeline.The path to success is not straightforward, though. Due to the more onerous development involved with an inactivated approach, the Valneva vaccine was always going to be later into the clinic than other shots, which means its advanced trials are starting in the U.K. when more than half the country has already been vaccinated.As a result, the vaccine is being tested head-to-head with a shot from AstraZeneca Plc and the University of Oxford, rather than a dummy placebo, and must show an equal or superior antibody response.“There is no development without risk,” said Chief Executive Officer Thomas Lingelbach, who doesn’t know how the chance of regulatory approval would be affected if the shot was even slightly less effective than the Astra vaccine. “To be honest with you I don’t even like to think about that scenario.”It’s not the first time the 57-year-old has taken a risk.In summer 2012, when he was CEO of Austrian biotech Intercell AG, Lingelbach met Franck Grimaud, the chief executive of French company Vivalis, at one of Vienna’s oldest restaurants. Both businesses were struggling, and a London banker had suggested the pair get together to discuss a possible tie-up.By the end of their meal at Ofenloch, they decided that together they could become a key specialist vaccine company focused on developing inoculations for diseases with limited preventive or therapeutic treatment options.“In one evening we put everything on the table, where we are strong, where we are weak, and why it would make sense to join,” said Grimaud, who is now Valneva’s president and chief business officer. “We did what we said during this meeting.”When the pandemic hit last year, the company had two approved travel vaccines in its portfolio, one for Japanese encephalitis and another for cholera. Two more, against Lyme disease and Chikungunya, a virus contracted from mosquitoes, were in the clinical phase. As soon as it became clear Covid-19 wasn’t going away quickly, the Valneva executives saw an opportunity to capitalize on the company’s experience.With Pfizer Inc., Moderna Inc. and Oxford pursuing messenger RNA and adenovirus vaccines, there was a gap for an inactivated approach. In April 2020, as much of Europe went into lockdown and infections climbed rapidly, the company started work on a shot using its Japanese encephalitis platform.The idea was it would be “complementary to the other vaccines, either in terms of sub-population — immunosuppressed, pregnant women, children, or, and we see it more and more emerging, the fact that inactivated vaccines could make sense as a booster,” said Grimaud, 55.The U.K. quickly signed up to buy the shot and invested in a Valneva manufacturing site in Scotland. Human trials started in December and reported positive data this month — producing significant levels of antibodies in more than 90% of participants and raising no safety concerns.Another potential deal with the European Commission, in the works since the third quarter of 2020, ended this month. The company is now focusing on bilateral deals with individual EU countries.Lingelbach won’t go into details but alludes to problems European officials had with the U.K. getting priority treatment — a factor baked into the British deal from the start. A spokesman for the European Commission said it’s aware of Valneva's position and in discussion with member states on how to proceed. The company didn’t meet certain conditions for a deal, he said.“Despite a lot of effort we have not made progress,” Lingelbach said. “It has gone in circles, and circles and circles.”The company has also had discussions with Australia and Canada about possible orders.Other inactivated Covid-19 vaccines exist beyond Europe. China’s Sinovac Biotech Ltd. and Sinopharm have also used the approach. While the Sinovac vaccine initially posted an efficacy figure of about 50% — lower than other vaccines and around the minimum regulatory threshold needed — more real-world data suggests the number could be higher. Sinopharm’s inactivated shots have both reported efficacy above 70%.In an ideal world, the Valneva vaccine would be tested against another inactivated shot, said Lingelbach, but because there isn’t an approved one in the West the Astra vaccine was the next best comparator. Adjustments have had to be made to take account of different dosing schedules and the age restriction on the Astra shot in the U.K.Alongside the possibility that the Covid vaccine could be a regular booster shot providing sustainable revenue, the company is also hoping its Lyme and Chikungunya vaccines will both be in use by 2025, moving the company into a different league.Valneva has added hundreds of staff and plans to go from output of about three million vaccines a year to more than 100 million next year if the Covid shot is successful.“It’s not the same game,” said Grimaud. It’s “what makes us wake up every morning, but sometimes not sleep at night as well.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/this-french-biotech-may-be-dark-horse-of-vaccine-race-with-variant-proof-shot-101619686521666.html
29-04-2021||World||US pushes ahead with nuclear plans despite watchdog concerns||The Biden administration appears to be picking up where former President Donald Trump left off as the federal agency that oversees U.S. nuclear research and bomb-making has approved the first design phase for a multibillion-dollar project to manufacture key components for the nation’s nuclear arsenal.The National Nuclear Security Administration in a decision announced Wednesday stated that planning and construction could cost upwards of $4 billion initially. The agency doesn’t articulate what exactly that money would be spent on nor does it include the cost of other preparations that would be needed for Los Alamos National Laboratory to begin producing 30 plutonium cores per year.The push to resume production of the nuclear triggers has spanned multiple presidential administrations, with supporters arguing that the U.S. needs to ensure the stability and reliance of its arsenal given growing global security concerns. The nuclear agency also has said most of the cores in the stockpile date back to the 1970s and 1980s.Democratic members of New Mexico's congressional delegation have supported production at Los Alamos given the billions of dollars in federal funding and thousands of jobs that are at stake. But watchdog groups have been sounding alarms over the potential for more security and safety lapses at the northern New Mexico lab and the potential for environmental contamination.Another concern is the nuclear waste that would be generated by the work.Watchdog groups say the cost estimate outlined by the agency in its decision is roughly double the projections made just last year.Greg Mello with the Los Alamos Study Group said the ballooning budget and uncertainty over whether the lab can meet the federal government's mandated production schedule “throw further doubt on the wisdom of proceeding with industrial pit production” at Los Alamos.“LANL’s facilities are simply too old and inherently unsafe, its location too impractical,” he said. “Even with a much smaller stockpile, LANL could not undertake this mission successfully.”Some groups have threatened to sue the U.S. Energy Department and the National Nuclear Security Administration, saying a more comprehensive review should have been done on the plans to produce plutonium cores Los Alamos and at the Savannah River Site in South Carolina. They argue that nearby communities already have been saddled with legacy contamination from previous defense work.Jay Coghlan of Nuclear Watch New Mexico called the federal government's plans “unnecessary and provocative,” saying more production will result in more waste and help to fuel a new arms race.The nuclear agency in a statement said it expects to set cost and schedule baselines in 2023 as part of the ongoing process. It also plans to continue reviewing the project “to improve the fidelity” of price and timeline estimates.Lab Director Thom Mason is scheduled Thursday evening to host a community meeting to talk about the lab's work, which also includes projects related to space exploration, the coronavirus pandemic, water supplies in the arid West and wildfires.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-pushes-ahead-with-nuclear-plans-despite-watchdog-concerns-101619685599650.html
29-04-2021||World||Young people can catch Covid-19 second time: Lancet study||A past Covid-19 infection does not completely protect young people from reinfection, and vaccination is still necessary to boost immune response and reduce disease transmission, according to an observational study published in The Lancet Respiratory Medicine journal.The research was conducted on more than 3,000 healthy members of the US Marines Corps most of whom were aged 18-20 years.The researchers from the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai in the US emphasised that young people should take up the vaccine wherever possible.They noted that despite previous infection and the presence of antibodies, vaccination is still necessary to boost immune responses, prevent reinfection, reduce transmission."As vaccine roll outs continue to gain momentum it is important to remember that, despite a prior Covid-19 infection, young people can catch the virus again and may still transmit it to others," said Professor Stuart Sealfon, of Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, a senior author of the study."Immunity is not guaranteed by past infection, and vaccinations that provide additional protection are still needed for those who have had Covid-19," Sealfon said.In the study, conducted between May and November 2020, around 10 per cent or 19 out of 189 participants who were previously infected with SARS-CoV-2 (seropositive) became reinfected.This was compared to new infections in 50 per cent (1,079 out of 2,247) of participants who had not previously been infected (seronegative).Although the study was in young, fit, mostly male Marine recruits, the researchers believe that the risk of reinfection found in their study will apply to many young people.In the study, US Marine Corps recruits completed an unsupervised quarantine at home for two weeks before entering a Marine-supervised quarantine facility for another two weeks.They received antibody tests to establish whether any of the recruits were seropositive or had previously been infected with SARS-CoV-2 and had antibodies.They were also tested for new SARS-CoV-2 infection at baseline then weeks one and two of the quarantine, and completed a questionnaire including demographic information, risk factors, medical history, and Covid-19 symptoms.Of the 2,346 Marines followed long enough for this analysis of reinfection rate, 189 were seropositive and 2,247 were seronegative at the start of the study.Across both groups of recruits, there were 1,098 (45 per cent) new infections during the study.Among the seropositive participants, 19 (10 per cent) tested positive for a second infection during the study.Of the recruits who were seronegative, 1,079 (48 per cent) became infected during the study.In the study, most new Covid-19 cases were asymptomatic -- 84 per cent (16 out of 19 participants) in the seropositive group vs 68 per cent (732 out of 1,079 participants) in the seronegative group -- or had mild symptoms, and none were hospitalised."Our study shows that some individuals with lower levels of neutralising antibodies were reinfected, indicating that it is possible that previously infected and recovered people are susceptible to new SARS-CoV-2 infection at a later time," said Dawn Weir, of the Navy Medical Research Centre, US."These reinfections may be asymptomatic, as observed in the majority of our participants," Weir said.The researchers note some limitations to their study, including that it likely underestimates the risk of reinfection in previously infected individuals because it does not account for people with very low antibody levels following their past infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/young-people-can-catch-covid-19-second-time-lancet-study-101619685592729.html
29-04-2021||World||US eyes major rollback in Iran sanctions to revive nuclear deal||The Biden administration is considering a near wholesale rollback of some of the most stringent Trump-era sanctions imposed on Iran in a bid to get the Islamic Republic to return to compliance with a landmark 2015 nuclear accord, according to current and former US officials and others familiar with the matter.As indirect talks continue this week in Vienna to explore the possibility of reviving the nuclear deal, American officials have become increasingly expansive about what they might be prepared to offer Iran, which has been driving a hard line on sanctions relief, demanding that all US penalties be removed, according to these people.American officials have refused to discuss which sanctions are being considered for removal. But they have said they are open to lifting any sanctions that are inconsistent with the nuclear deal or that deny Iran the relief it would be entitled to should it return to compliance with the accord.Because of the complex nature of the sanctions architecture, that could include non-nuclear sanctions, such as those tied to terrorism, missile development and human rights.Biden administration officials say this is necessary because of what they describe as a deliberate attempt by the Trump administration to stymie any return to the deal. Under the 2015 agreement, the United States was required to lift sanctions tied to Iran's nuclear programme, but not non-nuclear sanctions.Administration officials deny they will remove all non-nuclear sanctions, but have declined to identify those which they believe Trump improperly imposed on terrorism and other grounds.“Any return to the JCPOA would require sanctions relief, but we are considering removing only those sanctions that are inconsistent with the JCPOA,” said State Department spokesman Ned Price.“Even if we rejoin the JCPOA — which remains a hypothetical — we would retain and continue to implement sanctions on Iran for activities not covered by the JCPOA, including Iran's missile proliferation, support for terrorism, and human rights abuses.”When President Donald Trump re-imposed sanctions after withdrawing from the deal in 2018, he not only put the nuclear sanctions back in but also added layers of terrorism and other sanctions on many of the same entities. In addition, the Trump administration imposed an array of new sanctions on previously unsanctioned entities.This has put the current administration in an awkward position: Iran is demanding the removal of all sanctions. If the US doesn't lift at least some of them, Iran says it won't agree to halt its nuclear activities barred by the deal known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA.But if the Biden administration makes concessions that go beyond the nuclear-specific sanctions, Republican critics and others, including Israel and Gulf Arab states, are likely to seize on them as proof that the administration is caving to Iran. Former Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has led the charge among Trump alumni to denounce any easing of sanctions.Former Trump administration officials say all the sanctions are legitimate. Gabriel Noronha, a former State Department senior adviser on Iran, said all the Trump-era sanctions had been approved by career Justice Department lawyers and would have been rejected if they weren't legitimate.But a senior State Department official involved in the negotiations said officials now “have to go through every sanction to look at whether they were legitimately or not legitimately imposed.”The official, who like the others spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private talks, also said the US would be prepared to lift sanctions that would otherwise deny Iran the benefits of the deal. Those sanctions could include restrictions on Iran's ability to access the international financial system, including dealing in dollar-based transactions.“There are sanctions that are inconsistent with the JCPOA and as we have said, if Iran resumes its compliance with the nuclear deal ... we would be prepared to lift those sanctions that are inconsistent with the JCPOA,” Price said last week. He declined to elaborate on what might be “inconsistent” with the deal.Those comments suggest that sanctions imposed on Iran's Central Bank, its national oil and shipping companies, its manufacturing, construction and financial sectors are on the block. Deal critics briefed on aspects of the Vienna negotiations say they suspect that is indeed the case.That's because the bank, oil, shipping and other sanctions, all ostensibly imposed by the Trump administration for terrorism, ballistic missile and human rights concerns, also affect nuclear sanctions relief.Current officials say no decisions have yet been made and nothing will be agreed in Vienna until everything regarding sanctions relief and Iran's return to compliance with the nuclear deal has been settled.But critics of the nuclear deal fear the administration will go beyond even what has been suggested by the administration's oblique comments. They suspect that sanctions on people, companies, government agencies or other entities identified for nuclear sanctions relief in the 2015 deal will be cleared; even if they were subsequently penalized on other grounds.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-eyes-major-rollback-in-iran-sanctions-to-revive-nuclear-deal-101619681432609.html
29-04-2021||World||US tells citizens in India: Flights available, medical care limited||The US has alerted its citizens in India that access to medical care is “becoming severely limited” because of a surge in Covid-19 infections and those wishing to leave the country should take advantage of available commercial transportation options. The alert, posted on the US embassy’s website, said there are daily direct flights to the US from India and other options via France and Germany were also available. The message was also posted on Twitter by the official handle of the US department of the state bureau of consular affairs. The alert also said American citizens were reporting about being denied admittance to hospitals in some Indian cities because of a lack of space. India is grappling with record-breaking Covid-19 infections, which have crossed the 300,000-mark for almost a week. It reported 379,423 cases on Wednesday.The alert posted on the US embassy’s website said: “Access to all types of medical care is becoming severely limited in India due to the surge in Covid-19 cases. US citizens who wish to depart India should take advantage of available commercial transportation options now.” It added, “Direct flights between India and the United States are offered daily, with additional flight options available to US citizens via transfers in Paris and Frankfurt.” Also Read | Italy says Indian air passengers to quarantine for 10 daysThe alert advised American citizens to enrol in “STEP at step.state.gov in order to receive critical information from the Embassy related to health and safety in India”. American citizens were also advised to track the Indian health ministry’s website for the latest information on travel restrictions. The alert pointed out that new cases and deaths from Covid-19 have “risen sharply throughout India to record levels” and said “testing infrastructure is reportedly constrained in many locations”. It added, “Hospitals are reporting shortages of supplies, oxygen, and beds for both Covid-19 and non-Covid-19 related patients. US citizens are reporting being denied admittance to hospitals in some cities due to a lack of space. Some states have enacted curfews and other restrictions that limit movement and the operation of non-essential businesses.” The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has issued a “Level 4 travel health notice” for India, and the US state department has issued a “Level 4 travel advisory advising against all travel to India”. “The current Level 4 Travel Advisory is the highest level issued by the Department of State and advises US citizens not to travel to India or to leave as soon as it is safe to do so due to the current health situation in country,” the alert further said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-tells-citizens-in-india-flights-available-medical-care-limited-101619681861816.html
29-04-2021||World||Covid-19: London's Heathrow Airport sees first quarter loss of over 300 million pounds||Heathrow, Britain's biggest airport, said on Thursday a first quarter loss of 329 million pounds ($459 million) took total losses since the start of the pandemic to nearly 2.4 billion pounds as travel continues to be hammered.It said only 1.7 million passengers travelled through the London airport in the three months to March 31, down 91% compared to the first quarter of 2019.Heathrow, which during the pandemic lost its crown as Europe's busiest hub to Paris, said continuing uncertainty over British government policy meant it had reduced its passenger forecast for the year to a range of between 13 million and 36 million, compared to 81 million in 2019.Britain's aviation industry is hoping that flying will rebound in late May once COVID-19 restrictions are eased, but uncertainty remains about where people will be able to go, and how digital vaccine passports will work.British transport secretary Grant Shapps has said he will chair a meeting of G7 transport ministers next week to discuss vaccine passports before announcing which countries would be open to Britons for travel in early May.Heathrow reiterated that Britain's summer economic recovery depended on travel restarting from May 17.It said it would be ready to scale-up operations as demand returned but repeated concerns about the UK Border Force's ability to prevent a long wait for arriving passengers at passport checks."Ministers will need to ensure every desk is staffed to avoid unacceptable queues," it said.Britain's aviation regulator said on Tuesday that Heathrow could charge airlines 30 pence more per passenger to help recover up to 3 billion pounds of pandemic losses, a fraction of what Heathrow had asked for but enough to infuriate the owner of British Airways.Heathrow is owned by investors including Spain's Ferrovial the Qatar Investment Authority and China Investment Corp.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-london-s-heathrow-airport-sees-first-quarter-loss-of-over-300-million-pounds-101619681109558.html
29-04-2021||World||Covid-19: Italy says Indian air passengers to quarantine for 10 days||A flight from New Delhi arrived Wednesday evening in Rome carrying 210 passengers, who will be placed in mandatory quarantine.Officials said that a new ordinance signed earlier in the day by Health Minister Roberto Speranza requires that passengers arriving from India are quarantined for 10 days at a site indicated by Italian health officials, due to concerns about the deadly spike in that country.The passengers were being tested upon arrival and anyone testing positive will be taken instead to a Covid-19 hotel near Rome's main Leonardo da Vinci International Airport. The 210 passengers include children.Officials indicated that they were primarily Indian nationals who are residents in Italy.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/covid19-italy-says-indian-air-passengers-to-quarantine-for-10-days-101619678319177.html
29-04-2021||World||10 Chinese sailors on cargo ship infected with Indian variant of Covid-19||At least 10 Chinese nationals on a cargo ship docked at a port in eastern China have been found to be infected with a Covid-19 variant from India, health authorities said on Thursday.Chinese authorities didn’t share details of whether they were infected with the variant of the coronavirus currently prevalent in India.Health officials in Zhejiang, a coastal province, said 11 cases of “imported” Covid-19 infections, including 10 from India, were reported in the last 24 hours - all among the 20 Chinese crew members of the ship - from Zhoushan port.There is one asymptomatic Covid-19 case as well, the health authorities said on social media, a state media report said on Thursday.According to a state media report, the ship Huayang Chaoyang had docked at Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh earlier this year besides stopping over at Chittagong in Bangladesh, Singapore, and Xiamen in China.The ship had docked at Zhoushan Xinya Shipyard for repairs when the crew were tested and 11 were found to be Covid-19 positive.It’s not clear how the Chinese crew members were infected with an Indian variant of the coronavirus.The World Health Organization (WHO) on Tuesday said the B.1.617 variant of Covid-19, which is said to be contributing to a surge in cases across India, has been found in 17 countries. China was not among the countries named.China’s national health commission (NHC) said in a statement on Thursday that all of the 20 new cases reported in the past 24 hours were infections originating from overseas.A total of 5,644 confirmed imported cases have been reported in the country, the NHC said.The number of new asymptomatic cases, which China does not classify as confirmed infections, had fallen to 14 from 17 a day earlier.The total number of confirmed Covid-19 cases in mainland China now stands at 90,642, while the death toll is 4,636.While direct commercial passenger flights between India and China have been discontinued for more than a year, Beijing also banned special flights from India in November after several positive Covid-19 cases were detected on one such flight.The Chinese embassy and consulates in India have effectively stopped issuing visas to Indians. Thousands of Indians, including a large number of students studying in China, have been stranded in their home country for more than a year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/10-chinese-sailors-on-cargo-ship-infected-with-indian-variant-of-covid19-101619677782055.html
29-04-2021||World||Pakistan approaching another 'flour crisis,' warns Bilawal Bhutto||Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari has warned that the country is moving towards another flour crisis as there are only less than 20 days of wheat stock left available in the country.In a statement issued by the PPP Media Office on Wednesday, Bilawal slammed the federal government for fixing the wheat purchase price at ₹1,800 per 40 kg, alleging that the government was making a false claim that it had increased the subsidy price up to 400 per cent, Dawn reported.He claimed that the increase was only 28 per cent as the government had raised the purchase price from ₹1,400 to ₹1,800. He said that his party would not allow the oppression of farmers in Sindh and the relief price would be ₹2,000 per 40kg in the province."Today, for the first time in the history of the country, the support price of wheat is not the same in all the provinces and Imran Khan is responsible for this oppression of the farmers of Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Balochistan," he alleged.The PPP chairman also underscored the prices of fertilisers, seeds, pesticides, agricultural machinery and electricity that have gone up by 150 per centReminding the people that the federal government had already created two wheat crises in three years, he said that it was due to the poor planning of Prime Minister Imran Khan's Pakistan Tehreek-i-Insaf (PTI) government that today only two to two-and-a-half weeks of wheat stock was available in the country."If the crisis is not dealt with, the country may once again face a shortage of flour," he said.According to Dawn, Bilawal lamented that Pakistan, which was known as a wheat-producing country, is now importing wheat, adding that the ruler of Pakistan (Imran Khan) was unfortunately not even familiar with "alphabets of the word agriculture".Meanwhile, in a separate statement, PPP's parliamentary leader in the Senate Sherry Rehman expressed concern over the government's plan to split Pakistan International Airlines (PIA) into two companies, Dawn reported."The Tabahi Sarkar (destructive government) has literally crashed PIA by compromising several Pakistani pilots with clean licences, got the airline grounded in EU capitals after the 'Licencegate', sold PIA assets abroad via crony shell firms and are now cannibalising 'old PIA' to create new business ventures. This is a new low," she said.Around 2,000 PIA employees had been forced to take voluntary redundancy and now the plan was to lay off half of its 14,000 employees, the Senator added."Why did the government recently mislead the people by claiming PIA losses have been brought down? If this was the case then what losses are they talking about now? The national flag carrier posted a net loss of ₹34.6 billion (USD 226 million) in 2020, its loan has caused an overall loss of ₹460bn, the iconic Roosevelt Hotel in New York has been sold and our profitable international routes were given to competitors," she said.Rehman blamed the government's incompetence over PIA's losses and said that PIA flights had been banned in Europe and the US because of the Pakistan aviation minister's "callous statement".||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/pakistan-approaching-another-flour-crisis-warns-bilawal-bhutto-101619676717671.html
29-04-2021||World||Biden pledges NATO-like military presence in Indo-Pacific||The US will “maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific” just as it does with NATO in Europe, and it will retain an “over-the-horizon” capability as it leaves Afghanistan in September, President Joe Biden has said in his first address to a joint session of Congress.In a 65-minute speech to a chamber sparsely populated in view of the Covid-19 pandemic, Biden recalled major accomplishments of his first 100 days in office such as a rescue plan and laid out his agenda for the remainder of his term that many experts described as the most progressive for a Democratic president in decades.“America is on the move again,” he said as he started his speech that was focused mostly on domestic issues, such as the handling of the pandemic, economic recovery, healthcare expansion, gun rights reforms, immigration policy, eradication of child poverty, raising the minimum wage to $15, equal pay for women, among others.Biden also spoke on key foreign policy issues such as America’s relations with China, the main competitor, and the pull-out of troops from Afghanistan that he has pledged to wrap up by September 11 - the 10the anniversary of the 2001 terror attacks in the US.“We will maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific just as we do with NATO in Europe – not to start conflict – but to prevent conflict,” the US president said he told China’s President Xi Jinping when the latter had called to congratulate him.Biden never fails to bring up that conversation, and he mentioned it again, saying it had lasted two hours.No details were available immediately of plans to boost US military presence in the region, as the area of responsibility of the Indo-Pacific Command, with a look-in from the Africa Command and the Central Command in the Biden administration’s expanded vision of the region as the Western Indian Ocean Region (WIOR).Former US president Donald Trump had also spoken of a stronger military presence in the Indo-Pacific, but at the expense of American presence in Europe, by moving troops from Germany. Trump didn’t stay long enough in office to get that done, and the redeployment was abandoned by the Biden administration.Reasserting his tough stand on China, Biden, a veteran of foreign policy issues going back decades in the US Senate, said, “America will stand up to unfair trade practices that undercut American workers and industries, like subsidies for state-owned enterprises and the theft of American technologies and intellectual property.”On Afghanistan, a major policy issue for the Biden administration that India is following closely, the American president said, “After 20 years of American valour and sacrifice, it’s time to bring our troops home. Even as we do, we will maintain an over-the-horizon capability to suppress future threats to the homeland.”That should give New Delhi some comfort as worried as it has been with Biden’s decision to pull troops out of Afghanistan without a residual force, something that he himself had advocated against as a candidate for the White House.“But make no mistake - the terrorist threat has evolved beyond Afghanistan since 2001, and we will remain vigilant against threats to the United States, wherever they come from,” Biden said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-pledges-nato-like-military-presence-in-indopacific-101619675381637.html
29-04-2021||World||US welcomes competition, not conflict: Joe Biden tells Chinese prez Xi Jinping||US president Joe Biden told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping on Wednesday that America welcomes competition but is not looking for conflict."I told President Xi that we will maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific just as we do with Nato in Europe, not to start conflict, but to prevent conflict," Joe Biden said while delivering his first speech to a joint session of Congress."But I made absolutely clear that I will defend American interests across the board," he added.The remark comes at a time when the ties between the US and China are going through a rough phase, with the world’s two biggest economies engaged in a bitter confrontation over various issues, including trade, Beijing's aggressive military moves in the disputed South China Sea and human rights in Hong Kong and Xinjiang region.Also Read| Biden speech takeaways: Government is good, and so are jobs“No responsible American president can remain silent when basic human rights are violated. A president has to represent the essence of our country,” Joe Biden said in his address.The US president pledged to maintain a strong US military presence in the Indo-Pacific and promising to boost technological development and trade. "China and other countries are closing in fast,” Biden said as he called for the nation to develop and dominate products and technologies of the future.Reflecting on the competition with China, Biden said, "There is simply no reason the blades for wind turbines can't be built in Pittsburgh instead of Beijing." The statement drew some of the strongest applause of the evening, news agency Reuters reported."America will stand up to unfair trade practices that undercut American workers and American industries, like subsidies to state-owned enterprises and the theft of American technology and intellectual property," he added.President Joe Biden was addressing the joint session of Congress on completing 100 days in office. Asserting that the United States is "on the move again", Biden pushed for a $1.8 trillion plan he said is needed to compete with China.(With agency inputs)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-welcomes-competition-not-conflict-joe-biden-tells-chinese-prez-xi-jinping-101619666703535.html
29-04-2021||World||25% global Covid-19 deaths occurred in Americas, says Pan American Health Organization||The uncontrolled spread of the coronavirus through all Americas accounted for a major part of global deaths last week, with one in four COVID-19 deaths in the world taking place here, says Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) Director Carissa Etienne."One in four COVID deaths reported worldwide last week took place right here, in the Americas. Nearly every country in Central America is reporting a rise in infections," CNN cited her press conference on Wednesday.For the first time, Canada's infection rates have surpassed the US COVID-19 infection rates, the PAHO director informed.The surge of infections is being led by new COVID-19 variants, which slow vaccination rollouts, due to lack of vaccine availability, are also providing major setbacks for a number of countries in the Americas.Many health systems across South and Central America are struggling to cope with the influx of patients, Etienne said, adding that hospitalisations are "at an all-time high" in Costa Rica, Guatemala's hospitals have reached maximum capacity and hospitals in several major Colombian cities are running out of intensive care beds.Peru, Bolivia, Argentina and Uruguay are among the nations that are reporting rising coronavirus infections, according to CNN.Brazil has long been among the worst-hit nations in the Americas, with the second-highest number of COVID-19 deaths in the world after the US. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro, who is generally known as a longtime coronavirus sceptic, is now facing a government probe over his handling of the pandemic.As of this week, more than 317 million vaccine doses have been administered across 49 countries and territories in the region, according to Etienne.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/25-global-covid-19-deaths-occurred-in-americas-says-pan-american-health-organization-101619665748546.html
29-04-2021||World||US will maintain strong military presence in Indo-Pacific to prevent conflict: Biden||President Joe Biden said that he has told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping that the US will maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific "not to start conflict, but to prevent one," as Beijing made efforts to expand influence in the strategically vital region.In his first speech to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday night, Biden said he also told Xi that America welcomes competition but was not looking for conflict."I told President Xi that we will maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific just as we do with NATO in Europe, not to start conflict, but to prevent conflict," Biden said.Biden said that he also told President Xi that "we welcome the competition – and that we are not looking for conflict.""But I made absolutely clear that I will defend American interests across the board," he added.He said America will stand up to "unfair" trade practices that undercut American workers and industries, like subsidies for state-owned enterprises and the theft of American technologies and intellectual property.Biden also said that he told Xi what he has said to many world leaders - that America won't back away from its commitment to human rights and fundamental freedoms.“No responsible American president can remain silent when basic human rights are violated. A president has to represent the essence of our country,” he added.The relations between the US and China are at an all-time low. The two countries are currently engaged in a bitter confrontation over various issues, including trade, Beijing's aggressive military moves in the disputed South China Sea and human rights in Hong Kong and Xinjiang region.China claims sovereignty over all of the South China Sea. Vietnam, Malaysia, the Philippines, Brunei and Taiwan have counter claims.China is engaged in hotly contested territorial disputes in both the South China Sea and the East China Sea. Beijing has built up and militarised many of the islands and reefs it controls in the region. Both areas are stated to be rich in minerals, oil and other natural resources and are also vital to global trade.In his remarks at the first virtual Summit of Quad leaders, President Biden last month said that a "free and open Indo-Pacific is essential" to all and the US was committed to working with its partners and allies in the region to achieve stability.Biden had described Quad – involving the US, India, Australia and Japan - as a new mechanism to enhance cooperation and raise mutual ambition as the member states address accelerating climate change.The Quad member states have been resolving to uphold a rules-based international order in the Indo-Pacific amid growing Chinese assertiveness in the region.India and three other Quad member nations - the US, Australia and Japan – early this month joined France in a three-day naval exercises in the eastern Indian Ocean in reflection of their growing maritime cooperation amid China's growing efforts to expand influence in the region.The Indian Ocean, considered the backyard of the Indian Navy, is critical for India's strategic interests. China has been making concerted efforts to increase its presence in the region, including Pakistan and Sri Lanka.The US has repeatedly stressed that China is a grave threat to its national security.In December, US Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe said China is the greatest global threat to democracy and freedom since the end of World War II.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/us-will-maintain-strong-military-presence-in-indo-pacific-to-prevent-conflict-biden-101619664350666.html
29-04-2021||World||Biden speech takeaways: Government is good, and so are jobs||President Joe Biden is using his first address before a joint session of Congress to make the case that his administration has made progress during the first 100 days he's been in office, confronting the public health and economic maelstrom caused by coronavirus pandemic.Biden is also using the prime-time address to make his pitch directly to Americans for his expansive — and expensive — vision to rebuild the nation’s roads, bridges, water pipes and other infrastructure, bolster public education an d extend other benefits for a wide swath of Americans.Here are some key takeaways from the president’s address:BIDEN'S FOUR-LETTER WORD: JOBSBiden uttered the word “jobs” a whopping 43 times, according to his prepared text.It’s perhaps no surprise for an administration that has made beating backing the pandemic and getting Americans back to work the central guideposts in the early going of the administration.Biden noted that the economy has gained some 1.3 million new jobs in the first few months of his administration — more than any in the first 100 days of any presidency. But he quickly pivoted to the need to pass his American Jobs Plan if the country is going to sustain momentum and get back to the historic low levels of unemployment prior to the pandemic.He also aimed to frame his push for the U.S. to meet its international obligations to slow the impact of climate change as, ultimately, a jobs plan.“For too long, we have failed to use the most important word when it comes to meeting the climate crisis,” Biden said. “Jobs. Jobs. For me, when I think about climate change, I think jobs.”WHO TURNED THE TIDE?Biden said “America's house was on fire” when he took office, citing the devastating COVID-19 pandemic, its damaging economic impacts and the Jan. 6 insurrection at the Capitol.“Now — after just 100 days — I can report to the nation: America is on the move again,” Biden said, adding the nation is now “turning peril into possibility. Crisis into opportunity. Setback into strength.”It’s a tried and true strategy by the president to take credit for the more hopeful moment, as the coronavirus vaccines have provided a path out of the pandemic.Republicans, meanwhile, made it clear they see things differently, with Sen. Tim Scott, R-S.C., implicitly crediting President Donald Trump for the Biden’s good fortune.“This administration inherited a tide that had already turned,” he said in prepared remarks from the official GOP response to Biden’s address. “The coronavirus is on the run!”From polling, it’s clear Biden’s view is winning the day — at least thus far — with more Americans approving of his job performance than ever did of Trump, with strong marks even from Republicans for handling the pandemic.MAKING THE CASE FOR BIG GOVERNMENTBiden made the full-throated case for an American embrace of big government.The president ticked off details of some of his plan for $1.8 trillion in spending to expand preschool, create a national family and medical leave program, distribute childcare subsidies and more.The plan comes on top of his proposal for $2.3 trillion in spending to rebuild roads and bridges, expand broadband access and launch other infrastructure projects.Republicans have shown little interest in Biden’s spending plan. Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell has argued that Biden’s plans are a “Trojan horse” that will lead to middle-class tax hikes.But Biden and his aides say all of this new spending is wise investment in Americans — and doable in time of low interest rates. Much of it can be paid through raising taxes on the wealthy and would go a long way toward addressing the frailties of life for the middle class and working poor exposed by the pandemic, Biden argues.While achieving bipartisan backing in Washington for the proposals is a longshot, Biden seems to betting he can win support across the electorate.He even made a thinly-veiled bid to blue-collar and non-college-educated white men who voted for Trump in November, noting that 90% of the infrastructure jobs that will be created by his spending plans don’t require a college degree and 75% don’t require an associate’s degree.“The Americans Jobs Plan is a blue-collar blueprint to build America,” Biden said. “And it recognizes something I’ve always said: Wall Street didn’t build this country. The middle class built this country. And unions built the middle class.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-speech-takeaways-government-is-good-and-so-are-jobs-101619661019778.html
29-04-2021||World||Biden to the nation: 'America is rising anew"||President Joe Biden declared Wednesday night in his first address to a joint session of Congress that “America is rising anew" on the verge of overcoming the historic pandemic. Looking to the future, he urged a $1.8 trillion investment in children, families and education that would fundamentally transform roles the government plays in American life.Biden marked his first 100 days in office as the nation emerges from a menacing mix of crises, making his case before a pared-down gathering of mask-wearing legislators because of pandemic restrictions. The speech took place in a setting unlike any other presidential address in the familiar venue, the U.S. Capitol still surrounded by fencing after insurrectionists in January protesting his election stormed to the doors of the House chamber where he gave his address.The nationally televised ritual of a president standing before Congress for the first time was one of the most watched moments of Biden's presidency, raising the stakes for his ability to sell his plans to voters of both parties, even if Republican lawmakers prove resistant.“America is ready for takeoff. We are working again. Dreaming again. Discovering again. Leading the world again. We have shown each other and the world: There is no quit in America,” Biden said. “100 days ago, America’s house was on fire. We had to act.”This year’s scene at the front of the House chamber had a historic look: For the first time, a female vice president, Kamala Harris, was seated behind the chief executive. And she was next to another woman, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, both clad in pastel.The first ovation came as Biden greeted, “Madam Vice President.” He added “No president has ever said those words from this podium, and it’s about time.”The entire House setting was unlike that for any of Biden’s predecessors, with members of Congress spread out, a sole Supreme Court justice in attendance and many Republicans citing “scheduling conflicts” to stay away. There was no need for a “designated survivor,” with so many Cabinet members not there, and the chamber was so sparsely populated that individual claps could be heard echoing off the walls.Biden repeatedly hammered home how his plans would put Americans back to work, restoring the millions of jobs lost to the virus. He laid out a sweeping proposal for universal preschool, two years of free community college, $225 billion for child care and monthly payments of at least $250 to parents. His ideas target frailties that were uncovered by the pandemic, and he argues that that economic growth will best come from taxing the rich to help the middle class and the poor.“I can report to the nation: America is on the move again,” Biden said. “Turning peril into possibility. Crisis into opportunity. Setback into strength.”For Biden, whose moment has been nearly a half century in the making, his speech also provided an update on combating the Covid-19 crisis he was elected to tame, showcasing hundreds of millions of vaccinations and relief checks delivered to help offset the devastation wrought by a virus that has killed more than 573,000 people in the United States. He also championed his $2.3 trillion infrastructure plan, a staggering figure to be financed by higher taxes on corporations.Seizing an opportunity born of calamity, Biden has embraced major action over incremental change. But he will be forced to thread a needle between Republicans who cry government overreach and some Democrats who fear he won’t go big enough.The Democratic president's strategy is to sidestep polarization and appeal directly to voters. His prime-time speech underscored a trio of central campaign promises: to manage the deadly pandemic, to turn down the tension in Washington in the aftermath of the insurrection and to restore faith in government as an effective force for good.Biden also was addressing an issue rarely confronted by an American president, namely that in order to compete with autocracies like China, the nation needs “to prove that democracy still works” after his predecessor's baseless claims of election fraud and the ensuing attack on the U.S. Capitol.“In our first 100 days together, we have acted to restore the people’s faith in our democracy to deliver," he said in the excerpts, pointing to actions against the pandemic and resulting economic slide.Unimpressed, Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina was to say in the Republicans' designated response that Biden was claiming too much credit.“This administration inherited a tide that had already turned," Scott said in excerpts released in advance. “The coronavirus is on the run.”No American politician has more familiarity with the presidential address to Congress than Biden. He spent three decades in the audience as a senator and eight years as vice president seated behind President Barack Obama during the annual address.Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said Tuesday, “President Biden ran as a moderate, but I’m hard pressed to think of anything at all that he’s done so far that would indicate some degree of moderation."Yet the desire for swift action is born from political necessity. Biden understands that the time for passing his agenda could be perilously short given that presidents' parties historically lose congressional seats in the midterm elections, less than two years away. The Democrats’ margins are already razor-thin.He spoke against a backdrop of the weakening but still lethal pandemic, staggering unemployment and a roiling debate about police violence against Blacks. Biden was also using his address to touch on the broader national reckoning over race in America, and to call on Congress to act on prescription drug pricing, gun control and modernizing the nation’s immigration system.In his first three months in office, Biden has signed a $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill — passed without a single GOP vote — and has shepherded direct payments of $1,400 per person to more than 160 million households. Hundreds of billions of dollars in aid will soon arrive for state and local governments, enough money that overall U.S. growth this year could eclipse 6% — a level not seen since 1984. Administration officials are betting that it will be enough to bring back all 8.4 million jobs lost to the pandemic by next year.New in his Wednesday speech was a “families” plan that could cement Biden's legacy with $1.8 trillion worth of spending over 10 years.A significant amount would ensure that eligible families receive at least $250 monthly per child through 2025, extending the enhanced tax credit that was part of Biden’s Covid-19 aid. There would be more than $400 billion for subsidized child care and free preschool for all 3- and 4-year-olds.Another combined $425 billion would go to permanently reduce health insurance premiums for people who receive coverage through the Affordable Care Act, as well a national paid family and medical leave program. Further spending would be directed toward Pell Grants, historically Black and tribal institutions and allow people to could attend community college tuition-free for two years.Funding all of this would be a series of tax increases on the wealthy that would raise about $1.5 trillion over a decade.Biden wants to boost IRS enforcement and require disclosures by financial institutions, specifically targeting the rich. The White House estimates that would bring in $700 billion over 10 years. He would raise the top tax rate on the most affluent families from 37% to 39.6%. People earning in excess of $1 million a year would see their rate on capital gains — the profits from a sale of a stock or home — nearly double from 20% to 39.6%, which would mean the wealthiest Americans could no longer pay at a lower rate than many families who identify as middle class.Republican lawmakers in Congress so far have balked at the price tags, complicating the chances of passage in a deeply divided Washington.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/biden-to-the-nation-america-is-rising-anew-101619659911771.html
29-04-2021||World||Kamala Harris, Nancy Pelosi to make history as first women to share stage in Joe Biden's address||Vice President Kamala Harris and House Speaker Nancy Pelosi are set to make history Wednesday as the first women — one of them Black and Indian American — to share the stage in Congress during a presidential address.The two began the night with another historic moment: An elbow-bump hello, a pandemic spin on the traditional handshake. Both stood side by side behind the dais in the House chamber, chatting with each other and occasionally waving to lawmakers as the group waited for President Joe Biden to arrive.Biden is set to deliver his first prime-time speech to a joint session of Congress on Wednesday night flanked by Pelosi and Harris, two California Democrats.“It's pretty exciting. And it's wonderful to make history. It's about time,” Pelosi said hours before the speech during an interview on MSNBC.Pelosi already knows what it feels like to sit on the rostrum in the House chamber and introduce a president for their speeches. She has sat there for several addresses by Presidents George W. Bush, Barack Obama and Donald Trump.Women's advocates said seeing Harris and Pelosi seated together behind Biden will be a “beautiful moment.” But they noted that electing a woman to sit in the Oval Office remains to be achieved, along with the addition of an equal rights amendment to the Constitution.Biden helped usher the moment along by pledging to pick a woman for his running mate and selecting Harris, then a U.S. senator from California.“This is a great start and we have to continue to move forward to give women their equal due," said Christian Nunes, president of the National Organization for Women.Pelosi made history by becoming the first female House speaker during Republican Bush's presidency. He acknowledged the moment by noting during his address to Congress after Pelosi's election that he had the privilege of being the first president to open with the words “madam speaker.”Pelosi, 81, reclaimed the powerful leadership post during Republican Trump's presidency and sat behind him during his final two speeches to Congress, famously ripping up her copy of Trump's remarks in 2020 as cameras continued to roll after he was finished addressing lawmakers.Harris, 56, made history last year when she became the first woman and first Black and Indian American person elected vice president. In her role as president of the Senate, she joins Pelosi to preside over the joint session of Congress.Debbie Walsh, director of the Center for American Women and Politics at Rutgers University, said Wednesday night will show men, women, boys and girls that women can attain and hold high-level positions and that they are as entitled to them as men are.Walsh also noted Biden's promise to put a woman on his ticket, and pointed as well to the diversity of his Cabinet. She said Biden was likely to begin the speech by turning around to face Pelosi and Harris and feeling proud — not just personally, “but I also think proud for the country and proud for his party and I think he will clearly see the historic implications of this and the role that he played in making that happen.”“For all of us who care about women’s public leadership, we still look forward to the day when the person standing at the podium, in front, is a woman,” Walsh added. “But for now this is a particularly gratifying moment.”Harris' office declined comment Wednesday on her historic role in the president's address, preferring to let the moment speak for itself.Apart from the speech Wednesday, Harris and Pelosi have notched another first in US and women's history. They are first and second, respectively, in the line of presidential succession.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/kamala-harris-nancy-pelosi-to-make-history-as-first-women-to-share-stage-in-joe-biden-s-address-101619659112325.html
29-04-2021||World||'Turning peril into possibility': Biden tells nation in first address to Congress||President Joe Biden declared Wednesday night in his first address to a joint session of Congress that the nation is “turning peril into possibility," celebrating progress against the coronavirus and urging a $1.8 trillion investment in children, families and education that would fundamentally transform roles the government plays in American life.Biden marked his first 100 days in office as the nation emerges from a confluence of crises, making his case before a pared-down gathering of mask-wearing legislators because of pandemic restrictions. The speech took place in a U.S. Capitol still surrounded by fencing after insurrectionists in January protesting his election stormed to the doors of the House chamber where he gave his address.The nationally televised ritual of a president standing before Congress for the first time was one of the most watched moments of Biden's presidency, raising the stakes for his ability to sell his plans to voters of both parties, even if Republican lawmakers prove resistant.This year’s scene at the front of the House chamber had a historic look: For the first time, a female vice president, Kamala Harris, was seated behind the chief executive. And she was next to another woman, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, both clad in pastel.The first ovation came as Biden greeted, “Madame Vice President.”The entire House setting was unlike that for any of Biden’s predecessors, with members of Congress spread out, a sole Supreme Court justice in attendance and many Republicans citing “scheduling conflicts” to stay away. There was no need for a “designated survivor,” with so many Cabinet members not there, and the chamber was so sparsely populated that individual claps could be heard echoing off the walls.He laid out a sweeping proposal for universal preschool, two years of free community college, $225 billion for child care and monthly payments of at least $250 to parents. His ideas target frailties that were uncovered by the pandemic, and he argues that that economic growth will best come from taxing the rich to help the middle class and the poor.“I can report to the nation: America is on the move again,” Biden was to say, according to excerpts released by the White House ahead of the speech. “Turning peril into possibility. Crisis into opportunity. Setback into strength.”For Biden, whose moment has been nearly a half century in the making, his speech also provided an update on combating the COVID-19 crisis he was elected to tame, showcasing hundreds of millions of vaccinations and relief checks delivered to help offset the devastation wrought by a virus that has killed more than 573,000 people in the United States. He also championed his $2.3 trillion infrastructure plan, a staggering figure to be financed by higher taxes on corporations.Seizing an opportunity born of calamity, Biden has embraced major action over incremental change. But he will be forced to thread a needle between Republicans who cry government overreach and some Democrats who fear he won’t go big enough.The Democratic president's strategy is to sidestep polarization and appeal directly to voters. His prime-time speech underscored a trio of central campaign promises: to manage the deadly pandemic, to turn down the tension in Washington in the aftermath of the insurrection and to restore faith in government as an effective force for good.Biden also was addressing an issue rarely confronted by an American president, namely that in order to compete with autocracies like China, the nation needs “to prove that democracy still works” after his predecessor's baseless claims of election fraud and the ensuing attack on the U.S. Capitol.“In our first 100 days together, we have acted to restore the people’s faith in our democracy to deliver," he said in the excerpts, pointing to actions against the pandemic and resulting economic slide.Unimpressed, Sen. Tim Scott of South Carolina was to say in the Republicans' designated response that Biden was claiming too much credit.“This administration inherited a tide that had already turned," Scott said in excerpts released in advance. “The coronavirus is on the run.”No American politician has more familiarity with the presidential address to Congress than Biden. He spent three decades in the audience as a senator and eight years as vice president seated behind President Barack Obama during the annual address.Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell said Tuesday, “President Biden ran as a moderate, but I’m hard pressed to think of anything at all that he’s done so far that would indicate some degree of moderation."Yet the desire for swift action is born from political necessity. Biden understands that the time for passing his agenda could be perilously short given that presidents' parties historically lose congressional seats in the midterm elections, less than two years away. The Democrats’ margins are already razor-thin.He spoke against a backdrop of the weakening but still lethal pandemic, staggering unemployment and a roiling debate about police violence against Blacks. Biden was also using his address to touch on the broader national reckoning over race in America, and to call on Congress to act on prescription drug pricing, gun control and modernizing the nation’s immigration system.In his first three months in office, Biden has signed a $1.9 trillion COVID-19 relief bill — passed without a single GOP vote — and has shepherded direct payments of $1,400 per person to more than 160 million households. Hundreds of billions of dollars in aid will soon arrive for state and local governments, enough money that overall U.S. growth this year could eclipse 6% — a level not seen since 1984. Administration officials are betting that it will be enough to bring back all 8.4 million jobs lost to the pandemic by next year.New in his Wednesday speech was a “families” plan that could cement Biden's legacy with $1.8 trillion worth of spending over 10 years.A significant amount would ensure that eligible families receive at least $250 monthly per child through 2025, extending the enhanced tax credit that was part of Biden’s COVID-19 aid. There would be more than $400 billion for subsidized child care and free preschool for all 3- and 4-year-olds.Another combined $425 billion would go to permanently reduce health insurance premiums for people who receive coverage through the Affordable Care Act, as well a national paid family and medical leave program. Further spending would be directed toward Pell Grants, historically Black and tribal institutions and allow people to could attend community college tuition-free for two years.Funding all of this would be a series of tax increases on the wealthy that would raise about $1.5 trillion over a decade.Biden wants to boost IRS enforcement and require disclosures by financial institutions, specifically targeting the rich. The White House estimates that would bring in $700 billion over 10 years. He would raise the top tax rate on the most affluent families from 37% to 39.6%. People earning in excess of $1 million a year would see their rate on capital gains — the profits from a sale of a stock or home — nearly double from 20% to 39.6%, which would mean the wealthiest Americans could no longer pay at a lower rate than many families who identify as middle class.Republican lawmakers in Congress so far have balked at the price tag of both the “families” plan and infrastructure package, complicating the chances of passage in a deeply divided Washington.The president has drawn a firm line that no household earning less than $400,000 a year will pay more in taxes, a line that would both broaden the definition of the middle class and clearly delineate just how extreme inequality has become.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/turning-peril-into-possibility-biden-tells-nation-in-first-address-to-congress-101619658959503.html
29-04-2021||World||EU report accuses Russia, China of sowing mistrust in Western Covid-19 vaccines||Russian and Chinese media are systematically seeking to sow mistrust in Western Covid-19 vaccines in their latest disinformation campaigns aimed at dividing the West, a European report said on Wednesday.From December to April, the two countries' state media outlets pushed fake news online in multiple languages sensationalising vaccine safety concerns, making unfounded links between jabs and deaths in Europe and promoting Russian and Chinese vaccines as superior, the EU study said.The Kremlin and Beijing deny all disinformation allegations by the EU, which produces regular reports and seeks to work with Google, Facebook, Twitter and Microsoft to limit the spread of fake news.Russian and Chinese vaccine diplomacy "follows a zero-sum game logic and is combined with disinformation and manipulation efforts to undermine trust in Western-made vaccines," said the EU study released by the bloc's disinformation unit, part of its EEAS foreign policy arm."Both Russia and China are using state-controlled media, networks of proxy media outlets and social media, including official diplomatic social media accounts, to achieve these goals," the report said, citing 100 Russian examples this year.The EU and NATO regularly accuse Russia of covert action, including disinformation, to try to destabilise the West by exploiting divisions in society."A disinformation report that has no factual basis is in itself an example of disinformation," the Chinese mission to the EU said in a statement dated Thursday in response to the report.Russia denies any such tactics and President Vladimir Putin has accused foreign foes of targeting Russia by spreading fake news about the coronavirus.Vaccine supply issues with AstraZeneca, as well as very rare side effects with AstraZeneca and the Johnson & Johnson vaccines have been seized upon, the report said."Both Chinese official channels and pro-Kremlin media have amplified content on alleged side-effects of the Western vaccines, misrepresenting and sensationalising international media reports and associating deaths to the Pfizer/BioNTech vaccine in Norway, Spain and elsewhere," the report said.Last year, China sought to block an EU report alleging that Beijing was spreading disinformation about the coronavirus outbreak, according to a Reuters investigation.While the EU has not vaccinated its 450 million citizens as fast as Britain, which is no longer a member of the bloc, shots are now gaining speed, led by U.S. drugmaker Pfizer's shots and its German partner BioNTech.Russian media reported that "Brexit saved the UK from the 'vaccine chaos' engulfing the EU," the EU said. "Such narratives indicate an effort to sow division within the EU," it added.In the report, released online at https://euvsdisinfo.eu, the EU said Russia's official Sputnik V Twitter account sought to undermine public trust in the European Medicines Agency.Sputnik V responded that the disinformation campaign is against Russia and its vaccine, not the other way around."We will continue to fight disinformation campaign against Sputnik V in the interests of protecting lives around the world and avoiding vaccine monopoly that some vaccine producers may strive for," it said on Twitter.The Twitter account is managed by the Russian sovereign wealth fund, the Russian Direct Investment Fund, which is responsible for marketing and promoting the Sputnik V vaccine.China meanwhile promoted its vaccines as a "global public good" and "presenting them as more suitable for developing countries and also the Western Balkans," the report found. Western Balkan countries are seen as future EU members.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/eu-report-accuses-russia-china-of-sowing-mistrust-in-western-covid-19-vaccines-101619657119178.html
29-04-2021||World||Australia to investigate 2 deaths for possible Covid-19 vaccine links||Australia's medicines regulator will investigate two deaths for possible links to the COVID-19 vaccine, raising fresh concerns as the country seeks to accelerate an immunisation programme that has widely missed its initial vaccination targets."All reports ... of death following vaccination are reviewed to assess the likelihood that the vaccine contributed to the event or medical condition that led to a fatal outcome," the Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) said on Thursday.Two men died in the country's most populous state of New South Wales (NSW) days after getting their coronavirus vaccine shots, Australian media reported.A 71-year-old man with several underlying health conditions died days after getting AstraZeneca's vaccine, Seven News reported. A 55-year-old man died eight days after getting his vaccine, a regional newspaper in NSW's northwest town of Tamworth said in a report, citing his family.The reporting of an adverse event after vaccination does not mean it was caused by the doses, TGA said in an emailed reply. It did not specify when the deaths happened, citing patient confidentiality reasons, or the type of shots they received.Australia's immunisation drive includes AstraZeneca and Pfizer vaccines but earlier this month authorities abandoned a goal to vaccinate its near 26 million population by the end of 2021 after finding possible links between the AstraZeneca vaccine and blood clots.Australia, which had banked on the AstraZeneca vaccine for the majority of its shots, recommended the doses should only be given to people above 50 years, throwing its vaccination programme into disarray.Two weeks ago, the country reported its first death from blood clots linked to the AstraZeneca vaccine after the medicines regulator said a 48-year-old woman's fatality was "likely" linked to the shot.Australia has largely avoided the high COVID-19 numbers seen in other developed countries, with just over 29,700 cases and 910 deaths since the pandemic began, but its vaccination rollout has hit several roadblocks.More than 2 million total vaccine doses have been administered as of Tuesday, far short of the 4 million pledged by the end of March.(Reporting by Renju Jose; Editing by Lincoln Feast.)||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/australia-to-investigate-2-deaths-for-possible-covid-19-vaccine-links-101619658537499.html
29-04-2021||World||'Watching someone die every day': George Floyd juror describes harrowing trial||One of the jurors in the George Floyd murder trial broke his silence Wednesday to describe the "draining" proceedings to US media, lifting a veil of secrecy over the deliberations."It was just dark. It felt like every day was a funeral and watching someone die every day," Brandon Mitchell -- who, with eleven other jurors, found the white police officer Derek Chauvin guilty of murdering Floyd -- told CNN.Eight days after the historic verdict, the 31-year-old Black man decided to come out of anonymity to encourage African-Americans to serve on juries.Like voting, it "can help spark change," he explained on Fox.The experience was "rough," said the Minneapolis high school basketball coach."It was extremely draining... We had to watch video at least five, six times a day" of George Floyd's ordeal, which ended beneath the police officer's knee, he said on gospel star Erica Campbell's podcast."A lot of times, I turn my head and try not to watch," he said, adding that some of the testimony -- including from Floyd's brother -- had been extremely upsetting.But once it came time for the jury to deliberate, he had no doubt. "I feel like the evidence was overwhelming," he told CNN.Still, it took four or five hours for the jury to agree.One juror was being "delicate" with the process and questioning the wording of the instructions, Mitchell said on ABC.But in the end the verdict was unanimous, he said, telling Campbell's podcast that all were "on the same page" with the decision.The twelve jurors found Chauvin guilty of the three charges against him, a decision greeted by joy in Minneapolis and which was welcomed by officials including President Joe Biden.The former police officer was immediately taken into custody. His sentencing, which was scheduled for June 16, will finally take place on June 25.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/watching-someone-die-every-day-george-floyd-juror-describes-harrowing-trial-101619657032242.html
29-04-2021||World||'Wrote things I didn't mean': Man linked to US Capitol riot convicted of threats to lawmakers||A social media agitator was convicted on federal charges of threatening to kill members of Congress in a verdict that rejected his claims it was harmless rhetoric.A jury found Brendan Hunt guilty at the close of a weeklong trial in federal court in Brooklyn on Wednesday.Hunt, 37, did not deny creating a series of menacing-sounding posts. But he testified that they were often put together while impaired from smoking pot with a bong and drinking beer, and never thought they would be taken seriously.“I wrote a lot of things I didn't mean,” Hunt said, calling himself “immature” and “very irresponsible.”He added: “I just feel terrible about how I expressed myself.”The verdict came in a case where prosecutors linked Hunt to the siege at the US Capitol on Jan. 6 to his brand of extremism. He wasn't there, but admitted posting videos and other materials expressing support for the violent mob.Hunt — a staunch supporter of former President Donald Trump, avid comic book collector and an analyst for the New York court system — had pleaded not guilty to charges alleging, in part, that he called for the “public execution” of Democratic US Reps. Nancy Pelosi and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and US Sen. Charles Schumer.Prosecutors say it was part of a monthlong online campaign to urge violence against members of Congress that culminated with a January 8 video titled: “Kill your senators. Slaughter them all.”Defence attorneys had called the charges overblown. They argued Hunt's posts were protected free speech and that there was no proof that he was a legitimate threat.The trial featured testimony from a Capitol Police officer about the mayhem on January 6.A message was left with one of Hunt's lawyers on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/wrote-things-i-didn-t-mean-man-linked-to-us-capitol-riot-convicted-of-threats-to-lawmakers-101619656499918.html
29-04-2021||World||Knife attacker kills 2 children, wounds 16 at Chinese kindergarten: Report||A man wielding a knife killed two children and wounded 16 more people at a kindergarten in China's southwestern region of Guangxi on Wednesday, China's official Xinhua news agency reported.Xinhua had earlier reported that two children had been seriously injured in the attack at around 2 p.m. (0600 GMT) in the city of Beiliu.The conditions of the 16 wounded were improving after receiving treatment at the Beiliu City People's Hospital, Xinhua reported, citing the city's Propaganda Department.A suspect was arrested by police, Xinhua reported earlier.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/knife-attacker-kills-2-children-wounds-16-at-chinese-kindergarten-report-101619655422976.html
29-04-2021||World||Facebook reports soaring quarterly ad revenue, stock jumps||Facebook's stock jumped Wednesday into record territory after the social media giant reported stronger-than-expected results for the first quarter thanks to soaring ad revenue.CEO Mark Zuckerberg said the extra money means the company will invest more in new areas of potential growth — including augmented and virtual reality, commerce, business messaging and content creators, such as people who make videos, write newsletters and host podcasts.“I believe that augmented and virtual reality are going to enable a deeper sense of presence and social connection than any existing platform," he said in a conference call with analysts. He added that this accounts for a “major part" of Facebook's research and development budget growth.Facebook is also expanding its e-commerce offerings and the use of its messaging services for businesses. As for the creator economy, the company is getting into audio, podcasts and independent publishing similar to Substack.The company said it earned $9.5 billion, or $3.30 per share, in the January-March period. That's up 94% from $4.9 billion, or $1.71 per share, a year earlier.Revenue grew 48% to $26.17 billion from $17.44 billion.Analysts, on average, were expecting earnings of $2.35 per share and revenue of $23.73 billion, according to a poll by FactSet.The average price of ads on Facebook grew 30% from a year earlier, while the number of ads increased by 12%.Facebook had 2.85 billion monthly users, on average, in March. That's up 10% from a year earlier. Its family of apps — Facebook, Instagram and WhatsApp — had monthly users of 3.45 billion in March. That's the number of people who logged in to at least one of the apps during the month.In January, the company predicted uncertainty for 2021, saying its revenue in the latter half of the year could face significant pressure. Because revenue grew so quickly in the second half of 2020, Facebook could have trouble keeping up that pace. This uncertainty is now baked into the company's forecast, so it didn't come as a surprise to investors.Shares of the Menlo Park, California-based company rose 6% to $325.75 in after-hours trading. If the gains hold in Thursday's regular trading session, it will mark a record high for the stock, which is up 12% so far this year.On Monday, Apple rolled out a new privacy feature, dubbed “App Tracking Transparency,” as part of an update to the operating system powering the iPhone and iPad. It came after a seven-month delay during which the iPhone maker and Facebook attacked each other's business models and motives for decisions that affect billions of people around the world.Until the new feature, Facebook and other apps have been able to automatically conduct their surveillance on iPhones unless users took the time and trouble to go into their settings to prevent it — something not many people did.While Facebook spent months fighting the change, Zuckerberg recently suggested that the new privacy controls could actually help his company in the long run. His rationale: The inability to automatically track iPhone users may prod more companies to sell their products directly on Facebook and Instagram if they can’t collect enough personal information to effectively target ads within their own apps. This would help Facebook's bottom line, of course.Facebook said Wednesday it expects its second-quarter 2021 revenue growth to stay stable or “modestly accelerate” compared with the growth rate in the first quarter. The Apple update is already factored into this guidance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/facebook-reports-soaring-quarterly-ad-revenue-stock-jumps-101619654427246.html
29-04-2021||World||China issues landscape survey of Diaoyu Islands amid tensions with Japan||China has released a landscape survey of a group of islands administered by Japan to reinforce its territorial claims in the East China Sea region amid tensions with Tokyo.The survey of the Diaoyu Islands - known as the Senkakus in Japan - was released on Monday by China's Ministry of Natural Resources and covers the main island and two smaller nearby islets, South China Morning Post reported.Japan controls the Senkaku Islands. The Japanese government maintains the islands are an inherent part of Japan's territory. China and Taiwan claim them."The report ... supplements and improves the basic geographic data of the Diaoyu Islands and its affiliated islands, and provides important support for the management of the Diaoyu Islands' resources and environmental protection," the ministry said.The report includes high-definition topographic maps of the land features as well as their surrounding seabed up to 30m (98 feet) below the surface.The ministry said the maps were based on historical survey data, as well as high-resolution satellite remote sensing surveys.The report also included some photos of the island and islets taken from survey vessels sailing close to the site.Recently, tensions between China and Japan have escalated amid increased activity by Beijing in the disputed East China Sea.Last month, Japan said China's coastguard had expanded its presence in the contested waters by entering twice a month and as frequently as twice a week near the Japanese-controlled Senkaku Islands.Early this month, Japan Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi urged China to halt its illegal intrusions into its territorial waters around the Senkaku Islands in the East China Sea.Meanwhile, China's defence ministry has urged Japan to stop making provocative moves and refrain from attacking China over the disputed islands after the defence ministries of both countries held a virtual meeting.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/china-issues-landscape-survey-of-diaoyu-islands-amid-tensions-with-japan-101619654009133.html
29-04-2021||World||‘A flop!’: 1941 review brings down Citizen Kane’s perfect score||Orson Welles’s “Citizen Kane”, widely considered one of the greatest movies ever made, has lost its 100% score on Rotten Tomatoes after the review aggregator website added a negative review from 80 years ago.The negative review, published by the Chicago Tribute on May 7, 1941, was the 116th review of the film on the website.The Chicago Tribune’s negative Citizen Kane review was published under the pseudonym “Mae Tinee” and accompanied with the title “Citizen Kane Fails to Impress Critic as Greatest Ever Filmed”, according to IndieWire.The review was published a few days after the film first started rolling out into theaters in 1941. The critic branded the movie “a flop” and wrote that the film’s noir-inspired visuals and use of shadows “gives one the creeps and wishes “they’d let a little sunshine in”.“It’s interesting. It’s different. In fact, it’s bizarre enough to become a museum piece. But its sacrifice of simplicity to eccentricity robs it of distinction and general entertainment value,” the review said.The piece, according to IndieWire, was uploaded on Rotten Tomatoes in line with the launch of the RT Archives, an archival hub introduced in November 2020, which houses and preserves editorial content related to classic and historic films.Not just Citizen Kane, classics such as A Night at the Opera, Double Indemnity, Home of the Brave, Victim, Mädchen in Uniform, The Dirty Dozen, and Gilda were issued new scores as part of the archival initiative.Citizen Kane, or rather its making, was the subject of David Fincher’s multiple Oscar-nominated and two-time winner Mank. The movie, which won the Academy Award for best cinematography and best production design, focused on on Citizen Kane screenwriter Herman J Mankiewicz.Widely considered to be one of the greatest movies ever made, Citizen Kane topped five consecutive British Film Institute Sight & Sound polls of critics, and ranked first in the American Film Institute’s 100 Years ... 100 Movies list in 1998 and in 2007. It won the Oscar for best writing and was nominated in nine categories, but the film famously lost the best picture award to John Ford’s family drama How Green Was My Valley.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/aflop1941-review-brings-down-citizen-kane-s-perfect-score-101619653958206.html
29-04-2021||World||World Bank welcomes US, French Covid-19 assistance to India||The World Bank has welcomed the recent announcements by the United States and France to help India address its COVID-19 crisis."Very glad to see recent announcements by the US and France to help India address COVID19," World Bank President David Malpass said in a tweet on Wednesday.In a speech on April 15, Malpass had underlined the need for countries with the prospect of excess vaccine supplies to release them as soon as possible."Next, more doses and transparency on delivery schedules are key," he said.The World Bank is financing a fast-track approval process to provide deployment and vaccine payments if supplies become available."We urge COVAX donors to encash their commitments and help meet delivery needs," Malpass said.So far, the World Bank Group has responded to the crisis by closely supporting Indian strategy of tackling the pandemic in three phases, he said.In the first phase, the bank partnered with the government to support India’s immediate health needs. The second phase saw a program to help the poor and vulnerable communities deeply affected by the pandemic.And the third phase was about economic stabilisation and it included a bank-supported project for medium small and micro enterprises (MSMEs), Malpass added.By the end of June 2020, the World Bank had approved USD2.75 billion in emergency lending to support India’s response to the Covid-19 crisis.The World Bank will provide USD250m in financing to help India build a social protection system that can respond to disasters and expand the ability of its safety nets to cater to diverse needs across states and vulnerable groups.It is also preparing a project that will help raise and accelerate MSME productivity by strengthening institutions and markets.Job creation is also a special focus under its infrastructure projects, the bank said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/world-bank-welcomes-us-french-covid-19-assistance-to-india-101619653756451.html
29-04-2021||World||UK urged to adopt furlough-style benefits after Covid crisis||The UK government should expand its social safety net to expand furlough-type payments to those who lose their jobs even after the pandemic, said a prominent research group campaigning for those on low pay.The Resolution Foundation said the government should introduce a form of earnings insurance, where unemployment support is paid at 80% of previous pay for three months. The measure would cost 3.25 billion pounds ($4.5 billion) a year if the jobless rate was similar to the level in 2009 and less than 1 billion pounds if it were near 2019 levels.That policy would echo the payments made to those temporarily laid off during the pandemic, a move credited with prevent a wave of joblessness in the past year. It would help address criticisms of the U.K. welfare system, which is one of the least generous in the developed world, according to the Institute for Fiscal Studies.It would “mean those losing their jobs are automatically protected in future economic downturns, rather than having to rely on governments redesigning unemployment support in every crisis,” the Resolution Foundation said Thursday.Households took on more debt and suffered a bigger hit to incomes during the pandemic than those in France and Germany partly because the British system is so rigid even though payments know as Universal Credit were increased during the crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/uk-urged-to-adopt-furlough-style-benefits-after-covid-crisis-101619652657603.html
29-04-2021||World||Stories coming out of India heart-wrenching, : US Surgeon General Vivek Murthy||Stories of the Covid-19 outbreak coming out of India are just absolutely "heart-wrenching" and "horrifying", America's Surgeon General Vivek Murthy said here.Indian-American Murthy, who has become the US Surgeon General for the second time, has lost seven of his family members, both in the United States and India."We talk to our family there on a daily basis. They are really struggling. The stories coming out of India are just absolutely heart-wrenching, and they're horrifying, where it's the kind of circumstance that we hope never comes to be in our country or in our communities," Murthy told the media on Wednesday."But what India is seeing now are more than 350,000 people a day getting infected. They're seeing the hospital systems in many cities on the brink, unable to meet the full demands, and they're running out of oxygen. They're in a very, very difficult place right now," he said.Responding to a question, Murthy said he was very pleased to see the United States step up and extend help to India in its hour of crisis."The US government will also be sending strike teams from the CDC and the USAID, Agency for International Development, to help India by working with their teams to strengthen laboratory capacity, to help with infection prevention and control," he added."This is what we have to do broadly across the world, because global pandemics require global cooperation and mutual support. And we know that when there's uncontrolled spread of the virus in any part of the world, that means that variants can arise, variants which may over time become resistant to the protection that we get from vaccines, which could mean a real problem for us here in the United States," Murthy said.He said that it is in America’s interests to make sure that countries around the world are protected, that they have vaccine, and the ability to limit the spread of infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/stories-coming-out-of-india-heart-wrenching-us-surgeon-general-vivek-murthy-101619652704603.html
29-04-2021||World||China’s dam project near Arunachal Pradesh jeopardised by unstable glacial lake||A glacial lake formed by a landslide on the Yarlung Zangbo River in Tibet is proving to be an obstacle for China’s mission to build a major hydropower plant on the river’s lower reaches close to the border with the Indian state of Arunachal Pradesh.Last month, the central government in China had given its go-ahead to the construction of a dam and hydropower plant on the lower reaches of the river in the Tibet Autonomous Region (TAR). The mission had been included in the country’s 14th five-year plan.The hydropower project is expected to have an electricity generation capacity of 70 gigawatts, which is nearly three times that of the Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River.Rising in Tibet, the Yarlung Zangbo flows into Arunachal Pradesh as Siang, and then as Brahmaputra in Assam before flowing into Bangladesh.The project has run into a recently-formed and unstable mountain lake with some 600 million cubic metres of water, the Hong Kong-based South China Morning Post (SCMP) reported on Wednesday.The lake was formed in 2018 following a landslide caused by a melting glacier in the Sedongpu Basin in eastern TAR’s Milin County.“With the river spilling over the top at present, the dam could collapse at any time,” the SCMP report said. The lake in the Sedongpu Basin “sits just a few dozen kilometres upstream from the planned construction site of the super hydropower plant. With so much water hanging overhead, no construction workers can move in to clear the ground”.“The situation is very difficult. There is not any immediate solution yet,” said Xing Aiguo, a professor of civil engineering at Shanghai Jiao Tong University who was involved in one of the studies to look into possible solutions.The climate crisis makes the region prone to similar disasters.“The development and utilisation of natural resources and energy in the Yarlung Tsangpo River must fully consider the situation of avalanches and debris flows in the Sedongpu valley,” Liu Chuanzheng, a government researcher with the Consultative Centre of Geohazard Mitigation under the natural resources ministry in Beijing, wrote in an official report on the landslide published in the journal Geology in China, 2019.At present, scientists and experts are trying to find a solution to the problem.With Arunachal Pradesh being a lower riparian state and with the possibility of the project’s impact on water security in India’s northeastern states, New Delhi would be closely following the developments around the hydropower plant.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/chinas-dam-project-near-arunachal-pradesh-jeopardised-by-unstable-glacial-lake-101619638779508.html
29-04-2021||World||Italian PM Mario Draghi announces support for India’s Covid-19 response||Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi on Wednesday said his country is prepared to send an oxygen generation system with specialised personnel as part of the European Union’s (EU) efforts to bolster India’s response to a second wave of Coronavirus infections. The EU activated its Civil Protection Mechanism, which responds to emergencies in Europe and beyond, on Sunday in response to a request from India. The 27-member bloc is rushing a range of equipment and medical supplies to assist India. “I wish to express my solidarity to the people of India for the suffering caused by the new wave of the pandemic. Italy will not miss supporting at this time of distress,” Draghi said. “Through our Civil Protection Department, we are ready for sending an oxygen production system, made available by the Piedmont Region, for supplies to a traditional hospital or a field structure. A team of specialised personnel is also ready to start for ensuring operation of the equipment,” he said. Once Italy’s proposal is accepted by the EU’s Civil Protection Mechanism, the mission can start under the coordination of the EU and in cooperation with the foreign and defence ministries, Operational Interforce Command and Special Commissioner for Covid-19 Pandemic, an official statement said. Other EU members have announced a wide range of support measures this week. France will send eight large oxygen generating plants that can each meet the needs of a 250-bed hospital and five large containers of liquid oxygen, while Germany is providing a mobile oxygen production plant that will be made available to India for three months and 120 ventilators. Ireland has sent 700 oxygen concentrators while Belgium is sending 9,000 doses of Remdesivir. Romania is sending 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders, and Portugal is providing 5,503 vials of Remdesivir and 20,000 litres of oxygen per week.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/world-news/italian-pm-mario-draghi-announces-support-for-india-s-covid-19-response-101619635719335.html
29-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech lowers vaccine price for states||New Delhi: Bharat Biotech, the co-developer and manufacturer of India’s indigenous coronavirus disease vaccine, Covaxin, on Thursday announced a revised selling price of ₹400 per dose, from the earlier ₹600, for state governments.The vaccine manufacturer’s decision to slash the price by 33% came a a day after another Covid-19 vaccine manufacturer, Serum Institute of India (SII), which makes the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine under the brand name Covishield in India, reduced its selling price to states to ₹300 from ₹400.“Bharat Biotech is deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing at this time. Recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of ₹400 per dose,” the company said in a statement.“We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities (the first of its kind in our country) and clinical trials. We wish to champion innovation in India and our commitment to public health is absolute,” the statement added.For private hospitals and institutions, the company has set the cost at ₹1,200 per dose, and for international market, the vaccine will be sold for $15-20 per dose, it announced earlier.The decisions by the two companies come amid demands from several states that the vaccine prices for them be reduced, and be brought at par with the price for the Union government, which buys the two vaccines from SII and Bharat Biotech for ₹150 a dose.Several chief ministers, including Delhi’s Arvind Kejriwal and Maharashtra’s Uddhav Thackeray, have demanded a “one nation, one price” policy. But the companies have stressed that the revenue generated from sale is important for them to expand production capacities.Bharat Biotech has a production capacity of about 10 million Covaxin doses each month, and is looking at manufacturing scale up in a stepwise manner across multiple facilities at Hyderabad and Bangalore. With the help of the Union government, the company is working towards ramping up the production capacity by at least 100% by May-June, 2021, and with a target set of producing nearly 100 million doses per month by September 2021. The Union finance ministry also approved a credit line of ₹1,500 crore to Bharat Biotech for this purpose.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-lowers-vaccine-price-for-states-101619720984583.html
29-04-2021||India||Follow intensive, local containment measures, MHA to states||The Union home ministry (MHA) on Thursday directed states and Union territories to follow intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high proportion of Covid-19 cases. The monthly directive, which will remain in force till May 31, however, did not mention a nationwide lockdown. The Centre has already allowed states and union territories to impose local lockdowns as per the situation in particular districts or the entire state. States/UTs must implement the containment measures suggested by the ministry of health and family welfare on April 25 which includes identifying districts, where either the tests positivity had been more than 10 percent or more in the last one week; or, where bed occupancy was more than 60 percent, the MHA order read.“Districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria should be considered for taking intensive and local containment measures,” it added.The containment framework shared by the health ministry has suggested containment as a major approach to flatten the pandemic curve. Night curfew, restricting intermingling of people, limiting crowd in marriages to 50 persons, prohibiting social/political/religious/sports gatherings, closing cinemas are among the measures recommended by the health ministry in its communication on April 25. At present, Delhi is observing a full lockdown till May 3 while Uttar Pradesh is following a weekend curfew since April 24. The Centre has also asked states to focus on ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccine’ strategy and implementation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour across respective districts apart from door-to-door case search and adequate testing. On April 20, the Centre had also asked states to augment the testing and hospital infrastructure in advance for the next three weeks. In the last couple of days, MHA also issued directions regarding smooth supply of oxygen in the affected states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/follow-intensive-local-containment-measures-mha-to-states-101619719423858.html
29-04-2021||India||Govt may raise sops for medical goods firms||New Delhi The Union government has held at least two meetings during the course of the week to review the medical goods manufacturing sector, supply systems and manufacturing capacities, discussions which also focused on whether to expand sops currently applicable to the sector, such as the production-linked incentive (PLI) scheme announced last year, an official with knowledge of the matter said. The meetings assessed all current schemes available to the bio-medical goods and pharma sectors and ways to increase the pace of utilisation of the schemes, an official of the DV Sadananda Gowda-headed chemical and fertilizers ministry said, requesting not to be quoted. “Our focus continues to be on enhancing domestic production capacity and self-sufficiency in health care. It’s not just about the current situation but (about) long-term… (needs),” the official said. The government may pivot the focus of the PLI scheme to manufacturers of oxygen and oxygen products, ICU equipment, invasive ventilators and respiratory devices, the official said. These include Covid testing kits and devices, such as bipaps. “Demand for these types of equipment has increased and will increase in the future. We are constantly looking at what more is needed to boost domestic capacity,” the official said. India, which imported nearly ₹43,000 crore worth of medical equipment in 2018-19, according to the latest available data, has seen a crippling shortage of medical gear, as an unstoppable second wave of Covid-19 infections tears through the country. Several schemes came up for review. Two were approved by the Cabinet on March 21, 2020. One is the PLI scheme to boost domestic manufacturing of medical devices worth ₹3,420 crore over the next five fiscals. Two, schemes on promotion of medical device parks for financing common infrastructure facilities in four designated medical device parks, a scheme worth ₹400 crore. The PLI scheme offers eligible manufacturing companies and sectors a 4-6% incentive on incremental sales over the base year of 2019-20 for a five-year period. When a firm achieves a given sales target, it qualifies for the incentive. The base year is not simply a cut-off date. Analysts say it has had far-reaching consequences for the performance of the scheme, especially in the electronics and medical devices sector. Most modern medical devices have high-end electronic components. The massive problems of sourcing in the electronics sector, after India’s border conflagration with China, has had rippling effects on the medical devices sector too. “The PLI scheme captures (sales) milestone over a base year of production. If you change the base year to 2021 from the existing 2020, then you can tackle a lot of these sourcing issues,” said economist Pronab Sen. There is a “fair amount of legitimacy” to the demand to change the base year, but so far, the government hasn’t taken any decision, Sen added. Changing the base year to 2021 from 2020 would base the scheme in the year when supply disruptions have been most acute, requiring alternative sourcing. Prior to the border dispute with China, supplies were not a problem. Firms are still scrambling for alternative suppliers, whose specifications may not be the same as old suppliers, experts say. The changes in specifications have required new production lines to be established, which could take up to a year, even as India battles a shortage of medical equipment, Sen said. Firms have demanded enhancement of the 5% PLI scheme in the medical devices sector to 10%, which is the incentive rate for the auto sector, for instance. All issues were being reassessed in view of the Covid crisis, HT has learnt. The medical devices sector, which has the highest potential within the health care market, was valued at ₹50,026 crore for 2018-19. It is expected to reach ₹86,840 crore by 2021-22, according to official projections. India depends on imports of up 85% to meet its total domestic demand for medical devices. The scheme for promotion of medical device parks, announced along with the PLI scheme in 2020, covers cancer-care devices, imaging devices, cardio-respiratory gear, chochlear implants and pacemakers. Officials are weighing options to include ventilators, ICU equipment and oxygen equipment. “Our health care has traditionally focused on child and maternal health, which also is by no means adequate. We obviously require a massive boost now. Production incentives will add new investment but they are still small,” said health economist Arup Mitra of Delhi’s Institute of Economic Growth.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/govt-may-raise-sops-for-medical-goods-firms-101619719363278.html
29-04-2021||India||Focus on local containment measures in worst-hit areas: MHA to states||The ministry of home affairs (MHA) on Thursday directed states and Union territories to follow intensive and local containment measures in districts with a high number of Covid-19 cases. The monthly directive, which will remain in force till May 31, however, had no mention about the imposition of a nationwide lockdown. The Centre has already allowed states/UTs to impose local lockdowns as per the situation in particular districts or the entire state. States/UTs must implement the containment measures suggested by the ministry of health and family welfare on April 25 which includes identifying districts, where either the tests positivity had been more than 10 percent or more in the last one week; or, where bed occupancy was more than 60 percent, the MHA order read.“Districts fulfilling any of the above two criteria should be considered for taking intensive and local containment measures,” it added.The containment framework shared by the health ministry has suggested containment as a major approach to flatten the pandemic curve. Night curfew, restricting intermingling of people, limiting crowd in marriages to 50 persons, prohibiting social/political/religious/sports gatherings, closing cinemas were among the measures recommended by the health ministry in its communication on April 25. At present, Delhi is observing a full lockdown till May 3 while Uttar Pradesh is following a weekend curfew since April 24. The Centre has also asked states to focus on ‘Test-Track-Treat-Vaccine’ strategy and implementation of Covid-19 appropriate behaviour across respective districts apart from door-to-door case search and adequate testing. On April 20, the Centre had also asked states to augment the testing and hospital infrastructure in advance for the next three weeks. In the last couple of days, the MHA also issued directions regarding smooth supply of oxygen in the affected states.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/focus-on-local-containment-measures-in-worst-hit-areas-mha-to-states-101619719183225.html
29-04-2021||India||Co-Win chief explains when booking for vaccines will start for people above 18 years||As booking for Covid-19 vaccinations for people between 18 and 44 years has not yet started ever after 24 hours of the beginning of the registration on cowin.gov.in., Co-win chief and the CEO of National Health Authority RS Sharma said it completely depends on the state governments and the private hospitals."The platform is ready with all kind of options," Sharma said.#LargestVaccineDrive #Unite2FightCorona क्या है अस्पतालों की CoWIN से जुड़ने की प्रक्रिया? जानिये 'डॉ राम सेवक शर्मा, मुख्य कार्यकारी अधिकारी, राष्ट्रीय स्वास्थ्य प्राधिकरण' से। @PMOIndia @drharshvardhan @AshwiniKChoubey @PIB_India @mygovindia @AyushmanNHA @rssharma3 pic.twitter.com/Si3l4yZL6FExplaining that the process for private hospitals and the state government hospitals to get on board is nothing new, Sharma said, "Hospitals which conducted vaccination in the previous phases are already there on the platform. They do not need to get on the platform separately. They will have to just inform which days they will function for which age groups and which vaccines they will administer.""New hospitals can also get on Co-Win easily. Our immunisation officers facilitate the process," Sharma said adding that on Thursday, there have been more than 90 lakh registrations.Registration on Co-Win began on April 28 but people were not able to book appointments as the hospitals on the platforms are only showing slots for people above the age of 45 years.Several states, including Maharashtra, Punjab, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh and Delhi, on Thursday, said they may miss the launch date as they do not have the adequate vaccine storage to expand the ongoing drive.In the third phase, the Centre has allowed the state governments and private hospitals to procure vaccines directly from the vaccine manufacturers. Both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech have revised per dose vaccine price and brought it down after the Centre asked the vaccine makers to reconsider the prices. For a dose of Serum's Covishield, state governments will now have to pay ₹300, while for Bharat Biotech's Covaxin, states will have to pay ₹400.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/cowin-chief-explains-when-booking-for-vaccines-will-start-for-people-above-18-101619718676443.html
29-04-2021||India||HC refuses to stay preliminary probes against ex-Mumbai top cop||The Bombay high court on Thursday refused to stay preliminary probes against former Mumbai Police commissioner Param Bir Singh and sought a response from the Maharashtra government on Singh’s fresh petition challenging the two inquiries initiated against him.In his petition, Singh also claimed that efforts were being made to thwart the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI)-led investigation into his allegations against former Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh.Mentioning the petition for urgent hearing before a bench of justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale, Singh’s counsel and senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi said the plea challenged two orders passed by the state government on April 1, directing state director general of police (DGP) Sanjay Pandey to probe whether the former top cop had violated provisions of the All India Service (Conduct) Rules, 1968.Another order on April 20 asked Pandey to look into allegations made by police inspector Anup Dange that Singh’s brother had demanded ₹2 crore for getting him (Dange) reinstated after he was suspended on disciplinary grounds on July 18 last year.Singh, in his plea, also claimed that during his meeting with Pandey on April 19, the latter “advised him” to withdraw his letter against Deshmukh which he had sent to the state government in March. The petitioner sought interim protection and a stay on the inquiries till further orders.The bench, however, refused to stay the two orders after additional public prosecuto Deepak Thakare informed the court that Singh had not been issued any summons or show-cause notice so far and hence, it was premature to stay the same. The court accepted the argument and in light of the urgency. posted the hearing for May 4.On March 25, Singh had approached the HC, seeking a CBI inquiry into the corruption charges against Deshmukh who allegedly ordered suspended police officer Sachin Vaze, ACP Sanjay Patil and DCP Raju Bhujbal to collect protection money from restaurants and bars among other establishments to the tune of ₹100 crore per month. After hearing all sides over a period of ten days, the HC, on April 5, directed the CBI not to register an FIR but to conduct a preliminary inquiry and conclude it within 15 days. The CBI, after completing its enquiry, had registered an FIR against Deshmukh.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/hc-refuses-to-stay-preliminary-probes-against-ex-mumbai-top-cop-101619719003250.html
29-04-2021||India||Life of a gentleman||If you were to visit him after a prolonged period, he would welcome you with mock-anger and stern eyes, but his face would instantly dissolve into a welcoming smile. Haji Faiyazuddin seemed to be made of wit and grace.The gentle-mannered Mr Faiyazuddin, who celebrated his 82nd birthday in February by cutting his favourite chocolate truffle cake, died on Wednesday morning due to Covid-19 complications. He spent his final weeks in a south Delhi hospital, far from the world he knew encyclopedically—the Walled City of Shahjahanabad.A resident of Chawri Bazar, Mr Faiyazuddin was Old Delhi’s living landmark. Partly so for being the proprietor of the iconic Haji Hotel, that was founded by his father, Haji Hafiz Zahoor Uddin, in 1952. Every day, from 9.30am to 8.30pm, this clean-shaven figure would be seen sitting on the hotel’s long balcony, that commands the most panoramic view of the Mughal-era Jama Masjid. If a passerby walking down along the street didn’t spot him sitting at his usual place, something essential was missing.An alumnus of the historic Anglo-Arabic School in Ajmeri Gate, Mr Faiyazuddin engaged in every conversation, even fleeting chitchats, in an Urdu so elegant that to hear him was like listening to bhule-bhisre geet (old forgotten songs). He was a member of various committees of the area’s charitable institutions, including the Bachhon Ka Ghar orphanage in Daryaganj. His great-grandfather Munshi Turab Ali was Jama Masjid’s first mutawalli (custodian) after the British restored the mosque to Muslims, following its takeover in 1857.“While assisting walid saheb (father) in the hotel’s early years,” Mr Faiyazuddin once told this reporter, “I would meet great artists who would visit Delhi to record for All India Radio. (Sarod player) Ustad Hafiz Ali Khan preferred room No. 2, where he would shut himself for riyaz (practice). One evening, he called in my father and dazzled him by producing the sound of marching soldiers on his sarod. (Singer) Begum Akhtar, who would come from Faizabad, liked room No. 1. She sat by this very desk, watching Jama Masjid for hours.”In the recent Delhi winters, Mr Faiyazuddin tended to wear a woollen cap that was hand-knitted by his wife, the late Nishat Begum. Survived by 5 siblings, 10 nephews, and 9 nieces, Haji Mian, as he was known by all, is buried in Dilli Gate Qabristan, next to his mother, Anis Fatima.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/life-of-a-gentleman-101619717691487.html
29-04-2021||India||Go for ‘self lockdown’, says Pinarayi Vijayan as Covid cases shatter record||Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday asked people to go into what he described as a ‘self lockdown’ as the state’s Covid -19 graph shattered records with 38,600 new cases being reported in the last 24 hours. Kerala has a high positivity rate of 24.5%, the chief minister said, urging people to realise the gravity of the situation and prepare themselves to help contain the surge.“The situation is really serious. People will have to get into self-lockdown to contain the surge. We have requested all who visit marketplaces to wear double masks. There is no room for any complacency now,” he said, announcing new restrictions that will come into force from May 4, after the weekend lockdown. The new restrictions will remain in force till May 9.The chief minister has been reluctant to order a lockdown in districts that have a test positivity rate of more than 15% as mandated by the Centre. “Lockdown should be the last resort. But we are not able to control the spread of the virus. Though people are cooperating in many places, there are reports of Covid guidelines being flouted from some areas,” he said as Kerala reported more than 30,000 cases for the third consecutive day.Vijayan said the state’s test positivity rate - the percentage of people who tested positive - was 24.5%.The average test positivity rate (TPR) which was a little over 16 to 19% last week, has risen to 24 to 26% this week. There are at least five districts which reported more than 20% TPR, data released by the state’s health ministry shows. The active caseload has also risen to 2,84,086 as compared to less than 1 lakh last month.Apart from other measures, the government also decided to set up new oxygen plants in hospitals and oxygen parlours in worst-affected areas. District collectors have been asked to monitor oxygen stock regularly, Vijayan said. During the first wave, only 3% of Covid patients ended up in hospitals but this time their number is between 8.5 and 10%, medical experts said.This high proportion of people turning up at hospitals has led the state to tweak its strict discharge policy to accommodate more patients and ease the pressure on hospitals. Normal and intensive care unit admissions continue to rise exponentially and hospitals have been strictly told to admit only serious patients.“There is no need to panic if symptoms are minor and crowd hospitals. It will put undue pressure on hospitals and the more needy ones will be left out in the process,” the chief minister said.On Thursday, the state reported 48 deaths pushing the total fatalities to 5,259. Ernakulam district topped the list of new Covid cases with 5,396 cases, Kozhikode 4,990 and Thrissur 3,954 cases. There are around 1,700 critically ill patients who are in intensive care units. The comparable figure last month was less than 500. The government medical officers association has asked the government to impose a two-week lockdown on the lines of neighbouring Karnataka. Earlier, the Indian Medical Association also made the same demand but the government said a hard lockdown would impact the means of livelihood of the poor.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/go-for-self-lockdown-says-pinarayi-vijayan-as-covid-cases-shatter-record-101619717210443.html
29-04-2021||India||Exit polls 2021: Cliffhanger likely in Bengal, big win projected for Stalin, Vijayan||The exit poll projections of the recently concluded assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal and Puducherry on Thursday sprung a few surprises, contrary to the polling pattern of the states and how things have been playing out before the elections.West BengalAxis My India has predicted a neck and neck fight between Didi and Modi where BJP has a little edge over TMC. The Trinamool is projected to win 134 to 156 seats while the BJP is projected to win 134 to 160 seats. According to region-wise prediction, TMC is projected to suffer a huge loss in the north and also in Medinipur (Jangalmahal).According to C Voter, out of 294 seats in West Bengal, Mamata Banerjee-led Trinamool is projected to win 158 seats, while the BJP may win around 115 seats.According to the CNX Republic, BJP is likely to win 143 seats and the Trinamool is projected to win 133 seats.India TV has given a clear majority to the BJP with 192 projected seats while TMC is projected to win only 88 seats.Click here for all exit poll updatesAssamAxis My India, C Voter have predicted that the BJP will retain the power in Assam. Out of Assam's 126 seats, according to C Voter, the BJP is predicted to win 65 seats while Congress is predicted to win 59 seats in Assam.According to Axis My India, the BJP will get around 75 to 85 seats, while the Congress alliance is projected to get around 40 to 50 seats in the state.Tamil NaduThe exit polls of Tamil Nadu unanimously predict a comeback for DMK in the first election after the death of the two great icons of Tamil Nadu politics — Karunanidhi and J JayalalithaAccording to the Axis My India exit poll, the DMK is predicted to win between 175-195 seats and the AIADMK is likely to win between 38-54 seats. Today's Chanakya predicted around 175 (+/-11) seats for the DMK and 57 (+/-11) seats for the AIADMK.Republic-CNX exit poll has projected 165 seats for the DMK and 62 seats for the AIADMK.Going by the projections of P-MarQ, DMK likely to get 165-190 seats and the AIADMK is predicted to bag 40 to 65 seats.PuducherryAccording to Axis My India, BJP+ will sweep with 20-24 seats out of 30 seats and Congress is projected to win 6-10 seats.KeralaKerala does not generally vote for the incumbent government, but in a departure from that, the LDF is likely to come to power for the consecutive term. According to C Voter, LDF is projected to win 74 seats while UDF is likely to win 65 seats. According to Axis My India, LDF is projected to win 111 seats, leaving UDF far behind with 28 seats. Today's Chanakya predicted 102 seats for LDF and 35 for the UDF.If the exit poll figures turn out to be true, then big wins await Pinarayi Vijayan and MK Stalin, while in the southern states, BJP is likely to be limited to Puducherry. The Congress, as predicted by the exit polls, will face a major drubbing as its best performance is expected to be in Tamil Nadu in alliance with the DMK. West Bengal remains a conundrum to pollsters as most of them predict a neck-and-neck fight between the Trinamool and the BJP and predictions are divided over which party has an edge. Assam, on the other hand, is a clear gain for the BJP, exit polls showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/exit-polls-2021-cliffhanger-likely-in-bengal-big-win-projected-for-stalin-vijayan-101619709896287.html
29-04-2021||India||Covaxin price dropped to ₹400 for states; still ₹1,200 for pvt hospitals||Bharat Biotech, the maker of first indigenous Coronavirus disease (Covid-19) vaccine, Covaxin, on Thursday reduced the selling price of a single vaccine dose to state governments from ₹600 to ₹400, the company said in a statement on Thursday. The announcement comes just a day after the Serum Institute of India, which manufactures the Covishield vaccine developed by Oxford University and British drug firm AstraZeneca, lowered the cost of its Covid-19 vaccine for state governments by 25% to ₹300.“Bharat Biotech is deeply concerned with the critical pandemic circumstances that India is facing at this time. Recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of ₹400 per dose,” Bharat Biotech said in a statement.The Union government had earlier nudged the two manufacturers to revise the cost of vaccines to state governments.There has, however, not been any change in the cost of the vaccines procured by private hospitals and institutions. Bharat Biotech earlier announced that a single dose would cost hospitals ₹1200 while SII had pegged the cost of its vaccine for private hospitals at ₹600. The two vaccines, which are being used for the national Covid-19 immunisation programme, are sold to the central government for ₹150 per dose.Bharat Biotech, which co-developed Covaxin with the Indian Council of Medical Research, has a production capacity of about 10 million Covaxin doses each month, and is looking at scaling up its capacity across multiple facilities at Hyderabad, and Bangalore.With the help of the central government, the company is working towards ramping up the production capacity by at least 100% by May-June, 2021, and with a target set of producing nearly 100 million doses per month by September 2021. “We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally-intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities (the first of its kind in our country) and clinical trials. We wish to champion innovation in India and our commitment to public health is absolute,” the company’s statement read.According to reports, the Union finance ministry also approved a credit line of ₹1500 crore to Bharat Biotech for the purpose of scaling up its production capacity.The company is exploring manufacturing partnerships with partners in other countries, who have prior expertise with commercial scale manufacture of inactivated viral vaccines under biosafety containment. To further increase capacities, Bharat Biotech has partnered with Indian Immunologicals (IIL) to manufacture the drug substance for Covaxin. Covaxin was the first make-in-India vaccine to have received emergency use authorization from the national drugs regulator.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covaxin-price-dropped-to-rs-400-for-states-still-rs-1-200-for-pvt-hospitals-101619705802978.html
29-04-2021||India||No need for Covid testing after home isolation is over: Centre's new guideline||The Union health ministry has issued a revised guideline for Covid-19 patients under home isolation detailing what diet and medicines they should follow and what they should do to not spread the infection among other family members. It has also emphasised that there is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over.The room where a Covid-infected person will be isolated must be well-ventilated and all windows should be kept open. The patients should use triple-layer medical mask at all times, the guideline said. "Discard mask after 8 hours of use or earlier if they become wet or visibly soiled. In the event of caregiver entering the room, both caregiver and patient may consider using N 95 mask," it said adding that masks should be discarded only after disinfecting it with 1% Sodium Hypochlorite.🔹Seek immediate medical attention when you have difficulty in breathing or have persistent chest pain🔹No need for testing after the home isolation period is over Guidelines for home isolation🔗https://t.co/hT0xTmwLSv #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/dwluSf0TMuWhile such patients have to track their temperature, heart rate, oxygen, breathing difficulties if any and overall wellbeing, they should also drink a lot of fluids."Elderly patients aged more than 60 years and those with co-morbid conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, heart disease, chronic lung/liver/ kidney disease, cerebro-vascular disease etc shall only be allowed home isolation after proper evaluation by the treating medical officer," the guideline said.List of medicines to take, home remedies to followWith the number of Covid-19 cases shooting sharply in the country, the healthcare system has come under immense stress with states reeling under oxygen shortage. At this time, the Centre is reiterating that the maximum number of people will recover at home, without needing Remdesivir or oxygen.Here are what Covid patients should do at home> Patients may perform warm water gargles or take steam inhalation twice a day.> If fever is not controlled with a maximum dose of Tab. Paracetamol 650mg four times a day, consult the treating doctor who may consider advising other drugs like a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) (ex: Tab. Naproxen 250 mg twice a day).> Consider Tab Ivermectin (200 mcg/kg once a day, to be taken empty stomach) for 3 to 5 days.> Inhalational Budesonide (given via inhalers with spacer at a dose of 800 mcg twice daily for 5 to 7 days) to be given if symptoms (fever and/or cough) are persistent beyond 5 days of disease onset.> Oral steroids, Remdesivir are not for home administration.After at least 10 days of isolation, a patient can discontinue it when there is no fever for three days. There is no need for testing after the home isolation period is over, the guideline says.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-patients-under-home-isolation-must-wear-3-layer-medical-mask-centre-101619701154665.html
29-04-2021||India||Over 9.1 million pilgrims visited Mahakumbh this year||A bulk of over 9.1 million pilgrims, who visited Haridwar for the Mahakumbh from January, arrived in the holy city this month even as the mega fair was curtailed from four months to one month and held in April due to the Covid-19 pandemic, according to Kumbh Mela Force data.Mahakumbh started officially on April 1 when the state government issued the official notification for its beginning. The mega fair, which coincided with the worst surge in Covid-19 cases that has overwhelmed hospitals and triggered a shortage of medical oxygen, medicines, and beds, will end on Friday.Mahakumbh, which is held once every 12 years, traditionally starts in January with the first festive bath on Makar Sankranti (January 14). It concludes towards the end of April with the last Shahi Snan (holy dip) in the Ganga on Chaitra Poornima. Because of the Covid situation, the state government curtailed the Mahakumbh.Also Read | Last Shahi Snan of Mahakumbh, most Akhada seers participate in symbolic mannerAccording to the data of the Kumbh Mela Force, over 9.1 million pilgrims arrived in Haridwar to take the holy dip in Ganga from January 14 to April 27. The highest gathering of 3.5 million pilgrims was reported for Somvati Amavasya holy dip on April 12. On March 11, when Maha Shivratri was celebrated, 3.2 million pilgrims arrived for the Kumbh bath. As many as 1.3 million pilgrims gathered in Haridwar for another bath on Mesh Sankranti-Baisakhi (April 14). The number was devotees was comparatively lesser than for earlier Shahi Snans due to the spike in Covid-19 cases and strict implementation of norms.The number of pilgrims plummeted to 25,000 for the last Shahi Snan on Chaitra Poornima (April 27) days after Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Mahamandleshwar (head) of Juna Akhara, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, was on April 17 forced to declare the conclusion of the Mahakumbh amid the surge in the cases. The announcement came after a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who requested only symbolic participation in the fourth and last Shahi Snan on Tuesday. Bathing in the river during Mahakumbh is believed to cleanse devotees of sins and ensure salvation. The Union health ministry last week warned the gathering of devotees could send coronavirus cases surging. It said up to 40 people were being tested positive for the disease daily around the site of the Mahakumbh. The ministry said coronavirus testing of 55,000 people daily in Haridwar was not enough.Kumbh Mela Force inspector general Sanjay Gunjiyal said their major task was to ensure peaceful completion of the Mahakumbh. “...with the support of Akharas [sects], seers, local people and volunteers... [the force] ensured the fair was held smoothly with Covid-19...[protocols],” he said.Surjeet Singh Pawar, the superintendent of Kumbh police, said their personnel were Covid-19 tested prior to their departure after Kumbhmela duty.Akhil Bharatiya Akhara Parishad, the apex body of all the Akharas, lauded the Kumbh Mela administration for the successful completion of the fair. “Due to commitment by the government and dedication of the Kumbhmela administrative personnel despite the Covid scenario, the fair was held successfully. From Prime Minister Narendra Modi to chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat, mela officer Deepak Rawat , ...Sanjay Gunjiyal... we thank all of them for hosting a successful Kumbh, ” said Shri Mahant Hari Giri Maharaj, Akhara Parishad general secretary.Four seers died of Covid-19 after participating in Mahakumbh. When the mega fair began on April 1, Uttarakhand had 2,236 active Covid-19 cases. The active cases rose to 45,383 on Wednesday.Political and religious gatherings have been cited among the reasons for the worst surge of Covid-19 infections that India faces. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll in the country close to 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds. The daily infections have surged above the 300,000-mark daily in the country over the last few days.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-9-1-million-pilgrims-visited-mahakumbh-this-year-101619700042902.html
29-04-2021||India||Bharat Biotech reduces Covaxin's price from ₹600 to ₹400 per dose for states||Bharat Biotech on Thursday announced it will charge state governments ₹400 for a dose of Covaxin, instead of ₹600, as earlier announced. The move comes a day after Pune's Serum Institute of India brought down the price from ₹400 to ₹300 for state governments. Expressing deep concerns over the present pandemic situation of the country, Bharat Biotech said, "We wish to be transparent in our approach to pricing which was determined by internally funded product development, several operationally intensive BSL-3 manufacturing facilities (the first of its kind on our country) and clinical trials.""Recognising the enormous challenges to the public health care system, we have made Covaxin available to state governments at a price of ₹400 per dose," the Hyderabad-based company said.The third phase of vaccination against Covid-19 will begin from May 1 in which people between the age group of 18 and 44 years will be considered eligible to get vaccine doses. As this is an extension of the ongoing vaccination drive of the country, the Centre has allowed state governments and private hospitals to procure vaccines separately from the makers. Following the Centre's order on liberalising the vaccine drive, both Serum Insitute and Bharat Biotech announced the market price of their vaccines Covishield and Covaxin, respectively. While one dose of Covishield was initially priced at ₹400 for states and ₹600 for private hospitals, one dose of Covaxin was initially priced at ₹600 for states and ₹1,200 for private hospitals. The Centre, meanwhile, claimed that it will continue to procure both the vaccines at ₹150 per dose and will dispatch to states as it has been doing so far. The differential pricing between the Centre and the states became a controversial issue as, like the Centre, several states will administer vaccines for free and thus making the state exchequers bearing the brunt of the procurement of the vaccines. As several states raised objection to the pricing, the Centre asked both Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to lower their prices.How will the price reduction impact you?Many states have announced free vaccination for people between the age groups of 18 and 44 years. People belonging to states which have not announced free vaccination will have to pay less for their vaccine doses in case they get vaccinated from state government facilities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bharat-biotech-reduced-covaxin-s-price-from-rs-600-to-rs-400-per-dose-for-states-101619698756856.html
29-04-2021||India||Another Niranjani Akhada seer, who attended Mahakumbh, succumbs to Covid-19||Shri Mahant Lakhan Giri, a Niranjani Akhada seer who had attended the Mahakumbh in Haridwar, died at All India Institute of Medical Science (AIIMS), Rishikesh on Wednesday. Giri is the fourth saint to have succumbed to Covid-19 after attending Mahakumbh, which started on April 1 and will conclude on April 30. Since January 14, when the Mahakumbh started, over 9.1 million pilgrims have visited Haridwar, according to Kumbh Mela Force data. Shri Mahant Lakhan Giri was head of Shravan Nath Muth of Shri Panchayati Akhada Niranjani and president of Shravan Nath Muth Jawahar Lal Nehru College managing committee. According to Shir Panchayati Akhada Niranjani secretary Shri Mahant Ravindra Puri, Giri was ill for the past three weeks and was admitted first to a Jagjeetpur-based private hospital. Later, when he tested positive for Covid, he was shifted to AIIMS, Rishikesh, about 10 days ago. The saint community has expressed condolences over the death of Shri Mahant Lakhan Giri. Also Read | Less crowd, but no Covid norms on last shahi snanEarlier, on April 27, Rakesh Puri from Niranjani Akhada, who had arrived from Ahmedabad, died due to Covid. On April 17, Mahamandleshwar Jagatguru Swami Shyamdev Devacharya Maharaj, who held the seat of mahant at Jabalpur’s Narsinmgh Temple Gita Dham, died in Jabalpur, after returning from Mahakumbh. On April 13, Mahamandaleshwar of Shri Panch Nirmani Ani Akhada Kapil Dev Das from Madhya Pradesh’s Chitrakoot died due to Covid in Dehradun after attending Mahakumbh. There has been a surge in Covid-19 cases and deaths in Uttarakhand in the past two weeks. The state on Wednesday reported its highest number of daily cases -- 6,054 -- since the outbreak last year. It was the first time that the state reported over 6,000 cases in a day. Apart from the highest number of cases, the state also reported the highest number of single-day fatalities -- 108.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/another-niranjani-akhada-seer-who-attended-mahakumbh-succumbs-to-covid19-101619698667905.html
29-04-2021||India||Indians turn to black market, unproven drugs as Covid-19 surges||Ashish Poddar kept an ice pack on hand as he waited outside a New Delhi hospital for a black market dealer to deliver two drugs for his father, who was gasping for breath inside with Covid-19.But the drugs never arrived, the ice that was intended to keep the medicines cool melted and his father died hours later.As India faces a devastating surge of new coronavirus infections overwhelming its health care system, people are taking desperate measures to try to keep loved ones alive. In some cases they are turning to unproven medical treatments, in others to the black market for life-saving medications that are in short supply.Poddar had been told by the private hospital treating his father, Raj Kumar Poddar, that remdesivir, an antiviral, and tocilizumab, a drug that blunts human immune responses, were needed to keep the 68-year-old man alive.Like most hospitals and pharmacies in the Indian capital, stocks had run out. Desperate, Poddar turned to a dealer who promised the medicines after taking an advance of almost $1,000.“It’s nearby” and “coming” read some of the texts that Ashish received as he waited.“I wish he had at least told me that he isn't going to come. I could have searched elsewhere,” the grieving son said.India set another global record in new virus cases Thursday with more than 379,000 new infections, putting even more pressure on the country's overwhelmed hospitals. The country of nearly 1.4 billion people has now recorded over 18 million cases, behind only the U.S., and over 200,000 deaths — though the true number is believed to be higher.Death is so omnipresent that burial grounds are running out of space in many cities and glowing funeral pyres blaze through the night.The few medicines known to help treat Covid-19, such as remdesivir and steroids in hospitalized patients, are scarce. The most basic treatment —oxygen therapy — is also in short supply, leading to unnecessary deaths. Even hospital beds are scarce. There were just 14 free intensive care beds available in New Delhi, a city of 29 million people, on Thursday morning.India’s latest treatment guidelines mirror those of the World Health Organization and the United States with a key exception: India allows mildly ill patients to be given hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin, drugs used for certain tropical diseases.There is little evidence they work against Covid-19, and the WHO strongly recommends against hydroxychloroquine’s use for Covid-19 of any severity and against using ivermectin except in studies.While India is a leading producer of medicine globally, its regulation of drugs was poor even before the pandemic. And mounting despair is driving people to try anything.Dr. Amar Jesani, a medical ethics expert, said many prescription drugs can be bought over the counter, including emergency drugs greenlit by Indian authorities for Covid-19.“Hospitals and doctors are so used to having a ‘magic bullet’ that will cure you,” he said, explaining the use of unproven drugs as Covid-19 cases skyrocket.When Suman Shrivastava, 57, was infected with the virus, her doctor in Kanpur city in Uttar Pradesh, India's largest state, prescribed ivermectin. When her symptoms worsened, her doctor then asked her to take favipiravir, an antiviral, though it is unproven against Covid-19.Her nephew, Rajat Shrivastava, said that drug was hard to find but he eventually located it in a pharmacy which was rationing its supplies by giving a single strip daily to each patient. He eventually bought extra doses from an online volunteer on Twitter and now his aunt is doing well.Dr. Anant Bhan, who researches public health and ethics in the city of Bhopal, warns there are risks in the do-it-yourself approach. Bhan said antivirals and steroids should be taken in a hospital setting due to the risk of side effects. And drugs that are life-saving at one point could be harmful at another, depending on timing and how severe the symptoms are.“It's scary because these aren't vitamin pills,” he said.Black market prices for remdesivir, which is produced by several Indian companies, have increased up to 20-fold to about $1,000 for a single vial, said Siddhant Sarang, a volunteer with Yuva Halla Bol, a youth activist group which is helping patients find medicines and hospital beds.In September, federal data showed that Indian drug makers had made over 2.4 million vials of the drug. But when cases dipped in September, companies destroyed much of their expired stock and production declined.India was then slow to respond to the uptick of infections in February, and production was only scaled up in March. Earlier this week, Merck announced a deal with five makers of generic drugs in India to produce molnupiravir, an experimental antiviral similar to remdesivir, which is given by IV, but in a more convenient pill form. It’s unclear when that might become available.With demand high, black market dealers are insisting on cash upfront, said Sarang.“People are going to dealers with 200,000 to 300,000 rupees ($2,700-$4,000) in a suitcase,” he said.Authorities have started cracking down on the dealers. In New Delhi, for instance, raids are being carried out on shops or people suspected of hoarding oxygen cylinders and medicines.Despite all the desperate efforts, medicines that work remain unavailable to many.Virus-blocking antibody drugs, widely used elsewhere, aren't yet authorized in India. Roche, which works with Regeneron Pharmaceuticals on marketing one such treatment, said Wednesday it is negotiating with India to speed up emergency use. American drug maker Eli Lilly, which makes a similar treatment, said it is in discussions with the Indian government.Stuti Bhardwaj, 37, went from one pharmacy to another in southern New Delhi this week. Her parents, both in their seventies, were not able to get tests but showed symptoms of Covid-19 and had dangerously low oxygen levels. A doctor advised a host of medications, including hydroxychloroquine.She eventually found it and bought it, aware it was unlikely to work.“My parents are dying," Bhardwaj said. “I am desperate.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/indians-turn-to-black-market-unproven-drugs-as-covid-19-surges-101619696786801.html
29-04-2021||India||Everything pivots around Covid vaccine supply: Apollo Hospital executive vice-chairperson||India may have opened up Covid-19 vaccination registration for the 18 years and above population, but none of the vaccination sites across the country offer a vaccination slot yet for May 1 for this category, which is largely being attributed to inadequate vaccine supplies. Private players may suffer worse because they will get preference after the centre and state, and even though the date is May 1 they cannot open without vaccines, says Shobana Kamineni, executive vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals, in an interview to HT.What is Apollo group’s Covid-19 vaccine procurement plan?We haven’t really been given a free hand; the government is also allowing the private to procure. Free hand would mean you can just about to anything. First priority is the centre, then it is the states and then, of course, it’s the private. So, one more player has not entered to increase the vaccination drive. However, I don’t think having another player will solve the issue of shortage. It probably just puts pressure.Have you spoken to vaccine manufacturers yet for procuring Covid-19 vaccines since vaccination for all adults is supposed to open on May 1?All the vaccine manufacturers we have spoken to have said that we have commitments to fulfill first; once those are done. They have very clearly said that we are not the priority. We can only open it when we have vaccines. Even now we have done about 4,50,000 vaccinations till now, and probably among the private it is the largest but, in terms of capacity, we could have done 2 million in a fortnight. So, whatever we did so far, we could have actually finished it earlier, instead of these 2-3 months that we have been vaccinating if we had got enough supply of vaccines. We can actually do five times the capability. The demand is there but it is all critical about the access.How long before you see the supplies improving?Four months ago people were talking about vaccines expiring, and now you see complete shortage. But full effect of this (supplies opening up and ramping up production attempts) will only start happening I think in June. Because of the spike in cases we also have shortage of nurses to vaccinate, so we are looking at other vaccinators to come in. As of today we are turning most of our icus into Covid beds across the country. You can’t get a bed in most hospitals, even if you want in most hospitals. That’s the first fight. My real take is, this will mature from June onwards. Or you at least see things slightly get under control; like Delhi won’t be so bad in June. We really have to think through as a time frame; from June till (and I really hope people still have that intent and get vaccinated in huge numbers) October when we would have done significant number of vaccinations.How many doses are you looking at procuring initially, assuming May 1 is your deadline?We will open up orders for as much as we can get every month. Like I told you, our capability is doing 2 million in a fortnight. Since we can do that many we will buy enough to be able to do that much. The thing is there has to be supply enough, I would think that real supply story will only start from June, and from there it will get fast and more furious. Also, by that some our resources can be shifted from these intense Covid-19 duties to vaccinating, so we will have more vaccinators even though now we are trying to marshal about 6,000 vaccinators outside this current but it is hard.Do you see vaccinations starting from May 1 for 18-44 years category?There is too much out there; I don’t think this will start with a big bang at all. Of course, we will have some (doses) but I think if we get a million vaccine doses in May it will be a big deal. But in June I would probably get 10 million, and that is the difference. At least that is the expectation.What about the cost of vaccination? Everything depends on what the government gives us, and how they will differentiate it. They might say anybody going to Apollo, irrespective of the age group, pay the price. So, who will bear the cost if you are buying the vaccine at ₹600, and I cannot believe Bharat Biotech is selling at ₹1200. I am just not able to understand the pricing. Whatever the pricing is we will keep our administrative cost constant because one thing is there that as much as doing the vaccine, the administration under proper conditions is equally important. We cannot cut corners, so we have to charge something for it. But there are companies that are willing to vaccinate their employees are willing to vaccinate other for free because they say the cost of us not being in business is so much more.. I think, everyone in India is, except for the vaccine manufacturers and their pricing, no one wants to make money of this. Apollo will do a lot of vaccines; not just in these major metros but tier 2, tier 3 cities. If you look at our tie-ups, then it is 10 million vaccines that is already required, but everything pivots around the supply.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/everything-pivots-around-covid-vaccine-supply-apollo-hospital-executive-vicechairperson-101619697342680.html
29-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Over 40 nations to help in India's Covid fight, says foreign secy Shringla and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis, and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Over 40 countries to help India in fight against Covid: Foreign secyIndia is set to receive support packages from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and consignments of critical medicines, to help bolster the country’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of Covid-19 infections, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday. Read moreRahul Gandhi explains ‘free’ in his vaccine demand for allCongress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday demanded free Covid-19 vaccination for all Indians, adding the dictionary meaning and the usage of the word ‘free’ to emphasise his point. Read moreAlexei Navalny's political network disbands ahead of 'extremism' rulingA key aide to jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny said Thursday his organisation was disbanding its national network ahead of a court ruling expected to declare it an extremist organisation. Read moreUber to recruit 20,000 UK drivers on post-lockdown demandUber plans to recruit 20,000 more drivers in the United Kingdom to help fill swelling demand for rides as the country's coronavirus lockdown restrictions ease. Read moreAprilia SXR 125 maxi-scooter launched in India at ₹1.15 lakhPiaggio has introduced the new Aprilia SXR 125 maxi-scooter in the Indian market at a price tag of ₹1.15 lakh (ex-showroom, Pune). While there is no official announcement from the two-wheeler maker regarding the matter, the pricing of the SXR 125 has now been updated on the company's Indian website. Read moreIrrfan Khan’s son Babil says he had suicidal thoughts after actor’s death: ‘I still struggle with it a lot’Babil Khan has talked about struggling with suicidal thoughts after losing his father, actor Irrfan Khan. Irrfan died on April 29 last year after a two-year battle with a neuroendocrine tumour. Read more'The guy is an absolute freak show': Kevin Pietersen reveals MS Dhoni's interesting take on Virat Kohli in 2016Virat Kohli is arguably the best all-format batsman in the world. Captain of the Indian cricket tea, Kohli continues to shatter batting records around the world and the benchmark he has set in terms of fitness and athleticism has transcended Indian cricket. Read moreJustin Bieber's new 'dreadlocks' hairdo stirs outrage for cultural appropriationPeaches singer Justin Bieber's most recent Instagram has become the subject of criticism and scrutiny by some of the singer's followers and critics in general who feel that the hairstyle sported by the Sorry singer in his latest post is an example of cultural appropriation and several are dubbing it as insensitive and out of line. Read more‘You are not alone’: Canadian nurse sings to ICU patients. Clip may leave you teary-eyedA video shot at a hospital in Ottawa, Canada featuring a nurse dressed in scrubs and playing the guitar in front of an ICU ward has struck a chord with netizens. Read moreWatch: India receives second shipment of Covid medical aid from United Kingdom﻿||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-over-40-nations-to-help-in-india-s-covid-fight-shringla-101619694633656.html
29-04-2021||India||Oxygen major focus of support to India: EU ambassador||Oxygen-related equipment and supplies is a major focus of the European Union’s (EU) efforts to strengthen India’s Covid-19 response but vaccines need to be developed early and in sufficient quantities to decisively defeat the Coronavirus, EU ambassador Ugo Astuto said on Thursday. In an interview with Hindustan Times, Astuto outlined efforts by EU member states under the bloc’s Civil Protection Mechanism to support India fight a devastating second wave of infections. He also looked forward to key areas that will be in focus during the virtual India-EU Summit next month and the EU’s efforts to strengthen its presence in the Indo-Pacific. What is the immediate and long-term focus of the EU’s efforts under its Civil Protection Mechanism to support India’s Covid-19 response? Could you give us a sense of the scale of the operation, such as the major equipment and materials being provided by member states? The EU stands in full solidarity with India. There is a major scale operation ongoing, which is still developing. We have now activated the EU Civil Protection Mechanism to offer support in this difficult moment. The mechanism is coordinating efforts of member states that can provide urgently needed materials and supplies. As Team Europe, we can offer the advantage of a joint action. We have already received very concrete offers by several member states. A delivery is arriving from Romania; another plane from Ireland is about to land very soon. Ireland has expressed the intention to send 700 oxygen concentrators, one oxygen generator, and 365 ventilators; Belgium: 9,000 doses of the antiviral medicine Remdesivir; Romania: 80 oxygen concentrators and 75 oxygen cylinders; Luxembourg: 58 ventilators; Portugal: 5,503 vials of Remdesivir and oxygen; Sweden: 120 ventilators. France and Germany have announced major deliveries of oxygen and other material. More support is expected from the Netherlands, the Czech Republic, Italy, Finland, Spain, Austria, Poland and other Member States. A robust Team Europe engagement!Does the EU have a role in the allocation of the resources that are coming into India from member states? Will it work closely with Indian authorities to ensure the support packages are effectively utilised? We work very closely with the government of India. As friends and partners, we have offered our support. There has been a conversation on how best we could help. As a result of this conversation, we have activated the EU Civil Protection Mechanism. The Centre ensures rapid deployment of emergency support through a direct link with national civil protection authorities. Through this mechanism, the EU can coordinate the response to emergencies in Europe and beyond. A joint approach -- as Team Europe -- helps to pool expertise and capacities. The EU Civil Protection Mechanism can also help with the transport and pooling of resources. Is the EU taking steps to bolster India’s capacity to produce oxygen and other necessary items and to prepare for future pandemics? What can the two sides do to more effectively tackle such emergencies in future? Oxygen is a major focus of our support, as requested by Indian authorities. As to what to do for the future, this pandemic has shown how vulnerable the world is and how interconnected. The international community must come together and offer shared solutions, based on multilateralism and global solidarity. This is true for the Covid epidemic. It is true also for other global challenges, such as the fight against climate change or biodiversity loss. Incidentally, biodiversity loss appears to be one of the factors that can lead to the spread of new viruses. To prepare for the future, we need to draw lessons from the experience so far. It is clear that to defeat the virus decisively, we need to develop vaccines early and in sufficient quantities. We also need to strengthen the capacity of the international community to respond in a cohesive and consistent manner. We have to strengthen the multilateral tools we have already at our disposal, such as the WHO, and possibly think about new tools specifically targeted to pandemics, such as for instance an international treaty on pandemics. In short, we need to come together and find common responses. The EU and India can help in shaping the global agenda in this respect. Looking ahead to the virtual India-EU Summit, what will be the focus areas for the EU? How would you describe progress in the key areas identified at last year’s summit such as connectivity, climate change and digital technologies? As the world’s two largest democracies, the EU and India share the same values and principles and a strong commitment to a rules-based world order. Against this background, our strategic partnership has gained considerable momentum in the past couple of years. At the last summit, our leaders decided to further strengthen and broaden the scope of our cooperation and to work closer together to defend multilateralism, combating climate change, greening our economies, securing our digital future, fostering connectivity and collaborating on political and security related issues. A common road map to 2025 was adopted to guide our joint action over the next five years, towards concrete deliverables. I trust that the next leaders’ meeting will mark further progress in all of these areas. For instance, the EU and India are currently preparing a joint EU-India Connectivity Partnership. At our summit in July 2020, we agreed to promote jointly a transparent, inclusive and rules-based approach to connectivity. We agreed that connectivity projects should be environmentally, socially and fiscally sustainable, providing a level playing field for businesses. Finally, we underscored the key role of the private sector and the importance of incentivising sustainable private financing. India and the EU can be natural partners in the development of this shared vision. Another major priority I would like to highlight here is the fight against climate change, in the run-up to COP 26. India has achieved significant results in shifting towards a greener economic model. When it comes to renewable energy, especially solar, India has been a trendsetter. Science tells us that the international community as a whole needs to be more ambitious if we want to address the existential issue of climate change. Temperatures are rising and we need to act now, for the sake of future generations. The fight against climate change and against biodiversity loss is a global endeavour – and to succeed, our EU-India strategic partnership is essential. The green and digital transition are twin priorities for both the EU and India. As open societies and democracies, the EU and India can work together to make sure that the digital transition takes place in a secure context, conducive to fair competition and in full respect of individual rights and freedoms. For instance, when it comes to data protection, GDPR is often evoked as a relevant precedent. We have established a productive dialogue to promote normative convergence, as the free flow of data is in the interest of both sides. Is it increasingly likely that India and the EU will negotiate separate agreements on trade and investment? What is the impact of the lapse of investment treaties with EU member states? In the wake of Covid, countries are looking at ways to diversify supply chains and make them more secure. In this context, India is positioning itself as a prominent investment destination. The EU is already one of India’s largest trade partners and a major investor. However, if you look at the size and potential of our respective markets, we could definitively do more. We would be ready to start exploring a standalone investment agreement, as we believe it would be in our mutual interest to establish a stable legal framework for investments, which would give a positive signal in both directions. The summit last year established a high-level dialogue on trade and investment. Executive vice president Valdis Dombrovskis and commerce minister Piyush Goyal met for talks in February and are about to meet again. They will discuss the perspective of trade and investment agreements, but also the wider economic agenda. There is significant scope for broader exchanges and cooperation on issues such as reform of WTO, security of supply chains, regulatory issues. With the EU unveiling its strategy to reinforce its presence in the Indo-Pacific, what practical steps can the EU and India take to boost cooperation in maritime security and to ensure a free and open Indo-Pacific? The EU is the number one investor and among the biggest traders in the Indo-Pacific region, stretching from the east coast of Africa to the Pacific Island states. The region is home to 60% of the world’s population and responsible for two-thirds of global economic growth. It is a crucial manufacturing hub, central to global value chains, at the forefront of the digital economy. The region is also key for climate change and the environment, for the achievement of the objectives of the Paris agreement. In many ways, the path of the future world will be set in the Indo-Pacific region. The EU Council Conclusions adopted just a few days ago make it very clear: the EU regards itself as a major stakeholder in this region and wants to work with like-minded partners, such as India. The aim of the future EU strategy for the Indo-Pacific is to contribute to regional stability, prosperity and sustainable development. The EU has decided to reinforce its strategic focus in the Indo Pacific, to support stability, prosperity and sustainable development in the region, based on the promotion of democracy, rule of law, human rights and international law. The EU will further develop its partnerships with India on foreign policy, security and defence aspects. This will include addressing challenges to maritime security, as well as from emerging and disruptive technologies, but also countering terrorism or organised crime. We will continue to enhance convergences and to work together with India to foster the rules-based world order.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/oxygen-major-focus-of-support-to-india-eu-ambassador-101619694822476.html
29-04-2021||India||'Over 40 countries to help India in fight against Covid-19': Harsh Shringla||India is set to receive support packages from more than 40 countries, mostly oxygen-related equipment and consignments of critical medicines, to help bolster the country’s response to an “unprecedented second wave” of Covid-19 infections, foreign secretary Harsh Shringla said on Thursday.Shringla made the remarks at a news briefing hours after two Russian military transport aircraft flew in 20 oxygen production plants, ventilators and 200,000 medicine packs, while three special flights from the US were expected to bring in raw materials for Covid-19 vaccines, oxygen generating equipment and oxygen concentrators.The external affairs ministry is working with the health ministry and other agencies to expedite clearances and to ensure the equipment and medicines speedily reach areas where they are needed the most. Indian missions around the world have lists of urgently needed items – liquid oxygen, oxygen producing units and critical medicines such as Remdesivir and Tocilizumab – so that they can coordinate with foreign governments and corporations to expedite deliveries.“We are facing an unprecedented second wave of the pandemic. As of now, we have over three million active cases. This has obviously put considerable pressure on our healthcare system, on the capacities and resources that we have,” Shringla told the briefing.More than 40 countries, including major powers such as the US, Russia, France and Germany, have committed to provide urgently needed items and Indian and foreign corporations are helping with procurements. Indian community associations in many countries too are pitching in to provide relief materials.Shringla said India expects to receive more than 500 oxygen generating plants, more than 4,000 oxygen concentrators, more than 10,000 oxygen cylinders, and 17 cryogenic oxygen tankers. Biopharmaceutical major Gilead Sciences has offered 450,000 doses of the antiviral medication Remdesivir while India expects to get some 300,000 doses of Favipiravir from Russia and the United Arab Emirates and consignments Tocilizumab from Germany and Switzerland.Gilead and Roche Pharmaceuticals are helping expedite the supply of raw materials so that domestic production of drugs can be ramped up. Indian firms currently produce 67,000 doses of Remdesivir a day whereas the requirement is 200,000 to 300,000 doses a day. Shringla said these firms expect to boost production to up to 400,000 doses once raw materials are brought in.Shringla was more circumspect on the issue of whether the taking of support from other countries amounted to a shift from India’s policy decision after the 2004 tsunami not to accept foreign aid.“I don’t think we are looking at it in policy terms, we are looking at it in terms of the situation that is very, very unusual, unprecedented and exceptional and we will do whatever it takes to meet the requirements of our people at this point of time,” he said in response to a question on whether there had been a policy shift.“The current situation is something we have never seen before and may never see again...We have certainly prioritised items that we need, we are sourcing many of these items from many countries, but many countries have come forward on their own to offer assistance,” he added.Many countries are also responding to the situation in India because New Delhi played a proactive role in providing essential pharmaceutical products and even vaccines in the earlier phases of the pandemic, Shringla said, adding that US President Joe Biden and others had said they would help India because it had provided help over the past year.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-40-countries-to-help-india-in-fight-against-covid-foreign-secy-101619693442573.html
29-04-2021||India||#ResignModi: All you need to know about the social media row||Hours after blocking posts containing ‘#Resign Modi’ hashtag, Facebook on Thursday claimed it was an inadvertent error and not done at the behest of the government.The social media company drew flak for censoring calls on the platform for Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s resignation over the spiraling crisis of coronavirus pandemic in India.“We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it,” Facebook spokesperson Andy Stone said in a tweet on Thursday.Here's more on what happened today: We temporarily blocked this hashtag by mistake, not because the Indian government asked us to, and have since restored it.The blocking and unblocking of the posts came days after the Centre issued orders to take down over 100 “inflammatory” posts and accounts across Twitter, Facebook and Instagram related to Covid-19, including a verified Facebook page affiliated to West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee.The Wall Street Journal first reported about the blocking of the posts with the hashtag, while BuzzFeed News later pointed out that Facebook hid posts containing the hashtag or text “#ResignModi” entirely in India.Facebook temporarily blocked posts containing hashtags calling on Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to resign, then reinstated them, saying the action had been taken in error https://t.co/H9ooaXF7nsFacebook told users that posts that included #ResignModi were “temporarily hidden” because “some content in those posts goes against our Community Standards.”According to BuzzFeed News, the people in India could not view these posts even as those in the US, Canada or the UK could see them with a simple search. The posts remained hidden for about three hours, but after the first report on this was out, Facebook allowed these posts to be seen in India, backtracking its previous decision related to community guideline violations.“Because the posts were hidden, it’s unclear what content violated the rules of a company whose executives have often expressed a commitment to open expression,” the report read.According to reports, soon after the BuzzFeed story was published, Facebook reversed its decision and allowed the users to find and access posts with the hashtag after hiding them for a few hours.Facebook’s move attracted the attention of the international media and several journalists took to Twitter to post about it.Olivia Solon, the editor of tech investigations at NBC News, posted from her verified handle that Facebook was censoring posts critical of PM Modi.This hashtag has been restored and we are looking into what happened.In response, Facebook’s Andy Stone said, “This hashtag has been restored and we are looking into what happened.”Indian journalist Shivam Vij also posted on Twitter a screenshot of the Facebook page notifying blocking of the hashtag. “This is what happens when you search for the hashtag #ResignModi on Facebook (at least in India),” he wrote.This is what happens when you search for the hashtag #ResignModi on Facebook (at least in India). pic.twitter.com/Rzehg3meB8The Centre has called out the report published on Wall Street Journal and called it "misleading on facts and mischievous in intent."The Union ministry of electronics and information technology shared a statement on the Koo app saying, "A story by Wall Street Journal attributing removal of a certain hashtag by Facebook to GOI‘s efforts to curb public dissent is misleading on facts and mischievous in intent. Govt has not issued any direction to remove this hashtag. Facebook has also clarified that it was removed by mistake."Last week, after Twitter took down dozens of tweets that were critical of the Centre’s handling of the pandemic, sources from the ministry of electronics and information technology clarified that the government welcomes criticism and genuine requests for help amid the Covid-19 pandemic, but it is necessary to take action against users who misuse social media to spread panic and misinformation.India on Thursday saw a record single-day rise of 379,257 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 18,376,524, while the daily death toll crossed 3,645, according to the data uploaded by Union ministry of health and family welfare.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/resignmodi-all-you-need-to-know-about-the-social-media-row-101619689288718.html
29-04-2021||India||Former PM Manmohan Singh recovers from Covid, discharged from AIIMS||Former prime minister Manmohan Singh was on Thursday discharged from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences here.He was admitted to the facility after testing positive for Covid-19.Sources close to the Congress leader said he was doing fine.Singh was admitted to the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) on April 19 after he had fever and tested positive for the novel coronavirus infection.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/former-pm-manmohan-singh-recovers-from-covid-discharged-from-aiims-101619692412668.html
29-04-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi explains ‘free’ in his vaccine demand for all||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday demanded free Covid-19 vaccination for all Indians, adding the dictionary meaning and the usage of the word ‘free’ to emphasise his point. Calling the government’s vaccination policy discriminatory, Gandhi and other Congress leaders have been demanding free vaccines for everyone. In his tweet on Thursday, the Congress leader posted, “free /friː/ adjective, adverb — costing nothing, or not needing to be paid for,” and then went on to illustrate the usage of word “free” through two examples relevant to his demands, “India must get free Covid vaccine. All citizens must receive the inoculation free of charge.” “Let’s hope they get it this time”.Also Read | After Rahul’s appeal, Cong sets up control rooms for Covid aidGandhi’s tweet comes a day after the Centre started registrations for Phase 3 of the vaccination drive, which has been opened up for all adults. Over 11.6 million people had registered for vaccination on CoWIN, the government’s vaccine registration website, on Wednesday.The Wayanad MP had attacked the Modi government just a day ago, for not making the vaccine free. “People’s money was given to vaccine companies to develop Covid vaccines,” he had tweeted. “Now, GOI [government of India] will make same people pay the highest price in the world for these vaccines.”India began its first phase of vaccination drive in January, starting with healthcare and frontline workers. The second phase, which was rolled out in March, included those aged above 45 and those with other illnesses.The country has been reporting over 300,000 cases every day for over a week. On Thursday morning, India’s Covid figures hit a new milestone as it reported 379,257 new cases and 3,645 deaths in the last 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rahul-gandhi-explains-free-in-his-vaccine-demand-for-all-101619690982358.html
29-04-2021||India||Naravane briefs Modi about Army’s Covid-19 assistance||Army chief General Manoj Mukund Naravane on Thursday called on Prime Minister Narendra Modi to brief him about the Army’s Covid-19 assistance to state governments. He told Modi, who has held a series of meeting with top military officers since Monday, that the Army has provided states medical staff and was helping them set up temporary hospitals.“The army is opening up the hospitals for civilians and citizens in case of an emergency could approach their nearest hospital,” an official statement quoted Naravane telling Modi. He added the Army was helping the government with manpower to operate the newly imported oxygen tankers and vehicles.The armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation and defence public sector undertakings have been working to augment efforts to deal with the second Covid-19 wave. They have set up Covid hospitals, ramped up oxygen production, airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers, and liaised with state governments to help deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases.The Army set up a 100-bed hospital for Covid-19 patients in Punjab’s Mohali on Tuesday after chief minister Amarinder Singh’s request. It converted its Base Hospital Delhi Cantonment into a Covid-19 hospital on Wednesday following a record surge of infections in the national capital.India faces the worst surge of Covid-19 infections, which have crossed the 300,000-mark daily for the past few days. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll close to 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds.The Naravane-Modi meeting came a day after the Prime Minister stressed the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material to fight the pandemic as he reviewed the Indian Air Force (IAF)’s Covid relief efforts. IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria on Wednesday briefed Modi on his force’s efforts to help fight the pandemic. Bhadauria said that IAF has ordered 24x7 readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasks across the country and overseas, the Prime Minister’s Office said in a statement.Bhadauria told Modi that IAF has set up a dedicated Covid-19 air support cell to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies. The IAF has over the last week been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres from domestic locations. It has been making sorties abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.Modi on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to assist the government in Covid-19 management. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat gave a detailed presentation to Modi. He informed him that all military medical personnel, who retired or took premature retirement in the last two years, are being recalled to work in Covid-19 facilities. Medical officers, who retired more than two years ago, have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/naravane-briefs-modi-about-army-s-covid-19-assistance-101619689182903.html
29-04-2021||India||Why Madhya Pradesh allocated more oxygen than demanded, not Delhi, high court asks Centre||The Delhi high court on Thursday asked the Centre why Madhya Pradesh was allocated more oxygen than what was demanded while Delhi's demand was not met. "We are not saying that people in the other parts of the country should die. But if the demand of a particular state is x, then why did you give it x+y? Why don't you give y to Delhi?" a bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli observed. The court, however, clarified in its order that it's not making any finding and it would be done only when the Centre has given its submissions.The court was told that Madhya Pradesh was allocated 540 MT oxygen while it demanded 445 MT. Maharashtra was allocated 1661 MT, while the demand was for 1,500 MT.Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said the Centre will respond to the court's query and will give the reasons for giving more oxygen to Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra. He said there are other states, including Gujarat, which have been allocated less than the demand. ‘Heavens won’t fall’: Court upbraids Centre on Delhi hospitals’ SOS for oxygenAs the high court was hearing a case related to the Capital's oxygen shortage, it asked the police to release oxygen cylinders and Remdesivir they seize as they can be used in the treatment of Covid-19. The police should not seize cylinders from individuals as they may have bought them at an exorbitant price in an emergency situation, the judge said. "Whenever any seizure is made, the IOs (investigating officers) should immediately inform the DCs (deputy commissioners) and also ascertain the genuineness of medicine. The medicine should also be immediately put in a refrigerated environment. We also direct the Delhi Police to not seize any cylinder or medicine from patients or attendants. It goes without saying that Delhi Police would be bound to conduct an investigation with the cooperation of the public at large," the court said.Essential medicines and oxygen cylinders cannot be kept as 'case properties' and instead should be put back into circulation, the court observed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/why-madhya-pradesh-allocated-more-oxygen-while-delhi-s-demand-was-more-delhi-hc-asks-centre-101619686282898.html
29-04-2021||India||India has administered close to 150mn Covid vaccine doses till now||India had administered close to 150 million coronavirus vaccine doses by Wednesday, the day the country opened registrations for all adults opting to get vaccinated. Over 10 million people registered on the Co-WIN platform within hours after it began accepting registrations.In all, 149,877,121 vaccine doses have been given in the country by Wednesday, 8pm. This includes 9,366,239 healthcare workers who have had their first dose and 6,145,854 who have got their second dose as well. As many as 12,309,507 frontline workers have had their first dose while 6,599,492 have got their second dose too.Also Read | Bombay HC refuses to hear plea seeking uniform price of Covid-19 vaccinesIn the 45-59-year age group 50,975,753 people have got their first dose and another 3,142,239 have had their second dose as well. In the 60+ category, 51,470,903 people have been administered their first dose while 9,867,134 have had their second dose as well.As many as 2,049,754 vaccine doses were given on Wednesday alone. Of this, 1,192,394 beneficiaries were vaccinated with the first dose and 857,360 beneficiaries received their second dose as well.Meanwhile, the country again saw a record single-day rise of 379,257 coronavirus infections on Thursday, taking the total tally to 18,376,527. More than 200,000 people have died with a record 3,645 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8am showed.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/india-has-administered-close-to-150mn-covid-vaccine-doses-till-now-101619685642055.html
29-04-2021||India||Madras HC judge seeks session with psychologist to understand same-sex relationships||A Madras high court judge on Wednesday fixed an appointment with a psychologist to understand same sex orientation better before recording his judgment in a case pertaining to a lesbian couple who sought protection from their birth families who were opposed to their relationship, and directed the Tamil Nadu police to close the First Information Report filed on the basis of a missing person’s complaint filed by the parents of both women. Justice N Anand Venkatesh said that he would want to undergo an educational session with Vidhya Dinakaran, a city-based psychologist, while hearing the petition. “Ultimately in this case, the words must come from my heart and not from my head, and the same will not be possible if I am not fully “woke” on this aspect,” justice Venkatesh said. “For this purpose, I want to subject myself for psycho-education with Vidhya Dinakaran and I would request the psychologist to fix a convenient appointment for the same. I honestly feel that such a session with a professional will help me understand same-sex relationships better and will pave way for my evolution. If I write an order after undergoing psychoeducation, I trust that the words will fall from my heart.” In a previous hearing, the court had directed the petitioners as well as their parents to undergo counselling and Dinakaran had submitted a report to the judge on Wednesday. The court noted that the psychologist’s opinion is that the petitioners “perfectly understand the relationship they have entered” and that there was “no confusion in their minds”. It was also observed that they have a lot of love and affection for their parents and that their only fear is that they may be coerced into separation. “According to the psychologist, such a scenario will cause a lot of mental trauma to the petitioners,” the judge observed. “The petitioners are also willing to wait for their parents, whom they fervently hope will understand the relationship at some future point of time.” Meanwhile, the parents of both the petitioners, the court observed, were worried of stigma, consequences in the society and the security of their daughters. A total of four petitions pertaining to same-sex marriage are pending before the high courts of Delhi and Kerala, challenging various acts that restrict marriage to opposite sex or heterosexual couples. Though the Supreme Court read down Section 377, which criminalized same-sex adult consensual relationships, in 2018, several same-sex couples continue to seek protection from the court as their birth families continue to oppose their sexuality. “One more interesting observation that has been made in [Dinakaran’s] report is that the parents would rather prefer their daughters to live a life of celibacy, which according to them will be more dignified than having a partner of the same sex,” justice Venkatesh observed on Wednesday. The parents are confused over lineage and adoption that would apply in a same sex relationship. The petitioners are two women from Madurai who are currently taking refuge in Chennai with the help of an NGO and are seeking to continue their education and work simultaneously. The court directed the parties to undergo another round of counselling and the judge said that the couple’s parents couldn’t be expected to change their notions overnight. The matter has been posted to June 7.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/madras-hc-judge-seeks-session-with-psychologist-to-understand-same-sex-relationships-101619685222088.html
29-04-2021||India||PM Modi reviews Army’s preparedness, initiatives for management of spiralling Covid-19 crisis||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday reviewed Army’s preparedness and initiatives for Covid-19 management when Chief of Army Staff General MM Naravane called on him."They discussed various initiatives being taken by the Army to help in Covid management," the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) said in a statement.General Naravane informed PM Modi that medical staff of the Army is being made available to various state governments. He also briefed the PM that Army is setting up temporary hospitals in various parts of the country.General Naravane told PM Modi that the Army is prepared to set up hospitals for civilians wherever possible and urged the people to approach their nearest army hospitals.The top General informed PM Modi that the Army has been helping with manpower for imported tankers and vehicles where specialised skills are required to manage them.India is currently struggling with a deadly second wave of coronavirus disease (Covid-19) infection and hospitals in several states are reeling under a shortage of medical oxygen and beds as the number of cases see an exponential rise.India on Thursday recorded 3,79,257 fresh Covid-19 infections and 3,645 deaths reported in 24 hours.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-reviews-army-s-preparedness-initiatives-for-management-of-spiralling-covid-19-crisis-101619683495235.html
29-04-2021||India||U’khand puts Char Dham yatra on hold amid spike||Dehradun: Burnt by its experience with the Mahakumbh, and worried that the Char Dham yatra could end up being another super-spreader event, the Uttarakhand government on Thursday postponed the pilgrimage to four of the holiest Hindu shrines in the state, scheduled to start on May 14. The move comes even as a surging second wave of Covid-19 wave has pushed daily infections above the 350,000-mark daily in the country, with an active caseload of over 3 million overwhelming the health care system. The Uttarakhand government was widely criticised for its poor management of the Mahakumbh, with most Covid safety protocol being followed more in the breach than in the observance; the Centre too was criticised for allowing the event to go ahead. But the state seems to have woken up to the threat of Covid-19 now. “Even locals will not be allowed inside the shrines,” said chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat who, ahead of the Kumbh, spoke of how faith would overcome fear. “Only priests of the Char Dham shrines will perform rituals and worship. People will not be allowed to undertake the yatra [pilgrimage], given the sharp increase in Covid-19 cases.” Officials said the portals of the shrines of Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri will remain open during the pilgrimage season. Four senior seers died of Covid-19 after participating in Mahakumbh in Uttarakhand’s Haridwar this month. Millions of devotees attended the mega fair from April 1, when the state had 2,236 active Covid-19 cases. The number of active cases rose to 45,383 on Wednesday. Swami Avdheshanand Giri, Mahamandleshwar (head) of Juna Akhada, the largest of the 13 sects of seers, was on April 17 forced to declare the conclusion of the Mahakumbh amid the surge in the cases. The announcement came after a phone call from Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who requested only symbolic participation in the fourth and last Shahi Snan (holy dip) in the Ganga at the mega fair on April 27. Ravinath Raman, the chief executive officer of Char Dham Devasthanam Management Board, said a meeting was held on Thursday, where the decision to postpone the pilgrimage due to the Covid-19 situation was taken. “If later in the year, the situation improves, the yatra can be allowed with conditions and Covid curbs.”Political and religious gatherings have been cited among the reasons for the worst surge of Covid-19 infections that India faces. The second wave of the pandemic has pushed the death toll in the country over 200,000 and starved hospitals of life-saving medical oxygen and beds. Uttarakhand has been reporting its highest ever daily cases and Covid deaths for the past week. On Wednesday, the state reported 6,054 cases and 108 deaths, the highest in a day since March last year. Kedarnath, Badrinath, Yamunotri, and Gangotri are collectively called Char Dham and millions visit them annually. The pilgrimage begins from Yamunotri in the west. It then proceeds to Gangotri and finally to Kedarnath and Badrinath in the east. The pilgrimage could not begin last year as per schedule on April 26 with the opening of portals of Yamunotri and Gangotri, the first two shrines that are opened after winter, because of the lockdown imposed to check the pandemic spread in March 2020. The shrines were opened for local pilgrims on July 1 last year and for those from other states in the last week of that month. In September, the Uttarakhand government removed the condition of having negative Covid-19 reports for pilgrims to undertake the pilgrimage. Officials said the portals of the Yamunotri shrine will be opened on May 14 and that of Gangotri on May 15 on the occasion of Akshay Tritiya. Portals of Kedarnath and Badrinath shrines will be opened on May 17 and May 18. Anoop Nautiyal, the founder of Dehradun-based think tank Social Development for Communities who has been analysing Covid-19 data in the state, welcomed the decision to postpone the yatra. “Once the caseload, deaths, and positivity rate decline, we can consider restarting the yatra with suitable precautions. In the meantime, the government must provide financial support to the tourism and pilgrimage sector. Mass vaccination and urgent ramping up of public health infrastructure is the need of the hour.” Congress spokesperson Garima Dasauni said the move to postpone the pilgrimage is a practical one. “The government should also think of taxi operators, dhaba and hotel owners, shopkeepers and others involved in the yatra whose livelihoods will be affected. The government should provide them some monetary help.”Manveer Singh Chauhan, the state media in charge of the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party said the government is fully committed to fighting the pandemic with all possible resources. “With the present pandemic situation, the move was much needed. As far as the livelihood of those connected with the yatra is concerned, the government will soon announce some relief measures for them.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/char-dham-yatra-suspended-only-priests-to-perform-rituals-at-four-shrines-101619684322051.html
29-04-2021||India||States have 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses, will get another 20 lakh shots within 3 days: Centre||Even as several states and Union territories reported a shortage of Covid-19 vaccines the Union ministry of health and family welfare on Thursday claimed they still have over one crore doses available with them and will receive another 20 lakh of them within the next three days.Follow latest updates on Covid-19 here“More than 1 crore Covid Vaccine doses (1,06,08,207) are still available with the states/UTs to be administered. More than 20 Lakh (20,48,890) vaccine doses will be received in addition by the states/UTs within the next 3 days,” the health ministry said in a statement, adding that the Centre has so far provided around 16.16 crore vaccine doses to the states free of cost and of them, 151,077,933 doses have been used, including wastage.The statement by the government comes at a time when several states, including Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Punjab and Rajasthan, have said they are unlikely to roll out the third phase of Covid-19 vaccination, which begins across the country from May 1, owing to inadequate stock of doses.The health ministry pointed to media reports from Maharashtra quoting officials who have claimed that the vaccines in the state are almost over. “The total Covid vaccine doses received by Maharashtra as on 28th April 2021 (at 8 am) are 1,63,62,470. Of this, the total consumption including wastage (0.22%) was 1,56,12,510. Balance of 749,960 vaccine doses is still available with the state for administration to the eligible population groups,” it clarified.Maharashtra’s health minister Rajesh Tope earlier announced that a full-fledged rollout of the inoculation drive from May 1 is not possible for the want of vaccines. “We have all the infrastructure to conduct vaccination but we don't have vaccines in adequate quantity. The chief minister is talking to different vaccine manufacturers. There will be separate centres for vaccination of those between 18 and 44 years of age,” the minister was quoted as saying by the news agency ANI.The Centre has allowed all citizens above the age of 18 to take the Covid-19 vaccine starting May 1. The registrations for the third phase of vaccination have also begun on the CoWin portal.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/states-have-1-crore-covid-19-vaccine-doses-will-get-another-20-lakh-shots-within-3-days-centre-101619682524318.html
29-04-2021||India||Manipur shuts sports complexes to curb Covid-19 spread||Manipur has prohibited all sports-related activity at sports complexes including those operated by private entities in view of the rapidly rising cases of Covid-19 in the state, according to a state government order.“...all sporting activities in the state including any sport-related activity at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex and other sport complexes in the districts, including privately run or managed sport complexes are banned with immediate effect,” says a notification issued by Commissioner (Youth Affairs and Sports) Bobby Waikhom on April 24.The step has been taken up in view of the second wave of Covid-19 and the increasing number of cases in Manipur and also taking into consideration the recommendation of the State Consultative Committee of State Disaster Management Authority, the notification said.“Further, the entry of visitors at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex except officials and staff of Youth Affairs and Sports, National Sport University and other departments located at Khuman Lampak Sports Complex is also banned with immediate effect,” it further said.Manipur, which is also known as the power house of sports, has been home to a large number of international and national-level players. In recent years, sportspersons from the state have been given 14 Arjuna awards, 2 Rajiv Gandhi khel ratna awards, one Dronacharya award and one Dhyan Chand award.In view of the prevailing situation, the ongoing matches of the state level football tourney popularly known as state league and other district-level super league matches have also been postponed since last week onwards.On Wednesday the state reported 259 new Covid-19 positive cases, the highest-ever single day spike figure for this year, taking the state’s total infection tally to 31,001. The state has 1,230 active cases, officials said.Even though 29,376 persons (including 59 on Wednesday) have recovered so far, the recovery rate has been reduced to 94.75 %.Meanwhile two more persons died due to Covid-19 at two hospitals in Imphal in the last 24 hours. As a result, the state’s total cumulative death toll has risen to 395, they said.Till date, a total of 1,59,860 persons including healthcare workers and frontline workers in Manipur got the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. On the other hand, altogether 67,048 healthcare workers and frontline workers received a second dose of vaccines.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/manipur-shuts-sports-complexes-to-curb-covid-19-spread-101619683061893.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19: Active caseload soars past 3 million-mark, 10 states contribute over 72% to new cases in last 24 hours||Active cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) went past the three million-mark on Thursday and stood at 3,084,814 cases, data from the Union health ministry showed. This is an increase of 106,105 cases from the 2,978,709 active cases reported previously on Wednesday and accounts for 16.79% of the total confirmed cases.The ministry also noted that 10 states accounted for 72.2% of the new Covid-19 cases reported in the last 24 hours. India logged yet another record high of 379,257 new infections in the mentioned time period.#Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s total Active Caseload reached 30,84,814 today; comprises 16.79% of the total Positive Cases. A net incline of 1,06,105 cases recorded from the total active caseload the last 24 hours.11 States account for 78.26% of India's total Active Cases. pic.twitter.com/fIyb10dJcVIn a series of tweets about the latest Covid-19 situation in the country, the Union health ministry said 10 states -- Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and Andhra Pradesh -- were the top 10 states contributing the highest to the national tally of daily new cases on the day.Maharashtra continues to remain the worst-affected state in the country in terms of total positive cases identified. The state added 63,309 cases to its tally which currently stands at 4,473,394 cases.Also read | ‘Special and privileged partnership’: Russian ambassador says after 2 flights carrying Covid-19 supplies land in IndiaAmong the other states, Karnataka with 39,047 new cases and Kerala with 35,013 new cases trailed Maharashtra. Meanwhile, the national capital Delhi reported 29,751 new cases and the neighbouring Uttar Pradesh added 29,751 new cases to its tally, the Union health ministry noted.The bottom five states reported less than 20,000 cases with only Andhra Pradesh reporting less than 15,000 new cases (14,669 cases to be exact). Of the others, West Bengal added 17,207 cases, Tamil Nadu reported 16,665 new cases, while Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh reported 16,613 and 15,563 new cases respectively, the data showed.#Unite2FightCoronaIndia registered 3,79,257 new cases in the last 24 hours.10 States account for 72.20% of the new cases registered. pic.twitter.com/pnmJCqtM3nThe state-wise distribution of active cases showed that Maharashtra (675,451 cases), Karnataka (328,903 cases), Uttar Pradesh (300,041), Kerala (266,981 cases) and Rajasthan (163,372 cases) remained the top five contributors as of date.In a subsequent tweet, the health ministry also noted that another set of 10 states contributed over 78% to the 3,645 new fatalities reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra reported the maximum of 1,035 fatalities followed by Delhi with 368 deaths and Chhattisgarh with 279 deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-active-cases-soar-past-3-million-10-states-add-over-72-new-cases-101619681924943.html
29-04-2021||India||News updates from HT at 1 pm: Passengers from India to quarantine for 10 days, says Italy and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion at 1 PM. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.Covid-19: Italy says passengers from India to quarantine for 10 daysA flight from New Delhi arrived Wednesday evening in Rome carrying 210 passengers, who will be placed in mandatory quarantine. Read more‘Special and privileged partnership’: Russian ambassador says after 2 flights carrying Covid-19 supplies land in IndiaRussian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev on Thursday said that two flights from Russia, carrying Covid-19 supplies, have landed in India. The supplies included oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors and medicines. Read moreKangana Ranaut asks Chetan Bhagat to ‘stop hating India’ as he questions using India-made vaccines instead of the ‘best’Actor Kangana Ranaut hit out at author Chetan Bhagat for questioning the unavailability of the Covid-19 vaccines made by Pfizer and Moderna in India. He called the second wave of the pandemic a ‘war-like situation’ and said that the vaccines must be bought from other countries. Read moreIPL 2021, MI Predicted XI vs RR: Will Mumbai Indians still remain unchanged?Defending champions Mumbai Indians have experienced a mixed bag of results in the initial stage of the Indian Premier League 2021 (IPL) season. After five games, Mumbai finds itself fourth in the points table, having lost three and won two. Read moreCovid-19 impact: Honda halts two-wheeler production across all four plantsHonda Motorcycle and Scooter India (HMSI) has become the latest vehicle manufacturer in India to force shut its production amid rising cases of Covid-19 and the crisis it has created across the country. Read moreWatch: Russian flights with Covid-19 emergency aid lands in IndiaTwo Russian flights with oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors, medicines and other essential pharmaceutical items landed in India to help the country in its fight against the Covid-19 surge. Watch more||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-hindustan-times-at-1-pm-passengers-from-india-to-quarantine-for-10-days-says-italy-and-all-the-latest-news-101619676417290.html
29-04-2021||India||Telangana logs close to 8,000 new Covid-19 cases, 58 deaths push toll to 2,208||Telangana reported 7,994 fresh Covid-19 cases taking the tally to over 4.27 lakh while the toll stood at 2,208 with 58 more casualties, the state government said on Thursday.The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) accounted for the most number of cases with 1,630, followed by Medchal Malkajgiri (615) and Rangareddy (558), it said in a bulletin, providing details as of 8 PM on April 28.The total number of cumulative cases in the state stood at 4,27,960 while with 4,009 patients being cured, the total recoveries were at 3,49,692.The state has 76,060 active cases and over 80 thousand samples were tested on Tuesday.Cumulatively, over 1.28 crore samples have been tested.The samples tested per million population was over 3.44 lakh, the bulletin said.The case fatality rate in the state was 0.51 per cent, while it was 1.1 per cent at the national level.The recovery rate in Telangana was 81.71 per cent, while it was 82.1 per cent in the country.The state has 279 active micro containment zones.According to a separate release, over 39.57 lakh people in the state have received their first dose of Covid-19 vaccine while over 5.78 lakh got their second shot also as of April 28.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/telangana-logs-close-to-8-000-new-covid-19-cases-58-deaths-push-toll-to-2208-101619676946745.html
29-04-2021||India||Assam Police gun down ULFA-I commander, nab his aide||Police killed a senior commander of the banned United Liberation Front of Asom-Independent (ULFA-I) in a gunfight in Assam on Thursday. The operation thwarted the outfit’s plan for high-profile abductions, said the police. This comes days after the banned outfit abducted three employees of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) in Sivasagar district. Two of them have been rescued since.Dwipen Saud, the newly appointed commander of the outfit’s western command, was shot dead in an exchange of fire at Besimari in Bongaigaon district of lower Assam (135 km west of Guwahati) and another cadre was nabbed alive. “Police-ULFA encounter took place at Besimari (Manikpur PS) in Bongaigaon district just some time back. ULFA (I) commander western command, recently appointed to replace Dhristi Rajkhowa, SS (self-styled) Col Dwipen Saud appears dead with bullet injury. He’s being taken to hospital now,” DGP Bhaskar Jyoti Mahanta tweeted. “His gunman Padum Rai is apprehended alive with a weapon. Another weapon and a grenade recovered in the PO (police operation). Further search is on,” Mahanta added. Drishti Rajkhowa, the second most important person in the outfit after commander-in-chief Paresh Baruah, had surrendered to army personnel in Meghalaya in November last year. Also Read | After 6.4 magnitude jolt, 6 earthquakes hit Assam’s Sonitpur todayWith Thursday’s operation, police claim to have foiled ULFA-I’s plans to carry out more abductions. “We had intel that ULFA western command was planning some high-profile kidnapping in collaboration with other anti-India forces, which now appears to be foiled. Today’s successful operation is due to high quality police intel input that worked out precisely for on ground action,” Mahanta tweeted. On April 21, three ONGC employees, Ritul Saikia, Mohini Mohan Gogoi (both junior engineer assistants) and Alakesh Saikia (junior technician), all from Assam, were abducted by ULFA-I and taken to neighbouring Nagaland. Three days later, Alakesh Saikia and Gogoi were rescued from near the India-Myanmar border in Mon district of Nagaland in a joint operation carried out by the Indian Army, Assam Rifles and Nagaland Police with inputs from Assam Police. There is no trace yet of Ritul Saikia. In a statement issued on Saturday, ULFA-I claimed to have released all the three abducted persons during the operation and alleged Ritul may have been killed in the firing by the security forces. Assam Police, however, maintain Ritul is still in custody of the outfit. Police have arrested over a dozen persons in connection with the Sivasagar incident, including an Assam Police constable who was among the five persons who abducted the ONGC employees.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/assam-police-gun-down-ulfa-i-commander-nab-his-aide-101619674001631.html
29-04-2021||India||Procuring Covid-19 vaccine from makers may take few more days: Andhra Pradesh government||Vijayawada (Andhra Pradesh) [India], April 29 (ANI): With Phase III of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive set to start on May 1, the Andhra Pradesh government has said it is trying to procure vaccine from the manufacturers, but "it may take few more days to get the vaccine on hand".In a release, Andhra Pradesh Health department Principal Secretary Anil Kumar Singhal said on Wednesday that the state government is consulting with 'all three companies' for the procurement of vaccines."The state government is trying to procure vaccine, to inoculate people above 18 years of age, from the companies. However, it may take few more days to get the vaccine on hand. The Centre has declared eligibility for vaccination to people above 18 from May 1. That doesn't mean to vaccinate them from that date. We have been consulting with all three companies. Right now they have orders from the central government, the companies will respond to our queries in few days. Then we will be able to chart out a plan to inoculate vaccine to people above 18," said Singhal.He said that for the past 15 days, only RT-PCR tests are being conducted in the state, and from Thursday onwards, TrueNat tests will also be conducted."A total of 422 hospitals are given permission for conducting covid tests. 5,572 ICU beds available in the state and more than 3,000 beds are occupied. 18,086 beds are with oxygen facility, of which 10,302 beds are occupied by this morning. We ordered the officials to update the information on a real-time basis so that people will get accurate data in their access," he said.He said government hospitals in the state have no problem regarding the availability of Remdesivir injections and the state has a stock of 28,994 doses.The Principal Secretary asked the private hospitals to not treat Covid-19 patients "illegally" and should register with district authorities so that they can place an indent for Remdesivir."Thus, the medicine usage will go properly. Our aim is to prevent hoarding or black marketing of Remdesivir. So district-level officials are given the responsibility to monitor private hospitals. District-level flying squads are formed for this purpose. The state government has fixed rates for the treatment of coronavirus and supply of Remdesivir. Stern action will be taken on those violating the norms," he added.The Centre on April 19 had announced a ''liberalised'' policy, making all above 18 years of age eligible to get vaccinated from May 1. It has also allowed state governments and private hospitals to purchase vaccines from manufacturers.Registration for the new eligible population groups commenced at 4 pm on Wednesday. Potential beneficiaries can either register directly on CoWIN portal (cowin.gov.in) or through the Aarogya Setu app.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/procuring-covid-19-vaccine-from-makers-may-take-few-more-days-andhra-pradesh-government-101619672390803.html
29-04-2021||India||Drought-like situation hits Nagaland farmers amid Covid-19 second wave||Nagaland farmers have something other than Covid-19 to worry about as the state is facing a drought-like situation due to a shortfall of rain this year.“Nagaland is facing a drought-like situation. Seeds have not germinated due to shortage of water. This, coupled with incidents of hail storm in different pockets and attack on crops by fall armyworm, has affected the crop. Livestock farming has also been hit by the African swine flu and the foot-and-mouth disease,” said agriculture production commissioner (APC), Nagaland, Kikheto Sema.The official on Wednesday called for a need-based meeting of all agriculture & allied departments in the state to discuss the challenges the farmers are facing, in the state capital of Kohima. Pointing out that 70% of the state population lives in rural areas and is engaged in agriculture, Sema said that farming activities cannot be stopped even in the face of a pandemic.He highlighted the need for “the four Cs- cooperation, coordination, confidence and contribution” among the allied departments at such a time. The APC, who is also the nodal officer for Jal Shakti Abhiyan, highlighted the need for water conservation and rainwater harvesting.Meanwhile, in the face of the recent surge in Covid cases in Nagaland, the agriculture department issued several guidelines to farmers to avoid field level contagious spread of the virus during farming activities.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/droughtlike-situation-hits-nagaland-farmers-amid-covid-19-second-wave-101619671541634.html
29-04-2021||India||‘Special and privileged partnership’: Russian ambassador says after 2 flights carrying Covid-19 supplies land in India||Russian ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev on Thursday said that two flights from Russia, carrying Covid-19 supplies, have landed in India. The supplies included oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors and medicines.In a video tweeted by the Russian Embassy in India, Kudashev said, “Russia is closely watching the situation in India which is becoming more and more alarming. The Russian Federation decided to send humanitarian assistance to India in the spirit of the special and privileged strategic partnership between our two countries as well as in the context of our anti-Covid-19 cooperation.”A friend in need is a friend indeed. First batch of emergency humanitarian aid to India arrived in #NewDelhi. #Kudashev: Joint fight against #COVID19 threat is one of the most important areas of #RussiaIndia🇷🇺🇮🇳 cooperation at present. Full video ➡️ https://t.co/8IG5xYCt9S pic.twitter.com/fr0n6MPD8P“For this purpose, two urgent flights operated by the Russian EMERCOM arrived here today. These are oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors, medicines including Coronavir and other essential pharmaceutical items,” ambassador Kudashev further added.The Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) on Thursday confirmed the arrival of the two Russian planes and added that Air Cargo and the Delhi Customs expedited the clearance for the flights. According to the CBIC, the cargo contained 20 oxygen concentrators, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors and medicines totalling 22 metric tonnes, news agency ANI reported.Arindam Bagchi, spokesperson of the ministry of external affairs tweeted with images of the Russian supplies. “A longstanding and time-tested partner! Grateful for shipment of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies that arrived from Russia this morning in two aircrafts.”🇮🇳 🇷🇺A longstanding and time-tested partner! Grateful for shipment of oxygen concentrators, ventilators and other medical supplies that arrived from Russia this morning in two aircrafts. pic.twitter.com/ozrla74m5kMentioning that the efforts against the coronavirus disease is one of the “most important areas of cooperation at present,” Kudashev said that it includes the delivery of Sputnik V Covid-19 vaccine to India from May, the production of the vaccine in India and also cooperation in the field of medical science including new coronaviruses.Also read | In biggest one-day spike, India records 379,257 Covid-19 cases, 3,645 fatalitiesThanking India for approving emergency supplies of Hydroxychloroquine during the pandemic in 2020, the ambassador said, “We appreciate it and we remember.” He also emphasised the need for united efforts against the pandemic and said, “We hope that today’s delivery of the Russian humanitarian assistance will become an effective contribution to the Indian government’s efforts to provide emergency treatment to those who were affected by Covid-19.”Watch | Russian flights with Covid-19 emergency aid lands in IndiaEarlier on Wednesday, Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke with Russian president Vladimir Putin, who expressed his solidarity with India and assured support. “Had an excellent conversation with my friend President Putin today. We discussed the evolving COVID-19 situation, and I thanked President Putin for Russia's help and support in India's fight against the pandemic,” Modi tweeted earlier on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/special-and-privileged-strategic-partnership-russian-ambassador-says-after-2-flights-carrying-covid-19-supplies-lands-in-india-101619668992419.html
29-04-2021||India||In biggest one-day spike, India records 379,257 Covid-19 cases, daily toll again at all-time high of 3,645||India on Thursday saw a record single-day rise of 379,257 coronavirus cases, which pushed the total tally to 18,376,524, while the daily death toll crossed the 3000-mark following 3,645 fresh fatalities, according to Union ministry of health and family welfare.The number of people who have recuperated from the disease stands at 1,50,86,878, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.12%, the data updated at 8am showed.Registering a steady increase, the active cases have risen to 30,84,814, comprising 16.55% of the total infections while the total death count stands at 2,04,832.According to the Indian Council oof Medical Research (ICMR), 28,44,71,979 samples have been tested for Covid-19 till April 28, of which 17,68,190 samples were tested on Wednesday.India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.On Wednesday, 14 states and Union territories recorded their highest single-day rise in cases of infection. These included Karnataka and Kerala which reported 39,047 and 35,103 cases, respectively. Similarly, West Bengal’s 17,207, Tamil Nadu’s 16,665, Rajasthan’s 16,613, Andhra Pradesh’s 14,669, Bihar’s 13,374 and Haryana’s 12,444 cases were the highest-ever since the pandemic struck the country early last year.The Centre has so far provided more than 15 crore vaccine doses (156,526,140) to states and UTs free of cost.The country is days away from launching the third phase of its Covid-19 vaccination drive under which all adults will be eligible to take the jab.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/in-biggest-one-day-spike-india-records-379-257-covid-19-cases-daily-toll-again-at-all-time-high-of-3645-101619667839128.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19 pandemic laid threadbare issue of digital divide: Ravi Shankar Prasad||The Covid-19 pandemic has laid bare the issue of the digital divide and recast the world’s view of digital access as a critical component to an equitable society, according to Minister of Electronics and Information Technology Ravi Shankar Prasad, who underlined that technology is meant to be a “great equaliser” and not a source of division.“In 2020, the year of the Covid-19 pandemic, the world embraced digital transformation at a pace never witnessed before," Prasad said at the UN High-Level thematic debate on ‘Digital Cooperation and Connectivity: Whole-of-Society Approaches to End the Digital Divide.’"The pandemic has resulted in societies reimagining technology’s critical role in how we work, learn and live,” Prasad said.Addressing the high-level event virtually on Tuesday, Prasad said the pandemic "has not only laid threadbare the issue of the digital divide but more importantly recast our view of digital access as a critical component to an equitable society.”Asserting that technology is meant to be a “great equaliser, not a source of division,” Prasad said almost half the world’s population does not have access to high-speed broadband and is hence deprived of access to virtual platforms, tele-medicine, distance education and e-payments.“Technology is neutral but its impact will depend on choices that we make today in its application, access and governance. Hence it becomes critical that we make the digital revolution inclusive by creating an environment where nobody is left behind,” he said.UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed, speaking at the General Assembly high-level debate, said almost half the world’s population, 3.7 billion people, the majority of them women, and most in developing countries, are still offline.“The Covid-19 crisis has highlighted this disparity. While confronting the pandemic, those without Internet access have been unable to benefit from remote education, remote work, or remote health services. Without decisive action, the digital divide will become the new face of inequality,” she said.Prasad said the Covid-19 pandemic has also brought to the forefront the critical need for cutting-edge technology tools and innovation in the areas of tele-education and tele-medicine.“The expedited development of contact and tracing application called ‘AarogyaSetu’ (Heath Bridge) and CoWINapp for the rollout of vaccines are outcomes of India’s efforts,” he said adding that in the spirit of South-South cooperation, India launched the Pan Africa E-Network which aims to provide free tele-education and tele-medicine services to developing countries.Further, he underlined that digitalisation can support waves of change that could dramatically shift to a more efficient governance system. “We need to make technology an enabler for sustainable development, economic growth, social inclusion and environment sustainability.“We need to develop a more equitable and effective digital ecosystem by continuous skill development, increased access and affordability of digital technology. This will enable us to correct the structural injustices and ensure that the digital revolution is inclusive and empowering,” he added.Prasad told the General Assembly event that India has taken a concerted decision to adopt a whole-of-society approach to digital technology and improved public services, citizen engagement and accountability.In 2015, the government launched 'Digital India' with the aim to bring digital inclusion and empower ordinary citizens with technology-based solutions that are affordable and easy to use.Today, India has the second-largest internet user base and is the second-largest mobile manufacturer, offering the cheapest internet data tariffs in the world.“We aim to develop India as a USD 1 trillion digital economy by 2025,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-pandemic-laid-threadbare-issue-of-digital-divide-ravi-shankar-prasad-101619667722665.html
29-04-2021||India||News updates from HT: Joe Biden says US will maintain military presence in Indo-Pacific and all the latest news||Here are today’s top news, analysis and opinion. Know all about the latest news and other news updates from Hindustan Times.US will maintain military presence in Indo-Pacific to prevent conflict: BidenPresident Joe Biden said that he has told his Chinese counterpart Xi Jinping that the US will maintain a strong military presence in the Indo-Pacific "not to start conflict, but to prevent one," as Beijing made efforts to expand influence in the strategically vital region. Read moreWidened vaccinations lead to blood bank shortage fearsBlood banks and patients with blood-related disorders said they are concerned about the availability of blood due to rules that disallow an inoculated person from donating blood for 28 days after their jab. Read moreFewer SOS calls from hospitals, but new Covid patients facing oxygen crisisSOS calls for medical oxygen have reduced from Delhi’s hospitals over the past two days, with most of them now able to maintain stocks till replenishments arrive, but this has also come at the cost of not being able to offer critical emergency support. Read more'I love his attitude': Suresh Raina says CSK teammate is 'going to be No. 1 in the world'There was a time when Suresh Raina was India's go-to man. Along with Yuvraj Singh, Raina was the man with the golden touch. Read morePriyanka Chopra sets up fundraiser, urges all to donate towards Covid-19 relief: ‘India is my home, it is bleeding’Priyanka Chopra urged everyone towards Covid-19 relief in India, as it battles a deadly second wave of the pandemic. She talked about the grim situation in the country, as hospitals are unable to accommodate patients. Read moreWatch: Man gasps for breath outside Delhi hospital, wife & son search for oxygenA man, seen gasping for breath outside Delhi hospital, was saved in nick of time on Wednesday. The man’s wife and 12-year-old son searched for oxygen at Delhi’s RML hospital. Watch here||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/news-updates-from-ht-joe-biden-says-us-will-maintain-military-presence-in-indo-pacific-to-avoid-conflict-and-all-the-latest-news-101619666273546.html
29-04-2021||India||Most of South Asia to record normal or above normal monsoon this year||There is likely to be normal to above normal rainfall over most parts of the South Asian region during the June to September southwest monsoon season, according to a consensus statement released by South Asian Seasonal Climate Outlook Forum (SASCOF) and the Climate Services Users Forum on Wednesday.Above-normal rainfall is likely over some areas of the northwest, along the foothills of Himalayas and northeast parts of the region, including Nepal and parts of Pakistan, and many areas of the central part of the region in India. However, monsoon rain is most likely to be below normal over many areas over extreme northwest, northeast and some areas over north-eastern parts of the region.The statement has been developed by all nine National Meteorological and Hydrological Services (NMHSs) of South Asia led by India with Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nepal, Myanmar, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Maldives and Sri Lanka and the process involved expert assessment of the prevailing global climate conditions and forecasts from different climate models from around the world.“The moderate La Niña conditions that prevailed over the Pacific since July 2020 have weakened to borderline La Niña to ENSO neutral conditions in the month of April 2021. Based on the global climate model forecasts, there is strong consensus among experts that the ENSO neutral conditions are likely to prevail during the southwest monsoon season,” the statement said.The India Meteorological Department (IMD) had said in its forecast that the monsoon for this year is likely to bring the normal amount of rainfall at 98% of the long period average (LPA) with an error margin of +/- 5%. IMD considers rainfall between 96% to 104% of LPA to be in the “normal” range. In 2020 and 2019 also, the monsoon was above normal at 110% and 109% of LPA.The SASCOF statement added that during the monsoon season, minimum temperatures are likely to be above normal over most areas of west, northwest, north and north eastern parts of South Asia. The maximum temperatures are likely to be below normal over most of the central parts of South Asia while the maximum temperatures are likely to be above normal over northwest and northern areas of northeast of the region.ENSO neutral conditions are generally associated with normal southwest monsoon over the region. In a few cases, other regional factors such as Indian Ocean conditions may play a more dominant role in influencing monsoon performance. At present, neutral Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) conditions are prevailing over the Indian Ocean. The recent forecasts from coupled global models suggest that these neutral IOD conditions are likely to continue during the monsoon season. A few climate models also indicate development of weak negative IOD conditions during the monsoon season which is often associated with a weak monsoon.Also Read | 8 states most prone to climate crisis: Study“We issue this consensus statement every year for the region. Like we said before, the region is likely to record normal to above normal rain this year with normal varying based on grid points. Maps have been shared with all countries,” said DS Pai, senior climate scientist at IMD, Pune.The summer rains which set in from June 1 over India are critical because nearly 60% of India’s net arable land lacks irrigation and nearly half the population depends on a farm-based livelihood. The rains also replenish 89 “nationally important reservoirs” critical for drinking and power generation.Many parts of the country have started recording pre-monsoon rains. IMD on Wednesday said under the influence of a fresh Western Disturbance, isolated rainfall/thunderstorm is likely over Jammu, Kashmir, Ladakh, Gilgit, Baltistan, Muzaffarabad, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand during the next five days. Thunderstorm activity is likely to increase subsequently and is likely to be accompanied by gusty winds over the plains of northwest India during April 30 and May 2. Isolated thunderstorm/dust storm (speed reaching 40-50 kmph) is also likely over west and north Rajasthan during April 29 and May 2.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/most-of-south-asia-to-record-normal-or-above-normal-monsoon-this-year-101619667523765.html
29-04-2021||India||Maharashtra sees 63,309 new Covid cases; highest one-day toll with 985 deaths||With 985 deaths, Maharashtra reported its highest single-day jump in Covid-19 fatalities for the second consecutive day, taking the toll to 67,214. The state also added 63,309 infections, taking the tally to 4,473,394. Active cases stood at 673,481. Although cases saw a slight dip last week with the lockdown, the state has seen a 71% increase in deaths from the previous week.Also Read | Maharashtra likely to extend lockdown till May 15A week after Maharashtra announced a lockdown from April 22, the weekly growth of infections has seen a dip. Between April 15 and April 21, the state recorded 387,972 cases, which came down to 378,554 between April 22 and April 28. Deaths, however, increased in the period. In the past seven days, Maharashtra saw 4,735 deaths, a 71.29% increase from the previous week — 2,758 deaths. A senior health official said it would be early to gauge the impact of the lockdown. “The state had imposed a curfew from April 13, which got a mild response from people. This slight dip could be because of that. We will know the impact of the lockdown in the next week,” he said.Meanwhile, the state Cabinet on Wednesday decided to extend the lockdown by 15 days from May 1. A formal order is expected to be issued by April 30, senior officials said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/maharashtra-sees-63-309-new-covid-cases-highest-one-day-toll-with-985-deaths-101619664701098.html
29-04-2021||India||US rushing supplies worth over $100 mn for India’s Covid-19 response||Washington/New Delhi: The US is rushing supplies worth more than $100 million, including oxygen generation systems and raw materials for vaccines, to back India’s Covid-19 response in the face of a devastating second wave of infections. The first emergency relief shipment, which is expected to arrive on a military transport aircraft from Travis Air Force Base, will include 440 oxygen cylinders and regulators donated by the state of California. The flight will also carry 960,000 rapid diagnostic tests and 100,000 N95 masks provided by USAID. The aid is being provided in line with a pledge made by President Joe Biden during a phone conversation with Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 26. Several more flights carrying more equipment and supplies are expected this week. The US relief supplies will start flowing in shortly after support packages from Russia and member states of the European Union (EU), part of a global effort to help India cope with record-breaking infections that have surged past the 300,000-mark over the past few days. The support will also help address a severe shortage of oxygen, which has been blamed for many deaths in recent days. “Thanks to @US_TRANSCOM, @AirMobilityCmd, @Travis60AMW & @DLAmil for hustling to prepare critical @USAID medical supplies for shipping. As I’ve said, we’re committed to use every resource at our disposal, within our authority, to support India’s frontline healthcare workers,” US defense secretary Lloyd Austin tweeted on Thursday. Also Read:Over 10 million 18+ sign up; no slots for jabs yet“Just as India sent assistance to the United States when our hospitals were strained early in the pandemic, the United States is determined to help India in its time of need,” said a statement from the White House. The Indian help included a large consignment of hydroxychloroquine. India cleared it for export despite a ban in response to a request from then-President Donald Trump. The antimalarial drug was then being deployed for unproven prophylactic and therapeutic uses.The emergency assistance coming from the US this week will include an initial delivery of 1,100 oxygen cylinders that will remain in India, 1,700 oxygen concentrators to obtain oxygen from ambient air, multiple large-scale oxygen generation units to support up to 20 patients each, and additional mobile units to target specific shortages. A team of US experts will support the oxygen generation units by working on the ground alongside Indian personnel. The support package will also include raw materials for making the Covishield vaccine that the US has re-directed from its own order of manufacturing supplies. These materials will allow India to make more than 20 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine, the White House statement said. The raw materials were held up as US suppliers prioritised them for use by domestic buyers under a war-time law invoked by Biden in February. The US is also sending 15 million N95 masks to protect patients and healthcare personnel, one million rapid diagnostic tests of the same type used by the White House to provide reliable results in less than 15 minutes, and the first tranche of a planned 20,000 treatment courses of the antiviral drug Remdesivir. The US also plans to send more planeloads of oxygen cylinders. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has locally procured more cylinders and will deliver them to support hospitals in India. CDC experts will work with Indian experts in the laboratory, surveillance, and epidemiology, bioinformatics for genomic sequencing and modelling, infection prevention and control, vaccine rollout, and risk communication, the White House said. USAID, which has provided India more than $23 million in assistance since the start of the pandemic, is procuring 1,000 oxygen concentrators that will be used in 320 primary healthcare facilities. The US aid effort was mobilised after growing domestic pressure on the Biden administration, including from lawmakers and business lobbies, over the past week to help India’s Covid-19 response. The US has also faced criticism from some quarters for what was seen as a lethargic response in the initial stages. Kurt Campbell, Biden’s Indo-Pacific czar on Tuesday, said: “I’ve never seen anything like this. I’ve never seen such an outpouring of support, such a focused effort to respond to people in need.” Gayle Smith, the state department’s Covid-19 coordinator, said, “This is a tragedy to watch, and it compels all of us to action. We all need to understand that we’re at the front end of this, this hasn’t peaked yet, so this is going to require determination and we’re going to need to sustain it and work really hard for some time.”The Covid-19 assistance is the largest and most extensive announced by the United States for any country.Relief from state governments, businesses, and private citizens will be in addition to the federal effort.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/us-rushing-supplies-worth-over-100-mn-for-india-s-covid-19-response-101619661940215.html
29-04-2021||NA||LIVE: National directives for Covid-19 management to continue to be followed till May 31, says MHA||The ongoing second wave of the Covid-19 pandemic is causing a rapid increase in India's daily new infections as the country logged 379,257 new cases on Thursday, another grim record in its single-day spike. This was the eighth consecutive day when more than 300,000 infections of the coronavirus disease have been reported in a single day. The fatalities shows a grim figure with 3,645 patients succumbing to the disease, taking the death toll to 204,832.Globally, India has reported the second-highest number of total cases in the world after the United States, and fourth-highest number of deaths according to data from the World Health Organisation (WHO).Among the states, Maharashtra reported 63,309 new cases and 985 deaths (highest single-day toll) taking the state's cases tally to 4,473,394 and the death toll to 67,214, according to data from the state government. Karnataka reported close to 40,000 new Covid-19 cases (39,047 to be exact) and 229 deaths on Wednesday and is currently the third-most affected state in terms of total positive cases, according to the Union health ministry's data.Amid the ongoing crisis, many countries globally, including the US, the UK, France, Australia, Singapore, Canada and Norway, are supporting India's efforts against the disease with the supply of equipment such as oxygen concentrators and cylinders.Meanwhile, the country's vaccination drive on May 1 is set enter its third phase, in which everyone above the age of 18 will be eligible for vaccination. The registration processed opened at 4pm on April 28 even as many users complained of a glitches on the CO-WIN digital platform which the centre has denied. So far, more than 150 million doses of the vaccine have been administered, according to the central health ministry.Follow all the updates here:Maharashtra records 66,159 fresh cases, 771 more deathsMaharashtra on Thursday witnessed a slight dip in its daily tally of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) after 66,159 new cases and 771 more deaths were recorded in the last 24 hours, according to the state health department's bulletin. Mumbai's daily Covid-19 tally also dipped to 4,174 while the city's caseload is nearing 645,000, the bulletin showed. Plan prepared to vaccinate all above 18 in next 3 months in Delhi, says CMHad a meeting with the officials on vaccination drive in Delhi. Prepared a plan to vaccinate all above 18 years in the next 3 months. We will set up vaccination centres on a large scale. All eligible people must come forward to get vaccinated. pic.twitter.com/RapPp4fvJfDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said on Thursday the Delhi government has prepared a plan to vaccinate all residents in the next three months adding vaccination centres will be set up on a large scale. "All eligible people must come forward to get vaccinated," Kejriwal tweeted. Brazilian Covid-19 variant may be more transmissible: StudyThe P.1 Covid-19 variant which has originated in Brazil might be more transmissible than other strains and might be able to evade immunity gained from previous infection with the virus, news agency PTI reported quoting a study. The research which was published in the Journal science had used data from Brazil's Manaus city to characterise the variant and its properties, including 84 samples of genetic sequencing data.Russia reports 9,284 new cases, 364 more deathsRussia's caseload of the Covid-19 disease climbed to 4,796,557 after 9,284 cases and 364 deaths were reported on Thursday, according to the coronavirus taskforce. The country's death toll is nearing 110,000. Covid-19: UP extends weekend curfew by 24 hours, to be in effect till 7am on TuesdayThe Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday announced an extension to the existing weekend curfew in the state imposed to tackle the rising numbers of coronavirus disease cases.Click here to read moreDefence ministry says 3 naval hospitals kept ready as Covid-19 cases surgeAs COVID-19 cases surge in the county, three naval hospitals under the Western Naval Command viz., INHS Jeevanti, Goa, INHS Patanjali, Karwar and INHS Sandhani, Mumbai have been kept ready for use by the civil administration. @indiannavy pic.twitter.com/7JG4g5MbKH"As COVID-19 cases surge in the county, three naval hospitals under the Western Naval Command viz., INHS Jeevanti, Goa, INHS Patanjali, Karwar and INHS Sandhani, Mumbai have been kept ready for use by the civil administration," office of the defence minister tweeted.Delhi CM Arvind Kejriwal takes second dose of the Covid-19 vaccineI took my second dose of vaccine today. I urge everyone, whoever is eligible to get vaccinatedDelhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal tweeted that he has taken his second dose of the Covid-19 vaccine today. He also urged all eligible people to get vaccinated.He took his first dose of Covishield vaccine on March 4.India's Covid-19 active caseload soars past 3 million mark, occupies 16.79% of total cases#Unite2FightCoronaIndia’s total Active Caseload reached 30,84,814 today; comprises 16.79% of the total Positive Cases. A net incline of 1,06,105 cases recorded from the total active caseload the last 24 hours.11 States account for 78.26% of India's total Active Cases. pic.twitter.com/fIyb10dJcVActive cases of the coronavirus disease in India crossed the 3 million mark on the day and currently stands at 3,084,814, the Union health ministry's data showed.10 states account for 78.71% of 3,645 new fatalities reported in last 24 hours, says Centre#Unite2FightCorona3,645 deaths were reported in the last 24 hours.Ten States account for 78.71% of the new deaths. pic.twitter.com/d7p33MrVOCAccording to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare, ten states accounted for 78.71 per cent of the 3,645 new deaths reported in the last 24 hours.Covid-19: 10 states contribute over 72% to India's new cases in last 24 hours#Unite2FightCoronaIndia registered 3,79,257 new cases in the last 24 hours.10 States account for 72.20% of the new cases registered. pic.twitter.com/pnmJCqtM3nOf the new cases identified in the last 24 hours, ten states accounted for 72.20 per cent of the new infections, the Union health ministry said.India's Covid-19 vaccination drive completes inoculation of 150 million doses, says govt#Unite2FightCorona#LargestVaccineDriveIndia’s Cumulative Vaccination Coverage has crossed the landmark of 15 Crore (15,00,20,648).  https://t.co/MeHTanupJr pic.twitter.com/sgoqt5Q6OdUnder the country's vaccination drive, more than 150 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine have been administered, according to the data from the Union ministry of health and family welfare.Delhi CM to meet officials to review Covid-19 situation, health minister Satyendar Jain to attendChief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold a meeting with officials later today over the situation of #COVID19 vaccines in Delhi. Health Minister Satyendar Jain will also be present at the meet. (File photo) pic.twitter.com/fVIgcABM9kChief minister Arvind Kejriwal to hold a meeting with Delhi government officials over Covid-19 situation. Health minister Satyendar Jain would also attend the meeting, reports ANI.Covid-19: First consignment of oxygen concentrators from Germany lands in DelhiFirst consignment of Oxygen concentrators from Germany arrives in Delhi on ⁦@airindiain⁩ Flight AI120. More to follow. Every stakeholder of India’s civil aviation sector is making a meaningful contribution in our unrelenting fight against COVID.⁦@HospitalsApollo⁩ pic.twitter.com/nYxXqDqN9WAir India flight carrying first consignment of oxygen concentrators from Germany landed in Delhi, Union civil aviation minister Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted.Uttarakhand govt suspends Chardham Yatra due to Covid-19 situationUttarakhand government has suspended Char Dham Yatra this year in view of #COVID19 situation in the state. Only priests of the four temples will perform rituals and puja: Chief Minister Tirath Singh Rawat (File photo) pic.twitter.com/No6I9G2WDxUttarakhand chief minister Tirath Singh Rawat said that the Char Dham Yatra has been suspended this year due to the Covid-19 situation, reports ANI.Centre says over one crore Covid-19 vaccine doses still available with statesMore than 1 crore Covid-19 vaccine doses are still available with states and UTs and they will receive over 20 lakh more doses within the next 3 days, the Union Health Ministry said on Thursday.Puducherry records 1,122 fresh Covid-19 casesPuducherry records 1,122 fresh Covid-19 cases, 564 recoveries, and 12 deaths in the last 24 hoursActive cases: 8,689Total recoveries: 47,645Death toll: 793States, UTs to receive over 2 million Covid-19 vaccine doses in next 3 days: CentreGovt of India has so far provided over 16.16 cr vaccine doses to States/UTs free of cost. Over 1 cr doses still available with States/UTs to be administered. Over 20 lakh doses, in addition, will be received by States/UTs in the next 3 days: Ministry of Health & Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/I58cLHwfNlThe Union health ministry said that more than 161 million doses of the Covid-19 vaccine has been given free of cost to states and UTs. The ministry also said that over 100 million doses are available with the states and another 2 million doses would be received in the next three days, reports ANI.Long queues seen outisde Mumbai's NESCO Covid-19 vaccination centreMaharashtra: Long queues of people seen outside NESCO vaccination centre in Mumbai.#COVID19 pic.twitter.com/rg0VbBGBXRPeople waiting in long queues outside the NESCO Covid-19 vaccination centre in Mumbai, reports ANI.Uttarakhand HC orders state govt to conduct 30,000-50,000 Covid-19 tests in 3 citiesThe HC also gave order to the state's Health Secretary to provide all facilities to COVID-19 patients in home isolation. The Court further said that private labs and hospitals of the state be registered under National Disaster Management Act and be used for RT-PCR tests.The High Court of Uttarakhand in Nainital has ordered the state government to conduct 30,000 to 50,000 Covid-19 tests in the Dehradun, Haldwani and Haridwar cities, reports ANI.Covid-19 in India: Active caseload crosses the 300,000-mark#CoronaVirusUpdates: 📍Total #COVID19 Cases in India (as on April 29, 2021)▶️82.10% Cured/Discharged/Migrated (1,50,86,878)▶️16.79% Active cases (30,84,814)▶️1.11% Deaths (2,04,832)Total COVID-19 confirmed cases = Cured/Discharged/Migrated+Active cases+Deaths#StaySafe pic.twitter.com/4lv1k9L0fqAll you need to know about India's Covid-19 numbers today -US aircraft with Covid-19 supplies taken off from California, to reach Delhi tomorrow: Indian ambassador to USThis evening, US' C-5 aircraft, with oxygen cylinders, oxygen regulators & other essential supplies, has taken off from California & it's expected to land in Delhi tomorrow. There'll be perhaps more such sorties, that will be undertaken: TS Sandhu, Indian Ambassador to US, to ANI pic.twitter.com/j6iDNh46ahIndian ambassador to US TS Sandhu said that an aircraft carrying essential Covid-19 supplies has taken off from California and is expected to land in Delhi tomorrow, reports ANI.Rajasthan CM Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19, to continue working from isolationकोविड टेस्ट करवाने पर आज मेरी रिपोर्ट भी पॉजिटिव आई है। मुझे किसी तरह के लक्षण नहीं हैं और मैं ठीक महसूस कर रहा हूं। कोविड प्रोटोकॉल का पालन करते हुए मैं आइसोलेशन में रहकर ही कार्य जारी रखूंगा।Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot tests positive for Covid-19. He said that he has no symptoms of the disease and would continue to work from isolation.India records biggest single-day spike with 379,257 new Covid-19 cases, 3,645 deathsWith 379,257 new Covid-19 cases and 3,645 deaths, India's cases tally reached 18,376,524 and death toll climbed to 204,832, according to the data from the Union health ministry.More than 1.7 million Covid-19 tests done on April 28: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/oBzD7jEzTXThe Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) said that 1,768,190 samples were tested on April 28 and cumulative testing has reached 284,471,979 samples.Watch | 2 Russian flights with Covid-19 supplies arrive in Delhi#WATCH | Two flights from Russia, carrying 20 oxygen concentrators, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors, and medicines totalling 22 MT, arrived at Delhi airport earlier this morning. pic.twitter.com/L2JRu3WLZsTwo Russian flights with Covid-19 supplies including 20 oxygen concentrators, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors, and medicines totalling 22 MT arrived in Delhi, reports ANI.Clearance expedited by Air Cargo, Delhi Customs for 2 Russian flights carrying Covid-19 supplies: CBICAir Cargo, Delhi Customs working 24*7 expedited clearance of two flights from Russia early morning which brought 20 oxygen concentrator, 75 ventilators, 150 bedside monitors and medicines totalling 22 MT: Central Board of Indirect Taxes & Customs (CBIC) pic.twitter.com/AZwZDS3aHAThe Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC) said that Air Cargo and Delhi Customs worked "24x7" to expedite the clearance for two Russian flights with Covid-19 supplies, reports ANI.BJP MP writes to Uttarakhand CM requesting financial aid for families of journalists who die due to Covid-19BJP MP Ajay Bhatt writes to Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat requesting him if a ruling can be passed wherein financial aid be given under COVID-19 Act, besides CM Relief Fund & Journalist Welfare Committee, to families of the journalists who die due to #COVID19. (File pic) pic.twitter.com/MOfaBilpTZBJP MP Ajay Bhatt writes to Uttarakhand CM Tirath Singh Rawat seeking if a ruling could be passed to provide additional financial aid to families of journalists who die due to Covid-19, reports ANI.Covid-19: Russian ambassador says 2 flights with equipment, medicines from Russia landed in IndiaFor this purpose, 2 urgent flights, operated by Russian EMERCOM arrived here today. These are oxygen concentrators, lung ventilation equipment, bedside monitors, medicines, including Coronavir & other essential pharmaceutical items: Nikolay Kudashev, Ambassador of Russia to IndiaRussia's ambassador to India Nikolay Kudashev said that 2 Russian flights with medicines, critical equipment landed in India, reports ANI.China reports 20 new mainland Covid-19 cases, death toll unchanged at 4,636China's National Health Commission said that 20 new Covid-19 cases, all cases originating from overseas, were recorded in the mainland, taking it's cases tally to 90,642. The death toll stands at 4,636, reports Reuters.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-india-world-latest-news-covid-19-death-toll-april-29-2021-101619657741725.html
29-04-2021||India||Four-day lockdown in Goa from Thursday as Covid-19 cases spike||Goa will undergo a lockdown for four days from Thursday evening to Monday morning (May 3) in order to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (Covid-19). Essential services and industries will be open during the lockdown. The announcement was made by Goa chief minister Pramod Sawant on Wednesday. He urged people not to panic buy. "The lockdown will be lifted on Monday," the Chief Minister said.He also appealed to the people to take necessary precautions against coronavirus and take medicines in case of Covid-19 symptoms.Here's what's allowed and what's not during the four-day lockdown:--Essential services and industries will be exempted during the lockdown but public transport will not be allowed.--Restaurant kitchens have been allowed to remain open and food deliveries can also take place.--Weekly markets will not be allowed during the lockdown.--Casinos, hotels and pubs will remain closed.--Borders will remain open for essential service transportation.--Tourists coming to Goa over the course of the four days will be allowed to stay in their hotels but not venture out.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fourday-lockdown-in-goa-from-thursday-as-covid-19-cases-spike-101619655198397.html
29-04-2021||India||After 6.4 magnitude jolt, 6 earthquakes hit Assam's Sonitpur today||After the earthquake of 6.4 magnitude on the Richter scale on Wednesday, Assam's Sonitpur was struck by six tremors on Thursday.An earthquake of magnitude 2.7 on the Richter scale struck Assam's Sonitpur in the early hours of Thursday morning, said the National Center for Seismology. This is the sixth earthquake that occurred in Sonitpur on Thursday after 12.00 am.According to the NCS, the quake occurred at 2:38 am. The epicentre of the quake was 38 kilometres West-Northwest of Tezpur at a depth of 11 kilometres.Earlier today, earthquakes of magnitude 2.6, 2.9, 4.6, 2.7, and 2.3 on the Richter Scale had hit Sonitpur at 12.24 am, 1.10 am, 1.20 am, 1.41 am and 1.52 am respectively.Prior to that on Wednesday, around 10 earthquakes had hit the Sonitpur throughout the day. The most severe among them was an earthquake of magnitude 6.4 on the Richter scale that struck Sonitpur on Wednesday morning.According to NCS, the area is seismically very active falling in the highest Seismic Hazard zone V associated with collisional tectonics where Indian plate subducts beneath the Eurasian Plate."The historical and instrumentally recorded earthquake data (NCS catalogue) reveals that the region is affected by moderate to large earthquakes and the most prominent events among those are the July 29, 1960, Assam earthquake of magnitude 6.0," said NCS in a release.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/after-6-4-magnitude-jolt-6-earthquakes-hit-assam-s-sonitpur-today-101619655708105.html
29-04-2021||India||UK to send 3 oxygen generation units to India||The United Kingdom will send three oxygen generation units, each with the capacity of producing 500 litres of oxygen per minute, to India in support of the country's fight against Covid-19.The United Kingdom High Commission to India on Wednesday said it will send further vital oxygen equipment to India as the country is witnessing a record surge of coronavirus infection."Three oxygen generation units will be sent from surplus stocks in Northern Ireland to support India by providing more oxygen to those suffering from COVID-19. The oxygen units are each capable of producing 500 litres of oxygen per minute, enough for 50 people to use at a time. Oxygen is one of the main needs of India's healthcare system," the statement read.UK Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab said that Britain stands with Indian "friends" in their fight against Covid-19."We stand with our Indian friends in their fight against COVID-19. International collaboration is more essential than ever, and this additional UK support package will help meet India's current needs, particularly for more oxygen," the statement quoted him as saying.The UK recently announced its action to support India, with 495 oxygen concentrators and 200 ventilators sent from surplus stocks.The first batch of these medical supplies from UK arrived in Delhi on Tuesday, with the rest due to arrive in Delhi by Friday.India is reeling under the impact of the second wave of coronavirus. The country on Wednesday reported over 3.60 lakh fresh Covid-19 cases and 3,293 related deaths in the last 24 hours.The worsening Covid-19 situation in India has seen a surge in the demand for medical oxygen and beds for the Covid-19 patients and many parts of the country are reporting an acute shortage of essential medical supplies.Several countries around the world have come forward to help India as it continues to struggle with the increase in its health infrastructure needs caused by the rising coronavirus cases.On Tuesday, the World Health Organisation (WHO) had said that it has bolstered its Covid-19 response in India by redeploying 2,600 health experts from other programs to counter the recent daily spike in cases and deaths.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/uk-to-send-3-oxygen-generation-units-to-india-101619654752789.html
29-04-2021||India||Night curfew in Bihar from Thursday: All you need to know about new restrictions||Amid alarming rise in coronavirus disease (Covid-19), Bihar will go for night curfew from Thursday from 6pm to 6am. The decision was taken by the Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the Bihar government, headed by chief minister Nitish Kumar. Along with this, all shops in the state have been asked to close at 4pm.Certain guidelines were announced on Wednesday, a day after Nitish Kumar held a review meeting to take stock of the Covid-19 situation in the state. "A high-level review meeting related to Corona was done through video conferencing. Instructed officers to supply sufficient oxygen and ensure availability of medicine," Kumar said in a tweet.He also ordered the officials of the state health department to take feedback from the district magistrates every alternate day on the Covid-19 scenario and take necessary steps accordingly, an official statement said.Bihar on Wednesday recorded 98,747 new cases of Covid-19. The state's Covid death toll has climbed to 2,391 with 84 more patients succumbing to the infection.Here are the new guidelines:--The government has ordered the closure of shops/commercial establishments by 4pm daily. Presently, the timing for shops/commercial establishments functioning was till 6pm.--Only 50 people have been allowed in a wedding ceremony, whereas only 20 people will be allowed to assemble for the last rites of individuals.--Marriage ceremonies will have to conclude at 10pm and no DJs will be allowed during these celebrations.--Government and other offices will function only with 25% attendance till 4pm.--Section 144 of CrPC prohibiting assembly of five or more people at one spot will be in force during the period.--Public transport will run under 50% capacity.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/night-curfew-in-bihar-from-thursday-all-you-need-to-know-about-new-restrictions-101619653272766.html
29-04-2021||India||PM Modi holds meeting with IAF chief, reviews relief work||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday reviewed the Indian Air Force’s (IAF) Covid relief efforts and stressed on the need to increase the speed, scale and safety of operations in transporting oxygen tankers and other essential material to fight the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) pandemic.Briefing the Prime Minister on the air force’s efforts to help fight the outbreak, IAF chief Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria said that IAF has ordered 24x7 readiness of its entire heavy-lift fleet and substantial numbers of its medium-lift fleet to operate in a hub and spoke model to swiftly meet all Covid-related tasks across the country and overseas, the PMO said in a statement.“Aircrews for all fleets have been augmented to ensure round-the-clock operations,” the statement quoted the IAF chief as saying. Bhadauria also told Modi that IAF has set up a dedicated Covid-19 air support cell to ensure faster coordination with different ministries and agencies.IAF is making a significant contribution in the fight against Covid-19. For more than a week, it has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations, and has been making sorties abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.Multiple IAF sorties were underway on Wednesday as well, officials familiar with the development said. Oxygen tankers are being airlifted in C-17 heavy-lift planes from Bangkok to Jamnagar; Agra, Chandigarh, Hindon, Bhopal and Gwalior to Ranchi, Indore to Raipur, Bhopal to Surat, and Jodhpur and Indore to Jamnagar.“PM spoke about the need to ensure that IAF personnel engaged in Covid-related operations remain safe from infection. He also spoke about the need to ensure safety of all Covid-related operations,” the PMO statement said.Modi enquired about the health of IAF personnel and their families during the briefing. The IAF chief informed him that “near saturation vaccination coverage has been achieved in the IAF,” the statement said.On Monday, too, PM Modi reviewed the military’s preparations to assist the government in Covid-19 management. Chief of Defence Staff General Bipin Rawat gave a detailed presentation to the Prime Minister on April 26.He informed him that all military medical personnel who retired or took premature retirement in the last two years are being recalled to work in Covid-19 facilities near them. Medical officers who retired more than two years ago have also been requested to make their services available for consultation through medical emergency helplines.The armed forces, the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) and defence public sector undertakings too are working for Covid-19 relief.They have set up Covid hospitals, ramped up oxygen production, airlifted medical staff and oxygen containers, and liaised with state governments to help deal with the rising number of Covid-19 cases in the country.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/pm-modi-holds-meeting-with-iaf-chief-reviews-relief-work-101619653648433.html
29-04-2021||India||Over 10 million 18+ sign up; no slots for jabs yet||A little over 10 million people signed up on the Co-WIN platform in roughly six hours after it began accepting registrations from those in the 18-44 age group on Wednesday, though these new signees are not likely to get coronavirus vaccines when they become eligible for the jabs on May 1 due to supply constraints.The registration process opened at 4pm. According to the Co-WIN dashboard, there were roughly 1.2 million new registrations till 3pm. By 10pm, the total number of people who signed through the day shot up to over 12 million.“[There were] no glitches. We registered 3.5 million people in one hour. We delivered 8.7 million SMSes in 1.5 hours,” said the chairman of the empowered group on vaccination, RS Sharma.Some people reported being unable to access the website immediately after 4pm, and an official, who asked not to be named, said there was an outage for half an hour before the platform was up and functional again.“People are now receiving OTPs within two to three seconds,” the official said, asking not to be named. “Initially, the load always increases. More people than one can account for turn up. But then it settles down. This is not unusual.” The official said that at one point the service was receiving 2.7 million hits per minute.Some people soon after signing up began posting screenshots on social media of the service not allowing anyone under 45 to select an appointment.A government official said this was because vaccination sites were mostly available at present for people over 45 years of age who continue to be part of the campaign for which doses are being distributed by the Union government. Doses for those under 45 are meant to be acquired directly by state governments or private hospitals, which is yet to happen.“The rest are in the process of negotiating prices and checking vaccine availability. The drive starts from May 1, people should soon be able to book appointments as well,” this person added.But officials across several states and in private hospitals said they have little idea about when they will be able to restart vaccinations. “We haven’t really been given a free hand though the government is also allowing private hospitals to procure. First priority is the Centre, then it is the states, and then private,” said Shobana Kamineni, executive vice-chairperson at Apollo Hospitals.Kamineni added that the vaccine manufacturers Apollo Hospitals reached out to said they had other commitments to fulfil first. “They have very clearly said that we’re not the priority. We can only open it when we have vaccines,” the executive said.A senior expert in the government admitted there could be a shortage of doses. “For conducting the initial two phases of national Covid-19 immunisation, the supplies seemed adequate, which is why the government also began exporting vaccine doses to help other countries. However, with the sudden surge in cases, and the government deciding to open up vaccination for all adults as a way of controlling the spread, the current production capacity looks inadequate. There is a need to quickly ramp up production and approve other vaccines such as Johnson & Johnson that already has applied for approval,” said a senior epidemiologist with the government, on condition of anonymity.India has two Covid-19 vaccine manufacturers active at the moment, and both of them put together produce about 80 million doses a month. The two manufacturers are Serum Institute of India (SII), which is locally manufacturing Oxford University-AstraZeneca Covid-19 vaccine under the brand name Covishield, and Bharat Biotech, which is producing Covaxin.As per SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla, the company has a production capacity of about 60-70 million Covishield doses per month, and Bharat Biotech currently produces about 10 million doses of Covaxin in a month.Poonawalla has in recent media interviews said that SII hopes to begin deliveries to state government and private hospitals by mid-May. Bharat Biotech or its executive have not commented publicly on when they expect to start deliveries directly to states and private hospitals.As on Tuesday, of 16 states where HT reporters reached out to officials for details on direct vaccine supplies, only three – Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Assam – said they expected at least some of the doses to arrive by the first week of next month. Most others said they expected deliveries only after mid-May.Maharashtra, which was the first to seek deliveries from SII and Bharat Biotech, said it expects 100,000 doses of Covaxin and 10 million doses of Covishield in May. At the same time, several states have said that they were yet to hear back from either of the companies on order queries.To combat the sudden surge in Covid-19 cases, the government expanded free vaccination coverage to all 45 years of age and above on April 1. The first phase of Covid-19 vaccination began on January 16 with all health care workers, which was later expanded to all frontline workers on February 2.Apart from halting vaccine exports for the time being, the government also has been encouraging vaccine producers to scale up. It is assisting Bharat Biotech in scaling up capacity from the current 10 million doses to about 20 million by June.SII also announced that it was working towards ramping up the production capacity to nearly 100 million doses a month.The Centre has made it clear that free vaccine doses are meant only for those above the age of 45, who are seen to be more at risk of severe disease or death with Covid-19. Vaccine makers will need to supply in a 50-50 ratio, with half going to the Centre, which will pass it on to states for the 45-plus vaccination in a formula it is yet to announce, and the rest directly to states and private hospitals.Experts said it is imperative for the vaccine drive to cover as much ground as quickly as possible. “It is important that the speed of vaccination be ramped up,to ensure we don’t see the kind of spread that we are seeing in the current wave,” said Dr Giridhara R Babu, head, epidemiology, Indian Institute of Public Health.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/over-10-million-18-sign-up-no-slots-for-jabs-yet-101619652425711.html
29-04-2021||India||Tejas aircraft fires Python-5 air-to-air missile for first time||The indigenous Tejas light combat aircraft (LCA) on Tuesday fired the Israeli-origin Python-5 air-to-air missile (AAM) for the first time, paving the way for the short-range missile to be carried on the plane, officials familiar with the development said.“Trials were also aimed to validate enhanced capability of already integrated Derby beyond visual range (BVR) AAM on Tejas. The test firing at Goa completed a series of missile trials to validate its performance under extremely challenging scenarios,” the defence ministry said in a statement on Wednesday. The Derby missile achieved direct hit on a high-speed maneuvering aerial target and the Python missiles also achieved 100% hits, validating their complete capability, it added.The missiles were fired from Aeronautical Development Agency (ADA) Tejas aircraft flown by IAF test pilots from the National Flight Test Centre.The defence ministry in February awarded a ₹48,000 crore contract to Hindustan Aeronautics Limited for 83 LCA Mk-1A jets for the IAF.The deal took the total number of Tejas variants ordered to 123. The 40 LCAs already ordered by IAF are in the initial operational clearance (IOC) and the more advanced final operational clearance (FOC) configurations. The LCA Mk-1A will come with additional improvements over the FOC aircraft, making it the most advanced Tejas variant so far.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tejas-aircraft-fires-python-5-air-to-air-missile-for-first-time-101619647301018.html
29-04-2021||India||Allahabad High Court judge dies of Covid-19||Justice Virendra Kumar Srivastava of the Lucknow bench of the Allahabad High Court died of Covi-19 on Wednesday. He was 59.Srivastava, who had tested positive for coronavirus, was undergoing treatment at the Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute (SGPGI) in Lucknow.While giving this information, Allahabad High Court Registrar (Protocol) Ashish Kumar Srivastava said that Justice Srivastava died at SGPGI on Wednesday.The Allahabad High Court and its Lucknow bench will remain closed on Thursday to mourn the death of Justice Srivastava.Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has expressed grief over the death of Justice Srivastava, the Uttar Pradesh government said in a statement issued in Lucknow on Wednesday.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/allahabad-high-court-judge-dies-of-covid19-101619646789262.html
29-04-2021||India||Canada, Norway, Singapore lend support to India amid Covid surge||Singapore, Canada and Norway have joined the list of countries that have announced support for India’s response to a devastating second wave of coronavirus infections that has hit healthcare facilities across the country.The Singapore government dispatched a consignment of 256 oxygen cylinders on two C-130 military transport aircraft to West Bengal. “Last yr, [India] helped the world and [Singapore] by exporting essential medicines & supplies. Now, we stand with [India] as you fight Covid,” Singapore high commissioner Simon Wong tweeted.Singapore is among the first countries to send oxygen cylinders to India amid reports of a severe shortage of oxygen in several cities. The cylinders will support last mile oxygen delivery and more consignments are expected in the coming days.In Singapore, second minister for foreign affairs Maliki Osman formally handed over the assistance to Indian high commissioner P Kumaran at Paya Lebar airbase. Maliki said Singaporeans stand in solidarity with the people of India in the fight against the pandemic.“We have all witnessed in the past year how this pandemic is a trans-boundary threat. It gives no regard for country, nationality, or race. This is exactly why we must work collectively to support each other,” he said.On Saturday, the Indian Air Force airlifted four cryogenic tanks from Changi airport that will be used to transport oxygen.Canada announced that it is providing $10 million for humanitarian assistance to the Canadian Red Cross to support the Indian Red Cross Society’s response to the devastating situation in India. This contribution will support the procurement of essential supplies and medicines, including oxygen cylinders and ambulances, a statement from Canada’s foreign ministry read.“Canada stands with the people of India as they go through these difficult times. This funding will help meet some of the most urgent medical needs like purchasing and distributing essential supplies as well as supporting vital blood and ambulance services,” Canada’s international development minister Karina Gould said.Foreign minister Marc Garneau also spoke with his Indian counterpart S Jaishankar on Tuesday to convey Canada’s solidarity with the people of India, and said Canada is “exploring all options to support India’s urgent needs”.Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau extended his support in a tweet. “Right now, the people of India are facing a tragic situation. To help with everything from ambulance services to buying personal protective equipment, we’re contributing $10 million to @IndianRedCross through @RedCrossCanada. We stand ready to donate extra medical supplies, too,” he said.The Norwegian government announced a contribution of 20 million Norwegian Kroners ($2.4 million) to be channelled through the World Health Organization (WHO) and International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC).The support will be used to scale up ambulance and blood donation services and medical helplines, buy equipment such as oxygen tanks for ambulances and procure hygiene products to migrant workers and other vulnerable groups.Norwegian ambassador Hans Jacob Frydenlund said, “We stand with you in this time of crisis, with the hope that the second wave will recede soon.” The Norwegian business community in India is also preparing to help in the quickest way possible, he added.Meanwhile, the UK announced that its second consignment of support materials will include three large oxygen generation units, each capable of producing 500 litres of oxygen a minute. The first consignment of British medical equipment arrived on Tuesday, and more will be delivered over the week.The UK will supply a total of 495 oxygen concentrators and 200 ventilators from surplus stocks. The support was sent in response to a request from India and a pledge from Prime Minister Boris Johnson for the UK to do all it can to help, the British high commission said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/canada-norway-singapore-lend-support-to-india-amid-covid-surge-101619645869000.html
29-04-2021||India||First consignment of US Covid aid likely to reach on Friday||With the first consignment of US support materials for India’s Covid-19 response expected to arrive by Friday, people familiar with developments confirmed on Wednesday that India has additionally sought vaccines from the Biden administration.The people noted that the US does not currently have a large stockpile of the AstraZeneca vaccine – some 10 million doses have been produced so far and about 50 million doses are expected to be manufactured in May and June. There is also no clarity on how many doses from this stockpile will be provided to the country though President Joe Biden has himself mentioned that some of it will be sent to India, they said.The government’s international procurement programme is mainly focused at the moment on critical medicines such as Remdesivir and oxygen-related equipment, especially concentrators, cylinders, and large and small liquid oxygen tanks, that can be used to ramp up the supply of oxygen across the country.The first Russian consignment of support materials is expected to arrive in the country on Thursday and the first batch of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine is set to reach India by the end of the month, the people said on condition of anonymity.Details of the first consignment being sent by the US are still being worked out, though it is expected to contain a mix of equipment and supplies, and some of the materials could be sourced from US military bases in different parts of the world, the people said.Asked about reported comments by senior US officials at a recent background briefing that India hadn’t made any request for ready-to-use vaccines from the Biden administration, the people said this matter was raised on a couple of occasions with the American side.“The Indian side has said it would be useful to have US vaccines, may not be specifically the AstraZeneca vaccine, since India now has a fast-track mechanism for approving vaccines. The US is aware of our interest in procuring vaccines, AstraZeneca or otherwise,” said one of the people cited above.The Indian side has managed to get support from a large number of people in the US, including the administration, members of Congress and private businesses, and this is expected to be reflected in the materials that are set to arrive in the coming days, they said.India’s missions around the world are focusing on procuring critical medicines such as Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and Favipiravir, and the Indian side’s ability to convince pharmaceutical major Gilead to donate 450,000 doses of Remdesivir is being seen as a “big success”. More supplies of Remdesivir are also expected from other countries, the people said.The current focus on oxygen-related equipment such as concentrators and cylinders is because it is difficult to import oxygen. “Liquid oxygen can’t be airlifted and has to be brought in by ship. Even there, we need special cryogenic tankers and their numbers are limited across the world. So far, there is one commercial shipment coming from Saudi Arabia,” said the first person cited above.Large oxygen generating plants, such as the ones being sent by Germany and France, are useful though they need considerable time to be installed and set up, the people said. On the other hand, large and small liquid oxygen tanks can help move the commodity from points of production to health care facilities across the country, they added.The people said there was no formal response to offers of assistance from Pakistan and China. There are no problems with commercial procurements from China by private Indian firms, such as the purchase of large numbers of oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong, the people said.The Indian government, especially the external affairs ministry and health ministry, is accelerating procurements from abroad by relaxing import procedures and waiving duties and also ensuring the supplies speedily reach the places where they are needed the most and are also used properly, the people said.All supplies from foreign governments and partners are being routed through the Indian Red Cross Society and countries are also free to provide aid directly to NGOs or other entities in India. The people reiterated that there had been no international appeal for assistance and India was looking to procure specific products from around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/first-consignment-of-us-covid-aid-likely-to-reach-on-friday-101619644888975.html
29-04-2021||India||SII reduces vaccine price for state govts||Serum Institute of India (SII) on Wednesday lowered the cost of its Covid-19 vaccine, Covishield, for state governments by 25% to R300 from an earlier price of R400, days ahead of the third phase of the inoculation drive that is open to all adults and is critical to arrest an alarming surge in infections across India.SII, which manufactures the vaccine developed by Oxford University and British drug firm AstraZeneca, had last week announced a price of R400 for states and R600 for private hospitals to purchase jabs for the third phase. The announcement had immediately triggered a row with several states protesting the price and complaining it was too steep in comparison with the Centre’s procurement price of R150 a dose.“As a philanthropic gesture on behalf of @SerumInstIndia, I hereby reduce the price to the states from Rs.400 to Rs.300 per dose, effective immediately; this will save thousands of crores of state funds going forward. This will enable more vaccinations and save countless lives,” tweeted SII chief executive officer Adar Poonawalla.The other Indian manufacturer, Bharat Biotech, has priced its Covaxin shot at R600 for state governments and R1200 for private hospitals.According to people aware of the matter within the government, the central government asked both the manufacturers to look at further revising the cost of vaccines to state governments.Several state governments, and private companies, are currently in talks with both manufacturers to strike deals as the central government has allowed states and private hospitals to directly procure up to 50% of vaccine manufactured by the firms.“Hard negotiation is happening regarding vaccine procurement but it is difficult to say at the moment when the delivery will start. Looks like the picture will be clear in a couple of days,” said an industry executive aware of the matter, requesting anonymity.On April 19, central government announced that it opened vaccination for all adults from May 1. At least 18 states have announced that they will administer the shots free of cost.Last week, SII had defended the pricing, saying the earlier price was based on advance funding and now it had to invest in scaling up and expanding capacity to produce more shots.Covishield is the lead vaccine in India’s immunisation drive, and roughly 133.4 million doses of it have been administered, in comparison to 13.6 million Covaxin jabs.Concerns about availability and shortages dog both jabs, and have shrouded the May 1 rollout date of the critical third phase in doubt. The Centre denies that there is any shortage and said on Tuesday that it gave states 150 million shots since the drive began in January and that eight million doses were in the pipeline.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sii-reduces-vaccine-price-for-state-govts-101619643593809.html
29-04-2021||India||Centre to buy 100k oxygen devices using PM Cares||The Union government on Wednesday announced the purchase of 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators and the development of 500 pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, both funded by the PM Cares Fund, in an attempt to urgently boost medical oxygen supplies in the country which is gasping on account of the precious commodity in the midst of a raging second wave of the coronavirus disease in the country, with around three million active cases.Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed that these concentrators should be procured immediately and provided to the states which have the highest case burden in the country and are suffering from acute oxygen shortage.“1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators will be procured, 500 more PSA oxygen plants sanctioned from PM-CARES. This will improve access to oxygen, especially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities,” he tweeted.The move comes even as the Union government and state governments face a backlash from people unable to find oxygen for their friends and relatives, and against the backdrop of several hospitals in some parts of the country warning of the calamitous consequences of running out of medical oxygen. In Delhi itself, over the past week, at least 45 seriously ill patients across two hospitals have lost their lives on account of this.The 500 new PSA plants are planned in district headquarters and tier 2 towns according to a government statement, and will be “established with the transfer of the indigenous technology developed by DRDO and CSIR to the domestic manufacturers.”It is in addition to 551 such plants previously announced on Sunday, and 162 announced last year. Of the 162, 33 have been installed, according to a report in Scroll. The health ministry has said that another 26 will be ready by the end of April and another 21 by the end of May.No timeline has been provided for the development of the 500 and the 551 plants, although, in general, it takes between four and six weeks for such plants to be developed. The statement did not mention how much would be spent on the concentrators and the plants.In addition, DRDO has also started work on oxygen generating plants in four government hospitals in Delhi -- AIIMS, RML, Lady Hardinge, and Safdarjung -- and hopes to complete them by May 10 , defence ministry officials familiar with the developments said . Another oxygen generating plant will be set up at AIIMS, Jhajjar.DRDO has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now stepped in to provide oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The technology transferred to the industry is based on the on-board oxygen generation technology developed for the Tejas light combat aircraft, according to the defence ministry. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.DRDO has transferred technology to Tata Advanced Systems Limited, Bengaluru, and Trident Pneumatics Pvt Ltd, Coimbatore, which will be producing 380 of the 500 plants for installation across various hospitals, the defence ministry said in a statement. The remaining 120 plants will be installed by industry in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, it added.“Each oxygen plant is designed for a capacity of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM). The system can cater to 190 patients at a flow rate of 5 LPM and charge 195 cylinders per day…. Hospitals will be able to generate on-site medical oxygen in a cost-effective manner,” the ministry said. Together, the 500 plants can produce the equivalent of 960 MT of liquid oxygen in a day, significantly boosting the nation’s capacity.The PM on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to assist in Covid management. He was briefed by chief of defence staff General Bipin Rawat . He also reviewed the operations undertaken by IAF to transport oxygen and other essentials. For more than a week, IAF has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-buy-100k-oxygen-devices-using-pm-cares-101619643072903.html
29-04-2021||India||₹1.20 crore fine imposed on tribal man for cutting 2 trees in MP’s Raisen||A Madhya Pradesh forest department officer has imposed a fine of ₹1.20 crore on a member of an indigenous forest tribe for allegedly cutting two trees in the forest of Raisen district, calculating the cost on basis of measurable and immeasurable benefits provided by trees, forest officials said.The fine was imposed on Chhote Lal Bhilala, 30, a resident of Silwani village of Raisen district, who was spotted cutting two sagaon (or sagwan; teak) trees at Singori Sanctuary on January 5. He was arrested on April 26.Bamhori forest ranger Mahendra Singh said, “According to study of the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, a tree provides intangible benefits of ₹52 lakh for 50 years. This includes oxygen supply of ₹11.97 lakh, ₹23.68 lakh for controlling air pollution, 19 lakh for soil erosion and soil filtration and ₹4 lakh for water filtration. The trees gives tangible benefits of ₹2 lakh. Therefore, a tree gives benefits of about ₹60 lakhs during its life span to people.”In February, an expert committee told the Supreme Court that the value of a tree is its age multiplied by ₹74500.“The fine was imposed on the basis of benefits provided by a tree,” Singh added.“Chhote Lal is a habitual offender and locals complained that he was involved in illicit felling of trees to sell it to a furniture shop,” he added.However, Chhote Lal’s uncle Phool Bhilala said, “We live in a forest village and use uprooted old trees to construct our houses but the ranger is harassing us.An advocate and expert of Indian Forest Act, BL Gupta said, “According to Indian Forest Act, there is a provision of fine of ₹500 and six month imprisonment for illicit felling of tree. But the ranger imposed a fine as per a study in the charge-sheet. It is going to be an interesting case.”Madhya Pradesh forest department’S principal chief conservator Rajesh Shrivastava said: “I have asked divisional forest officer, Raisen to share a report on this issue because it’s a first of kind matter for the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120-crore-fine-imposed-on-tribal-man-for-cutting-2-trees-in-mp-s-raisen-101619642338028.html
29-04-2021||India||RBI must disclose financial information regarding banks: Supreme Court||Striking a blow for financial transparency in the banking system, the Supreme Court on Wednesday revived its 2015 judgment making it necessary for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to disclose financial information regarding private and public banks under the Right To Information (RTI) Act.The court dismissed a joint plea by the Central government and 10 banks seeking a recall of the 2015 judgment, consequently negating its interim order that stayed the release of the inspection reports of banks.A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran held that the applications for recall were not maintainable and were an attempt to seek reconsideration of the 2015 judgment, which broke new grounds by opening up under the purview of the sunshine law, information relating to Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) or bad loans , losses from trading operations, even show-cause notices and fines imposed by RBI.“A close scrutiny of the applications for recall makes it clear that in substance, the applicants are seeking a review of the judgment in Jayantilal N Mistry (2015 judgment). Therefore, we are of the considered opinion that these applications are not maintainable. All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed,” held the top court. It further noted that the banks did not make any attempt to present their version when the main case was heard.The applications for recall were filed by the Union government, State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, HDFC Bank, Bank of India, Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Uco Bank, Indian Bank, Kotak Mahindra and AU Small Finance Bank.Through its landmark verdict in 2015, the apex court dismissed objections that RBI held financial information about the banks in a fiduciary capacity while making it clear that the banking regulator must act with transparency and not hide information that might embarrass the individual banks.Subsequently, RBI came out with disclosure policies in 2016 and 2019 that sought to dilute the impact of the court verdict. But after the apex court initiated contempt proceedings against RBI, the regulator rolled back the 2019 policy.Six months later, HDFC Bank and SBI filed applications for recall of the 2015 judgment and a different bench issued an interim order, saying: “Inspection Reports/Risk Assessment Reports/Annual Financial Inspection Reports of the Banks including State Bank of India shall not be released by the Reserve Bank of India until further orders.” After this, more banks queued up asking for the same relief.Arguing the matter, the banks alleged violation of natural justice, and said they were not heard when the 2015 judgment made it mandatory for them to furnish crucial financial information under the RTI Act. They also cited the Supreme Court’s 2017 verdict on the right to privacy, complaining that the 2015 judgment, if implemented, would trample upon the privacy of several investors and entities.On its part, the Union government argued that disclosure of such information could hurt the economic interest of the country and not just the entities involved and therefore, it was imperative to recall the judgment and reconsider the issues afresh.Representing one of the RTI applicants in the matter, advocate Prashant Bhushan opposed the recall plea and pointed out that the judgment was delivered in 2015 after hearing RBI and ICICI Bank with other banks not asking to be heard despite being familiar with the case. He added that the main plank of challenge in the previous round was RBI’s reluctance to part with the information on the fallacious ground that it held financial information from the banks in a fiduciary capacity and could not share it.The bench agreed with Bhushan. “In the instant case, the dispute relates to information to be provided by RBI under the Act. Though the information pertained to the banks, it was the decision of RBI which was in challenge and decided by this court. No effort was made by any of the applicants in the miscellaneous applications to get themselves impleaded when the transferred cases were being heard by this court,” it noted.It added that the applications styled as recall were essentially applications for review. “The nomenclature given to an application is of absolutely no consequence - what is of importance is the substance of the application,” maintained the court as it dismissed all the applications for recall.The bench further clarified that its order was confined to the maintainability of the recall applications and that banks were at liberty to take other recourses in law.In its 2015 verdict, the top court ruled that RBI was not in any fiduciary relationship with any bank. “RBI has no legal duty to maximize the benefit of any public sector or private sector bank, and thus there is no relationship of ‘trust’ between them. RBI has a statutory duty to uphold the interest of the public at large, the depositors, the country’s economy and the banking sector,” it said.It had added that “the baseless and unsubstantiated argument of RBI that the disclosure would hurt the economic interest of the country is totally misconceived”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-must-disclose-financial-information-regarding-banks-supreme-court-101619641941978.html
29-04-2021||India||Amid pandemic, better prices for key winter crops bring relief||As an unstoppable pandemic begins weighing on the economy, agricultural mandis or wholesale farm-produce markets are witnessing a fortuitous rebound, offering higher-than-benchmark minimum support prices (MSP) to farmers for key winter staples, cushioning farm incomes.Cultivators are receiving nearly federally fixed floor prices for wheat at private markets since winter harvests began on April 1. Farmers have also got up to 10% higher rates than MSP for mustard, gram, lentils, barley and rapeseed, wholesale price data from Agmarknet, an official platform, shows.Better farm-gate prices come as good news as India battling a paralysing second wave of Covid-19 infections which have squeezed incomes. Nearly half of all Indians depend on a farm-based livelihood. Unprofitable prices have been the bane of farming for long. Prices of primary articles not supported by government procurement have been up to 40% lower than floor prices for winter crops in recent years. An MSP is the federally determined price that promises minimum 50% profit over cost of cultivation. A law guaranteeing MSP has been a key demand of farm groups protesting the three central laws passed last year with the aim to liberalise the farm economy.According to Agmarknet data, between April 1 and 18, mustard prices nationally were 22% higher than MSP. Wheat was trading at near-MSP levels.In Madhya Pradesh and Punjab, the two biggest producers, wheat was selling at a rate equal to MSP in private markets.The Centre has set a target of procuring 43 million tonne of wheat, which is 40% of the total output. Prices are likely to firm up as procurement levels go up. Till April 27, the Centre had procured 23.2 million tonne of wheat from 2.22 million farmers at an MSP value of ₹43,916 crore, according to farm ministry data.Analysts say the current upswing is partly the result of higher global commodity prices and import duties on items such as edible oils. The global FAO Food Price Index released on April 8 averaged 118.5 points in March 2021, 2.1% higher than in February. The increase was led by strong gains in vegetable oils, meat and dairy subindices, while those of cereals and sugar subsided. “These factors have helped firm up prices this season. Global prices are always a big cue for domestic prices,” said Abhishek Agrawal of Comtrade, a commodities trading firm.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-pandemic-better-prices-for-key-winter-crops-bring-relief-101619639750501.html
29-04-2021||India||Bihar announces fresh curbs; night curfew from 6 pm to arrest Covid-19 surge||Failing to arrest the continuous surge of Covid-19 cases in the state, the Crisis Management Group (CMG) of the Bihar government, headed by chief minister Nitish Kumar decided to pre-pone the timings of night curfew from 9 pm to 6 pm from April 29. The curfew will remain in place till 6 am. In a series of measures announced on Wednesday, it has been decided to order closure of all shops from 4 pm. The government had earlier on April 9 ordered closure of shops from 6 pm. The present order will be in force till May 15. With the marriage season on, no curbs have been put on marriage ceremonies, but the government has further cut down the guest list from 100 to 50 and for the last rites it has been reduced to 20 from 50. “DJs in marriages have been banned and all government and semi government offices will now function with only 25% of their strength. In case of marriage ceremonies, the night curfew will be effective from 10 pm,” said principal secretary (health and disaster management department), Pratyaya Amrit. “All offices will close by 4 pm from Thursday,” he added. However, the government has decided to keep public transport (up to 50% of the capacity), industrial units, construction activities, e-commerce, health and health related services, carts used by fruit and vegetable vendors, agriculture and allied services, restaurants (take away system till 9 pm) out of the purview of the restrictions. “The district administration will ensure that vegetable vendors are placed in a staggered manner to prevent crowding and they can impose restrictions on mandis, if required,” said Amrit. The state reported 13,374 positive cases on Tuesday and 84 deaths in last 24 hours. “The way Covid-19 cases are increasing, the active cases may reach up to 3 lakhs as per a conservative estimate. The government has now decided to get the last rites done from its own resources of all Covid-19 related deaths. The urban development department and rural development departments have been asked to depute officers for this,” said development commissioner, Amir Subhani. “The health department and district administrations have been asked to ensure that all infrastructure like beds, piped oxygen supply, ventilators, oxygen concentrators, shall be made ready to deal with the situation likely to arise in case of further surge in cases,” he added. Subhani said that with an estimate of 3 lakh active cases, it has also been decided to ensure proper strength of allopathic, Unanai, Aayush, doctors as well as dentists, para medical staff, nurses, lab technicians and recruit people through walk-in interviews on one-year contract. “The government can also take the services of retired doctors and strictly use Section 144 to enforce regulations,” he added. The district administrations have also been asked to form containment zones as per requirement and alert people through public address system, the development commissioner said. The government has also decided to get the RT-PCR tests done of all policemen who had gone for election duty in West Bengal and other states and the health department has been asked to ensure availability of Remdesivir for patients.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/bihar-announces-fresh-curbs-night-curfew-from-6-pm-to-arrest-covid-19-surge-101619639619679.html
29-04-2021||India||6.4 magnitude quake hits Assam, 10 injured||A magnitude 6.4 earthquake shook Assam on Wednesday and caused damage to buildings and injured at least 10 people even as there were no reports of loss of lives. According to National Centre for Seismology (NCS), the quake struck at 7.51 am and its epicentre was in Sonitpur district at a depth of 17 km. The earthquake lasted for nearly 30 seconds and was followed by 10 aftershocks of magnitudes ranging from 4.7 to 2.9 within the next eight hours.“Preliminary analysis shows that the event is located near to Kopili Fault closer to Himalayan Frontal Thrust (HFT). The area is seismically very active falling in the highest seismic hazard zone (V) associated with collisional tectonics where Indian Plate subducts beneath the Eurasian Plate,” said an NCS report.Assam State Disaster Management Authority (ASDMA) officials said 10 people have sustained injuries in Darrang, Kamrup (Metropolitan) and Sonitpur districts of the state. “We are still collecting details of the exact damages from all districts. Some reports said that two persons died due to quake. But we found one of them died due to cardiac arrest and the other was a Covid-19 patient,” said Dhiraj Saud, state coordinator, ASDMA.He added that many apartment blocks, private buildings and a portion of the state secretariat in state capital Guwahati and some buildings in Nagaon, Tezpur and Golaghat sustained cracks. “This is the biggest earthquake I have felt.. it continued for nearly 30 seconds. As we stay on the 3rd floor of our building, we just waited and prayed it would end soon without causing major damage,” said Dipika Gogoi, a resident of Bamunimaidan in Guwahati.Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union ministers Amit Shah and Jitendra Singh spoke to chief minister Sarbananda Sonowal over the earthquake.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/64-magnitude-quake-hits-assam-10-injured-101619638164498.html
29-04-2021||India||FIR against Apollo in Bengaluru for illegally blocking beds||As people of Bengaluru struggle to find hospital beds for the Covid-19 patients, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has alleged that several private hospitals in the city are not providing 50% of beds for government-referred Covid-19 patients as per a notification issued earlier this month. Based on a complaint on Monday, the BBMP has initiated action against Apollo Hospital on Bannerghatta Road for illegally blocking beds and issuing a bill of ₹2.4 lakh to a patient who was referred to the hospital through the government allotment. A senior BBMP official said that Subramanyapura police on Monday registered an FIR against six people, including the hospital’s CEO, under the Disaster Management Act and various sections of the IPC. “We came across three cases. In all three cases, patients were admitted to the hospital, and they were continued to be shown as undergoing treatment, even though they were discharged, in one case deceased. By fudging documents, they illegally blocked the beds,” said the officer. In one of the cases, even though the patient was enrolled through BBMP allocation, the hospital issued a bill of ₹2.4 lakh, claiming some tests were not covered in the government allotment. Authorities came to know about this after the patient’s family lodged a complaint with the BBMP. Apollo hospital was not available for comment. The government order issued on April 7 mandated that private hospitals reserve 50% of their beds for treating Covid-19 patients referred by public authorities.BBMP officials said that the blocking of the beds or not providing 50% of the beds to the government has been rampant since the second wave began. In a meeting held on Sunday with the Karnataka chief secretary private hospitals denying beds was the major talking point said the BBMP official. “To give an example, there is a database available for all the hospitals that are available for allotment from BBMP, publicised online. However, no such list is available for the private hospital. Even though we had asked the private hospitals to provide this data, they have refused. This clearly shows there is foul play,” said the official. The BBMP official said that more than 66 private hospitals in the city have been issued show cause notices for their failure to provide beds since last week. “The list includes hospitals like Fortis Hospitals, M.S. Ramaiah, Narayana Health, among others,” he said. HT reached out to all the 66 private hospitals but there was no response. The hospitals have not responded to BBMP notice as well. These irregularities came to light following surprise inspections by the BBMP and the complaint lodged by citizens. “Some hospitals have responded pointing technical issues and have assured to rectify the issues, while others are yet to provide a response,” he said. Private hospitals, however, have been raising concerns over the pendency of bills from government. Dr Prasanna, president of the Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes Association (PHANA) said the bills due from the government to private hospitals are yet to be paid. “In the first wave of the Covid-19, we had given 50% of our beds to the government. The government is yet to pay several private hospitals for these allocations. In Bengaluru, hospitals are only paid around 60% of the dues. If the government delays payment, we will not be able to operate for long,” he said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/fir-against-apollo-in-bengaluru-for-illegally-blocking-beds-101619638718956.html
29-04-2021||India||Vaccination for 18-44 age group to begin after supply arrives: K’taka chief secy||Bengaluru Karnataka chief secretary P Ravi Kumar on Wednesday said that vaccination for the 18-55 age group will commence only once the doses arrive, indicating that the inoculation drive for the younger age groups which is scheduled to begin from May 1 across the country may be delayed in the state. Karnataka has placed an order for 10 million doses of Covishield from the Serum Institute of India (SII), valued at ₹400 crore. However, it is unsure about the date and time of delivery.“The third phase of Covid-19 vaccination for 18-44 years will be rolled out in the state once the schedule of supplies is received from the manufacturers,” the chief secretary said in a statement issued by Karnataka’s department of public relations.The statement casts a cloud over the vaccination drive for the younger age group which, in recent weeks, has been one of the biggest casualties of the virus. Karnataka’s minister for health, family welfare and medical education K Sudhakar on Wednesday said the state has around 4.5 lakhs vials in stock and is expecting another four lakh vials by evening.“The registration for vaccination will continue to be through the CoWIN portal,” Ravi Kumar said.He added that the scheduling of slots for vaccination at government and private facilities will be visible on the portal once the sessions are scheduled.Sudhakar also said that the state is procuring around 1.8 lakh doses of Remdesivir.The minister directed officials to take strict action against Mysuru-based Jubilant Life Sciences if they fail to deliver Remdesivir on time despite requests and orders from the government.Bengaluru accounted for 137 out of the 229 fatalities in the state in a single day on Wednesday.Karnataka and Bengaluru are among the worst Covid-impacted regions in the country.The active case load in Bengaluru stood at 2,242,252. Karnataka, which has seen a rapid rise in cases from several districts, has 328,884 active cases.The B S Yediyurappa-led state government has been accused of ignoring warnings from a state-appointed technical advisory committee (TAC) in November, that asked the administration to prepare for an imminent second wave of infections around February.The failure to ensure adequate arrangements has seen the state’s already inadequate healthcare infrastructure crumble under the weight of the raging pandemic.Karnataka is banking on vaccinations to tide over the pandemic and has even offered free inoculations for 18-44 age groups in government hospitals. So far, the state has vaccinated over 9.2 million people, averaging a little over 100,000 per day, according to government data. Vaccine wastage is around 1.4%, according to the government.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/vaccination-for-18-44-age-group-to-begin-after-supply-arrives-k-taka-chief-secy-101619638599031.html
29-04-2021||India||Row as Karnataka minister snubs farmer seeking enhanced supply||In a major embarrassment to the Y S Yediyurappa government, Karnataka food and civil supplies minister Umesh Katti on Wednesday reportedly told a farmer to die over a request for enhanced supply of rice through the public distribution system (PDS) amid a coronavirus-induced lockdown for two weeks across the state.While the minister is yet to tender an apology, the chief minister’s office (CMO) expressed regrets over the remarks and assured all arrangements for those in need. In an alleged phone conversation recording that was played on loop by all Kannada channels, the minister is heard telling a farmer that “it is better to die” and asked him “not to call him back” for any further requests.HT could not independently verify the authenticity of the audio clip. During the alleged conservation, the farmer told the minister that the government was providing only 2 kgs of rice. Katti responded by saying that an additional 3kgs of ragi will also be provided to the farmers. When the farmer said that people of north Karnataka do not eat ragi, the minister said jowar would be provided instead. “Will it be enough when there is no livelihood?” the farmer asked. To this, the minister said that the Centre was providing 5kg of rice during the lockdown. When the farmer sought to know when they could expect the distribution, the minister said “next month”. “Should we go hungry until then or die,” the farmer asked. In his response, Katti said: “It is better to die and don’t call me back.” The minister, however, claimed he felt provoked by the farmer’s remarks. “He asked me if I should die and I said die. He kept asking me If we should die. What should I have told him?” he told reporters. Terming the remarks as “wrong”, the CMO said that arrangements will be made to distribute rice if the people did not want wheat. “I regret the statements made by Umesh Katti,” the CMO statement read. The minister’s alleged response drew sharp criticism from the Congress who held a mock funeral of Katti, by carrying a body-like structure made of waste cloth with his photograph. The party also changed slogans against the minister. Despite the government’s apology, the Congress demanded the resignation of the minister.“BJP minister Umesh Katti has abused a citizen & asked him to ‘go die’ just because he asked him why Karnataka Govt has cut Rice under PDS to just 2 kgs! CM @BSYBJPmust immediately throw him out of the cabinet for this most insensitive statement.Does this Govt have any shame?” state Congress chief D K Shivakumar said. Speaking to reporters later, Shivakumar said apologising or expressing regret was not a solution. “Expressing regret is of no use. You should sack him. One should be accountable, responsible,” he said.The incident came at a time when the state government is already grappling to curb the pandemic. On Wednesday, Bengaluru reported its highest single-day spike with 22,596 new infections, pushing the overall number of active cases to 224,252. The city accounted for 137 out of the 229 fatalities in the state.A close confidant of Yediyurappa, Katti had stoked controversy in February over his remarks that families with television sets and two-wheelers should surrender their BPL (below poverty line) cards before March 31 or face action.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/row-as-karnataka-minister-snubs-farmer-seeking-enhanced-supply-101619638539512.html
29-04-2021||India||Amid 14-day shutdown, Karnataka permits garment units to run with 50% force||The Karnataka government on Wednesday issued another addendum to its earlier announced guidelines to the lockdown, allowing garment manufacturing units to operate with 50% of its workforce.“All industries/industrial establishment/production units are permitted to operate adhering to Covid appropriate behaviour. However, garment manufacturing units will operate with 50% of its workforce strictly adhering to Covid-19 appropriate behaviour,” an order signed by Karnataka’s chief secretary P Ravi Kumar read.The addendum comes two days after the government issued guidelines in which it restricted the labour-intensive sector from business as it would involve operations with workers sitting side-by-side.In a letter to Karnataka chief minister B S Yediyurappa, the Garment and Textile Workers Union had asked him to allow the sector to resume operations as most of the employees in this industry were women.“BCIC (Bangalore Chamber of Commerce and Industry) welcomes the State Government of Karnataka in allowing the Garment Factories to work with 50% workforce in line with its recommendations,” the forum said in a statement on Wednesday.The government said that the movement of staff shall be allowed by producing valid ID/authorisation issued by concerned industries/industrial establishments.Amid a spike in cases, Karnataka is observing a 14-day lockdown since Tuesday night. On Wednesday, Bengaluru reported its highest single-day spike with 22,596 new infections, taking its active tally to 224,252. The state registered a total of 39,047 cases on Wednesday. Bengaluru accounted for 137 out of the 229 fatalities in the single-day surge.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/amid-14-day-shutdown-karnataka-permits-garment-units-to-run-with-50-force-101619638298922.html
29-04-2021||India||3k Covid patients missing in Bengaluru||As many as 3,000 people infected with Covid-19 have gone missing from Bengaluru and efforts to trace them are underway, Karnataka revenue minister R Ashoka said on Wednesday.Addressing reporters in Bengaluru, Ashoka said: “We are giving free medicines to the people which can control 90% of cases, but they have (Covid infected people) switched off their mobile phones. They decide to reach the hospital only when they arrive at a critical stage, desperately looking for ICU beds. This is what is happening now.” Urging all those infected to keep their cell phones available for officials to reach them for contact tracing and follow-ups, the minister said: “I pray to them with folded hands that Covid cases will only increase due to this. It is wrong when you reach for ICU beds at the last moment.” “At least 2,000 to 3,000 people in Bengaluru have switched off their phones and left their houses. We don’t know where they have gone,” he added. Recently, the Karnataka government stepped up its contact tracing activity after it found that officials in Bengaluru among other districts were tracing only upto four contacts per infected person, in contrast to guidelines that mandate tracing at least 20 contacts. On Wednesday, Karnataka, which is under a 14-day lockdown since Tuesday night, reported 39,047 new Covid cases and 229 deaths. Of the fresh cases, 22,596 were from Bengaluru alone.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/3k-covid-patients-missing-in-bengaluru-101619638240180.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid curbs spur another exodus of migrants amid fears of 2020 replay||Manoj Kumar Kushwa and three of his friends took close to 16 hours to reach Hyderabad from here in an autorickshaw. It may take a minimum of another three days before they are able to reach their village in Motihari in Bihar, about 2,158 kms from Bengaluru. The auto they are travelling in cannot run beyond 50-60 kms per hour.All four of them left Bengaluru at about 5 pm on Tuesday, hours before the coronavirus-induced lockdown came into force across the state for two weeks, to escape any further uncertainty amid the raging pandemic. Only essential services are allowed to operate for four hours during this period. “Last lockdown, we atleast got food, but this time, we are not sure if even that will be provided. We cannot earn our livelihood due to the lockdown. We are still paying back a debt of ₹30,000 we borrowed last year. We hadn’t recovered from the impact of the last lockdown and now there is another. We thought it best to leave for our village,” Kushwa said.The 36-year-old has been driving his autorickshaw and also done some menial jobs like working at construction sites in Bengaluru since 2007 but has managed to collect enough to sustain the fortnight-long lockdown, which he fears may be extended.Similarly, thousands were seen leaving in trains and buses from Bengaluru on Tuesday night. Migrant workers, who make up for the bulk of blue-collar jobs in the IT capital and usually work as delivery personnel, auto drivers, constructions, civic workers among others, are escaping a city which fueled their dreams of providing a better life for themselves and their families.Scenes of several like them, walking for hundreds of thousands of kilometers from across urban centres in the country during the lockdown last year, remain fresh in the minds of these migrants amid fears of lack of support from the administration and chances of being stranded.Nanu Bhuiyan, a 35-year-old from Jharkhand, left Bengaluru last September and was planning to return to the city untilthe lockdown was announced.“I think I will wait for another two months before I return. There is not much we can do in my village but all of us are better off here than in Bengaluru,” Bhuyian, who worked at a catering firm before the 2020 lockdown, told HT over phone. He was among the several migrants whom HT had spoken with during the pandemic last year.As one of India’s largest and most prosperous cities, Bengaluru attracts migrants from all corners of the country. The city’s population grew from around 6.5 million in 2001 to over 12 million currently, most of which have been fueled by its prowess in Information Technology (IT), startups, aerospace, biotechnology among several other public sector enterprises.According to the 2011 census, migrants make up for over 4.4 million of the total 9.6 million population of Bengaluru. This includes both white and blue-collar workers.Bengaluru is one of the worst Covid-19 impacted regions in the country and has over 200,000 active cases with single-day infections around the 20,000 mark. On Wednesday, the city recorded 22,596 cases and 137 fatalities.The spike in infections since March this year has led to a higher number of people requiring hospitalisation. Most of the hospital beds here are full, with barely any spare ones to admit critical cases. According to the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the city’s civic body and the central bed management system, there are around 3,257 hospital beds left availablefor Covid-19 patients. Of this, there are less than 60 vacant intensive care units (ICU) beds and those with ventilators in private hospitals and medical colleges, data showed, thereby putting immense pressure on the resources across government medical establishments which is the only source of hope for the poor.Lalrinawmi Ralte, president of Northeast Solidarity, an association of people from North East states residing in Bengaluru, said several blue-collar workers in the city felt stuck due to the lockdown announcement on a short notice.“There are many blue-collar workers who work in the outskirts of Bengaluru. Now, they cannot travel to work and are asking for relief,” she said. While Bengaluru has allowed construction work to continue, one of the largest employers of migrant workers, the general mistrust in the administration and its constant change in lockdown-related policies have forced several to return to their villages, people aware of the developments said.However, Kishore Jain, President of Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India or CREDAI (Bengaluru chapter) said though they have faced shortage of labour since September, most people have returned to construction activities.“We haven’t heard from any developer of any shortage of labour. The government was very cognizant of this factor that there should be no exodus of workers. So they have allowed all in-situ construction activity,” Jain said.The situation doesn’t appear to be the same with small construction associations.“We are facing a shortage of around 50-60% as workers have started leaving for their home-towns from about three days ago. Large developers can set up camp in their sites to keep workers but not the smaller ones. Also, there is a fear that even if workers show up to work, none of the establishments like small hotels and others will open, which will cause them trouble,” S Shivakumar, member of Builders Association of India, said.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid-curbs-spur-another-exodus-of-migrants-amid-fears-of-2020-replay-101619638179406.html
29-04-2021||India||RBI must disclose financial information regarding banks: SC||New Delhi: Striking a blow for financial transparency in the banking system, the Supreme Court on Wednesday revived its 2015 judgment making it necessary for the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) to disclose financial information regarding private and public banks under the Right To Information (RTI) Act. The court dismissed a joint plea by the Central government and 10 banks seeking a recall of the 2015 judgment, consequently negating its interim order that stayed the release of the inspection reports of banks. A bench of justices L Nageswara Rao and Vineet Saran held that the applications for recall were not maintainable and were an attempt to seek reconsideration of the 2015 judgment, which broke new grounds by opening up under the purview of the sunshine law, information relating to Non-Performing Assets (NPAs) or bad loans , losses from trading operations, even show-cause notices and fines imposed by RBI. “A close scrutiny of the applications for recall makes it clear that in substance, the applicants are seeking a review of the judgment in Jayantilal N Mistry (2015 judgment). Therefore, we are of the considered opinion that these applications are not maintainable. All the miscellaneous applications are dismissed,” held the top court. It further noted that the banks did not make any attempt to present their version when the main case was heard. The applications for recall were filed by the Union government, State Bank of India, Punjab National Bank, HDFC Bank, Bank of India, Canara Bank, Bank of Baroda, Uco Bank, Indian Bank, Kotak Mahindra and AU Small Finance Bank. Through its landmark verdict in 2015, the apex court dismissed objections that RBI held financial information about the banks in a fiduciary capacity while making it clear that the banking regulator must act with transparency and not hide information that might embarrass the individual banks. Subsequently, RBI came out with disclosure policies in 2016 and 2019 that sought to dilute the impact of the court verdict. But after the apex court initiated contempt proceedings against RBI, the regulator rolled back the 2019 policy. Six months later, HDFC Bank and SBI filed applications for recall of the 2015 judgment and a different bench issued an interim order, saying: “Inspection Reports/Risk Assessment Reports/Annual Financial Inspection Reports of the Banks including State Bank of India shall not be released by the Reserve Bank of India until further orders.” After this, more banks queued up asking for the same relief. Arguing the matter, the banks alleged violation of natural justice, and said they were not heard when the 2015 judgment made it mandatory for them to furnish crucial financial information under the RTI Act. They also cited the Supreme Court’s 2017 verdict on the right to privacy, complaining that the 2015 judgment, if implemented, would trample upon the privacy of several investors and entities. On its part, the Union government argued that disclosure of such information could hurt the economic interest of the country and not just the entities involved and therefore, it was imperative to recall the judgment and reconsider the issues afresh. Representing one of the RTI applicants in the matter, advocate Prashant Bhushan opposed the recall plea and pointed out that the judgment was delivered in 2015 after hearing RBI and ICICI Bank with other banks not asking to be heard despite being familiar with the case. He added that the main plank of challenge in the previous round was RBI’s reluctance to part with the information on the fallacious ground that it held financial information from the banks in a fiduciary capacity and could not share it. The bench agreed with Bhushan. “In the instant case, the dispute relates to information to be provided by RBI under the Act. Though the information pertained to the banks, it was the decision of RBI which was in challenge and decided by this court. No effort was made by any of the applicants in the miscellaneous applications to get themselves impleaded when the transferred cases were being heard by this court,” it noted. It added that the applications styled as recall were essentially applications for review. “The nomenclature given to an application is of absolutely no consequence - what is of importance is the substance of the application,” maintained the court as it dismissed all the applications for recall. The bench further clarified that its order was confined to the maintainability of the recall applications and that banks were at liberty to take other recourses in law. In its 2015 verdict, the top court ruled that RBI was not in any fiduciary relationship with any bank. “RBI has no legal duty to maximize the benefit of any public sector or private sector bank, and thus there is no relationship of ‘trust’ between them. RBI has a statutory duty to uphold the interest of the public at large, the depositors, the country’s economy and the banking sector,” it said. It had added that “the baseless and unsubstantiated argument of RBI that the disclosure would hurt the economic interest of the country is totally misconceived”.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/rbi-must-disclose-financial-information-regarding-banks-sc-101619638179957.html
29-04-2021||India||TN-based NGO performs last rites of Covid victims across religions||In the initial days of the pandemic last April, volunteers of an NGO, Tamil Nadu Muslim Munnetra Kazhagam (TMMK) offered to give a Muslim man who succumbed to the virus a decent burial and performed the last rites which this was filmed by a stranger. A week later, the stranger contacted them and requested if they could follow Christian traditions and bury his family member who also died due to Covid-19.“He took a video because the patient was critical. At that time the municipalities were burying the bodies or cremating them and family members weren’t allowed. We of course agreed,” said TMMK’s Coimbatore secretary Mujibur Rehman. “Now families from all regions contact us.”For a year now, TMMK volunteers across the state have helped bury more than 2,200 Covid victims. Besides the fear of infection spreading, families of the deceased can’t be present as they are hospitalised or in home isolation. “Last year during the first wave, we had to bury an entire family of four. We can never forget some heart wrenching days,” said Chennai-based Kaleel Rahuman, treasurer of TMMK’s state medical wing.On Wednesday, a family of senior citizens in Chennai contacted the organisation to help bury 75-year-old Sharif who had died in the afternoon. “All the members of the family were old and couldn’t physically conduct a burial so they approached us,” said Rahuman. “Initially in Chennai we were burying unknown and unclaimed bodies. When we saw the first body in Chennai being flung into a ditch, it really shocked us. So we performed last rites from any religion to give them a respectful burial.” On the request of families, the last rites are filmed on mobile phones so the family can watch.They do the burial service for free. Families bear the costs of the ambulance service from hospital to the burial ground, and for materials used in the burial. The volunteers use a JCB to dig a 12-feet deep trench, volunteers wear PPEs, 10kg of bleaching powder is sprinkled in the trench and use cloth to cover the mortal remains.Their work for Covid-19 infected patients began when members from the Tablighi Jamaat returned from Delhi’s Nizamuddin Markaz Mosque and several had turned positive in March 2020. The community was vilified for spreading the virus. “We were hurt. We were dealt with like criminals,” recalls Rehman. “But we didn’t react by protesting. Instead, we decided to prove ourselves by getting down to the ground to do social service.”The volunteers are presently observing their fasts during Ramadan and take turns to work as teams. Every burial requires at least seven volunteers. They isolate themselves for five days after a burial and those eligible have been vaccinated as a safety precaution. “We are happy to set an example and now several NGOs are volunteering with burial services,” says Rehman. TMMK also has a political wing- Manithaneya Makkal Katchi which has contested in two seats in the opposition Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) alliance.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tnbased-ngo-performs-last-rites-of-covid-victims-across-religions-101619638118917.html
29-04-2021||India||Kerala to buy 10mn doses of vaccine: CM||Amid mounting cases of Covid-19, the Kerala government on Wednesday decided to buy 10 million doses of Covishield and Covaxin vaccines directly from manufacturers. “We have decided to make vaccines free for all age sections. For this, we have decided to buy one crore doses (70 lakh doses of Covishield and 30 lakh doses of Covaxin) in three months, starting from May. We have sent several letters to the Centre, requesting it to make the vaccine free but we are yet to hear from it,” chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here, adding that the ongoing vaccination drive has been affected at several areas due to paucity of doses. “We hope at least the Centre will do away with three different price regimes for vaccines. We have to get it at the same price which the Centre is getting, i.e., ₹150 per dose. Otherwise, it will burden the state which is already reeling under the impact of pandemic,” the chief minister said. The government, meanwhile, has decided not to impose a complete lockdown in districts with a test positivity rate (TPR) of 15 per cent and above, even as the state registered another single-day spike of 36,013 cases on Wednesday, highest since the outbreak began, with a TPR of 25.34. The state also reported 41 deaths, taking the overall toll to 5211. The active caseload stood at 266,646. Earlier, the Union health ministry had strongly recommended a complete shutdown across 150-odd districts which report a TPR of more than 15. Out of 14 districts in the state, at least 12 showed a TPR of above 15 per cent on Wednesday. In Kottayam, which is the worst-affected, the TPR is more than double -- 30.81 -- and in Malappuram, it is 25.8%. The Kerala government believes that a complete lockdown is likely to impact the livelihood of many. The chief minister has made it clear that all restrictions will be tightened further and advised people not to step out of their homes until absolutely necessary. Vijayan admitted that the state is going through a critical phase and in some areas of Kottayam, the TPR is above 40 per cent. “Cases are going up fast. We have ramped up medical facilities at many places. ICU beds, ventilators and stock of oxygen increased,” he said, adding necessary changes will be made in hospital admission procedures to reduce the number of patients. He also said more health personnel will be recruited to tide over the shortage of workforce. Meanwhile, the Kerala chapter of the Indian Medical Association has asked the government to streamline vaccine supply and avoid heavy rush at inoculation centres. Otherwise, the association said, these centres may turn into virus hubs. “We don’t want vaccination joints to turn into transmission points,” IMA state secretary Dr P Gopakumar said in Thrissur.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/kerala-to-buy-10mn-doses-of-vaccine-cm-101619637998959.html
29-04-2021||India||₹1.20cr fine imposed on tribal man for cutting 2 trees in MP’s Raisen||A Madhya Pradesh forest department officer has imposed a fine of ₹1.20 crore on a member of an indigenous forest tribe for allegedly cutting two trees in the forest of Raisen district, calculating the cost on basis of measurable and immeasurable benefits provided by trees, forest officials said.The fine was imposed on Chhote Lal Bhilala, 30, a resident of Silwani village of Raisen district, who was spotted cutting two sagaon (or sagwan; teak) trees at Singori Sanctuary on January 5. He was arrested on April 26.Bamhori forest ranger Mahendra Singh said, “According to study of the Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, a tree provides intangible benefits of ₹52 lakh for 50 years. This includes oxygen supply of ₹11.97 lakh, ₹23.68 lakh for controlling air pollution, 19 lakh for soil erosion and soil filtration and ₹4 lakh for water filtration. The trees gives tangible benefits of ₹2 lakh. Therefore, a tree gives benefits of about ₹60 lakhs during its life span to people.”In February, an expert committee told the Supreme Court that the value of a tree is its age multiplied by ₹74500.“The fine was imposed on the basis of benefits provided by a tree,” Singh added.“Chhote Lal is a habitual offender and locals complained that he was involved in illicit felling of trees to sell it to a furniture shop,” he added.However, Chhote Lal’s uncle Phool Bhilala said, “We live in a forest village and use uprooted old trees to construct our houses but the ranger is harassing us.An advocate and expert of Indian Forest Act, BL Gupta said, “According to Indian Forest Act, there is a provision of fine of ₹500 and six month imprisonment for illicit felling of tree. But the ranger imposed a fine as per a study in the charge-sheet. It is going to be an interesting case.”Madhya Pradesh forest department’S principal chief conservator Rajesh Shrivastava said: “I have asked divisional forest officer, Raisen to share a report on this issue because it’s a first of kind matter for the state.”||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/120cr-fine-imposed-on-tribal-man-for-cutting-2-trees-in-mp-s-raisen-101619637818874.html
29-04-2021||India||Four patients killed in fire at Thane hospital||Four patients were killed after a fire broke out at a private non-Covid-19 hospital in Mumbra near Thane in the wee hours of Wednesday, officials said. The deceased, who were among six patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) of Prime Criticare Hospital at Kausa-Mumbra locality, died after they were shifted to another hospital and not due to burns, the officials added. A short circuit in the metre box is suspected to be the cause of the fire which erupted around 3.40 am and was doused around 5 am, firefighting officials said. The cooling operations were completed in the next couple of hours. A total of 20 patients were in the hospital when the incident took place. This is the fourth case of fire in a hospital in the state in a span of one week.Briefing reporters, Thane municipal corporation (TMC) deputy commissioner Sandeep Malvi said: “Four people in the ICU of the hospital died after being shifted to various other hospitals. The remaining people were shifted to Bilal and Kalsekar hospitals. The deceased included Yasmeen Zafar Sayyed (46), Nawab Majid Shaikh (47), Halima Salmani (70) and Hari Ramji Sonawane (57).The hospital is part of the seven-floored residential Hasnain tower and located in a congested area of Mumbra.TMC’s regional disaster management cell chief Santosh Kadam, said: “The fire broke out at 3.40 am on Wednesday. Two fire engines, two water tankers, five ambulances and one rescue vehicle were rushed to the spot. We rescued all 20 patients admitted in the hospital and shifted them to nearby hospitals. All of them were alive when we shifted them. They died in the respective hospitals after being shifted.”TMC chief fire officer Girish Zalke said the hospital was issued a notice in February after it had failed to submit a fire safety audit. “The Prime Criticare Hospital had not submitted the fire safety audit to us for which we had sent a notice to the hospital. There was no response. The fire started from the meter box of the ground floor of the hospital and later spread to the first floor, which also houses the hospital. The top six floors are residential floors,” he said. Assuring strict action against the guilty, guardian minister Eknath Shinde, who visited the spot, said, “We have asked for a structural and fire audit of the hospital and we will take action against the negligence that killed four persons. The state government has announced a compensation of ₹5 lakh for the deceased and 1 lakh for the injured. We have asked the TMC, too, to compensate the deceased with ₹5 lakh.”Sadique Engineer (30), a ward boy in the hospital, said the fire erupted at 3.15 am near the metre room.“An alarm that the oxygen supply to the patient is depleting went off after which I went to get an additional tank near the meter room and saw the fire. I used a fire extinguisher and tried to douse it but was unsuccessful. I called another ward boy on duty and together we tried to douse the fire using three to four extinguishers,” he said. After their efforts to contain the flames failed, they called the fire brigade who reached the spot at around 4 am.While no case has been filed so far, TMC deputy commissioner Manish Joshi said an inquiry committee has been formed to look into the case. “I will head the committee myself and the guilty will be brought to book,” she said. The short circuit led to a power cut, in the entire tower, which resumed later in the day. Senior inspector of Mumbra police Madhukar Kad said: “We are awaiting a report from TMC and fire officials. Following the report, a case will be registered against those responsible.”On April 23, 11 people died in a fire at a hospital ICU in Virar. Twenty-four Covid patients were killed after a leakage in an oxygen tank in Nashik led to disruption in supply on April 21. Eleven people reportedly died due to lack of oxygen in a hospital in Beed district on the following day.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/four-patients-killed-in-fire-at-thane-hospital-101619637519976.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19 second wave: Russia extends support to India||Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday extended support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for countering the Covid-19 situation in India even as the two sides decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue of foreign and defence ministers.Modi spoke to Putin on telephone against the backdrop of reports that the first Russian consignment of support materials for India’s Covid-19 response was expected to reach the country on Thursday. Russian military aircraft will deliver more than 22 tonnes of equipment, including 20 oxygen production units, 75 ventilators, 150 medical monitors and 200,000 packs of medicine.The leaders discussed the evolving pandemic situation, and Putin “expressed solidarity with the people and government of India and conveyed that Russia would extend all possible support in this regard”, according to a statement from the external affairs ministry.Modi thanked Putin and said the “prompt Russian support to India was a symbol of our enduring partnership”.The leaders decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue mechanism comprising the foreign and defence ministers of both countries. Russia will be only the fourth country with which India has such a mechanism, the others being the US, Japan and Australia.The contact at the highest levels of the leadership in India and Russia came after bilateral ties went through a rough patch recently, following Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s visit to New Delhi. Lavrov’s decision to club the trip to India with a visit to Pakistan, and his comments about Moscow being ready to supply special military equipment to Islamabad, did not go down well in New Delhi.During their conversation, Modi and Putin also discussed cooperation between the two sides to fight the global pandemic. Putin appreciated India’s decision to grant emergency use approval for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and the leaders “noted that the Russian vaccine will be manufactured in India for use in India, Russia and third countries”, the statement said.People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the first consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V doses is expected to reach India by the end of the month. The developers of Sputnik V have tied up with several Indian pharmaceutical firms to manufacture 850 million doses a year.Putin and Modi discussed ways to further deepen bilateral cooperation in different sectors in line with the bilateral special and privileged partnership. Modi conveyed his appreciation for Russia’s support for India’s Gaganyaan programme or first manned space flight, and the completion of the Russian phase of training for the four astronauts.The first manned space flight, originally planned for 2022, has now been pushed to 2023 because of the Covid-19 pandemic.The two leaders also noted the scope for increasing cooperation in renewable energy, including the hydrogen economy. They also recalled important decisions made during their last summit in Vladivostok in September 2019.Modi said he looked forward to Putin’s visit to India later this year for the bilateral summit, which would be an occasion to “continue their personal and trusted conversation”, the statement said. Putin assured Modi of Russia’s full support for the success of India’s presidency of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping during 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-second-wave-russia-extends-support-to-india-101619637043753.html
29-04-2021||India||Covid-19 2nd wave: Russia extends support to India||New Delhi : Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday extended support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi for countering the Covid-19 situation in India even as the two sides decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue of foreign and defence ministers. Modi spoke to Putin on telephone against the backdrop of reports that the first Russian consignment of support materials for India’s Covid-19 response was expected to reach the country on Thursday. Russian military aircraft will deliver more than 22 tonnes of equipment, including 20 oxygen production units, 75 ventilators, 150 medical monitors and 200,000 packs of medicine. The leaders discussed the evolving pandemic situation, and Putin “expressed solidarity with the people and government of India and conveyed that Russia would extend all possible support in this regard”, according to a statement from the external affairs ministry. Modi thanked Putin and said the “prompt Russian support to India was a symbol of our enduring partnership”. The leaders decided to establish a new 2+2 dialogue mechanism comprising the foreign and defence ministers of both countries. Russia will be only the fourth country with which India has such a mechanism, the others being the US, Japan and Australia. The contact at the highest levels of the leadership in India and Russia came after bilateral ties went through a rough patch recently, following Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov’s visit to New Delhi. Lavrov’s decision to club the trip to India with a visit to Pakistan, and his comments about Moscow being ready to supply special military equipment to Islamabad, did not go down well in New Delhi. During their conversation, Modi and Putin also discussed cooperation between the two sides to fight the global pandemic. Putin appreciated India’s decision to grant emergency use approval for Russia’s Sputnik V vaccine, and the leaders “noted that the Russian vaccine will be manufactured in India for use in India, Russia and third countries”, the statement said. People familiar with developments said on condition of anonymity the first consignment of Russian-made Sputnik V doses is expected to reach India by the end of the month. The developers of Sputnik V have tied up with several Indian pharmaceutical firms to manufacture 850 million doses a year. Putin and Modi discussed ways to further deepen bilateral cooperation in different sectors in line with the bilateral special and privileged partnership. Modi conveyed his appreciation for Russia’s support for India’s Gaganyaan programme or first manned space flight, and the completion of the Russian phase of training for the four astronauts. The first manned space flight, originally planned for 2022, has now been pushed to 2023 because of the Covid-19 pandemic. The two leaders also noted the scope for increasing cooperation in renewable energy, including the hydrogen economy. They also recalled important decisions made during their last summit in Vladivostok in September 2019. Modi said he looked forward to Putin’s visit to India later this year for the bilateral summit, which would be an occasion to “continue their personal and trusted conversation”, the statement said. Putin assured Modi of Russia’s full support for the success of India’s presidency of the Brazil-Russia-India-China-South Africa (Brics) grouping during 2021.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/covid19-2nd-wave-russia-extends-support-to-india-101619636978863.html
29-04-2021||India||Shift Kappan to Delhi hospital: Supreme Court rejects UP’s arguments||The Supreme Court on Wednesday, overlooked arguments by the Uttar Pradesh government and ordered it to shift jailed journalist Siddique Kappan to a hospital in Delhi for better medical treatment, observing that it is the duty of the state to protect health and life of undertrials too.“Life of everybody is valuable. We are concerned only about his health. It is the duty of the state also to protect him when his health is concerned. That’s the most important issue,” remarked a bench, headed by Chief Justice of India (CJI) NV Ramana.The bench, which included justices Surya Kant and AS Bopanna, asked solicitor general Tushar Mehta, who appeared for the UP government, to ensure that Kappan was admitted in one of the government hospitals in the national capital for a proper treatment.“He (Kappan) can be taken back to Mathura jail after the doctors opine that he can be discharged. We are also disposing of this writ petition. He can go to the trial court for any other relief...We haven’t gone on titles of petitioner or anything else, but it is a humanitarian issue,” the bench told the S-G, who strongly opposed any order on shifting Kappan to a hospital outside UP.The law officer was responding to a claim by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) that Kappan was chained to a hospital bed in Mathura’s KM Medical College after he collapsed in bathroom at the Mathura jail and later tested positive for Covid-19.Mehta sought to undermine the credibility of the body, seemed to suggest that Kappan had been hospitalised in Uttar Pradesh despite a shortage of hospital beds in the state, with even influential (“huge” in his own words) people unable to find beds, and then finally argued that hospitalising him in Delhi would mean evicting a Covid positive person. But the court persisted.The order came on a joint plea by the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) and Kappan’s wife that the scribe required immediate medical care after he had collapsed in bathroom at the Mathura jail and later tested positive for COVID-19 in the antigen test. They claimed Kappan, who was diabetic and also had heart conditions, was chained to the hospital bed. Mehta claimed on Tuesday that this was not the case.Kappan, secretary of the Delhi unit of KUWJ, was arrested on October 5 last year while on his way to Hathras in UP after the gangrape of a 19-year-old woman who died in hospital of injuries she suffered in the sexual assault. He was later booked under the terror charge over his alleged association with the now-banned Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) and its alleged off-shoot, the Popular Front of India (PFI). The Uttar Pradesh government sought to manage the incident of the gangrape by throwing a police dragnet over the entire area, and cremated the body of the victim overnight, despite protests by her family members.KUWJ subsequently filed a petition in the apex court, calling Kappan’s arrest illegal and an attempt to silence the media. Kappan’s wife also filed her plea in December last to be heard in this case. She wrote to the CJI on April 25 seeking his release from the hospital because of the ill-treatment. On Tuesday, the court asked the UP government to put on record Kappan’s medical report to ascertain these claims.On Wednesday, the S-G informed the bench that Kappan tested negative for Covid-19 in the RT-PCR and was sent back to Mathura jail. He also denied that the scribe was chained.Advocate Wills Mathew, appearing for KUWJ and Kappan’s wife, however, contended that the scribe’s life was under threat because of improper medical care in the Mathura jail and that he needed to be shifted to a better hospital outside the state.Vehemently resisting this plea, Mehta submitted that the apex court should not entertain such a plea by an accused who is being prosecuted for his links with terror groups and chose to use a purported journalistic organsation to press his case.“There are thousands of law-abiding citizens who are Covid positive and have not been able to find beds in any hospital. I, as a state, cannot agree to arranging for a bed for a 42-year-old non-Covid person with non-serious ailments who is facing terror charges,” argued Mehta.But the bench replied: “We are aware of difficulties of admission in hospitals at present times. But it is in your interest too. Why should the state be held responsible for any untoward incident because of his health? Responsibility is on the state too. Let him be treated at a hospital in Delhi and he can go back after he is well.”With the writing on the wall, the S-G requested the bench to also direct a hospital in Delhi to give Kappan a bed, lamenting that he would not want to ask any Covid-positive patient to vacate it for Kappan at a time when there are no beds available in any hospital. The bench, however, asked Mehta to make this arrangement on his own.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/sc-rejects-up-s-arguments-directs-govt-to-shift-kappan-to-delhi-hospital-101619636919858.html
29-04-2021||India||TMC candidate’s wife files police complaint against election body||The wife of a Trinamool Congress poll candidate, who died of Covid-19 shortly after elections in his seat, filed a police complaint on Wednesday, accusing the Election Commission of India and senior poll officials of culpable homicide. The complaint was filed in Khardaha police station by Nandita Sinha, wife of Kajal Sinha, a TMC candidate from Khardaha in North 24 Parganas who tested positive for Covid-19 on April 20 and succumbed to the virus on Sunday. “The ECI is solely liable for my husband’s death caused due to the rapid surge in coronavirus cases in West Bengal as it has neither ensured safety of the candidates nor the general public during the ongoing elections. Due to the deliberate and intentional omission on the part of the ECI, I have lost my husband,” Nandita Sinha wrote in her complaint. She requested that a first information report (FIR) be filed against deputy election commissioner Sudip Jain and other senior poll officials under sections 269 / 270 / 304 (2) and 120b of the Indian Penal Code. These sections pertain to spreading infection dangerous to life and culpable homicide.State police said they received the complaint but didn’t lodge an FIR because there was no specific complaint against any person. “We have received the complaint. It is more of general nature and there is no specific complaint. Hence, we are not lodging any FIR. We will investigate,” said Ajay Kumar Nand, police commissioner of Barrackpore. ECI sought a report from the state government on the matter. “Factual report from state DGP [director general of police] has been sought on TMC wife’s complaint,” an EC official said on condition of anonymity. Sinha was one of four candidates who died of Covid-19 in the state, where infections have zoomed 75 times since elections were announced on February 26. Experts have linked surge in cases to maskless political rallies where thousands jostled in violation of distancing protocols. On Wednesday, the state registered 17207 new cases and 77 deaths, a record, pushing the toll to 11159. ECI has faced criticism for the long poll season and violation of Covid norms at rallies, especially from the Madras and Calcutta high courts. In response, the poll body has defended its decision, banned campaigning at night, victory processions on counting day (May 2), limited events to 500 people and increased the silent period for campaigning to 72 hours before the latter phases. “She has lost her husband and the family is grief stricken. The BJP would not like to make any comment on this,” said Samik Bhattacharya, BJP spokesperson.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/tmc-candidate-s-wife-files-police-complaint-against-election-body-101619636798997.html
29-04-2021||India||1st consignment of US Covid aid likely to reach on Friday||New Delhi: With the first consignment of US support materials for India’s Covid-19 response expected to arrive by Friday, people familiar with developments confirmed on Wednesday that India has additionally sought vaccines from the Biden administration. The people noted that the US does not currently have a large stockpile of the AstraZeneca vaccine – some 10 million doses have been produced so far and about 50 million doses are expected to be manufactured in May and June. There is also no clarity on how many doses from this stockpile will be provided to the country though President Joe Biden has himself mentioned that some of it will be sent to India, they said. The government’s international procurement programme is mainly focused at the moment on critical medicines such as Remdesivir and oxygen-related equipment, especially concentrators, cylinders, and large and small liquid oxygen tanks, that can be used to ramp up the supply of oxygen across the country. The first Russian consignment of support materials is expected to arrive in the country on Thursday and the first batch of the Russian Sputnik V vaccine is set to reach India by the end of the month, the people said on condition of anonymity. Details of the first consignment being sent by the US are still being worked out, though it is expected to contain a mix of equipment and supplies, and some of the materials could be sourced from US military bases in different parts of the world, the people said. Asked about reported comments by senior US officials at a recent background briefing that India hadn’t made any request for ready-to-use vaccines from the Biden administration, the people said this matter was raised on a couple of occasions with the American side. “The Indian side has said it would be useful to have US vaccines, may not be specifically the AstraZeneca vaccine, since India now has a fast-track mechanism for approving vaccines. The US is aware of our interest in procuring vaccines, AstraZeneca or otherwise,” said one of the people cited above. The Indian side has managed to get support from a large number of people in the US, including the administration, members of Congress and private businesses, and this is expected to be reflected in the materials that are set to arrive in the coming days, they said. India’s missions around the world are focusing on procuring critical medicines such as Remdesivir, Tocilizumab, and Favipiravir, and the Indian side’s ability to convince pharmaceutical major Gilead to donate 450,000 doses of Remdesivir is being seen as a “big success”. More supplies of Remdesivir are also expected from other countries, the people said. The current focus on oxygen-related equipment such as concentrators and cylinders is because it is difficult to import oxygen. “Liquid oxygen can’t be airlifted and has to be brought in by ship. Even there, we need special cryogenic tankers and their numbers are limited across the world. So far, there is one commercial shipment coming from Saudi Arabia,” said the first person cited above. Large oxygen generating plants, such as the ones being sent by Germany and France, are useful though they need considerable time to be installed and set up, the people said. On the other hand, large and small liquid oxygen tanks can help move the commodity from points of production to health care facilities across the country, they added. The people said there was no formal response to offers of assistance from Pakistan and China. There are no problems with commercial procurements from China by private Indian firms, such as the purchase of large numbers of oxygen concentrators from Hong Kong, the people said. The Indian government, especially the external affairs ministry and health ministry, is accelerating procurements from abroad by relaxing import procedures and waiving duties and also ensuring the supplies speedily reach the places where they are needed the most and are also used properly, the people said. All supplies from foreign governments and partners are being routed through the Indian Red Cross Society and countries are also free to provide aid directly to NGOs or other entities in India. The people reiterated that there had been no international appeal for assistance and India was looking to procure specific products from around the world.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/1st-consignment-of-us-covid-aid-likely-to-reach-on-friday-101619636738856.html
29-04-2021||India||Centre to buy 100k O2 devices using PM Cares||New Delhi:The Union government on Wednesday announced the purchase of 100,000 portable oxygen concentrators and the development of 500 pressure swing absorption (PSA) oxygen plants, both funded by the PM Cares Fund, in an attempt to urgently boost medical oxygen supplies in the country which is gasping on account of the precious commodity in the midst of a raging second wave of the coronavirus disease in the country, with around three million active cases. Prime Minister Narendra Modi directed that these concentrators should be procured immediately and provided to the states which have the highest case burden in the country and are suffering from acute oxygen shortage.“1 lakh portable oxygen concentrators will be procured, 500 more PSA oxygen plants sanctioned from PM-CARES. This will improve access to oxygen, especially in district HQs and Tier-2 cities,” he tweeted. The move come even as the Union government and state governments face a backlash from people unable to find oxygen for their friends and relatives, and against the backdrop of several hospitals in some parts of the country warning of the calamitous consequences of running out of medical oxygen. In Delhi itself, over the past week, at least 45 seriously ill patients across two hospitals have lost their lives on account of this. CHECK. The 500 new PSA plants are planned in district headquarters and tier 2 towns according to a government statement, and will be “established with the transfer of the indigenous technology developed by DRDO and CSIR to the domestic manufacturers.” It is in addition to 551 such plants previously announced on Sunday, and 162 announced last year. Of the 162, 33 have been installed, according to a report in Scroll. The health ministry has said that another 26 will be ready by the end of April and another 21 by the end of May. No timeline has been provided for the development of the 500 and the 551 plants, although, in general, it takes between four and six weeks for such plants to be developed. The statement did not mention how much would be spent on the concentrators and the plants. In addition, DRDO has also started work on oxygen generating plants in four government hospitals in Delhi -- AIIMS, RML, Lady Hardinge, and Safdarjung -- and hopes to complete them by May 10 , defence ministry officials familiar with the developments said . Another oxygen generating plant will be set up at AIIMS, Jhajjar.  DRDO has transferred oxygen generation technology to the industry, which has now stepped in to provide oxygen plants to state governments and hospitals. The technology transferred to the industry is based on the on-board oxygen generation technology developed for the Tejas light combat aircraft, according to the defence ministry. The oxygen generation plants can produce 1,000 litres of oxygen per minute.  DRDO has transferred technology to Tata Advanced Systems Limited, Bengaluru, and Trident Pneumatics Pvt Ltd, Coimbatore, which will be producing 380 of the 500 plants for installation across various hospitals in the country, the defence ministry said in a statement. The remaining 120 plants will be installed by industry in collaboration with the Indian Institute of Petroleum, Dehradun, it added. “Each oxygen plant is designed for a capacity of 1,000 litres per minute (LPM). The system can cater to 190 patients at a flow rate of 5 LPM and charge 195 cylinders per day…. Hospitals will be able to generate on-site medical oxygen in a cost-effective manner,” the ministry said. Together, the 500 plants can produce the equivalent of 960 MT of liquid oxygen in a day, significantly boosting the nation’s capacity. Prime Minister Modi on Monday reviewed the military’s preparations to assist in Covid management. He was briefed by chief of defence staff (CDS) General Bipin RawatThe PM on Monday also reviewed the operations undertaken by IAF to transport oxygen and other essentials to fight the crisis. For more than a week, IAF has been ferrying empty cryogenic oxygen containers to filling centres in India from different domestic locations and even abroad to help hospitals tide over the oxygen crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/centre-to-buy-100k-o2-devices-using-pm-cares-101619636618846.html
29-04-2021||NA||Highlights: Switzerland to send medical supplies to help India tackle Covid-19||India's tally of cases of the coronavirus disease (Covid-19) has reached 17,997,267 as the Union ministry of health and family welfare (MoHFW) said on Wednesday morning that there a record 360,960 new Covid-19 cases were reported in the preceding 24 hours, as well as 3,293 related deaths in that period. India's Covid-19 tally is the second-highest globally, after that of the United States, with Brazil in third. In terms of the death toll, India is fourth in the world, behind the United States, Brazil and Mexico respectively.Wednesday will see the commencement of registrations for the third phase of the nationwide vaccination drive against the viral disease. The third phase will begin from May 1 and in it, anyone who is 18 or above will be eligible to be vaccinated against Covid-19, as announced by the Union government on April 19. India's vaccination drive against the pandemic is the largest in the world and began on January 16.The rapid and alarming rise in India's daily infections has led to several countries, including the United States and United Kingdom, sending medical equipment, including raw materials for vaccine, ventilators etc. to the country in a bid to assist its healthcare workers.Follow all the updates here:Allahabad High Court Judge succumbs to Covid-19Justice Virendra Kumar Srivastava of the Lucknow bench of Allahabad High Court succumbed to Covid-19 on Wednesday. He was 59 years old and was being treated Sanjay Gandhi Post Graduate Institute (SGPGI) in Lucknow, after testing positive for Covid-19, reported news agency PTI.Haryana records 12,444 new cases of Covid-19, 95 fatalitiesHaryana records 12,444 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 4,60,198. 95 deaths and 7,618 recoveries were also recorded in the last 24 hours, reported ANI.14,98,77,121 doses of Covid-19 vaccine has been administered in the country till dateThe total number of COVID19 vaccine doses administered in the country stands at 14,98,77,121 (till 8pm) including more than 20 lakh doses administered today: Ministry of Health and Family Welfare pic.twitter.com/YHcNAlOKgySwitzerland to send essential medical supplies to help India tackle Covid-19Switzerland will be sending essential medicines through the Swiss humanitarian aid, reported ANI. This aid will cover essential items like oxygen concentrators, ventilators, and other necessary medical equipments.Gujarat records 14,120 new cases of Covid-19, 174 fatalitiesGujarat recorded 14,210 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 5,38,845. 174 deaths and 8,595 recoveries were also reported in the last 24 hours, reported news agency ANI.Ashok Gehlot self-isolates after wife tests positive for Covid-19Rajasthan chief minister, Ashok Gehlot, has isolated himself after his wife, Sunita Gehlot, tested positive for Covid-19 on Wednesday, said the chief minister in a tweet.Karnataka reports massive surge in daily Covid-19 tally , records 39,047 new casesKarnataka on Wednesday reported 39,047 cases of Covid-19. The total tally of active cases in the state now stands at 3,28,884. The state also recorded 229 deaths in the last 24 hours, the death toll now stands at 15,036, reported news agency ANI.Rajasthan reports 16,613 new cases of Covid-19, 120 fatalitiesRajasthan on Wednesday recorded 16,613 new cases of Covid-19, taking the state-wide tally of cases to 5,63,577. In the last 24 hours120 deaths and 8,303 recoveries were also recorded, reported ANI.MP to suspend vaccination drive from April 29-30 for dry run, training sessionMadhya Pradesh will suspend its ongoing Covid-19 vaccination drive on April 29 and 30 to conduct planning, training and dry run for the next phase of inoculations starting on May 1, where those between ages of 18-44 will be vaccinated.Kerala reports 35,013 new Covid-19 cases, 41 fatalitiesKerala recorded 35,013 cases of Covid-19 on Wednesday, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan said at a press conference. The state also recorded 41 deaths and 15,505 recoveries in the last 24 hours.Chandigarh to impose 'corona curfew' from April 29Chandigarh administration imposed 'corona curfew' in the Union territory from 6pm to 5am everyday starting from April 29, reported ANI. All shops, malls, and multiplexes have been asked to draw their shutters by 5pm every day, and only essential services will be allowed.BioNTech chief says Europe will achieve herd immunity within the next 4 monthsBioNTech chief, Ugur Sahin, said on Wednesday that Europe will achieve herd immunity against Covid-19 within the next 4 months, reported the Associated Press. BioNTech has partnered with American pharma giant Pfizer to produce a Covid-19 vaccine.Maharashtra lockdown likely to be extended beyond Apr 30 for 15 more daysMaharashtra state public health minister Rajesh Tope said on Wednesday that the current lockdown will be extended by 15 more days beyond April 30, adding that a decision on the number of days is yet to be taken. The state government had announced a lockdown on April 4 to tackle the rising number of Covid-19 cases.Air Chief Marshal briefs PM on IAF's efforts to tackle Covid-19 Air Chief Marshal RKS Bhadauria called on the Prime Minister today to brief him on the efforts undertaken by the Indian Air Force (IAF) to tackle the ongoing coronavirus pandemic in the country.Puducherry records 1,258 new Covid-19 cases , 10 fatalities on WednesdayThe Union territory of Puducherry reported 1,258 new cases of Covid-19, taking the tally of cases to 56,305. 10 more individuals succumbed to the infection, the death toll now stands at 781, reported ANI.Goa announces weekend lockdownGoa govt announces weekend lockdown from 7pm on Thursday till 6am next Monday. Lockdown orders for this weekend only for now.Pakistan records 201 new Covid-19 deaths, highest thus farPakistan's Covid-19 death toll reaches 17,530 with 201 new deaths, highest in a single day thus far. Infection tally at 810,231 with 5,292 more people testing positive.Puducherry extends Covid-19 curbs till May 3Puducherry extends Covid-19 curbs till May 3. Gathering/congregation in any form "strictly" prohibited and all liquor shops to remain closed till the said date.110-bed Covid-19 facility being set up in J-K's SrinagarJammu and Kashmir: A 110-bed COVID facility is being set up at indoor stadium in Srinagar. #COVID19 pic.twitter.com/c6hCDmTQ2IA 110-bed Covid-19 facility is being set up at indoor stadium in Jammu and Kashmir's Srinagar.Over 8,000 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths in TelanganaTelangana recorded 8,061 new Covid-19 cases and 56 deaths on April 27. Infection tally tops 419,000 including a death toll of 2,150.India's active Covid-19 cases near 3 millionIndia's active Covid-19 cases reach 2,978,709, up by 96,505 infections. Recoveries, meanwhile, rise to 14,817,371 with 261,162 more people discharged.India sees record 360,960 new Covid-19 casesIndia registers 360,960 new Covid-19 cases as tally reaches 17,997,267. Related death toll crosses 200,000, reaches 201,187 with 3,293 fresh fatalities.Total 282,703,789 samples tested for Covid-19: ICMRCOVID-19 Testing Update. For more details visit: https://t.co/dI1pqvXAsZ @MoHFW_INDIA @DeptHealthRes #ICMRFIGHTSCOVID19 #IndiaFightsCOVID19 #CoronaUpdatesInIndia #COVID19 #Unite2FightCorona pic.twitter.com/BXsysK1K8xTotal samples tested for Covid-19 up to April 27 at 282,703,789. Of these, 1,723,912 samples tested on April 27: Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR)BKC jumbo vaccination centre out of stock, says BMCBKC jumbo Covid-19 vaccination centre in Mumbai has run out of stock thus it is not active today. It will open for vaccination as soon as the stock is replenished: BMCRegistration for phase 3 vaccination to begin at 4pmRegistration for 18 plus to begin on https://t.co/S3pUooMbXX, Aarogya Setu App & UMANG App at 4 PM on 28th April. Appointments at State Govt centers & Private centers depending on how many vaccination centers are ready on 1st May for Vaccination of 18 plus. #LargestVaccineDriveRegistration for 18 plus to begin at 4pm on 28th April.Patients' kin in UP's Noida touch official's feet for Remdesivir#WATCH Noida | Families of #COVID19 patients touch the feet of Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Deepak Ohri, requesting him that they be provided with Remdesivir.(27.04.2021) pic.twitter.com/zX4ne027MrFamilies of Covid-19 patients touch the feet of Chief Medical Officer (CMO) Deepak Ohri, requesting him that they be provided with Remdesivir.Tunisia sees over 1,950 new Covid-19 casesTunisia reports 1,957 new Covid-19 cases as tally rises to 303,584. Death toll rises to 10,444 with 92 new fatalities.China reports 12 new Covid-19 casesChina reports 12 new Covid-19 cases, up from 11 a day ago, as infection tally reaches 90,622. Death toll unchanged at 4,636.Chile's Covid-19 death toll tops 26,000Chile's health ministry reports 45 new deaths in last 24 hours due to Covid-19 as toll reaches 26,020. Infection tally at 1,179,772 with 4,41 new cases.Registrations for phase 3 vaccination from todayRegistrations for phase 3 of the nationwide Covid-19 vaccination drive will begin from Wednesday on the CoWin portal. The third phase will begin from May 1 and everyone above the age of 18 will be eligible for a shot.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/india-news/coronavirus-covid-19-india-world-death-toll-april-28-2021-101619567288394.html
29-04-2021||Today's||National impact of the Bengal elections||No assembly election in recent times has attracted as much attention as the recent exercise in West Bengal. For a state that has, since 1977, alternated between 34 years of uninterrupted Left Front rule and 10 years of a government led by the mercurial Mamata Banerjee, this eastern corner of India has quite abruptly been posited as a barometer of India’s future politics. With Prime Minister (PM) Narendra Modi and home minister Amit Shah, not to mention the entire national leadership of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), throwing their entire weight behind the party’s challenge, the outcome on May 2 seems calculated to reverberate nationally—although in ways no one is entirely sure about.The eight-phase poll that concluded on April 29 can broadly be divided into two distinct parts. The first six phases of polling took place in the backdrop of a boisterous and bitter campaign where there was an interplay between regional concerns, national issues, and the invocation of Bengali exceptionalism. By contrast, the final two phases were overshadowed by the sudden re-emergence of the Covid-19 pandemic, the severe curtailment of the campaign and the panic in the urban areas that contributed to significantly lower voter turnouts in Kolkata and its adjoining regions, Durgapur and Asansol.On counting day, it will be interested to monitor the impact of the voter turnout on the outcome. However, even if the final two phases produce a verdict at variance with the first six phases, the voters of West Bengal will have the satisfaction of knowing that the votes registered in the electronic voting machines (EVMs) were authentic. Such an assertion may seem strange in an all-India context, but the sad reality is that West Bengal has led the way in elections that were clouded in intimidation, booth-capturing and partisan administration.It is to the credit of the Election Commission that the conduct of the 2021 assembly election was exemplary. Intimidation may not have entirely ceased but voters this time had the satisfaction of voting without being told at the booth who to vote for and, worse, having someone peering over their shoulder. The decision to keep the local police 200 metres away from the polling stations contributed immeasurably to enhanced voter confidence. In the context of elections in West Bengal, this assembly election was quite emphatically a landmark.What was also significant about this election was the very distinct nature of support for the BJP. That there was a visible undercurrent of Hindu-Muslim polarisation has been detected by many observers. However, the striking feature was not merely the BJP’s natural dependence on Hindu voters and the Trinamool Congress’s over-dependence on minority support. In rural Bengal, where support for the BJP was very marked, the party’s campaign was spearheaded by youth, women, and voters from the poorest communities—sections that in an earlier era had formed the backbone of the Communist Party of India (Marxist). The lopsided and corrupt distribution of state welfare payments, particularly in the aftermath of the Amphan cyclone that hit the state last summer, was unquestionably the main source of anger against the Mamata government. To this was added a belief in the youth that a BJP government in the state would witness a rush of either jobs or opportunities at the local level. By contrast, the Trinamool support came from more established families, particularly those who benefited from the state government’s welfare projects. In many ways, the leadership of the Trinamool in the districts was a mirror image of the support enjoyed by the undivided Congress in the heyday of CPI(M) dominance. It was the BJP which succeeded in rallying the subaltern classes with its cry of Jai Shri Ram.Traditionally, the anti-establishment forces in West Bengal had originated in urban centres. In the 1952 elections, the undivided Communist Party of India had performed exceptionally well in and around Kolkata, whereas the Congress made a clean sweep of the countryside. Mamata Banerjee’s revolt against the CPI(M) too was centred on Kolkata and adjoining regions. In social terms, the Trinamool galvanised that very section of the youth which had been at the forefront of the fight-back against the Naxalite movement in the early 1970s. The BJP challenge, on the other hand, has been centred on North Bengal, the Jungle Mahals and districts which had always lost out to Kolkata, at least in the 10 years of Mamata rule.The relative importance of the districts in the BJP’s ecosystem may be a factor behind the party’s relative inability to make a big dent among those who see themselves as custodians of ‘enlightened’ and cosmopolitan Bengali bhadralok values. During her campaign, Mamata Banerjee attacked the BJP as outsiders, a shorthand for Hindi-speakers. While this may certainly have swayed a section that equates Bengali pride with Bengali exceptionalism, it masked the profound wariness of a section of ‘secularists’ with a Bengali rural and small-town culture that is explicitly Hindu. What was witnessed in Bengal in recent months was an understated but very real culture war that heightened modernist fears of the barbarian at the gates. It was this dread that Bengal would be overwhelmed by a new breed of outlanders that prevented the more recognised Bengali intellectuals from speaking out against the misrule and corruption of the past 10 years.Like the Lutyens’ elite at the national level, the social leadership of the Bengali bhadralok sought to cling to their relevance in a changing world. The results will indicate if Bengal clings to a decrepit status quo or embraces a new world.Swapan Dasgupta is a BJP candidate in the West Bengal assembly elections and political commentatorThe views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/national-impact-of-the-bengal-elections-101619704905366.html
29-04-2021||Today's||Only a proper data system can help India tackle Covid-19 better||India is witnessing a second wave of Covid-19 that neither the country nor the government was prepared for. There are reports of under-reporting the number of Covid-19 cases and resulting mortality by state governments, hospitals running out of beds and oxygen and RT-PCR testing being put on hold in several private and government facilities as they have huge backlogs and not enough staff or material to carry these out. One of the many reasons and certainly one of the most important ones behind this chaos and crisis is the failure to build an adequate data system that is transparent, evolves as per developments and is flexible enough to be moulded according to varying requirements across different states.This pandemic has proved to be most unpredictable. Research and understanding of the infection and its trajectory is still evolving across the globe. With the spread of variants, there have been and continue to be cases that come up negative in the RT-PCR test only to be clinically diagnosed as positive after a CT scan or chest X-ray. But since a clinical diagnosis of this infection has not been defined yet, these cases are not recorded in government data or official bulletins. These cases occupy Covid beds in hospitals though, resulting in an obvious mismatch between the data published by the government and the actual numbers in the hospitals.Deaths in many states are still counted on the basis of reporting from hospitals. This suggests that the deaths of patients while under home quarantine or while waiting outside a hospital for a bed, with or without a Covid-19 test report, are never included in official statistics. So while these bodies are cremated or buried following Covid-19 protocol, their exclusion from the official released numbers has made headlines in the media. An approach to take by every state government is to track a patient from testing positive, both in the laboratory and clinically, till the outcome of the infection. If the status of the patient is recorded on each day from diagnosis (11-17 days), the official statistics would be closer to being accurate and the system transparent. This is also the only way for the government to assess and understand the gravity of the situation and use this data to make realistic projections of cases. This analysis can then be used for planning and preparations for the required infrastructure, equipment and manpower in the following weeks.Unless a data system is designed, built and maintained to capture the reality and make realistic projections for the coming weeks and months, preparations in terms of infrastructure, provisions, equipment, drugs manpower and capacity will always be reactionary and, therefore, fall short of the requirements for the current situation.Neither the pattern of spread nor the behaviour of the virus has remained the same as last year when the pandemic started. The system designed to capture this evolution objectively needs to adapt to these changes. Different states are witnessing different patterns of this spread. Consequently, the strategies and protocols for containment will also vary. The data system needs to be sufficiently flexible for the states to add details, introduce checks and create modules. This same system should be able to capture and monitor the implementation of vaccination efforts. It is only through a comprehensive and evolving data system design, that accurate numbers can be shared with the people and the media, for internal calculations and for all preparatory purposes. Data entry, process, system and capabilities can no longer come second in the list of priorities. The governments and the people need to realise that it is only through transparent, open, accessible and accurate data systems that accountability and responsibility can be established for pre-emptive and timely action. It is also the only means that remains to rebuild trust and hope in the government, going forward. Tulika Avni Sinha is a development professional working in Covid management with the government of Punjab The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/only-a-proper-data-system-can-help-india-tackle-covid-19-better-101619704904327.html
29-04-2021||Today's||The histories of Indian international relations||India’s external affairs minister S Jaishankar recently lambasted international organisations critical of India’s strained democratic credentials as hypocritical, ‘self-appointed custodians of the world’. The remark was unsurprising given India’s natural sensitivities towards external criticism. But the comment demonstrated the multiple ideological sources of India’s nationalist and internationalist thought, most of which remains under-appreciated in the still western-centric world of international relations.India has been pivotal in developing knowledge about international relations both as a practice and as an academic discipline. As one looks beyond the worldviews and influences of Jawaharlal Nehru, Mahatma Gandhi, and Rabindranath Tagore, and tries to gauge the ideas and global impact of figures such as Veer Savarkar and Subhash Chandra Bose, it becomes imperative to systematically unpack the multiple sources of India’s intellectual contributions to this field. One site for the development of such knowledge was the Indian Council on World Affairs (ICWA), India’s first independent international affairs think-tank. From 1943, as with the revolving door between American think-tanks and the United States state department, the ICWA became an institutional powerhouse that generated foreign policy knowledge not just for a decolonising state, but the world at large. Prominent figures, such as Angadipuram Appadorai, were part of a new cadre of scholar-practitioners playing a substantial role in the conception and implementation of the non-aligned movement that challenged Cold War binaries in fundamental ways. The generation of such useful foreign policy knowledge for independent India provides one lineage of Indian international relations, but we needn’t stop there.Other deeper histories can be found in unlikely places. Since its inception in 1919, the League of Nations was the target of critique from a wide section of the Indian intelligentsia. Often seen as an imperial club, India’s membership of the League was overseen by the colonial state which selected moderate delegations to the League’s assembly who were favourable to the interests of the British raj.One of the League’s functions, under the auspices of the International Committee on Intellectual Cooperation (ICIC), was to develop the ‘scientific’ study of international relations. Newly researched archival material at the League’s Geneva repository shows how these efforts included the establishing of League societies in India and attempts by the ICIC to encourage Tagore to advance the League’s mission within India.Such efforts drew in scholars such as the Lucknow political scientists Vangala Shiva Ram and Brij Mohan Sharma. They actively voiced Indian perspectives on League of Nations reform and world federation in newly establishing scholarly journals such as the Indian Journal of Political Science. A third lineage can be identified in the worldly exploits of activists, scholars, and revolutionaries who advanced the cause of Indian independence through overseas travel and encounter.Generations of Indian schoolchildren are familiar with the freedom fighters and their role in advancing India’s domestic liberation. But, through their travels, the activist-scholars among them frequently developed an international outlook too, broadcasting their works through outlets such as the Calcutta-based Modern Review.In many ways, India’s freedom was a product of transnational advocacy. Calcutta University sociologist Benoy Kumar Sarkar’s lengthy research trips to East Asia, Europe, and North America, for instance, included publications in leading American journals of political science. He advanced ‘Hindu’ interpretations of world order, including the Kautilyan mandala conception of geopolitics, later adopted by Nehru. Although ostensibly moderate in his views, Sarkar’s collaborations with the peripatetic Taraknath Das hinted at more revolutionary connections. Das’s scholarly profile included works on Japanese foreign policy and the history of India’s world role.India’s history of international relations thinking is, therefore, the story of multiple intellectual lineages, both deeper and more complex than existing accounts often allow. This is the story of a field of thought deeply entangled with world affairs and global developments in the systematisation of international affairs knowledge in the first half of the 20th century. A more holistic story of the histories of Indian international thought is possible, as scholars such as Raphaëlle Khan, Vineet Thakur, and Rahul Sagar, are now showing.Not only would renewed attention to these histories offer a more faithful recovery of Indian international thought, it would also provide a wider tapestry from which to tease out the lineages of international relations thinking that feature in contemporary Indian foreign policy debates. The Hindu right’s active geographic imaginary of a ‘greater India’ — Akhand Bharat — the rhetoric of India’s ‘human bridge’ through its diaspora connections, and Jaishankar’s ire towards western institutions – all have their roots in the visions of a world order crafted throughout the early 20th century.India’s contributions to international relations thinking are substantial and ongoing. Its current world role can be better understood through these more detailed historical investigations.Martin Bayly is an assistant professor, department of international relations, The London School of Economics and Political Science The views expressed are personal||https://www.hindustantimes.com/opinion/the-histories-of-indian-international-relations-101619704903162.html
29-04-2021||Editorials||Dealing with active Covid-19 cases | HT Editorial||On Wednesday, active cases of Covid-19 in India crossed the three million mark for the first time, adding to the burden on what is an already creaky health care infrastructure. Active cases – those Covid-19 patients still carrying the virus, and thus under treatment – is a crucial metric because it directly reflects the pressure on a region’s health care infrastructure. The metric is even more crucial in the current circumstances as resources and health personnel are over-stretched. The most worrying factor remains how fast active cases are continuing to grow. For the week ending Wednesday, India has on average added over 113,000 active infections every single day. At this rate, India is staring at four million active cases by the first week of May, and this number is likely to approach five million in the third week of May, by which time the country’s trajectory is expected to peak. Handling such a volume can be debilitating for any country, leave alone one like India that has a shortage of resources. In terms of this, management of life-saving resources such as hospital beds, medicines, oxygen, ventilators, even ambulances is becoming the difference between life and death for thousands of people. On Wednesday, a record 3,643 people lost their lives to the disease in India. We may never know how many of those died from the disease and how many lives were lost because hospitals, doctors and families were unable to procure life-saving resources. This level of fatalities can be prevented provided two things are done: First, administrations create stockpiles of these resources when Covid waves are waning; second, administrations can improve on-ground coordination for better management so that available resources are present when and where needed. While it is too late to do the former, the performance of administrations on the latter can be improved. Some states have created so-called war rooms for managing resources at hospitals, and others have made portals that show live availability of beds and oxygen. However, many states are yet to execute such measures, and even if they have, are not executing them properly. Many “live” hospital bed-trackers, for instance, operate with an hours-long lag, which means people are going to hospitals where they think beds are available, only to find that the information was dated. More than a year into a pandemic when the number of patients seeking these resources is at an all-time high, losing lives to such mismanagement is unacceptable.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/dealing-with-active-covid-19-cases-hteditorial-101619704909131.html
29-04-2021||Editorials||Mental health as a casualty of Covid-19 | HT Editorial||The second wave of the coronavirus pandemic, the massive number of daily deaths and the constant struggle for hospital beds, medicines and oxygen are affecting the mental well-being of people, according to several mental health experts. The mental health situation, they feel, is much worse now than last year during the first Covid-19 wave.The year, the situation is dismal for several reasons. The second wave has been much more severe and took many by surprise because it came just as people felt things were returning to normal. Many are also feeling guilty for not being able to support those around them adequately. Besides, many people were yet to recover from financial and personal losses of last year. Cumulatively, these factors are gravely impacting people’s sense of self-confidence, positivity, and resilience to cope with situations. This second round of the pandemic is also bound to impact the vulnerable sections more since they have much less access to mental health professionals.The World Health Organization (WHO), in 2019, estimated that 7.5% of Indians were affected by mental health disorders. This number will likely go up significantly because of the pandemic. India has only 0.75 psychiatrists per 100,000 people in India. This is far below the three psychiatrists per 100,000 people mandated by WHO. While the State is busy tackling the pandemic, there is a strong chance that the requirement for more mental health professionals, low-cost and accessible helplines, and adequate medicines will once again go unaddressed. If that happens, India will pay heavily again for being under-prepared to tackle a health crisis.||https://www.hindustantimes.com/editorials/mental-health-as-a-casualty-of-covid-19-hteditorial-101619704907444.html
