01-03-2021||India||Chinese hackers targeted India’s power sector, says US report||Amidst the tense border tension between India and China, a Chinese government-linked group of hackers targeted India's critical power grid system through malware, a US company has said in its latest study, raising suspicion whether last year's massive power outage in Mumbai was a result of the online intrusion.
Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company which studies the use of the internet by state actors, in its recent report details the campaign conducted by a China-linked threat activity group RedEcho targeting the Indian power sector.
The activity was identified through a combination of large-scale automated network traffic analytics and expert analysis. Data sources include the Recorded Future Platform, SecurityTrails, Spur, Farsight and common open-source tools and techniques, the report said.
In New Delhi, the ministry of power on Monday said there was no impact on operations of Power System Operation Corporation (POSOCO) due to any malware attack and that prompt actions were taken on advisories issued against such threats.
Responding on the findings of the study, the ministry said, "There is no impact on any of the functionalities carried out by POSOCO due to the referred threat. No data breach/ data loss has been detected due to these incidents."
It further said, "Prompt actions are being taken by the CISOs (chief information security officers) at all these control centres under operation by POSOCO for any incident/advisory received from various agencies like CERT-in, NCIIPC, CERT-Trans etc."
The CERT-in (Indian Computer Emergency Response Team) is the nodal agency to deal with cybersecurity threats like hacking and phishing.
However, the ministry did not mention about the Mumbai outage in its statement.Mumbai grid failure On October 12, 2020, a grid failure in Mumbai resulted in massive power outages, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and hitting the economic activity hard.
In its report, Recorded Future notified the appropriate Indian government departments prior to publication of the suspected intrusions to support incident response and remediation investigations within the impacted organisations.
Since early 2020, Recorded Future's Insikt Group observed a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organisations from the Chinese state-sponsored group.
The New York Times, in a report, said that the discovery raises the question about whether the Mumbai outage was meant as a message from Beijing about what might happen if India pushed its border claims too vigorously.China rejects allegations In response to the US firm's allegation, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin on Monday rejected the criticism about China's involvement in the hacking of India's power grid, saying it is an irresponsible and ill-intentioned practice.
"As a staunch defender of cybersecurity, China firmly opposes and cracks down on all forms of cyberattacks. Speculation and fabrication have no role to play in the issue of cyber attacks, as it is very difficult to trace the origin of a cyberattack.
"It is highly irresponsible to accuse a particular party when there is no sufficient evidence around. China is firmly opposed to such irresponsible and ill-intentioned practice," Wang said in Beijing.
According to the Recorded Future report, from mid-2020 onwards, Recorded Future's midpoint collection revealed a steep rise in the use of infrastructure tracked as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, which encompasses ShadowPad command and control (C2) servers, to target a large swathe of India's power sector. Power sector targets identified Ten distinct Indian power sector organisations, including four of the five Regional Load Despatch Centres responsible for the operation of the power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand, have been identified as targets in a concerted campaign against India's critical infrastructure.
Other targets identified included two Indian seaports, it said, adding the targeting of Indian critical infrastructure offers limited economic espionage opportunities.
However, we assess they pose significant concerns over potential pre-positioning of network access to support Chinese strategic objectives.
Pre-positioning on energy assets may support several potential outcomes, including geostrategic signalling during heightened bilateral tensions, supporting influence operations, or as a precursor to kinetic escalation, it said.
RedEcho has strong infrastructure and victimology overlaps with Chinese groups APT41/Barium and Tonto Team, while ShadowPad is used by at least five distinct Chinese groups, it said.Activity in lead-up to May 2020 border row Recorded Future said in the lead-up to the May 2020 border skirmishes, it observed a noticeable increase in the provisioning of PlugX malware C2 infrastructure, much of which was subsequently used in intrusion activity targeting Indian organisations.
The PlugX activity included the targeting of multiple Indian government, public sector and defence organisations from at least May 2020, it said.
While not unique to Chinese cyber espionage activity, PlugX has been heavily used by China-nexus groups for many years.
Throughout the remainder of 2020, we identified a heavy focus on the targeting of Indian government and private sector organisations by multiple Chinese state-sponsored threat activity groups, it said.
Recorder Future also alleged that it also observed the suspected Indian state-sponsored group Sidewinder target Chinese military and government entities in 2020, in activity overlapping with recent Trend Micro research.
The US company's report came as the armies of the two countries began disengagement of troops locked in over an eight-month-long standoff in eastern Ladakh. PTI||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||Govt's silence indicates it's planning steps against farmers' stir, says Tikait||BKU leader Rakesh Tikait has claimed that the Centre's "silence" for the past few days indicates that it is planning some steps against the farmers' agitation over newly enacted agriculture laws. He also stressed that it is the government that will have to come forward with a proposal for talks to resume with the protesting farmers. Before leaving for Uttarakhand's Udham Singh Nagar on Sunday night, the Bharatiya Kisan Union (BKU) leader told reporters in Bijnor's Afzalgarh, "The government's silence for the past 15-20 days is indicating that something is going to happen. The government is planning some steps against the agitation." However, Tikait said farmers will not step back till a solution is found. "The farmer is also ready. He will look after his crop as well as the agitation. Let the government hold talks when it has the time," he said. Tikait also said farmers' "mahapanchayats" will be held at several places in the country till March 24. When asked about the violence during a tractor parade on the Republic Day in New Delhi, he alleged that the government created the trouble. On the issue of farmers destroying their standing crop at different places, Tikait said the BKU has told farmers that the time for such action has not come yet. "But why is the government not appealing to farmers not to take such a step," he asked. Tikait said farmers will intensify their agitation if the wheat crop is not sold on the minimum support price (MSP) in Uttar Pradesh and they will hold dharnas outside district headquarters across the state.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||Chinese hackers targeted India's power through malware, says US firm||Amidst the tense border tension between India and China, a Chinese government-linked group of hackers targeted India's critical power grid system through malware, a US company has said in its latest study, raising suspicion whether last year's massive power outage in Mumbai was a result of the online intrusion. Recorded Future, a Massachusetts-based company which studies the use of the internet by state actors, in its recent report details the campaign conducted by a China-linked threat activity group RedEcho targeting the Indian power sector. The activity was identified through a combination of large-scale automated network traffic analytics and expert analysis. Data sources include the Recorded Future Platform, SecurityTrails, Spur, Farsight and common open-source tools and techniques, the report said. On October 12, a grid failure in Mumbai resulted in massive power outages, stopping trains on tracks, hampering those working from home amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and hitting the stuttering economic activity hard. It took two hours for the power supply to resume for essential services, prompting Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray to order an enquiry into the incident. In its report, Recorded Future notified the appropriate Indian government departments prior to publication of the suspected intrusions to support incident response and remediation investigations within the impacted organisations. There was no immediate response from the Indian government on the study by the US company. Since early 2020, Recorded Future's Insikt Group observed a large increase in suspected targeted intrusion activity against Indian organisations from the Chinese state-sponsored group. The New York Times, in a report, said that the discovery raises the question about whether the Mumbai outage was meant as a message from Beijing about what might happen if India pushed its border claims too vigorously. In response to the allegation, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Wang Wenbin on Monday rejected the criticism about China's involvement in the hacking of India's power grid, saying it is irresponsible and ill-intentioned to make allegations without proof. China is a staunch upholder of cybersecurity. We firmly oppose and fight any kind of cyber-attacks, he said, replying to a question on the report of the cyber-attack on the Indian power grid. It is hard to track the origin of the cyber-attacks. You cannot make wanton guesses or smear a specific country without any proof. This is irresponsible and ill-intentioned. China firmly opposes such behaviour, he said in Beijing. According to the Recorded Future report, from mid-2020 onwards, Recorded Future's midpoint collection revealed a steep rise in the use of infrastructure tracked as AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE, which encompasses ShadowPad command and control (C2) servers, to target a large swathe of India's power sector. Ten distinct Indian power sector organisations, including four of the five Regional Load Despatch Centres responsible for operation of the power grid through balancing electricity supply and demand, have been identified as targets in a concerted campaign against India's critical infrastructure. Other targets identified included two Indian seaports, it said, adding the targeting of Indian critical infrastructure offers limited economic espionage opportunities. However, we assess they pose significant concerns over potential pre-positioning of network access to support Chinese strategic objectives. Pre-positioning on energy assets may support several potential outcomes, including geostrategic signalling during heightened bilateral tensions, supporting influence operations, or as a precursor to kinetic escalation, it said. RedEcho has strong infrastructure and victimology overlaps with Chinese groups APT41/Barium and Tonto Team, while ShadowPad is used by at least five distinct Chinese groups, it said. The high concentration of IPs resolving to Indian critical infrastructure entities communicating over several months with a distinct subset of AXIOMATICASYMPTOTE servers used by RedEcho indicate a targeted campaign, with little evidence of wider targeting in Recorded Future's network telemetry, it said. Recorded Future said in the lead-up to the May 2020 border skirmishes, it observed a noticeable increase in the provisioning of PlugX malware C2 infrastructure, much of which was subsequently used in intrusion activity targeting Indian organisations. The PlugX activity included the targeting of multiple Indian government, public sector and defence organisations from at least May 2020, it said. While not unique to Chinese cyber espionage activity, PlugX has been heavily used by China-nexus groups for many years. Throughout the remainder of 2020, we identified a heavy focus on the targeting of Indian government and private sector organisations by multiple Chinese state-sponsored threat activity groups, it said. Recorder Future alleged that it also observed the suspected Indian state-sponsored group Sidewinder target Chinese military and government entities in 2020, in activity overlapping with recent Trend Micro research. The Massachusetts-based company's report came as the armies of the two countries began disengagement of troops locked in over eight-month-long standoff in eastern Ladakh. Both countries reached a mutual agreement last month for the disengagement of troops from the most contentious area of North and South banks of the Pangong Lake.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||Bailable warrant against Kangana issued on Javed Akhtar's complaint||A Mumbai court on Monday issued a bailable warrant against actor Kangana Ranaut after she failed to appear before it in connection with a defamation complaint filed against her by lyricist Javed Akhtar. The Andheri metropolitan magistrate's court issued a summons to Ranaut on February 1, directing her to appear before it on March 1. However, Ranaut failed to appear on Monday following which Magistrate R R Khan issued a bailable warrant against her and posted the matter for further hearing on March 26. A lawyer in the case had earlier informed March 22 as the next date of hearing. Ranaut's advocate Rizwan Siddiquee argued in the court that the summons and process were issued against Ranaut without following the procedure laid down in law and hence, were "bad in law". Siddiquee said a petition would be filed in the Bombay High Court challenging the process issued by the magistrate. Akhtar's advocate Vrinda Grover, however, argued that even if the process is being challenged, Ranaut has to appear before the court as directed, in the absence of any stay on the summons by a higher court. "It is the accused's right to appeal against the order, or even challenge the proceedings, that no one can deny and no one can stop, not even this court. However, she (Ranaut) has failed to comply with the order of this court and there is also no stay obtained from a higher court,"the lawyer argued. Grover then filed an application seeking a non- bailable warrant to be issued against the actor. This was opposed by Siddiquee. Magistrate Khan observed that Ranaut was at the liberty to approach a higher court to challenge the process issued against her, but that would not absolve her from appearing before this court. The court issued a bailable warrant against Ranaut and posted the matter for hearing on March 26. Last month, the Mumbai police submitted a report to the court, saying an offence of defamation was made out against the actor. Akhtar filed the complaint against Ranaut in November last year for allegedly making baseless and false statements against him which, according to him, damaged his reputation. In his complaint, the lyricist claimed Ranaut had made defamatory comments against him in an interview by dragging his name while referring to a "coterie" existing in Bollywood, following the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput in June last year. Akhtar in his plea claimed the baseless comments made by Ranaut had caused damage to his reputation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||India's Covid tally surpasses 1.11 crore mark||India's COVID-19 tally surpassed 1.11 crore on Monday with 15,510 new infections, while the active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day and were recorded at 1,68,627, according to the Union Health Ministry data. The total coronavirus cases reached 1,11,12,241 in the country, while the death toll rose to 1,57,157 with 106 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am on Monday showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,86,457, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.07 per cent, it stated. The case fatality rate has dropped to 1.41 per cent. The active cases further increased to 1,68,627, which comprises 1.52 per cent of the total infections, as per the data. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), a total of 21,68,58,774 samples have been tested for coronavirus till February 28, with 6,27,668 samples being tested on Sunday. The 106 new fatalities include 62 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala, seven from Punjab and five from Karnataka. A total of 1,57,157 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,154 from Maharashtra, 12,496 from Tamil Nadu, 12,331 from Karnataka, 10,910 from Delhi, 10,268 from West Bengal, 8,725 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that the state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||Prime Minister takes the first dose of Covaxin at AIIMS ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took his first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS here and appealed to all those who are eligible to get inoculated. Nurse P Niveda, who hails from Puducherry, administered Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN to the prime minister, sources said. "Took my first dose of the COVID-19 vaccine at AIIMS. Remarkable how our doctors and scientists have worked in quick time to strengthen the global fight against COVID-19," Modi tweeted after taking the vaccine shot. "I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India COVID-19 free!" he said. The prime minister also posted a picture of himself taking the first dose of the vaccine in which he is seen sporting an Assamese 'gamocha' and getting inoculated with a smile on his face. Nurse Niveda and a second nurse from Kerala can be seen in the picture posted by Modi. The prime minister went to AIIMS without any route restrictions and chose early morning hours to ensure there was no inconvenience to people, the sources said. Nurse Niveda later told reporters that the prime minister, after being administered the vaccine shot, remarked "Laga bhi diya, pata bhi nahin chala (Already done? I didn't even feel it)." Niveda said she has been working with AIIMS for three years now and is currently posted at the vaccine centre. "We found out PM sir is coming for vaccination this morning. When I came here only then I got to know that sir is coming. It was really nice to meet sir," she said. He has been administered the first dose of Bharat Biotech's COVAXIN and will need his second dose in 28 days, the nurse said. "He talked with us, asked us from where we belong," she said. Rosamma Anil, the nurse from Kerala, said it was very nice to meet the prime minister and added that he was "very comfortable". The government had announced on Wednesday that everyone above 60 years of age and those over 45 years with comorbidities will be able to get COVID-19 vaccine from March 1 for free at government facilities and for a charge at many private hospitals. Citizens will be able to register and book an appointment for vaccination, anytime and anywhere, using the Co-WIN 2.0 portal or through other IT applications such as Aarogya Setu.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||Odisha IIT bags varsity of the year award||Indian Institute of Technology Bhubaneswar bagged the University of the Year award in the category of universities in existence for 11-30 years, at the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (Ficci) Higher Education Excellence Awards 2021 ceremony. The three-day Ficci Higher education summit was held between February 25 and February 27. There were 11 categories of awards in this 7th edition of the event and the awards were announced on February 25 at the 16th Ficci Higher Education Summit 2021. The jury comprised an eminent panel of experts chaired by Prof R.A. Mashelkar. Director, IIT, Professor R.V. Raja Kumar said, “IIT Bhubaneswar has been trying to offer holistic education to its students of a standard at par with the cream of global class institutions by bringing in academic excellence through several unique pedagogical and operational reforms. “The sudden onset of the pandemic posed us a lot of challenges in fulfilling the self-imposed commitment and the Institute had to bring in right innovative processes required for offering education which is not compromised or affected by the pandemic.” Raja Kumar said: “Some of the distinguished and unique innovative initiatives, the Institute could bring in include coming out with a method for conducting pen and paper comprehensive examinations by online with online invigilation by faculty members (for which there is no commercial product available) for evaluating the student learning and applying the same successfully right from the beginning of the lockdown, including conducting end semester exams online for the last academic year.” He further said: “The institute has switched to online education with zero gap at the onset of lockdown and protected the whole campus.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||Govt treats education as an ideological weapon and commercial commodity: Rahul||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Sunday said the RSS and Prime Minister Narendra Modi was using education as an ideological weapon and commercial commodity instead of viewing it as a tool to empower citizens. Interacting with professors in Tamil Nadu’s Tirunelveli, Rahul said: “The RSS uses education as an ideological tool. We believe education is a weapon of empowerment of the people.” He also said that the new education policy was being used as an ideological weapon to communalise people and impose centralisation. Stressing that education plays a critical role in nation-building, the Congress leader said: “The State has an important role in providing quality education to the people across the country, particularly the poor and deprived sections of the society. I don’t believe education is a financial commodity. I don’t believe you should be able to buy education. Education should be available to everybody.” Responding to questions, he added: “It is the duty of the government to provide quality education and health care to everybody. This government sees everything as a financial commodity — farming, education, health care. “If you have money, you can get anything. If you don’t have money, you get nothing. There is space and role for business. Absolutely. But business cannot dominate education, health care. A large part of education should be free, accessible to all.” Rahul, who is on a three-day tour of Tamil Nadu, also dwelt on his pet theme of how the entire agriculture trade was being handed over to crony capitalists. He later tweeted: “The Government of India has turned noble professions like farming, education & health care into financial commodities for the benefit of a few cronies.” He said that “access and excellence” were not possible with centralisation and corporatisation of the education system. Responding to a professor who wanted to know how to educate young minds to remove religion from politics, the former Congress president said: “I don’t think you necessarily want to remove religion from the discourse. Let all religions be part of the discourse. “You want fair play. If somebody believes in a religious idea, I don’t think you can tell him — you can’t talk about it. I think all ideas need to be competing without hatred, without anger. I don’t see a problem in a conversation taking place.” Rahul added: “The problem is when you tell people you can’t open your mouth because you are from a certain religion. Or, you can’t express your ideas because you are from a certain religion. But a healthy democracy should be confident enough to speak on anything. It shouldn’t be that we don’t have the courage to speak the truth. “The problem is that the government of India doesn’t want to allow people to speak. This government says they represent Hinduism. A lot of ideas they espouse have nothing to do with Hinduism. Nowhere in Hinduism does it say insult people, beat people, kill people. But they do it.” Hinting that the RSS-BJP misused and misinterpreted religion only to grab power and implement its agenda, he said: “If you want to have a discussion on the true principles of religion, it is very simple. All of them say the same thing — Hinduism, Christianity, Islam — treat the other person with respect, with love, with affection. Religion doesn’t say hate, kill. The whole game is to steal. Do whatever you have to do to take away what belongs to the other. Take people’s money and give it to big businesses.” Asked about his vision for imparting knowledge in a practical manner as is done in the West, Rahul said: “I would give freedom to teachers and students. Teachers are creative people, I will let them use that creativity. The students should have the freedom to question, to challenge ideas. The government should be confident enough to let ideas flourish. This government doesn’t give that freedom. “But we defeated the British. Who is Modi in comparison to the British power? We will send Modi back to Nagpur (the RSS headquarters). But we will do it without hate, without anger.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
01-03-2021||India||JNU teachers call for regular VC ||The teachers’ association of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) has demanded the immediate appointment of a regular vice-chancellor since the tenure of M Jagadesh Kumar had ended. JNU is among a dozen central educational institutions that are functioning without a regular vice-chancellor or director. These institutions include the IITs at Indore, Mandi, Patna and Bhubaneswar. “Today marks a month of Prof. Jagadesh Kumar’s extension as caretaker vice-chancellor. While the process of finding a replacement started in October 2020, it is unfortunate that the search committee constituted for the purpose has not been able to substantially advance its work,” said a statement issued by the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) on Friday. The association alleged impropriety in the nomination of members for JNU’s search panels. One of the applicants for the post was present at the meeting of JNU’s Executive Council that nominated the search panel members, the JNUTA alleged. A JNU teacher said the university administration under the leadership of Kumar took decisions and actions to appease certain faculty members while victimising others who opposed his way of functioning. The JNU vice-chancellor had issued showcause notices against 48 faculty members in 2018 for taking part in a protest on the campus. Currently, Delhi University does not have a regularvice-chancellor after the suspension of Yogesh Tyagi. The wait also continues for regular vice-chancellors at Shri Lal Bahadur Shastri National Sanskrit University and Central Sanskrit University. Expert committees had conducted interviews to fill up the posts in August last year. The tenure of the incumbent vice-chancellors has been extended. Six months after the education minister Ramesh Pokhriyal-led panel conducted interviews, IIT Ropar got its new director last month while the fate of the selection of directors at IIT Patna and IIT Bhubaneswar is unclear. On July 14, 2020, the Pokhriyal panel had held online interviews of shortlisted candidates for the three IIT heads. After the posts were advertised by the education ministry on November 26, 2019, the process of selection of the heads of all the three IITs was carried out simultaneously. Last month Rajeev Ahuja was appointed IIT Ropar director. The IIT faculty members were expecting that the directors would be appointed in July itself as the issuance of appointment letters usually does not take more than two weeks after the conduct of interviews. After the interviews, the education ministry sends the names to the President, who is the Visitor of the central universities and IITs. The Visitor clears the names expeditiously. “The absence of a regular director is affecting recruitment of faculty and the planning of academic activities amid the pandemic. Development activities too have been held up. The order last month appointing the IIT Ropar director has created more question about transparency,” said an IIT Bhubaneswar faculty member. The Telegraph sent an email to the education ministry to understand its perspective on the delay in recruitments after interviews, but received no reply.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||CBI without a regular chief for nearly a month now||The Central Bureau of Investigation, the country’s premier investigative agency, has been without a regular chief for nearly a month. Besides, the Centre is yet to appoint a new chief of the Central Reserve Police Force, India’s biggest paramilitary force, whose director-general retired on Sunday. The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) is also headless since August last year. Sources in the CBI said the absence of a regular director in the CBI had “severely affected decision making”. The Centre had appointed Gujarat cadre IPS officer Praveen Sinha, currently the additional director of the CBI, as the agency’s interim chief on February 3, the day regular chief R.K. Shukla’s two-year tenure ended. “No policy decision is being taken in the absence of the regular director for almost a month. This has severely affected decision making in the agency, which is handling several politically sensitive cases,” a CBI official said. The CBI is under the administrative control of the department of personnel and training that reports to the Prime Minister’s Office. Sources said the Centre was yet to call a meeting of the high-powered committee — comprising the Prime Minister, the Chief Justice of India and the leader of the largest Opposition in the Lok Sabha — to pick the new CBI director. “The Centre is still in the process of shortlisting names of the contenders for the post of the next CBI director,” the CBI official said. The Centre on Friday appointed outgoing CRPF chief A.P. Maheshwari as an adviser to Puducherry’s lieutenant governor, two days before his superannuation from the Indian Police Service. Maheshwari retired on Sunday. The Narcotics Control Bureau is also without its regular chief since August last year. In August, the Narendra Modi government had appointed controversial Gujarat cadre IPS officer Rakesh Asthana as the director-general of the Border Security Force. He is also holding the additional charge as the director-general of NCB. Both the CRPF and NCB report to the Union home ministry.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||UP farmers’ agitation driven by 'stagnant' sugarcane prices and stray cattle menace||The old saying that farming is the best occupation no longer holds true, says Raj Kumar, a farmer from western Uttar Pradesh, who complains that stagnant sugarcane prices and rising input costs have made agriculture unsustainable. Kumar, a Rawa Rajput from Satheri village, says sugarcane prices have not been raised for several seasons while urea and the fertiliser DAP have become costlier. “Pehle kehte the, Uttam Kheti, Beech Vyapar, Neech Naukri. Ab to sab ulat gaya hai. (We used to say agriculture is the best, followed by trade and working for someone else was the least desired. This wisdom seems to have been turned on its head),” says Kumar. Kumar says he does not know much about the new farm laws but is supporting the protesting farmers because agriculture has become unviable. The farmers protesting against the three laws are worried that these will lead to the collapse of the existing Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) system and leave them vulnerable to exploitation by large corporates.  They are demanding repeal of the laws and a legal guarantee for a minimum support price for crops. The protests, which started in Punjab and Haryana, are spreading across the country. In Uttar Pradesh, mahapanchayats are being held to spread awareness against the laws and rally support for the protest at Delhi’s borders. Roshan Lal, a Saini by caste and a small-scale farmer, said delay in payment for sugarcane and the rising diesel prices besides the problem of stray cattle had made their lives miserable. “More than farm laws, no hike in cane prices, delay of over a year in payments of sugarcane and the menace of stray cattle have broken our back,” Lal said. “All this has forced us to raise our voices for farmers’ issues.” Sohan, a Kashyap by caste from Ganshampura village who owns less than one acre and uses his crop mostly in his jaggery workshop, says: “Here sugarcane is everything. If its prices increase, the prices of jaggery will also go up otherwise it would be difficult to pay even wages.” Sohan also complains about the stray cattle. He has heard about the farm laws but doesn’t know much about them. However, opposition to the laws becomes louder and more visible in the Jat-dominated regions of the western Uttar Pradesh. In Shoram village, seen as the headquarters of the khaps (caste councils) of the Jat community, a mere mention of farm laws evokes a strong response. “These laws are not only against the farmers but against the country... those who are guarding the borders are our sons and behind their back you are trying to snatch the rights of their brothers who are into farming,” said Bhupender Choudhary, a villager. The protest will continue till the government takes back the farm laws, says Vipin Balyan, a 35-year-old farmer from Shoram village. “The proponents of these black laws will pay heavily in coming elections.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||KV and Navodaya parents and teachers to participate in creative writing contests||Ahead of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s interaction with students on examination stress, the Centre expects parents and teachers of Kendriya Vidyalayas and Navodaya schools to participate in creative writing contests on topics praising online education and putting the onus on parents to control the anxiety of their wards. A section of academics said the themes offered no room to parents and teachers to reflect upon the issues impartially and from their own experience. The centrally funded Kendriya Vidyalaya Sangathan (KVS) and Navodaya Vidyalaya Samiti (NVS) have uploaded details of the proposed online creative writing competition to be held this year ahead of the fourth edition of Modi’s Pariksha Pe Charcha programme. The event, in the third week of March, will be held online this year. This is for the first time creative writing contests have been extended to parents and teachers. Last year students had been asked to send their creative writings on five topics. This year students of Classes IX to XII will participate in the creative writing competitions on topics such as “Exams are festivals, celebrate them”, “India is incredible, travel and explore”, “As one journey ends, another begins”, “Aspire, not to be, but to do” and “Be grateful”. The details uploaded on the website https://innovateindia.mygov.in/ppc-2021/ suggest that participation is open to all parents and teachers. The participants can send their write-ups till March 14. “Upon successful submission of entries, all parents and teachers shall receive a digital certificate of participation that they may download and share on social media with #PPC2021,” the website said. The same advice has been given to students too. The parents have been asked to write up to 1,500 characters on either of the following topics: “Your words make your child’s world — encourage as you have always done” and “Be your child’s friend, keep depression away”. “Write a story about the vision you share with your child for his or her future. Let your child write the first sentence. Then you write the next and so on,” said the instructions on the first topic for the parents. For the second topic, the parents have been asked to write a postcard up to 500 characters addressed to the child to let him or her know why they are special. Similarly, the teachers have been advised to write up to 1,500 characters on the topic “Online education system: Its benefits and how it can be improved further”. The KVS and the NVS have passed on the instructions to schools, which have informed the parents, teachers and students. Prof. Anita Rampal, an educationist and former dean of faculty of education, Delhi University, said: “However much we may wish it to be, examinations are unfortunately not a festival, and we in the system are responsible for that. So how can we ask students to celebrate?” “The examination system is intimidating and competitive, where state boards are also in competition to give higher marks, not focusing on the true assessment of students’ understanding, but forcing memorisation and (exerting) tremendous stress on students and parents,” she added. “The parents are as much victims of the system as the students. As educationists it is important that we do not pass the buck onto and place the responsibility on parents; we will need to completely change the system of examinations if we really want to ensure that meaningful learning and assessment happens and students are not stressed,” Rampal said. She said researches showed that even the best students of top universities tended to underperform when competition and anxiety were high or the examinations were highly centralised. Rampal said the topic for teachers — online education — conformed to the government’s official position, leaving no space to offer an alternative view and refusing to take note of the problems the majority of teachers and students had been facing. “We know that children learn through exploration and active engagement, not just by staring at computer screens or blackboards. Children learn from each other by thinking and questioning, while working and meeting in schools. But the topic praising the online education system contradicts the basic theories of learning and gives no scope to teachers to express the severe difficulties and limitations associated with it,” Rampal said. Moushumi Basu, a faculty member of Jawaharlal Nehru University, questioned the government’s treatment of students, who have demonstrated independent thinking and confidence in recent months. She referred to the arrest of climate activist Disha Ravi in the toolkit sedition case. “As a parent I am worried — we teach our children to be independent. I am sure Disha Ravi’s parents did the same but how did the State functionaries, especially the police, react? Who is responsible for the sleepless nights that she spent in judicial and police custody? Basu asked. “And she is not alone — there’s Nodeep Kaur, Gulfisha, Safoora, Ishrat, Debangana, Natasha, who are all suffering a similar fate,” Basu added. The Telegraph sent emails to the education ministry, KVS commissioner Nidhi Pandey and NVS commissioner Vinayak Garg asking about the reasons for extending the competition to parents, the issuance of certificates and the concerns about lack of digital devices. “Pareeksha Pe Charcha is a purely voluntary process. The inputs that come here help in better policy making for the larger benefit of students, parents and teachers,” said an official of the education ministry. Pandey and Garg did not respond to the queries.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||‘Sticky bomb’ alarm in Jammu and Kashmir||Security forces battling a decades-long insurgency in Kashmir are alarmed by the recent arrival in the region of small, magnetic bombs that have wreaked havoc in Afghanistan. “Sticky bombs”, which can be attached to vehicles and detonated remotely, have been seized during raids in recent months in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir, three senior security officials told Reuters. “These are small IEDs and quite powerful,” said Kashmir police chief Vijay Kumar, referring to improvised explosive devices. “It will certainly impact the present security scenario as volume and frequency of vehicular movements of police and security forces are high in the Kashmir Valley.” The Centre flooded Kashmir, already one of the world’s most militarised regions, with more troops in August 2019, when it cancelled the erstwhile state’s special status. The arrival of the sticky bombs in Kashmir — including 15 seized in a February raid — raises concerns that an unnerving tactic attributed to the Taliban insurgents in nearby Afghanistan could be spreading to the India-Pakistan conflict. Afghanistan in recent months has seen a series of sticky-bomb attacks targeting security forces, judges, government officials, civil society activists and journalists. The attacks — some as victims sat in traffic — have sown fear, while avoiding substantial civilian casualties. None of the devices seized in Kashmir was produced there, a senior security official said, suggesting they were being smuggled from Pakistan. “All of them have come via drone drops and tunnels,” he said. New Delhi has attempted to maintain a tight grip over the Kashmir Valley, where high-speed mobile Internet was suspended for 18 months until earlier in February, but the insurgency has simmered on. Officials said the bombs were particularly worrying because they could be easily attached to vehicles using magnets, potentially allowing militants to carry out assassinations or target military convoys that regularly criss-cross the Valley. In February 2019, a suicide bomber drove a car laden with explosives into a convoy in Kashmir’s Pulwama, killing 40 soldiers — the deadliest attack on Indian forces in the region — bringing India and Pakistan to the brink of another war. Police chief Kumar said security forces were changing protocols to deal with the new threat. The measures included increasing the distance between private and military traffic, installing more cameras on vehicles and using drones to monitor convoys. A difference between militants in Kashmir and Afghanistan is that the Taliban have tremendous ability to move around in urban and rural areas, which, along with the easier availability of explosives, make the bombs a potent threat. The Taliban, which initially said it was behind some of the attacks, has since denied any involvement in the attacks. “The Taliban has targets, can reach them, and kill them with impunity. The whole structure of the attack — and its endless repetition — is what makes the bomb effective,” said Avinash Paliwal, a senior lecturer in international relations at SOAS University of London. “In Kashmir, the space for such ability to manoeuvre with ease is limited.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
01-03-2021||India||How PM has doubled ‘farmer’ income already ||Our Prime Minister is an honourable man. He does what he says; only at times people don’t understand it. He keeps his promise. He had promised to eliminate black money from the Indian economy. He kept his promise with a blitzkrieg called “demonetisation”, and big business converted overnight its black money into white money while the nationalised banks increased their burden of non-performing assets. The result was there for all to see. Many in the informal sector could not see it only because they did not survive the blitzkrieg. This was just like his other blitzkrieg of a sudden lockdown at four hours’ notice with the solemn advice to us to fight the coronavirus by banging our utensils, and then by lighting lamps. Some, of course, did not have balconies, or even utensils. Some, before they could fight the virus, died on the roads. They were the migrant workers on a long march back home. Then our Prime Minister promised he would double farmers’ income within two years, and he has already done it. He did it under the veil of a sudden and severe lockdown. The Prime Minister is a modest man who does not like to boast of his achievements. But the country should know that its farmers’ wealth had doubled in exactly 227 days. We learnt from a recent Oxfam report that between “18 March and 31 October, Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man, and chairman, managing director and largest shareholder of Reliance Industries Ltd — which specialises in petrol, retail and telecommunications — more than doubled his wealth, which rose (in US dollars) from 36.8 to 78.3bn”. The Forbes rich list for 2020 puts his wealth even higher, at $89bn. This is three times that of the second-richest man, Gautam Adani, who too kept pace. As we know, the Prime Minister does not like to mention these achievements because he is modest. This billionaire duo could be categorised as honorary farmers with vast retail and storing (silo) interests in agricultural produce. And, if they were counted as honorary farmers and their incomes added to the incomes of the rest of the Indian farmers, it can easily be seen that the farmers’ average income would take a mighty leap. All pro-corporate, market-oriented economists — some here, some others in the IMF and the World Bank — may have even estimated it already. That’s why they were so vocal and confident in the media. The farmers’ average income would go up enormously just by welcoming two corporate members into their community from Gujarat. The Prime Minister can vouch for them as he knew them so well and cut deals with them closely when he was chief minister of Gujarat, and the bonding has gone even deeper now with airport contracts and so on. That’s what the three farm laws intend achieving. It puzzles India’s elite also that the farmers cannot see this simple arithmetic. After all, most of India’s real rich got richer by defying the law of gravity of the severe contraction of the real economy during this period of the lockdown. Much of this was possible because of the rise in share prices, especially of Ambani’s and Adani’s companies. This was flagged by the Hurun India list and noted by UBS in Switzerland as well as PricewaterhouseCoopers. Only the farmers obstinately refuse to see this advantage of owning shares rather than toiling on the fields for meagre returns. So what option did the Prime Minister have when the farmers behaved like a bunch of unruly, bad students who refused to learn the lesson? They had to be taught through detention. Spikes, barbed wire, trenches were used to cordon off Delhi’s Singhu and other borders, wherever the farmers had gathered. These days terrorists, Khalistanis, urban Naxals and foreign conspiracies are the deadly viruses competing with Covid-19, as our national intelligence knows so well. The compromised evidence planted in computers is, of course, just another instance of the “foreign destructive ideology (FDI)” that the Prime Minister has rightly warned us about. Among the carriers of such FDI are newspapers like The Washington Post, which brought down then US President Richard Nixon in the 1970s and recently published the news about the computers of some urban Naxals being compromised. Former US President Donald Trump knew how dangerous this media virus can be. The Prime Minister has always been alert to such dangers. Our alert Prime Minister had to warn us passionately against such “Andolan Jeevi” parasites, Khalistanis, anti-CAA students, “tukde tukde gang” members, urban Naxals. They are all anti-nationals infiltrating the farmers’ movement, and the problem is that this infiltrating virus is so strange that the farmers become like them. They all are, if not anti-national then anti-government, and if not anti-government then certainly anti-government-policy. Nevertheless, we can sleep peacefully at night because we are in the safe hands of a strong Prime Minister (with a 56-inch chest) who does not compromise and makes these finer distinctions. So the farmers have been immobilised on Delhi’s borders. On the slightest suspicion, or even without any, they can be picked up. The Prime Minister and the entire State power are prepared to meet the challenge although the farmers — men, women and children — are a non-aggressive, peaceful lot. The only weapon they have is tractors. Looks like an uneven battle the farmers can never win. And yet the outcome of this battle is becoming less and less predictable. Not only are the farmers horrible and obstinate with unfaltering determination, they have found an almost paradoxical way of fighting this war. They are not interested in coming to Delhi; they are not interested in the wonderfully passionate speeches or the Mann Ki Baat addresses of the Prime Minister; they are not even interested in talking to the government unless the government shows real interest in negotiating. They are not even interested in the Prime Minister’s verbal assurances in Parliament about the minimum support price for agricultural produce. They simply want it as a law passed by Parliament. What is more, the government is alarmed to learn they are no longer in a hurry. They are consolidating their support among the peasantry not only in Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, or among the Sikh and Jat peasantry, they are spreading out across north and central India — to Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh. Farmers’ mahapanchayats are drawing such huge crowds and enthusiastic response that go beyond caste, religion and class boundaries that the government cannot but see the writing on the wall. South of Vindhyas in Andhra, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Kerala, the movement is acquiring new energy every day, with enthusiastic farmers holding marches. It looks like the movement has so far been less powerful in eastern India, but if the huge wave of the farmers’ protest reaches the shores of the Bay of Bengal, all the BJP’s hopes will sink. The farmers are rising as never before in India. They were meant to be encircled by the government, but they are encircling the government rapidly. It is now up to the political parties to show whether they are capable of rising to the occasion and going beyond petty electoral seat calculations to drown — as a united force — not merely the three contentious farm laws but also their makers with the help of this farmers’ uprising. Amit Bhaduri is an economist. In January 2020, Bhaduri gave up his status as professor emeritus at JNU in protest against the throttling of dissent on the campus||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-302
