02-03-2021||India||Haryana governor gives assent to Bill providing 75 per cent jobs to locals||Haryana Governor Satyadeo Narain Arya has given assent to the Bill providing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state, Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said here on Tuesday. The Haryana Assembly had late last year passed the Bill, a key poll promise made by the ruling alliance partner Jannayak Janta Party. "The Haryana Governor today gave his assent to the Bill entailing 75 per cent reservation in the private sector to job seekers from the state. The government will notify it soon," the CM told reporters at a press conference here. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020 provides quota for local people in private sector jobs that offer a salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. The quota will initially apply for 10 years, according to the Bill. Apart from tackling unemployment among local people, the state government said the law will discourage the influx of migrants seeking low-paid jobs, which has a significant impact on local infrastructure and leads to the proliferation of slums . The Bill covers private companies, societies, trusts and partnership firms in the state. It provides for training to eligible local candidates when qualified people are not available. It defines local candidates as those domiciled in the state. For domicile status, a person should be born in Haryana or have lived there for at least 15 years. Giving 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs was a key poll promise by Dushyant Chautala's JJP, which is the BJP's coalition partner in the state. Chautala described the assent given by the Governor as "happiest moment for the youth of Haryana." "The rules on this new law will be framed soon and published," he said at Faridabad.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism, India tells Pakistan||India on Tuesday hit out at Pakistan, a country in dire economic situation but provided pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists out of state funds, and asked Islamabad to stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism. Using its Right of Reply at the ongoing 46th Session of the Human Rights Council in response to a statement by Pakistan's representative, India said Pakistan should also end institutionalised violation of human rights of its minority and other communities in the country. India also slammed Pakistan for deliberately misusing the Council for its malicious propaganda against the country. "Pakistan, a country in dire economic situation, will be well advised to stop wasting time of the Council and its mechanisms, stop state-sponsored cross-border terrorism and end institutionalised violation of human rights of its minority and other communities," said Pawankumar Badhe, First Secretary of India's Permanent Mission in Geneva. "The members of this Council are well aware that Pakistan has provided pensions to dreaded and listed terrorists out of State funds and has the dubious distinction of hosting the largest number of terrorists prescribed by the United Nations," Badhe said. The Indian diplomat recalled that Pakistani leaders have admitted the fact that "it has become a factory for producing terrorists." "Pakistan has ignored that terrorism is the worst form of human rights abuse and the supporters of terrorism are the worst abusers of human rights, the Indian diplomat said. Badhe said the Council should ask Pakistan why the size of its minority communities such as Christians, Hindus and Sikhs has drastically shrunk since independence and why they and other communities such as Ahmadiyyas, Shias, Pashtuns, Sindhis and Baloch, have been subjected to draconian blasphemy laws, systemic persecution, blatant abuses and forced conversions. He said that holy and ancient sites of religious minorities in Pakistan have been attacked and vandalised daily. "Enforced disappearances, extrajudicial killings and arbitrary detentions of those who try to speak against the establishment are rampant in Pakistan and have been carried out by the State's security agencies with impunity," the diplomat said. India also rejected the Organisation of Islamic Conference's statement on Jammu and Kashmir, saying the bloc has no locus standi to comment on such matters. "We reject the reference to the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir in the statement of the OIC. It has no locus standi to comment on matters related to Jammu and Kashmir, which is an integral and inalienable part of India," the Indian diplomat said. The Jeddah-headquartered 57-nation bloc, which is the second-largest intergovernmental body after the UN, has usually been supportive of Pakistan and often sided with Islamabad on the Kashmir issue. "It is regrettable that OIC continues to allow itself to be exploited by Pakistan to indulge in anti-India propaganda, Badhe added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Molestation accused, out on bail, shoots victim’s father dead in Hathras||A 50-year-old man was allegedly shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district by an accused out on bail in a molestation case lodged in 2018 by the victim's daughter, police said on Tuesday. "The incident took place in Nozarpur village of Sasani area in Hathras on Monday afternoon when the daughters of Ambrish Sharma (50) had gone to a temple, where the wife and aunt of accused Gaurav Sharma were present. The women had heated arguments with each other after which both Gaurav and Ambrish also reached there," Hathras Superintendent of Police Vineet Jaiswal said. Both Gaurav and Ambrish also had a verbal duel after which the former called some other members of his family and shot Ambrish in a fit of rage, the SP said. Ambrish was rushed to the hospital where he was declared brought dead, the SP added. The victim had lodged a case of molestation of his daughter against Gaurav two and a half years ago and had also gone to jail. Later, Gaurav came out on bail after one month and both of them had animosity since then, the SP added. He said an FIR has been registered in this matter against Gaurav Sharma, Lalit Sharma, Rahitash Sharma, Nikhil Sharma and two others. Of them, Lalit has been arrested. The FIR was lodged under various sections of the Indian Penal Code including 302 (murder) based on a complaint of the victim's daughter. In the FIR, it was alleged that the complainant was there in her potato field with her father Ambrish when Gaurav came in a white car with his accomplice and asked Ambrish to take back the case lodged against him while also urging him to get the matter settled with his daughter. "Before my father could say anything, he opened fire on him. We rushed him to the hospital, where he died," the girl said in the FIR. Taking note of the incident, Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has ordered strict action to be taken against the accused and directed officials to invoke provisions of the stringent National Security Act (NSA) against the accused.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Health minister, wife get first dose of Covaxin||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan and his wife took the first dose of indigenously developed Covid-19 vaccine Covaxin at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute on Tuesday. India opened up vaccination for those over 60 years and within the age bracket of 45 to 59 years with specified comorbidities from March 1. The minister's wife Nutan Goel first took the jab after which Vardhan received the vaccine shot at the Delhi Heart and Lung Institute, which is a private facility. They paid Rs 250 each for the vaccine jab. Completing the observation period of half-and-hour after taking the first dose of the vaccine, Vardhan addressed the media and appealed to eligible people to get vaccinated. "Today, my wife and I took the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine at Delhi Heart and Lung Hospital around half-and-hour ago. The observation time of half-and-hour is completed. Hospital authorities have informed me that I and my wife have been given Covaxin. In the last half-and-hour, I and my wife did not face any kind of difficulty," he told reporters. "On this occasion, I would like to urge all the citizens of this country whose age is above 60 or if they are in the age bracket of 45-59 having specified co-morbidities to take the vaccine," he said. Stating that the Indian government has made the vaccine available for its citizens in thousands of private as well as government hospitals, Vardhan said that in the fight against Covid-19, this vaccine will act as a "sanjeevani" for the people. "I and my wife paid Rs 250 each for our doses. I would like to appeal to people that those who can afford vaccines in our country can visit the nearest hospital and get the dose." He asked the citizens to follow Covid-19-appropriate behaviour and stressed the need for observing vaccine-appropriate behaviour as well. "I urge the citizens of this nation to get the first dose of vaccine and after 28 days of it, get the second dose of vaccine. If someone develops any kind of side effects or face difficulties, do not fear and inform your doctor," he said. He told people not to have any doubts about the vaccine underlining no death has occurred till now due to the anti-coronavirus vaccination in the country. Vardhan said that if any death occurs a few days after receiving the jab, it cannot be linked to vaccination because each such death is being scientifically probed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Toolkit: Court grants one week to Delhi police to file reply to Nikita Jacob||A court here on Tuesday granted a week's time to the Delhi Police to file reply to the anticipatory bail plea of Nikita Jacob, a co-accused along with Disha Ravi in connection with allegedly being involved in sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana allowed the police plea to grant it time till March 9 after the public prosecutor said the agency needed time to file a detailed reply to Jacob's plea. The court is scheduled to hear the anticipatory bail plea of another co-accused, Shantanu Muluk, on March 9. During the brief hearing held through video conferencing, senior advocate Rebecca John, appearing for Jacob, said she wanted to argue on her plea as a stand alone case and not with Muluk's. The court said she could argue on March 9. The court also directed the Delhi Police to hand over a copy of its reply to Jacob's bail plea to her counsel. Jacob had got transit anticipatory bail from Bombay High Court on February 17 for three weeks, so that the accused could approach the court concerned in Delhi, where the case is lodged. The court on February 25 granted protection from arrest to Muluk till March 9. Muluk was granted transit anticipatory bail from the Aurangabad bench on February 16 for 10 days. He approached Delhi court on February 23. Muluk, Ravi and Jacob were booked for alleged sedition and other charges. Ravi was arrested by a Cyber Cell team of the Delhi Police from Bengaluru and brought to Delhi. She was granted bail by the Delhi court on February 23.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||India logs over 12,000 fresh Covid cases, 91 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 cases rose to 1,11,24,527 with 12,286 new infections being reported in a day, while the recoveries have surged to 1,07,98,921, according to data updated by the Union Health Ministry on Tuesday. The death toll increased to 1,57,248 with 91 new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,07,98,921 which translates into a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.07 per cent, while the case fatality rate has dropped 1.41 per cent. The active caseload was recorded at 1,68,358 which accounts for 1.51 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7; 30 lakh on August 23; 40 lakh on September 5; and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28; 70 lakh on October 11; 80 lakh on October 29; 90 lakh on November 20; and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,76,18,057 samples have been tested up to March 1, of which 7,59,283 were done on Monday. The 91 new fatalities include 30 from Maharashtra, 18 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. A total of 1,57,248 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,184 from Maharashtra, followed by 12,501 from Tamil Nadu, 12,336 from Karnataka, 10,911 from Delhi, 10,268 from West Bengal, 8,727 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The Health Ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Naveen Patnaik takes vaccine shot||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday received the first dose of Covid-19 vaccine. He was administered the vaccine at the Assembly dispensary. Naveen appealed to all people to take the vaccine and make Odisha Covid-free. “Happy to share that I took my first dose of Covid-19 vaccine today. Grateful to our scientists, health workers for their race against time to deliver the  vaccines to people. Appeal to all eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated for a Covid-free Odisha.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Puri Temple development resolution under 'Shreemandira Parikrama plan'||The Odisha Legislative Assembly on Saturday passed an unanimous resolution for the development of the 12th Century Shree Jagannath Temple under the “Shreemandira Parikrama plan” (Periphery development of Shree Jagannath Temple). “The greatest identity of the Odias is Shree Jagannath himself and Odisha’s history, culture, tradition and all our beliefs have evolved and grown around Shree Jagannath,” chief minister Naveen Patnaik said while moving the resolution in the virtual mode in the Assembly. However, BJP’s Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi said all the developmental work to be undertaken around the Shree Jagannath temple should be done as per the 
approval of the Archeological Survey of India (ASI) and National Monument Authority (NMA). Stressing the need to keep Shreemandira (Shree Jagannath Temple), the centre of the state’s spiritual heritage and the priceless treasure for future descendants, Naveen said: “We need to develop Shreemandira Parikrama plan through a collective effort.” The resolution which got the nod of the legislature spoke about urging all Odias to take a vow to complete the Shreemandira Parikrama plan with dedication at the earliest, to provide a chance to all Odias and devotees of Lord Jagannath who want to contribute to the sacred act to do it, and to extend gratitude to people of Puri town who have sacrificed for the Shreemandira Parikrama plan. The Shreemandira Parikrama plan will be developed within 75metre radius of the shrine. All the old structures around the shrine have already been demolished and the government has taken over possession of the private land within this area. Naveen said: “Basing on the recommendation of the Justice BP Das commission, the Shreemandira security corridor plan has been developed under Shreemandira Parikrama Yojana. The commission’s recommendation speaks about — safety of the shrine, safety and security of millions of devotees coming to the temple for darshan of the deities and creating a spiritual atmosphere for devotees.” Under the Shreemandira Parikrama plan, the Odisha government will invest around Rs 800 crore for beautification of the Puri town, Shree Jagannath temple and its premises. The work is scheduled to begin from June 1, sources said. On the other hand, BJP’s Bhubaneswar MP Aparajita Sarangi questioned the Odisha government’s action of demolishing the age-old mutts like Emmar Mutt, Uttara Parswa Mutt, Raghunandan Library and other important monuments. Citing the Ancient Monuments and Archeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958, Sarangi said no new work can be undertaken in the prohibited areas within 100 metres of radius of the Shreemandira. “But in Puri various heritage monuments were demolished in the name of development. We need to know whether permission of NMA and ASI was taken before demolishing the mutts and whether detailed mapping was done before razing the mutts and an inventory of their assets was  made,” she said. Demanding clarification from the state on the issue, Sarangi said: “The culture and heritage of the people should be protected.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Chief Justice of India asks whether rape accused would marry the alleged victim||Chief Justice of India  S.A. Bobde on Monday asked Mohit Subhash Chavan, a rape accused: “Will you marry her?” Chavan’s counsel said he would seek instructions from the petitioner and sought an interlude. “You should have thought before seducing and raping the young girl. You knew you are a government servant…. We are not forcing you to marry. Let us know if you will. Otherwise, you will say we are forcing you to marry her,” the bench said and briefly adjourned the matter. As soon as the case had come up for hearing, Chavan’s counsel Anand Langde submitted that the accused, a technician in the Maharashtra State Electric Production Company Ltd, might be suspended if he was arrested and pleaded for anticipatory bail. It was then that the Chief Justice of India asked whether the accused would marry the alleged victim. When the case was taken up again, the counsel told the apex court bench that he had been informed that the accused was already married and hence could not marry the alleged victim. The bench headed by Justice Bobde then directed the accused to withdraw his petition and approach the trial court for regular bail. However, the bench, which includes Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, granted interim protection of four weeks from arrest so that Chavan can seek regular bail. The accused had denied the prosecution’s allegations that he had sexually exploited the girl a number of times under the threat of pouring acid on her face and that he had also threatened to kill her brother. Bombay High Court had on February 5 cancelled the anticipatory bail granted to Chavan by a sessions court. Chavan moved the apex court challenging the high court ruling. Citing a number of earlier apex court judgments, the accused had pleaded that bail could be cancelled only if the accused misuses his liberty by indulging in similar activity, interferes with the course of investigation, attempts to tamper with evidence or witnesses, threatens witnesses or indulges in similar activities which would hamper smooth investigation, there is likelihood of his fleeing to another country, attempts to make himself scarce by going underground or becoming unavailable to the investigation agency, and attempts to place himself beyond the reach of his surety.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
02-03-2021||India||Chinese cybercampaign against India’s power grid||Early last summer, Chinese and Indian troops clashed in a border battle in the remote Galwan Valley, bashing each other to death with rocks and clubs. Four months later in Mumbai, trains shut down and the stock market closed as the power went out in a city of 20 million people. Hospitals had to switch to emergency generators to keep ventilators running amid a coronavirus outbreak that was among India’s worst. Now, a new study lends weight to the idea that those two events may well have been connected — as part of a broad Chinese cybercampaign against India’s power grid, timed to send a message that if India pressed its claims too hard, the lights could go out across the country. The study shows that as the standoff continued in the Himalaya, taking at least two dozen lives, Chinese malware was flowing into the control systems that manage electric supply across India, along with a high-voltage transmission substation and a coal-fired power plant. The flow of malware was pieced together by Recorded Future, a Somerville, Massachusetts, company that studies the use of the Internet by state actors. It found that most of the malware was never activated. And because Recorded Future could not get inside India’s power systems, it could not examine the details of the code itself, which was placed in strategic power-distribution systems across the country. While it has notified Indian authorities, so far they are not reporting what they have found. Stuart Solomon, Recorded Future’s chief operating officer, said that the Chinese state-sponsored group, which the firm named Red Echo, “has been seen to systematically utilise advanced cyberintrusion techniques to quietly gain a foothold in nearly a dozen critical nodes across the Indian power generation and transmission infrastructure”. The discovery raises the question about whether an outage that struck on October 13 in Mumbai was meant as a message from Beijing about what might happen if India pushed its border claims too vigorously. News reports at the time quoted Indian officials as saying that the cause was a Chinese-origin cyberattack on a nearby electricity load-management centre. Authorities began a formal investigation, which is due to report in the coming weeks. Since then, Indian officials have gone silent about the Chinese code, whether it set off the Mumbai blackout and the evidence provided to them by Recorded Future that many elements of the nation’s electric grid were the target of a sophisticated Chinese hacking effort. It is possible the Indians are still searching for the code. But acknowledging its insertion, one former Indian diplomat noted, could complicate the diplomacy in recent days between China’s foreign minister, Wang Yi, and his Indian counterpart, Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, in an effort to ease the border tensions. The investigators who wrote the Recorded Future study, said that “the alleged link between the outage and the discovery of the unspecified malware” in the system “remains unsubstantiated”. But they noted that “additional evidence suggested the coordinated targeting of the Indian load dispatch centres”, which balance the electrical demands across regions of the country. The discovery is the latest example of how the conspicuous placement of malware in an adversary’s electric grid or other critical infrastructure has become the newest form of both aggression and deterrence — a warning that if things are pushed too far, millions could suffer. “I think the signalling is being done” by China to indicate “that we can and we have the capability to do this in times of a crisis”, said retired Lt. Gen. D.S. Hooda, a cyberexpert who oversaw India’s borders with Pakistan and China. “It’s like sending a warning to India that this capability exists with us.” Both India and China maintain medium-size nuclear arsenals, which have traditionally been seen as the ultimate deterrent. But neither side believes that the other would risk a nuclear exchange in response to bloody disputes over the Line of Actual Control, an ill-defined border demarcation where long-running disputes have escalated into deadly conflicts by increasingly nationalistic governments. Cyberattacks give them another option — less devastating than a nuclear attack, but capable of giving a country a strategic and psychological edge. Russia was a pioneer in using this technique when it turned the power off twice in Ukraine several years ago. And the US has engaged in similar signalling. After the Department of Homeland Security announced publicly that the American power grid was littered with code inserted by Russian hackers, the US put code into Russia’s grid in a warning to President Vladimir V. Putin. Now the Joe Biden administration is promising that within weeks it will respond to another intrusion — it will not yet call it an attack — from Russia, one that penetrated at least nine government agencies and more than 100 corporations. Until recent years, China’s focus had been on information theft. But Beijing has been increasingly active in placing code into infrastructure systems, knowing that when it is discovered, the fear of an attack can be as powerful a tool as an attack itself. In the Indian case, Recorded Future sent its findings to India’s Computer Emergency Response Team, or CERT-In, a kind of investigative and early-warning agency most nations maintain to keep track of threats to critical infrastructure. Twice the centre has acknowledged receipt of the information, but said nothing about whether it, too, found the code in the electric grid. Repeated inquiries by The New York Times to the centre and several of its officials over the past two weeks yielded no comment. The Chinese government, which did not respond to questions about the code in the Indian grid, could argue that India started the cyberaggression. In India, a patchwork of state-backed hackers were caught using coronavirus-themed phishing emails to target Chinese organisations in Wuhan last February. A Chinese security company, 360 Security Technology, accused state-backed Indian hackers of targeting hospitals and medical research organisations with phishing emails, in an espionage campaign. Four months later, as tensions rose between the two countries on the border, Chinese hackers unleashed a swarm of 40,300 hacking attempts on India’s technology and banking infrastructure in just five days. Some of the incursions were so-called denial-of-service attacks that knocked these systems offline; others were phishing attacks, according to the police in Maharashtra. By December, security experts at the Cyber Peace Foundation, an Indian nonprofit that follows hacking efforts, reported a new wave of Chinese attacks, in which hackers sent phishing emails to Indians related to the Indian holidays in October and November. Researchers tied the attacks to domains registered in China’s Guangdong and Henan Provinces, to an organisation called Fang Xiao Qing. The aim, the foundation said, was to obtain a beachhead in Indians’ devices, possibly for future attacks. “One of the intentions seems to be power projection,” said Vineet Kumar, the president of the Cyber Peace Foundation. The foundation has also documented a surge of malware directed at India’s power sector, from petroleum refineries to a nuclear power plant, since last year. Because it is impossible for the foundation or Recorded Future to examine the code, it is unclear whether they are looking at the same attacks, but the timing is the same. Yet except for the Mumbai blackout, the attacks have not disrupted the provision of energy, officials said. And even there, officials have gone quiet after initially determining that the code was most likely Chinese. Yashasvi Yadav, a police official in charge of Maharashtra’s cyberintelligence unit, said authorities found “suspicious activity” that suggested the intervention of a state actor. But Yadav declined to elaborate, saying the investigation’s full report would be released in early March. Nitin Raut, a state government minister quoted in local reports in November blaming sabotage for the Mumbai outage, did not respond to questions about the blackout. Military experts in India have renewed calls for the government of Prime Minister Narendra Modi to replace the Chinese-made hardware for India’s power sector and its critical rail system. “The issue is we still haven’t been able to get rid of our dependence on foreign hardware and foreign software,” Gen. Hooda said. Indian government authorities have said a review is underway of India’s information technology contracts, including with Chinese companies. But the reality is that ripping out existing infrastructure is expensive and difficult. New York Times News Service The Telegraph’s special correspondent adds from New Delhi: The Union power ministry on Monday publicly acknowledged that a Chinese “state-sponsored threat actor group” is targeting India’s power sector cybersecurity but added that there was no impact on the operations of the Power System Operation Cooperation (POSOCO) because of any malware attack. Nor was there any data breach, the ministry said after The New York Times report was published. The external affairs ministry remained tight-lipped all day on the report and did not respond to questions on whether the issue had been raised with the Chinese government after the power ministry confirmed that India’s power sector is being targeted by a state-sponsored threat actor group from China, Red Echo. While confirming the malware threat, the power ministry, however, made no mention of the Mumbai outage. According to the power ministry, a system of monitoring and analysing cyber activities is in place at all regional and national load dispatch centres operated by POSOCO. The ministry said it had received an email from CERT-In on November 19 warning of the threat of malware called Shadow Pad at some control centres of POSOCO. Subsequently on February 12, the National Critical Information Infrastructure Protection Centre informed the ministry that the Chinese state-sponsored group called Red Echo “is targeting Indian power sector’s Regional Load Dispatch Centres along with State Load Dispatch Centres’’. The IP addresses and domain names mentioned in this email have been blocked in the firewall at all control centres, the ministry said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||AAP tries to achieve national party status ||Aam Aadmi Party chief Arvind Kejriwal had said last month that his party would fight all elections in the next two years in Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Goa, Punjab, Himachal Pradesh and Gujarat. All these states have Assembly polls in 2022 and, barring Punjab, are ruled by the BJP. The renewed national ambition after a drubbing in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections, when the AAP had contested 432 seats including Kejriwal unsuccessfully fighting Narendra Modi, is now poised to bear fruit. The AAP is trying to achieve national party status that entitles an outfit to use its symbol in any election across India and secure a place in public consultations at all levels of government. The AAP is a state party in Delhi and Punjab. Three per cent of Assembly seats, or an 8 per cent vote share in Assembly polls in any two other states, would qualify it for national status. However, the AAP’s ambition may nibble into any consolidation of anti-incumbency votes. Of the six states, the AAP’s bid seems the strongest in Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand, besides Punjab where it is the principal Opposition. The party has been projecting Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh as its face in the mammoth state of Uttar Pradesh where it came fifth in urban local body polls in 2017. Singh cut his teeth as an activist for hawkers’ rights in eastern Uttar Pradesh’s Sultanpur under the tutelage of socialist Raghu Thakur for two decades before he joined the anti-corruption movement in 2011, from which the AAP emerged a year later. Although he is a Rajput, Singh is not seen as a caste leader — a qualification in Uttar Pradesh’s politics. “This year we plan to contest 3,000 zilla parishad seats that are spread over all 403 Assembly segments. We have a positive response to our agitations against the poor state of law and order, schools and hospitals and overpriced electricity…. People are attracted to us because they are disappointed with all parties that have ruled the state,” Singh told The Telegraph. He added: “The BJP is highly unpopular among Dalits, Other Backward Classes and minorities who continuously face atrocities by them, such as (the government’s mishandling of) the Hathras (murder and gang-rape) case, and we are fighting to defend their rights…. We are the best choice to defeat them as we have done so thrice in Delhi.” Veteran journalist Ambrish Kumar, who divides his time between Lucknow and Nainital, told this newspaper: “Although Sanjay Singh’s background is rural, his party is largely present in urban areas and draws volunteers from mainly the socialist as well as Hindutva political streams. The BJP is overwhelmingly popular among urban voters and the AAP has not been able to challenge that so far. “In the state, the two main contestants are the BJP and the Samajwadi Party, with the Bahujan Samaj Party in third place.” The AAP’s focus on Dalits, OBCs and religious minorities attracts those disgruntled with the BSP, SP and the Congress. “Sanjay has a clean image, and has become influential in public discourse here. But that has never been enough to win polls in UP. The AAP has no caste base and though he is a Rajput, the community is largely attracted to leaders like Yogi Adityanath or Raja Bhaiya (who was part of Akhilesh Yadav’s ministry),” Kumar added. At best, said Kumar, the AAP could try to enter an alliance with larger Opposition parties. “The party appeals to the urban middle class, both in UP and Uttarakhand, and is seen as not corrupt. In the latter, they have had the added advantage of attracting several environment activists and former statehood activists to their fold. They may do better in Haldwani, Dehradun or Nainital than they would in Lucknow. But the party is yet to find a face like Sanjay in Uttarakhand,” Kumar said. In both states, the AAP has thrown challenges at incumbent ministers to publicly debate the state of government schools. The AAP’s Delhi leaders have gone with TV cameras in tow to visit schools, often being stopped by police. Its government in New Delhi is credited with greatly improving government schools. The polity of Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh has been bipolar so far. A major campaign for Goa in 2017, and a limited campaign for Gujarat the same year, drew blanks. However, the AAP made a good debut in recent municipal polls in Gujarat to the detriment of the Congress. The BJP’s seat share increased by almost 16 per cent, and the Congress’s shrunk by more than 20 per cent. The AAP replaced the Congress as the leading Opposition party in the Surat Municipal Corporation, where the Congress drew a blank. The AAP won seats in other municipal bodies too. The BSP and the All India Majlis-e-Ittehad-ul-Muslimeen also did well. Almost silent about the BJP, Kejriwal said last week: “The people of Surat have handed over the responsibility to the Aam Aadmi Party as the main Opposition party and rejected the 125-year-old Congress.” In Punjab, the AAP has suffered splits since the previous Assembly polls, and its Lok Sabha tally fell from four to a single seat in 2019. The AAP is competing with the Congress in wooing farmers protesting the new agri regime. However, it came third, after the Shiromani Akali Dal, in recent municipal polls in Punjab — where sentiments against the new farm laws are the strongest. Kejriwal addressed a farmers’ conference in western Uttar Pradesh’s Meerut on Sunday. Besides Uttar Pradesh and Punjab, the other four states are expected to witness a straight fight between the BJP and the Congress, with or without allies. “For the urban middle class in north India, there are two political deities, Modi being the higher one and Kejriwal the lesser. In a choice between the two outside Delhi, they are likely to choose Modi…. But whether the AAP grows enough to cut the Opposition’s votes remains to be seen. It has had a good start by attracting several young people to it,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Bhima-Koregaon case: Apex court to take up Gautam Navlakha bail plea||A three-judge bench of the Supreme Court comprising Justices U.U. Lallit, Indira Banerjee and K.M. Joseph will take up on Wednesday the anticipatory bail plea of civil rights activist Gautam Navalakha who is facing sedition and other charges in the Bhima Koregaon violence, which the NIA claimed was engineered by Maoist elements. On February 14, the Bombay High Court had dismissed the bail plea of Navlakha and co-accused Anand Teltumbde in the Bhima Koregaon case, but had extended the interim protection granted to them in December last year by four weeks to enable them approach the Supreme Court. The high court had rejected the anticipatory bail on the ground that the material placed before it indicated that there was prima facie evidence showing the complicity of both the accused in the case. It has been alleged that on December 31, 2017, members of the Kabir Kala Manch, under Bhima Koregaon Shouryadin Prerna Abhiyan, held a meeting of the Elgar Parishad at Pune’s Shaniwarwada where active members of the CPI(Maoist) supposedly raised provocative slogans. The activists were also accused of engaging in other activities with the intention to conspire, incite and abet the commission of terrorist acts, thus promoting enmity between groups, which culminated in the violence January 1, 2018, at Bhima Koregaon.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Former judge who glorified Brahmins joins BJP ||A retired Kerala High Court judge, who had kicked up a row by extolling the virtues of Brahmins and stating that only members of the community should be at the helm of affairs, has joined the BJP. V. Chitambaresh joined the party on Sunday during the “Vijaya Yatra” of Kerala state BJP president K. Surendran at a public event in Thripunithura in Ernakulam district. 
Chitambaresh’s former colleague from the same high court, P.N. Ravindran, followed suit. As a serving judge, Chitambaresh had courted a massive controversy while addressing the Tamil Brahmins’ Global Meet in Kochi in July 2019 where he had said Brahmins should “always be at the helm of affairs”. “It may be noted that a Brahmin is never communal, he is always considerate, he is an ahimsavadi (proponent of non-violence). He loves people. He is the one who liberally donates for any laudable cause, Such a person should always be at the helm of affairs for which this Tamil Brahmin’s meet will definitely be a pointer,” the then judge had said. A native of Palakkad in Kerala, Chitambaresh had presented a virtuous picture of the community while describing why they stood out against non-brahmins. “Who is a Brahmin? A Brahmin is dwijhanmana (twice born), because of poorvajanmasuhridam (the result of noble deeds in the previous birth). He has certain distinct characteristics — clean habits, lofty thinking, sterling character, mostly a vegetarian, a lover of Carnatic music — all good qualities rolled into one is a Brahmin,” he had said. He had pushed for reservations based on economic criteria. “It is time for you (Brahmins) to deliberate as to whether reservations should be on the basis of community or caste alone,” he had said. While Chitambaresh retired in 2019, Ravindran retired in 2018. They were among five retired Kerala High Court judges who had in January endorsed the Uttar Pradesh government’s law against “love jihad” in a letter signed by 224 retired bureaucrats, former high court judges and lawyers addressed to UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath. The state BJP president has already promised to bring a UP-like law against “love jihad” if the party is voted to power. The letter was a counter to another one signed by 104 retired bureaucrats who sought withdrawal of the law. Chitambaresh could not be reached for comments owing to non-availability of his contact number and email. Party spokesperson Shivasankar told this newspaper that Chitambaresh, who joined the BJP, could not be present at the event as he was caught up in Delhi. “He joined the party in principle as he could not come here,” the spokesperson said, adding that more than 15 others, including former director-general of police Venugopalan Nair, retired admiral B.R. Menon and former general manager of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd Somachoodan, also joined the party on the occasion. Shivasankar pleaded ignorance about Chitambaresh having made the casteist remarks in 2019. “I am not aware of any such thing. I haven’t heard about it,” he added.
Najeeb Kanthapuram, state vice-president of Muslim Youth League — an arm of Indian Union Muslim League — linked the development to the historic press conference addressed by five Supreme Court judges in January 2018. “The nation was shocked when Justice J. Chelameswar said democracy would not survive unless corrective actions are taken in the highest court of our country. But what is on display now accentuates that claim and fear our judges had expressed,” Kanthapuram said. “Retired judges, bureaucrats and police officers joining the BJP means only one thing. That they have been concealing their RSS colours all through their serving years. What justice can we expect from them?” asked the influential leader. But prominent Dalit leader M. Geethanandan saw the issue from a larger perspective and expressed concern at retired judges entering politics. “Whether serving or retired, judges must maintain the judicial culture of justice throughout their life. Judicial officers are the guardians of our democracy and hence should not be part of a political system where caste, creed, religion and other considerations rule.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Rahul anna, what will you ask the PM?||Q: What will you ask Prime Minister Narendra Modi, if you were to interview him? Rahul: You have asked me a tricky question. (Laughter in audience). “I would ask ‘why are you convinced that all answers should come from you? Why don’t you listen to what the people of the country feel or want to say?’” Rahul recalled his brief interaction with a few boys with whom he sipped tea before arriving at the school. Rahul said he was impressed by the ambition of one of them who wanted to become an astronaut. Rahul said he would write a letter to the chairman of Isro who may allow the boy to visit the space station. “When he visits, he may be inspired and will grow up to join the space mission...,” he said. Becoming an astronaut was the boy’s choice but helping him achieve his dream was the politician’s job, he added. Q: Why do youngsters not want to make politics a career? Rahul: It could be so because there are some politicians who steal from people. There are good political leaders who work for the people, try to understand people and empower them. Draw inspiration from such leaders who help people. Rahul said teachers and students are both equally important in shaping the education policy as they are the pillars of the institution. He said no policy would be beneficial if the views of teachers and students are not obtained. “If I force you to read, then it is arrogance. But if I ask what do you require, then it is humility. Arrogance creates problems whereas humility resolves problems,” he said. The Wayanad MP displayed his fitness when he effortlessly did multiple push-ups, including one-handed, and shook a leg with the students he interacted with as accompanying Congress leaders Dinesh Gundu Rao and K.S. Alagiri joined him. Q: What is Rahul Anna’s recipe for good health? Do you  follow a special diet regimen? Rahul: I run, swim and cycle. I have learnt Aikido martial art. Rahul told a public meeting in Nagercoil: “Modi talks about one culture, one nation, one history and one leader”. “Is Tamil not an Indian language? Is Bengali not an Indian language? Is Tamil culture not Indian culture? This is the battle that is being fought in this election,” Rahul said as the crowd cheered. “It is my duty to protect the Tamil language, culture and history just as it is my duty to protect all languages and religions in India,” he said. Based on a PTI report||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Congress dissenters finally burn their bridges with public outreach programme||The group of dissenters known as G-23 might have finally burnt their bridges with the Congress by starting a separate public outreach programme and their leader Ghulam Nabi Azad expressing his admiration for Prime Minister Narendra Modi at a time the party is locked in a bitter political battle with the Centre. While the so-called loyalists and AICC office-bearers had so far avoided attacking this group and hoped the differences would be resolved, Azad’s praise for Modi on Sunday dramatically changed the mood in the party and the dominant view now is that reconciliation is not possible. While ordinary workers and middle-rung leaders are livid and want immediate expulsion of some of the key dissenters, even a few top office-bearers feel what was being done was a deliberate ploy to harm the Congress. Azad had on Sunday said in Srinagar that he admired Modi for not hiding his “reality” and revealing that he had been a tea-seller. Though Azad said he was opposed to Modi’s politics, Congress leaders insist the intention was to create confusion through the praise. Many leaders argued this attitude was not in tune with the party’s official line articulated by Rahul Gandhi, that Modi is destroying India’s democracy and harming farmers and the poor by serving the interests of some corporate houses. A Congress general secretary told The Telegraph: “Running a parallel campaign to highlight the weaknesses of the party and create an impression of a leadership crisis when the schedule for organisational elections is being worked out points to a sinister conspiracy. “What they are doing now is anti-party activity. This is not the way to behave as these leaders have held important posts for decades and fully understand the challenges the party and the nation are grappling with. There is deep disappointment among the workers and muddling along like this will prove counter-productive.” Another senior leader said: “This is brazen politics of blackmail. They want to weaken the Congress at this critical juncture only because their personal position is not secure. “Let them break away if they want. When Rahul Gandhi, Priyanka Gandhi and other leaders are working hard to revive the Congress, they have stabbed Sonia Gandhi in the back. They have forgotten what the party gave to them; they are blinded by the lust for extracting some more pounds of flesh. No unity of purpose is possible now as all kinds of stories about their plans and nexus are floating around.” While Rahul Gandhi on Monday completed his three-day tour of election-bound Tamil Nadu, Priyanka Gandhi embarked on a two-day journey of Assam where the Congress is struggling to snatch power from the BJP. This is a new development in the party as Priyanka had so far restricted her election campaign to Uttar Pradesh and avoided touring other states. She did canvass a couple of times outside Uttar Pradesh but only for select candidates. Priyanka is now scheduled to campaign in the elections across the country. Sources said her tour programme for Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Bengal is being worked out. The G-23, on the other hand, are planning rallies in Himachal Pradesh and Haryana, to be followed by a public meeting in Delhi. Former Union minister Anand Sharma, one of the architects of G-23, again attacked the leadership publicly on Monday by objecting to developments in Bengal. Sharma tweeted: “Congress’ alliance with parties like ISF and other such forces militates against the core ideology of the party and Gandhian and Nehruvian secularism, which forms the soul of the party. These issues need to be approved by the CWC. Congress cannot be selective in fighting communalists but must do so in all its manifestations, irrespective of religion and colour. The presence and endorsement West Bengal PCC president is painful and shameful, he must clarify.” Sharma has been speaking like a critic and a challenger despite his five-decade-long experience and knowledge of what party discipline means. Interestingly, one of the G-23 members, former chief minister of Maharashtra Prithviraj Chavan on Monday accepted the responsibility of heading the screening committee for Assam, a body which shortlists candidates for election. This either indicates that the G-23 has crumbled or there is no clarity on the road ahead for these rebels. The party is doubtless heading for a split as the loyalists have begun to lose respect for these veterans and have made up their mind to let them go. All they want now is the sooner the better, hoping to clear the debris for reconstruction before it gets too late for the next general election.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Uttarakhand union announces 1600km Kisan Yatra||The Terai Kisan Sangathan, a peasants’ union from Uttarakhand that is associated with the Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), has announced a 1,600km yatra from March 6 to expand the ongoing protest against the three farm laws. “The 15-day march on foot as well as by tractors and other vehicles would cover 1,600km and pass through 15 districts of Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand,” Tajinder Singh Virk, president of the Sangathan, said at a mahapanchayat in Udham Singh Nagar, Uttarakhand, on Monday. “The yatra will start from Muzaffarnagar and culminate at Ghazipur border in Ghaziabad district, where a large number of farmers have been on dharna for about 100 days”, he said. Besides the Terai Kisan Sangathan, Bharatiya Sikh Sangathan, Bharatiya Kisan Union and Shramik Samyukta Morcha participated in the mahapanchayat to mount pressure on the Centre to repeal the laws. Jagrat Singh Bajwa, convener of the SKM at Ghazipur border, told reporters the government would get a befitting reply in future elections if  the farmers’ demand to repeal the three laws is not met. Rakesh Tikait, the BKU spokesperson, also attended the mahapanchayat. “Our movement is purely for the farmers’ rights. We don’t have anything to do with any political party. We don’t need to work to elect or reject a government,” Tikait said. “The government’s silence for the past 15-20 days is indicating that something is going to happen. The government is planning some steps against the agitation,” he said. However, Tikait said farmers would not step back till a solution is found. “The farmer is also ready. He will look after his crop as well as the agitation. Let the government hold talks when it has the time,” he said. A leader of the TKS who didn’t want to be named said: “The government has shown no interest in resolving the stalemate as in several rounds of talks, the Union ministers have made it clear that they wouldn’t withdraw the three new farm laws, which promote corporate contract farming with the farmers at the receiving end.” The leader added: “If a particular political party in power is trying to destroy the farmers, then we cannot say that we don’t want to throw out of power that dispensation.” Protest plan Protesting farmers will block the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway on March 6, a Samyukta Kisan Morcha leader said on Monday. Balbir Singh Rajewal said that a call has been given to farmers camping at the three Delhi border points – Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur —  to block the KMP Expressway from 11am to 5pm on Saturday. The 136km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha also said that a joint programme of action is being worked with many central trade unions that have expressed their support and solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ movement. In a statement, the Morcha said the month of March will witness numerous mahapanchayats across the country, including in Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana,  Bengal and Odisha.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Former CM Om Prakash Chautala sees early Haryana polls||Indian National Lok Dal president and former Haryana chief minister Om Prakash Chautala on Monday said that there will be mid-term elections in the state as the state government will fall soon. Chautala said that farmers have been protesting against three agricultural laws for the last about three months, but instead of listening to their voice and fulfilling the demands, the BJP government is only persecuting them. He said that the BJP government should accept the demands of the farmers soon and withdraw these agricultural laws. “The state government will fall soon and there will be mid-term elections in the state,” Chautala said addressing party workers in Hisar. He said the farmers’ agitation has become a mass movement that can never be suppressed. Chautala said that people from every fraternity, rising above caste and religion, are opposing the agricultural laws and want to get rid of the misrule. The INLD stands with the farmers, he said. INLD’s lone MLA Abhay Singh Chautala had recently resigned from his seat in favour of farmers’ agitation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||CJI marital rape query in a consensual relationship||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Monday wondered whether a consensual sexual relationship can be termed rape because the man had refused to marry. “If two people are married to each other and are living as husband and wife, the husband may be brutal and commit wrong. But can the act of sexual intercourse between lawfully wedded man and wife be called rape?” the CJI asked advocate Aditya Vashishtnath, appearing for the complainant woman. The counsel said the consent was obtained by fraud as the man, Vinay Pratap Singh, had taken the woman to Manali in Himachal Pradesh and had married her at a local temple in the year 2014. However, subsequently, he married another woman and was refusing to accept the complainant as his wife. The counsel placed before the court certain medical records to prove that the woman was subjected to physical assaults by Singh and had sustained grievous injuries on her private parts. The court suggested that the woman should then file a case of cruelty and criminal assault against the man instead of filing a rape case. The bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said: “Making a false promise of marriage is certainly wrong. No one should falsely promise marriage and later break it off. But that is something different from saying that such consensual relationship is rape.” However, senior advocate Vibha Dutta Makhija appearing for the man contended that there was a consensual relationship between the two. “It’s a habitual act of this lady. She had committed this act with two others in office,” the senior lady lawyer submitted. This prompted the CJI to remark: “This argument is possible only because you (a woman lawyer) are making it. You know what courts have ruled on the word habitual for a victim?” Justice Bobde was alluding to the earlier judgments of the Supreme Court that even if a woman is accustomed to sexual intercourse with more than one partner, yet, she cannot be subjected to rape. The bench, however, said that it would not entertain the anticipatory bail petition. He can approach the trial court and get himself discharged for the offence, the CJI told the Makhija. Later the bench granted the man interim protection from arrest for four weeks to enable him seek a regular bail from the trial court. The accused had moved the Supreme Court for anticipatory bail after the Allahabad High Court had rejected the same and had asked him to face trial.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||Nodeep Kaur calls for united action against state repression||Labour activist Nodeep Kaur, who was released from jail last week, on Monday called for united action against state repression, adding that her arrest and that of many others speaking up for the farmers and the marginalised is a sign that the government is running scared. Addressing a news conference in the national capital from the platform of 36 organisations jointly fighting state repression, Nodeep said while she was happy to be free and grateful for the support she got not just in India but from across the globe, the struggle is far from over. “True victory can be claimed only when these farm laws are repealed, when men and women earn equal wages, and when workers have the right to raise their voice against oppression and inequality without fear or threat,’’ the young activist said, drawing attention to the plight of Shiv Kumar, president of the Mazdoor Adhikar Sanghathan, who is still in prison and has allegedly been tortured. His medical report submitted in court showed fractures and broken toenail beds. Speaking on the charges levelled against her, Nodeep said the police are accusing her of trying to organise labourers in the Kundli Industrial Area near the Singhu border protest site of farmers. “Is it a crime to organise workers to demand what is their due? If workers ask for their wages, is it extortion?’’ she said, referring to the charge of extortion against her. “The way the government is using different laws against activists and bringing cases against them shows how frightened they are of people who stand up to them. Whoever — Dalit, Muslim, Sikh or Adivasi — raises their voice against the government is called names and branded. Cases are filed against them under stringent laws. It shows that the State is scared of people who protest and distribute pamphlets, including a girl like me,’’ she said. Even on Monday, as she addressed the news conference inside the Press Club of India, two bus-loads of riot police were stationed outside. Referring to the charge that she and her co-accused had intended to attack the police, Nodeep asked if that were so, “Then why were we protesting outside the gates of a company demanding wages for the workers? All we had in our hands were the sticks on which our flags were tied.’’ Earlier, Shiv Kumar’s father Rajbir too addressed the media and said he has not been allowed to meet his son since his arrest on January 16. Choking on his words, the elderly man said he got a fleeting glimpse of his son once and there were signs of torture. A medico-legal examination report submitted to the Punjab and Haryana High Court last month states that he had faced custodial torture at the hands of the police. Nodeep’s call for combined action came hours before the Samyukta Kisan Morcha — the joint platform of farmers organisations spearheading the movement against the farm laws — was to meet central trade unions on Monday evening to chalk out a joint programme of action. The trade unions are also agitated over the proposed sale of public sector companies and new labour code that is likely to come into effect from April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-300
02-03-2021||India||JNU fails to pay salary to teachers and staff on time||When some teachers of Jawaharlal Nehru University(JNU) were listing before reporters on Monday the “unique feats” achieved under the watch of vice-chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar, they realised another rare “achievement” had just been accomplished. For the first time since its inception 52 years ago, the university failed to pay the February salary to teachers and staff on time, said Bikramaditya Choudhary, a faculty member at the Centre for the Study of Regional Development in JNU. “The vice-chancellor failed to pay the salary of teachers and staff on time. How will the non-teaching staff who plan their expenditure on the monthly salary manage?” asked Choudhary. The university pays salary on the last working day of every month, except for that in March. The March salary gets delayed because of taxation issues, said Choudhary, the former secretary of the Jawaharlal Nehru University Teachers’ Association (JNUTA). Choudhary said there had been several rulings by courts on the payment of salary on time. Last week, in a case of the Andhra Pradesh government defaulting on salary to staff in March and April 2020, a bench of the Supreme Court iterated that “salaries are rightful entitlement of employees” and in case of delay, interest should be paid. Some of the prominent charges levelled by the JNUTA against vice-chancellor Kumar are “arbitrary” academic and administrative decisions; spending public funds on litigation, most of which are avoidable; wastage of research seats; non-implementation of the reservation policy in faculty posts; and cutting expenses on academic matters. The JNUTA said statutory bodies such as the Executive Council and the Academic Council and the Board of Studies were responsible for chalking out the academic calendar, deliberating upon new teaching programmes and finalising courses and selection committee panels. “The irony is that all these bodies continue to be there, but they function in a sub-optimal manner — important decisions related to the university have been taken without substantial deliberations in these statutory bodies. It’s the VC and not the university that has autonomy in JNU today,” the JNUTA said. Over 150 cases have been filed by various constituencies —faculty, students, non-teaching staff — against the vice-chancellor and his administration between 2016 and2021. In the majority of the cases, the university has been found to commit illegality, it said. For instance, on the matter of implementation of reservation in faculty positions in JNU, a division bench of Delhi High Court on January 11 this year had issued an order asking the varsity to recast the roster policy on all faculty posts. The bench modified an earlier order of a single judge which had quashed the advertisement for two faculty posts whose reservation status were altered. One of the petitioners, Pradeep Shinde, an assistant professor at the centre for informal sector and labour studies, could not apply as the university changed the reservation status of the posts of associate professor in labour studies from the Scheduled Caste to the Scheduled Tribe  in 2019. Shinde belongs to a Scheduled Caste. The universities follow a roster system, according to which the fourth post is reserved for Other Backward Classes (OBCs) while the seventh and 13th posts are reserved for SC and ST applicants, respectively. Although the single bench quashed the advertisement, the petitioner had gone to the division bench with the plea that the reservation policy be followed for all posts. The petitioner contended that around 30 posts meant for SCs and STs under the roster system were altered. The division bench directed the varsity to implement the roster system, and upload the posts and their reservation status on the JNU website, after which it can start the process of fresh recruitment. According to the financial accounts presented by the university, legal expenses increased from Rs 2.72 lakh in 2017-18 to Rs 17.7 lakh in 2018-19. Additional funds of Rs 30 lakh were approved by the Executive Council in September 2020, despite opposition from the elected teachers’ representatives. JNUTA secretary Moushumi Basu said most of the cases relate to targeted actions like chargesheet against teachers for taking part in protests, withholding of pension dues, denial of grant of leave, appointment of junior person as chairperson of centres or setting up of enquiry. One such case is the appointment of chairpersons of centres. Delhi High Court passed an order in April 2018 to reinstate a dean and four chairpersons who were removed by the vice-chancellor for not agreeing to a decision to impose mandatory attendance for students. In another case, the vice-chancellor had debarred two members of the Executive Council from participating in the meeting. The high court in April 2019 stated that prima facie “the resolution debarring them from participating in the meeting of the Executive Council is contrary to the statutes”. Former JNUTA secretary Surajit Mazumdar said the university in 2017 reduced the number of seats in research programmes after wrongly interpreting the University Grants Commission’s guidelines on admission. A bench of Delhi High Court ruled thatthe university wasted several hundred seats. “During theperiod of the last five years, the university discontinued the deprivation points given to students from backward areas,” he said. The JNUTA demanded that Kumar be removed from the post immediately and should not be appointed in any other public institution as its head. Separate emails were sent to Kumar and also to the education ministry by this newspaper. No comments could be obtained till Monday night.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
02-03-2021||India||Narendra Modi takes Covid jab, app trips on first day rush||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday took his first dose of a Covid-19 vaccine and urged people to vaccinate themselves, but the Centre’s online portal for advance registration appeared unprepared for the deluge of vaccine aspirants. Nearly 2.5 million people on Monday registered themselves for Covid-19 vaccines, but glitches in the online registration process prevented many across India from booking appointments, a nationwide survey and healthcare sector executives have suggested. The Union health ministry said over 128,000 people aged 60 years or older and 18,850 between 45 and 59 years with chronic health disorders had received their first doses by 7pm. About 126,000 healthcare and 152,000 frontline workers also received vaccines. Modi through a morning tweet announced that he had taken the first dose of the vaccine. “Took my first dose of the Covid-19 vaccine at AIIMS … I appeal to all those who are eligible to take the vaccine. Together, let us make India Covid-19 free,” he wrote. A spot online survey, however, found that about 92 per cent of a sample of 6,845 people from more than 200 districts who tried to register in advance through the Centre’s Co-Win portal were unable to book appointments between 9.30am and 2.30pm. The vaccination campaign that began on Monday is open to people aged 60 years or older and those between 45 and 59 years with any of 20 specified chronic health disorders. Only 8 per cent of that sample successfully booked appointments, according to the survey by Local Circles, a community social media platform. About half of those who tried to register found themselves stuck at the OTP (one-time password) stage, 13 per cent failed to access the portal, while 29 per cent registered themselves but could not book appointments. “These must be teething troubles, maybe because of the large numbers trying to register,” said Girdhar Gyani, executive director of the Association of Healthcare Providers of India, a body representing private hospitals and nursing homes across the country. Some hospitals have assigned separate time slots for those with advance registrations and those wishing to opt for spot walk-in registrations. The Centre said about 644,000 beneficiaries on Monday booked their appointments. Despite the registration glitches, many private hospitals reported smooth vaccinations and patience among recipients. “There was enthusiasm among recipients — when the online portal didn’t work, people just waited — we didn’t see any dissatisfaction. They just waited with cups of coffee,” Devinder Rana, chair of the Sir Ganga Ram Hospital, New Delhi, where 96 recipients had registered in advance and 88 were walk-ins. The campaign seeks to eventually immunise everyone 50 years or older and those below 50 with chronic health disorders, an estimated 270 million people. India’s Covid-19 epidemic has been growing over the past two weeks, driven largely by a sharp increase in new cases in Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. Infectious disease sleuths and genomic scientists are scrambling to determine whether the growing counts in these states are due to complacency with personal protection measures, poor public health responses or unusual fast-spreading coronavirus variants.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-301
