03-03-2021||Business||Infosys, Accenture to cover Covid vaccination costs of Indian employees||India’s second-largest IT services firm Infosys and tech giant Accenture on Wednesday said they will cover COVID vaccination costs of their employees in India. People above 60 years of age and those in the 45-59 age brackets with comorbidities are being immunised in the second phase of nationwide vaccination that started on March 1. “Infosys is looking at partnering with healthcare providers to vaccinate employees and their immediate families as eligible under the guidelines given by the Government of India and as per approved procedures and timelines,” Infosys Chief Operating Officer Pravin Rao said in an emailed statement. The company will cover the vaccination cost for the employees and their immediate family members as part of our focus on health and wellness, he added. Rekha M Menon, Chairperson and Senior Managing Director of Accenture in India said the company has continued to monitor and consider the guidance of external experts and groups, including international health organisations and local health authorities. “Based on this, we strongly support the scientific and public health advice that encourages vaccination... for our people who are eligible and choose to receive the COVID-19 vaccination, Accenture in India will cover the cost for the employee and their dependents who are part of our medical benefits programme,” she said. More than 1.56 crore vaccine doses were administered in the country through 3,12,188 sessions, according to a provisional report till Wednesday 7 am. The beneficiaries include 67,42,187 healthcare workers (first dose), 27,13,144 HCWs (second dose), 55,70,230 FLWs or frontline workers (first dose), 834 FLWs (second dose), 71,896 people aged more than 45 years with specific co-morbidities (first dose) and 5,22,458 beneficiaries aged above 60 years. Infosys co-founders N R Narayana Murthy and Kris Gopalakrishnan, and Kotak Mahindra Bank MD and CEO Uday Kotak, are among the business leaders who have received the vaccination. Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca’s Covishield are the two vaccines that are being administered in the country. Covaxin has been indigenously developed by Bharat Biotech in collaboration with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR).||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
03-03-2021||India||SC seeks NIA's response on bail plea of activist Gautam Navlakha||The Supreme Court on Wednesday sought a response from the National Investigation Agency on the bail plea of activist Gautam Navlakha in the alleged Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case. A bench headed by Justice U U Lalit issued notice to the probe agency on the plea of the activist against the Bombay High Court order of February 8 dismissing his bail plea. The bench took note of the brief submission of senior advocate Kapil Sibal, appearing for Navlakha, and asked NIA to respond by March 15. According to police, some activists allegedly made inflammatory speeches and provocative statements at the Elgar Parishad meet in Pune on December 31, 2017, which triggered violence at Koregaon Bhima in the district the next day. The high court had said that "it sees no reason to interfere with a special court's order which earlier rejected his bail plea".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
03-03-2021||India||Mozilla, Internet Society express concern over Indian IT rules||Mozilla and the US-based Internet Society have expressed concerns over the new IT rules for social media platforms, saying the rules could harm end-to-end encryption, substantially increase surveillance, promote automated filtering and prompt a fragmentation of the internet that would hurt users. Mozilla, the not-for-profit company behind the popular web browser Firefox, cautioned that the new rules could have a series of unintended consequences on the health of the internet as a whole. "While many of the most onerous provisions only apply to 'significant social media intermediaries' (a new classification scheme), the ripple effects of these provisions will have a devastating impact on freedom of expression, privacy and security," it said in a blogpost. Mozilla also flagged "harsh" content take down and data sharing timelines under the new rules and said provisions on traceability could break end-to-end encryption that would "weaken overall security and harm privacy". The new rules for intermediaries, announced last week, are aimed at addressing concerns like lack of grievance redressal, fake news and online safety of users amid rampant misuse of social media platforms. The regulations distinguish between 'social media intermediaries' and 'significant social media intermediaries' with 50 lakh registered users as the threshold for the categorisation. Significant social media intermediaries will have to follow additional due diligence, including the appointment of a chief compliance officer, nodal contact person and resident grievance officer, and all three officials should reside in India. Industry watchers have raised concerns that these new rules could raise compliance costs for players, making it difficult for smaller companies to compete against bigger giants like Facebook and Google. The Internet Society -- an American non-profit organisation that aims to promote open development, evolution, and use of the internet -- said any attempts to weaken encryption could undermine the digital security of individuals. Noelle Francesca De Guzman, Senior Advisor (Policy and External Engagement) at the Internet Society said the Indian government must protect the security and privacy of millions of people across India and preserve uncompromised end-to-end encryption. "Over 500 million citizens use end-to-end encrypted messaging apps in India and they rely on strong encryption to keep their communications safe and private," Guzman said. After the rules were spelt out last week, industry body Nasscom had noted that it is imperative that there is a balance between regulation and innovation as the world is in a phase of accelerated technology shifts. The industry body had also pointed out that there is a need for "responsible use" and building of technology for all stakeholders -- government, industry, startups and citizens. The option of voluntary self-verification of user accounts, the right to receive an explanatory notification on removal or disablement of access, and to seek remedy against the action being taken by the intermediaries would be helpful for end users, Nasscom had said. The association had also said the government has emphasised that the new rules will not curb creativity, and freedom of speech and expression of citizens as it urged the government to ensure that this is the 'design principle' followed during implementation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
03-03-2021||India||Covaxin 81% effective, works against UK variant, says Bharat Biotech||Vaccine major Bharat Biotech on Wednesday said its Covid-19 vaccine, Covaxin, has demonstrated an interim vaccine efficacy of 81 per cent in the Phase 3 clinical trials. The trials involved 25,800 subjects, the largest ever conducted in India, in partnership with the Indian Council of Medical Research, the Hyderabad-based company said in a statement. Interim analysis also showed that severe, serious, and medically attended adverse events occurred at low levels and were balanced between vaccine and placebo groups, Bharat Biotech said. The company also said that "analysis from the National Institute of Virology indicates that vaccine-induced antibodies can neutralise the UK variant strains and other heterologous strains". This data, though, has yet to be peer-reviewed. “Today is an important milestone in vaccine discovery, for science and our fight against coronavirus. With today’s results from our Phase 3 clinical trials, we have now reported data on our Covid-19 vaccine from Phase 1, 2, and 3 trials involving around 27,000 participants. “Covaxin demonstrates high clinical efficacy trend against Covid-19 but also significant immunogenicity against the rapidly emerging variants,” said Dr Krishna Ella, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. In a press release, Bharat Biotech explained the way in which Covaxin works. “BBV152 contains a whole virion inactivated SARS-CoV-2 vaccine, which is produced in Vero cells. It is stable at 2 to 8°C (refrigerated) and is shipped in a ready-to-use liquid formulation that permits distribution using existing vaccine supply chain channels. BBV152 has a 28-day open vial policy as a unique product characteristic, thus reducing vaccine wastage by approximately 10-30%,” it said. “BBV152 is based on an established manufacturing platform with a better safety profile when compared to other vaccine platforms. The inclusion of the Algel-IMDG adjuvant enhances T-cell immune responses to Covid-19, leading to long-term protection,” it further said. The Phase 3 study enrolled 25,800 participants between 18-98 years of age, including 2,433 over the age of 60 and 4,500 with comorbidities. The primary endpoint of Phase 3 clinical trial is based on the first occurrence of PCR-confirmed symptomatic (mild, moderate, or severe) Covid-19 with onset at least 14 days after the second study vaccination in serologically negative (to SARS-CoV-2) adult participants at baseline. The first interim analysis is based on 43 cases, of which 36 cases of Covid-19 were observed in the placebo group versus 7 cases observed in the BBV152 (Covaxin) group, resulting in a point estimate of vaccine efficacy of 80.6%. Bharat Biotech expects to share further details of the trial results as additional data become available. An additional interim analysis is planned for 87 cases, and the final analysis is planned for 130 cases. All data from the second interim and final analyses will be shared via pre-publication servers as well as submitted to a peer-reviewed journal for publication. “I want to thank every one of the participants, who volunteered to participate in this vital clinical trial, our partners, principal investigators across 25 study sites, and our team at Bharat Biotech who dedicated their time to this vaccine discovery,” said Suchitra Ella, Joint Managing Director, Bharat Biotech. Covaxin and Oxford-AstraZeneca's Covishield are the two vaccines that are being administered in the country. The emergency approval of Covaxin raised eyebrows as it had not passed the Phase III trials when it received the green signal from the DCGI in January. Congress leaders including Shashi Tharoor, Anand Sharma and Jairam Ramesh raised concerns about the “premature” approval of Covaxin for restricted emergency use. BJP national president JP Nadda accused the Congress and other opposition parties of trying to cause panic among people to further their “failed politics and nefarious agendas”. “Congress and the Opposition is not proud of anything Indian. They should introspect about how their lies on the Covid-19 vaccine will be used by vested interest groups for their own agendas,” he said in a series of tweets.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
03-03-2021||India||Centre lifts time restrictions on receiving Covid shots||The government has lifted the time restriction on receiving Covid-19 vaccine jabs so as to increase the pace of immunisation, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan said on Wednesday. People can now get vaccinated round-the-clock according to their convenience, he said in a tweet, adding that Prime Minister Narendra Modi values the health as well as the time of the citizens of the country. "The government has lifted the time restriction to increase the speed of vaccination. People can now get vaccinated 24x7 according to their convenience. Prime Minister Narendra Modi understands the value of health as well as the time of citizens," Vardhan tweeted in Hindi. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan told a press conference on Tuesday that the timeline of vaccinating the beneficiaries from 9 am to 5 pm has been done away with and it is up to the hospitals to decide whether they want to continue administering the vaccines even after that. "Co-WIN 2.0 does not provide 9 am-5 pm vaccination sessions. It has done away with that timeline. If a hospital has the capacity, the system permits it to do vaccination even after 5 pm in consultation with the state government. This has been briefed both to the state governments as well as the private and government hospitals," he said. The second dose of the vaccine against Covid-19 started being administered from February 13 for those who have completed 28 days since the receipt of the first dose. The vaccination of frontline workers (FLWs) started on February 2. The next phase of the Covid-19 vaccination commenced from March 1 for people over 60 years of age and those aged 45 and above with specific comorbid conditions. More than 1.56 crore (1,56,20,749) vaccine doses were administered in the country through 3,12,188 sessions, according to a provisional report till Wednesday 7 am. The beneficiaries include 67,42,187 healthcare workers (first dose), 27,13,144 HCWs (second dose), 55,70,230 FLWs (first dose), 834 FLWs (second dose), 71,896 beneficiaries aged more than 45 years with specific comorbidities (first dose) and 5,22,458 beneficiaries aged above 60 years.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
03-03-2021||India||SC bins plea against Farooq Abdullah for comments on Article 370||Observing that expression of views that are different from the opinion of the government cannot be termed as seditious, the Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed a PIL seeking action against National Conference president Farooq Abdullah over his comments on abrogation of Article 370 of the Constitution. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta rejected the plea and also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the petitioners for making such claims. "Expression of views which are different from the opinion of the government cannot be termed as seditious," the bench observed. The top court was hearing a plea which referred to his statement on restoring Article 370, which gave special status to Jammu and Kashmir, and contended it clearly amounts to a seditious act and therefore he is liable to be punished under section 124-A of the IPC. The petition filed by Rajat Sharma and Dr Neh Srivastava, both belonging to an organisation Vishwa Guru India Vision of Sardar Patel, alleged that the former chief minister is trying to "hand over" Kashmir to China and thus, he should be prosecuted for Sedition. "Mr Farooq Abdullah has committed an offence punishable under section 124-A of Indian Penal Code. As he has made the live statement that for restoring Article 370 he would take help of China which clearly amount to seditious act and therefore he is liable to be punished under section 124-A of the IPC," the plea said. The petitioners also referred to a statement made by BJP Spokesperson Sambit Patra to claim that Abdullah is misleading the people of Jammu and Kashmir to join China for the restoration of Article 370 of the Constitution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||BJP fails to open account in Delhi municipal bypolls||The AAP on Wednesday won four of the five civic wards in Delhi in a bypoll, with Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal asserting that people were desperate to bring the party to power in the three municipal corporations in the national capital. The AAP, however, suffered a shock defeat in the minority-dominated Chauhan Bangar ward, where Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad of the Congress defeated the party's candidate Mohammad Ishraq Khan by a whopping margin of 10,642 votes. The BJP failed to open its account in the bypolls, being seen as the semi-final ahead of the civic polls due in 2022, and even lost the Shalimar Bagh seat held by it to the AAP. "We honour the mandate given by people. Losing Shalimar Bagh North is a matter of introspection. The shortcomings will be removed and I am sure BJP will win the elections for three municipal corporations in 2022," said Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta. The AAP candidates won from Kalyanpuri, Rohin-C, Trilokpuri and Shalimar Bagh North wards. According to the State Election Commission, the AAP polled the highest 46.10 per cent votes in the bypolls, followed by 27.29 per cent by the BJP and 21.84 per cent by the Congress. "The people of Delhi have once again voted in the name of work. Congratulations to all. The people are fed up with misrule of the BJP at MCD for 15 years. People are desperate to bring the AAP to rule the MCD," Kejriwal tweeted after the party's victory. AAP candidate Dhirender Kumar won the Kalyanpuri ward by 7,043 votes. The party candidate Vijay Kumar from Trilokpuri defeated BJP's Om Prakash by a margin of 4,986 votes. AAP's Sunita Mishra defeated Surbhi Jaju of the BJP in Shalimar Bagh ward by 2,705 votes. The seat was earlier held by the BJP. Ram Chander of the AAP defeated BJP candidate Rakesh Goyal by 2,985 votes in Rohini C ward. Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia in a tweet congratulated the party workers for the victory and said people were fed up with the BJP and would bring in Kejriwal's politics of honesty and work, in MCD polls next year. The AICC incharge of Delhi Congress Sh Aktisinh Gohil said party candidate Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad's record victory reflected affection of people and hard work by Congress candidates. Ahmad's victory margin was the highest in the bypolls for the five wards. "Congress candidate Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad won from Chauhan Bangar ward by a record-breaking margin of over 10,000 votes in municipal corporation bypolls. This is a victory of affection of Delhi people, their confidence in our young candidate and hard work by Congress workers and leaders," Gohil tweeted. More than 50 per cent votes were cast in the bypolls for the five municipal wards held on February 28.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Income tax raids on actor Taapsee Pannu, director Anurag Kashyap||The Income Tax Department on Wednesday raided premises linked to the filmmakers, including Anurag Kashyap, who launched the now dissolved production house Phantom Films, Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhashish Sarkar and Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu, officials said. The searches are being carried out in over 30 locations in Mumbai and Pune, officials said. Some executives of celebrity and talent management company KWAN are also being raided. The action is part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films, which was dissolved in 2018, and its then promoters Kashyap, director-producer Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Vikas Bahl and producer-distributor Madhu Mantena, they said. Sources said some inter-linked transactions between the entities searched are under the scanner of the department and the raids are aimed at gathering more evidence to further probe tax evasion allegations. Founded in 2011, Phantom Films produced films such as "Lootera", "Queen", "Ugly", "NH 10", "Masaan" and "Udta Punjab". Kashyap later launched a new production company called Good Bad Films while Motwane launched Andolan Films. The searches against Mantena are also being carried out in context of his links with KWAN, of which he was a co-promoter. Pannu, 33, has worked in numerous Hindi, Tamil and Telugu movies. Both Anurag Kashyap and Taapsee Pannu have been outspoken critics of the government and have spoken up against various causes, including the ongoing farmer protests against three farm laws. Recently, Taapsee had criticised the show of solidarity by celebrities towards the government in response to pop star Rihanna's post drawing attention to the farmers' agitation. The actor took a jibe at the pushback and said it was better to focus on strengthening one's own value system if one tweet rattled one's belief. "If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief, then it's you who has to work on strengthening your value system not become propaganda teachers for others," Pannu had said on social media last month. Anurag Kashyap had been vocal about condemning the violence against anti-Citizenship Act protesters in 2019. Last year, he had expressed support for actor Rhea Chakraborty in the Sushant Singh Rajput case and had slammed Bollywood actors for not speaking up enough on the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Mayawati slams UP govt over law and order situation in state||Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Wednesday attacked the Uttar Pradesh government over the law and order situation in the state, and accused it of adopting an insensitive attitude even in serious cases. "Every type of crime is at its peak in Uttar Pradesh and there is a very bad state of crime control," she charged. "Everyone is concerned about painful and embarrassing incidents of Dalit and women harassment. Even in such serious cases, the insensitive and negligence of government is unfortunate," the former Uttar Pradesh chief minister said in a tweet in Hindi. She also targeted the BJP government at the Centre over the issue of Dalit rights. "Dalit oppression and murder of a man in Hathras and ruthless killing of a Dalit RTI activist in Gujarat prove that lives of Dalits, oppressed and women are not safe under the BJP government like in previous Congress regime. The government should immediately take notice of this," she added. Her remarks come in the backdrop of a 50-year-old man being shot dead in Uttar Pradesh's Hathras district allegedly by a man accused of molesting the victim's daughter.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Doors ajar in several sectors for talented youths, says Modi||Doors are being opened for talented youth in several sectors such as space, atomic energy and agriculture as limiting knowledge and research is a big injustice to the country's potential, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Wednesday. Addressing a webinar on implementation of the Union Budget provisions in the education sector, he said the new National Education Policy has encouraged the use of local language and now it is the responsibility of all academics and experts of every language to prepare the best content available in the country and the world in Indian languages. "This is definitely possible in this era of technology," he asserted. Modi said education, skill, research and innovation were the second biggest focus of budget after health. "The Union Budget has broadened our efforts to link education with employability and entrepreneurial capability," he said. "As a result of these efforts, India today is among the top three countries in terms of scientific publications," Modi said. Limiting knowledge and research is a big injustice to the country's potential, the prime minister said. "With this thinking, doors of several sectors such as space, atomic energy, DRDO, agriculture, are being opened for our talented youth," Modi said. To build a self-reliant India, confidence in the youth of the country is important, he said, asserting that confidence only comes when the youth has complete faith in their education and knowledge.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||India logs almost 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 98 casualties in a day||India's total tally of Covid-19 cases rose to 1,11,39,516 with 14,989 new infections, while the active cases were recorded above 1.7 lakh after a month, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Wednesday. The death toll increased to 1,57,346 with 98 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. The COVID-19 active caseload has increased to 1,70,126 which comprises 1.53 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,12,044 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.06 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,84,03,277 samples have been tested up to March 2 with 7,85,220 samples being tested on Tuesday. The 98 new fatalities include 54 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 10 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,346 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,238 from Maharashtra followed by 12,502 from Tamil Nadu, 12,343 from Karnataka, 10,911 from Delhi, 10,270 from West Bengal, 8,728 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,169 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Farmers' protest: Livelihood is hit but solidarity endures||The hair on the arms of Sonu Singh and Lucky Singh — friends from Punjab’s Nawanshahr who run a laundromat at the Singhu protest site of farmers — has turned blonde and their skin has begun to peel off because of constant exposure to soap water. The work hazard does not seem to bother Sonu and Lucky, who have rallied behind the protesters against the new farm laws. They are grateful for the electricity and water given to them by a resident of Haryana’s Kundli village who does not want to be named for fear of harassment by authorities of the BJP-ruled state. Although the protest site is better known as Singhu, the name of a village in Delhi (the highway to which is barricaded), it falls almost entirely in Kundli in Haryana’s Sonipat district. Sonu told The Telegraph: “We were plumbers. We don’t have farms, but we have the spirit. When the protest started, we brought two machines from our homes. The organisers of the protest donated two more, and people donate detergent. Around 25kg of detergent is used every day and as the load is high, we constantly have to assist the machine with our hands.” He added: “A person who has stood with us from the beginning is the Haryanvi brother who gives the electricity and water. He has asked us to even use his bathroom and sleep in his house if we need to. His business has been down since we came here, yet he is bearing this expense.” Harmandeep Singh and other protesters from Ludhiana’s Lalton village have set up a small shed with a wood-heated boiler, and a toilet and bathroom connected to an underground sewer, right in front of a glass godown. This stretch of National Highway 44 is dotted with godowns and factories. “The owner of the godown is most helpful. The electricity is from him. Whenever he needs to bring in goods, I reverse our car parked in front and we make space for his vehicles to come in…. There is economic hardship for all of us but when it comes to your conscience, money doesn’t matter,” Harmandeep said. The movement of any large vehicle on this stretch of almost 8km is impossible with most of the highway taken up by tractor trolleys. As a result, industrial production in several units has fallen, as have jobs. Cooperation from residents in the neighbourhood is key to the survival of this unprecedented and prolonged blockade of one of India’s busiest highways. The protesters are withstanding the elements, the risk of disease from poor sanitation and sewage facilities, and the uncertainty of a struggle without an end in sight. The residents face an economic crisis with their highway of prosperity rendered unusable for the past three months. Kake, who prefers to be identified only by the term of endearment that Kundli residents use, had a thriving wholesale shop of disposable cups, plates and related items off NH44. The entrances to the row of shops have now been barricaded by Delhi police, and Kake makes a living selling tea in a bylane beside his shop. “Modi has made me a chaiwallah (which the Prime Minister says he once was). Yet, whenever I have questioned farmers over the prolonged protest that has snatched my livelihood, they call me a Modi-wallah,” Kake told this newspaper. A resident of Narela in Delhi nearby, Kake said that free langar meals were good for day labourers who had lost their jobs but for businessmen like him each day of work away from his trade was pulling him deeper into debt. “It is hard for any person with self-respect to eat free food every day. The farmers are generous and friendly, but I want to earn my living. When we talk to local politicians or the police, they keep saying that this will end in two days. I don’t know whom to expect any solution from any time soon as the government won’t withdraw its laws, the farmers their protest and the police their barricades,” Kake said. Dharmendar earns daily wages and also drives an electric autorickshaw, the most popular mode of transport to reach the protest site after the elaborate barricading of the highway. He said: “Most of my rides are people going to the protest, and locals don’t travel to that side now as the shops and malls are shut because of the blockade. Jobs are fewer now as raw material can’t come into factories on the protest stretch.” The Rai Assembly constituency office of the Indian National Lok Dal has been transformed into a place to rest for protesters. The party’s leader, Ashok Kaushik, told this newspaper that despite problems, the general will of the local population is to support the farmers. “People can’t go out as the road is jammed. Some 1 lakh people used this highway for their daily commute. The route is now longer and through smaller roads. There is discomfort, but there is an overwhelming sense of solidarity with these people because their cause is right, and we are all basically farmers. They have the capacity to make this struggle succeed and we have the capacity to support them,” Kaushik said. Kake, Kaushik and Dharmendar are unanimous that no resident had thrown stones at farmers on January 30, when the protest site was attacked by what sections of the administration and the media had described as “locals angry with the insult to the national flag by farmers on Republic Day”. While the police had described them as “local villagers”, Delhi’s ruling Aam Aadmi Party had identified three of them as BJP activists from other parts of Delhi. “What I like about these protesters is they are polite. That’s how they have maintained good relations with us locals,” Dharmendar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Chinese army continues to strengthen position at Ladakh's Depsang Plains||A ground assessment by the Indian security establishment suggests that the Chinese army is continuing to strengthen its position at Ladakh’s Depsang Plains, where the Chinese are entrenched 18km inside India-claimed lines. “A recent ground assessment has suggested massive build-up by the PLA at the Depsang Plains. The People’s Liberation Army (the Chinese army) has continued to strengthen its positions by setting up additional military camps inside India-claimed lines amid the ongoing dialogue for disengagement from all friction points,” said a security official attached to the Union home ministry. India has been asserting that it is necessary to disengage from all friction points in order to contemplate de-escalation of forces in this sector and restoring peace and tranquillity along the Line of Actual Control. Last week India’s foreign ministry had underscored that both sides had always agreed that maintenance of peace and tranquillity in border areas was an essential basis for the development of bilateral relations. Under the disengagement process that began on February 10, India and China have moved back from their positions on the Pangong Lake’s north and south banks. The Chinese are said to have agreed to work towards an understanding on the disengagement process to be initiated at other friction points, including the Depsang Plains, Gogra and Hot Springs. “The PLA has continued to cut off the Indian Army’s access to five traditional patrolling points at the Depsang Plains — PPs 10, 11, 11A, 12 and 13 — since the border standoff in May last year. Considering the ground reality, the disengagement at the Depsang Plains is going to be a serious challenge,” said an Intelligence Bureau official. Security officials and military veterans have questioned the hurry with which India entered into an agreement with China without finalising the disengagement process from the Depsang Plains. They said that control of Depsang would allow China to threaten the Indian strategic airfield at Daulat Beg Oldie, located at an altitude of over 16,000ft. The DBO airstrip was built after the 1962 war to check Chinese incursions. The airstrip lies near the newly built and strategic Darbuk-Shyok-DBO Road that runs parallel to the LAC, meandering through elevations between 14,000ft and 16,000ft. The road connects Leh with the DBO at the base of the Karakoram Pass, which separates China’s Xinjiang Autonomous Region from Ladakh. China wants to dominate the road, which India’s army uses to support its soldiers deployed on the LAC. “The focus of the negotiation is now on the Depsang Plains and the stalled disengagement at Hot Springs and Gogra. The Depsang Plains is strategically very crucial for the Indian Army. Talks are on both at the military and the diplomatic level to hammer out a solution,” said a defence ministry official. The two sides had last July agreed on disengaging from Hot Springs and Gogra but the Chinese went back on their word.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Under the radar, IIT Kharagpur anoints Syama Prasad Mookerjee||An IIT Kharagpur order has asked a doctor to oversee the administrative activities of “Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research” with “immediate effect”. The directive has prompted a section of teachers and alumni to point out that the medical establishment has been “surreptitiously” named after the Jana Sangh founder although President A.P.J. Abdul Kalam had in 2007 laid the foundation stone for a facility dedicated to Dr B.C. Roy, the builder of modern Bengal. The IIT director had last month said Prime Minister Narendra Modi would virtually inaugurate the Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research on February 23 on the occasion of the institute’s convocation. Amid a furore over the renaming, Modi did not inaugurate the medical institute on February 23 although no reason was cited. The inauguration plaque — on which “Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research” was written — was wrapped in a white piece of cloth after that. Now, the order signed by IIT registrar Tamal Nath says: “The undersigned is to convey that the director has been pleased to approve that… will oversee the administrative activities of Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research….” Nath, who had said last week that the inauguration was “deferred” for some “technical reasons”, signed an office order on March 1 that says: “Dr Prasanta Kumar Shannigrahi, Head, B.C. Roy Technology Hospital, will oversee the administrative activities of Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research… with immediate effect until further order.” The IIT now provides indoor and outdoor medical facilities for common ailments at the BC Roy Technology Hospital, located on the campus. The new facility, a superspeciality hospital and research centre, is outside the main campus. Ajay Kumar Roy, a former head of the school of medical science and research at IIT Kharagpur and among the signatories of a letter to the Prime Minister against the renaming, said Tuesday’s order had “surprised” them. “Since the Prime Minister did not inaugurate the hospital, we hoped that the superspecialty hospital would continue to be known as Dr B.C. Roy Institute of Medical Sciences and Research. But we are surprised by the contents of the order,” Roy told The Telegraph. “We explained to the PM why it would be incongruous to rename the facility, given the role Dr B.C. Roy had played in shaping this IIT,” he added. The recipients of the IIT’s office order include “all medical officers and staff members of Dr Syama Prasad Mookerjee Institute of Medical Sciences and Research”. Sabyasachi Sengupta, a former professor of electrical engineering at IIT Kharapur, said: “This suggests that they have already got the facility registered afresh after Dr Syama Prasad Mookjerjee. It’s just that the plaque has not been unveiled. It will continue to baffle all why a facility was renamed after someone who has nothing to do with medicine.” Asked about the order, registrar Tamal Nath said on Tuesday: “It’s an internal administrative decision.” Asked whether the order signalled a formal renaming, he said: “An OPD facility is being run there for the past two months. The head of the existing BC Roy Technology Hospital will look after that only. That is our internal administrative decision.” Nath had earlier said the institute’s board of governors had approved the renaming. Calls and text messages from this newspaper to IIT director V.K. Tewari went unanswered. The superspeciality hospital has been built on an 18-acre plot at Balarampur, just outside the IIT campus, as part of the institute’ plan to open a medical college. A former student of IIT Kharagpur who had commented on the Facebook page of director Tewari against the renaming said: “Now we have to again launch another protest against this surreptitious renaming.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Vote against BJP and allies to ensure their defeat: Farmers||The Samyukta Kisan Morcha on Tuesday decided to give a call to farmers in all election-bound states to vote against the BJP and its allies to ensure their defeat, choosing Calcutta as the first rally pit stop. The SKM, the umbrella outfit of protesting farm unions, has made it clear that it would not campaign for any particular party. The SKM is preparing to try and inflict what farm union leader Yogendra Yadav had described as “vote ki chot” (hurt with votes) on the BJP and its allies in the five poll-set states of Bengal, Assam, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry. Detailing their plans for the elections after a day-long strategy meeting of the SKM general body at the Singhu border protest site, veteran farmer union leader Balbir Singh Rajewal said: “We will appeal to all farmers not to vote for the BJP and its allies. We will not support any party or campaign for any party, nor will we tell farmers who they should vote for. All we will do is appeal to them not to vote for those who brought the farm laws and have unleashed repression on farmers, and try best to vote in a manner that will ensure the defeat of the BJP and its allies.” Farm union leaders will be sent to all the five states to address at least one rally organised by their local partners to mobilise opinion. The first such rally will be held in Calcutta on March 12, Rajewal said. Yadav said Bengal would be the first stop because it goes to the hustings the earliest with the first phase of polling scheduled for March 27. From Calcutta, the union leaders are expected to go to all constituencies of the state to spread awareness on how the farm laws are detrimental for farmers. Simultaneously, across the country as harvesting begins and crops head for the markets, the SKM has asked farmers to start picketing the mandis (wholesale markets) to demand a minimum support price (MSP), which the government claims it is committed to giving. “It is time to hold the government to account over the Prime Minister’s claim that ‘MSP thi, MSP hai, MSP rahegi’ (MSP was there, MSP is there and MSP will remain). Since harvesting has begun in Karnataka where farmers are getting less than the MSP for chickpeas, ragi and groundnut, the ‘MSP Dilao’ (Give MSP) programme will be launched on March 5 in Karnataka at the big mandis in Gulbarga and Chitradurga,” Yadav said. All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Mollah said farmers at the protest sites were making arrangements to ensure that the harvesting of their standing crop went as scheduled while keeping the movement alive. Dharmendra Malik of the Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait) said farmers would come and go in rotation to ensure that harvesting and the protest went hand in hand, pointing out that the mobilisation had gathered so much steam that the BJP’s workers were unable to enter villages in Uttar Pradesh to carry out the party’s planned outreach on the farm laws. The farmers have also decided to firm up the growing solidarity with workers by joining the trade union call for protest action on March 15 against corporatisation and privatisation. Many of the central trade unions have been backing the farmers’ protests whole-heartedly over the past few months. In order to mark 100 days of the farmers’ protests at Delhi’s borders on March 6, the SKM has given a call for a five-hour blockade of the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway. Elsewhere, farmers have been asked to express solidarity with those protesting at Delhi’s borders by flying black banners at their houses and offices, besides wearing black bands as a sign of protest.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-297
03-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi: We will emerge from fire nicer, wiser||A question about global concern over the erosion of democracy in India drew a blunt response from Rahul Gandhi: “Not eroding, it is being strangled.” Rahul made the assertion in the course of his online conversation with Kaushik Basu, former chief economic adviser to the Government of India and now professor of economics at Cornell University in the US, on Tuesday. Basu referred to global concern over erosion of democracy in India, with the space for media, public debate and dissent shrinking and asked about Rahul’s views. Basu said muzzling of debate was a great concern as India was once considered one of the top countries in terms of freedom of speech. Rahul responded bluntly, in a manner that is typical of him: “It is much deeper than muzzling of debate. Muzzling of debate is one of the elements. The RSS is systematically attacking the institutions. Judiciary, media, bureaucracy, Election Commission are being filled with people of one ideology. It is not eroding, it is strangling. I didn’t realise how profound it is till I faced it…. It is a full-scale assault on democracy.” The former Congress president contended that the entire Opposition was fighting to protect India, not for power. He said: “Before 2014, we were fighting for power. The game has changed now. What is India? It is a negotiation. We agreed on a free and fair fight for power. There is no free and fair fight now.” He added: “But this is the best opportunity that India could have ever got to learn, to understand its weaknesses, to emerge stronger. India has to go through the fire to transform itself. There is going to be a cost. We will bear the cost. We will emerge nicer, wiser, more compassionate.” He explained the nature of threat — both social and political — by contending that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had ensured large funds were available with the RSS for penetration of institutions. He said that while the RSS was free to do whatever it wanted with education, with bureaucracy and with other institutions with the enormous funds, the same capitalists provided political cover to Modi using their media. “Beyond the bluster, what the RSS is doing is reinforce the concept of caste in India. It is reorganising society to show people their places — that the Dalit has this place, the Sikhs  this place, women have this place.” To a question about internal democracy in the Congress party, Rahul said: “You are asking this to a person who was pushing for internal elections for a decade. I got serious beating from my party and the media for holding elections in the Youth Congress. But why is this question not asked of other parties — the BJP,  BSP, the Samajwadi Party… etc? I am fine with it. It is more important for us to be democratic because our ideological formulation is ideology of the Constitution.” Asked about the Emergency, he said: “That was a mistake. My grandmother said it was a mistake. But the situation today is fundamentally different. The Congress never attempted to capture the institutional framework. The RSS is filling institutions with its people. If the BJP loses, we won’t be able to remove the RSS people from all institutions.” Discussing foreign policy, he lamented that India did not have a strategy and said: “The whole debate in India is what happened 300 years ago. There is memory and there is imagination. India is stuck in memory. China has imagination. We may not like it but it has a global strategy. Even in America, the (Donald) Trump slogan was — ‘Let us make America great again’. That was looking backwards. That means a failure has taken place.” Rahul cited  the massive concentration of capital, demonetisation and the attack on agriculture as the primary reasons for the economic collapse.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Priyanka's message to G-23: Don’t help BJP||The Congress leadership’s polite message to dissenters not to weaken the fight against the BJP at this critical juncture is actually a camouflaged warning against crossing the line, while astute political measures were also taken to check escalation of unrest in the party. The message was firmly delivered by Priyanka Gandhi who is on a tour of Assam. Priyanka, in response to a question about G-23 (the group of dissenters) and confusion about alliance with the ISF in Bengal, said: “We may not agree 100 per cent with what our alliance partners believe. But we are together in this fight. Every worker of the Congress understands this deeply ideological battle. Whoever stands with us in this fight, stands with us.” Soon after, party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi in Delhi said: “Each valued colleagues should join us to fight against the BJP, not to weaken the fight against the BJP. Every Congress leader should unite.” On a question about Bengal alliance, Singhvi said: “The Congress got the seats it bargained for. A large secular front has been created to fight the BJP.” Singhvi added: “The BJP has the gall to call others communal. The BJP which pursues gunda politics claims to be secular and accuses others of communalism.” Jammu & Kashmir Congress chief Ghulam Ahmed Mir also rushed to Delhi to discuss with the high command the remarks of veteran leader Ghulam Nabi Azad that were not received well in the state. Mir said the Jammu gathering of dissenters was avoidable, but there still was hope because they spoke against the BJP. But the hopes were dashed later as Azad praised the Prime Minister, he added. The BJP link, injected into the discourse by Azad’s praise of Modi, and Priyanka’s message appeared to have created some impact on the dissenters. Anand Sharma, one of the key members of G-23 who publicly questioned the Bengal alliance, on Tuesday said: “We wish the Congress candidates the best and we will campaign in poll-bound states if we are asked to.” “We want to strengthen the party, we are for united Congress. We don’t want anything which will weaken the party.” The G-23 has indisputably depleted and now barely 10 leaders are inclined to pursue the agenda. While Veerappa Moily, one of the G-23 members, publicly stated that he was no more part of it, Prithviraj Chavan also dissociated with the group by accepting the assignment for Assam as the screening committee chairman. Shashi Tharoor and Jitin Prasada too have dissociated from the group and are working in the Assembly elections.Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday demolished the charge that Rahul Gandhi’s coterie was running the show despite not being in charge, appointing veteran Digvijaya Singh as the head of the screening committee for Tamil Nadu and J.P. Agarawal for the committee on Bengal. None of these leaders is known to be close to Rahul and were both feeling slighted for the last couple of years. Another sulking veteran from Goa, Francisco Sardinha, was included in the screening committee for Tamil Nadu. The party is carefully working on a plan to isolate the key members of G-23. While Azad does have some clout in Jammu & Kashmir, the only other member whose exit will have a significant bearing on the party’s fortunes is former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda. While others like Anand Sharma, Kapil Sibal and Manish Tewari are valuable assets for the party, their capacity to inflict electoral damages is minimal.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India|| Allow all private hospitals to serve as Covid vaccination spots: Centre||The Centre on Tuesday asked states to allow all private hospitals with required facilities to serve as Covid-19 vaccination centres while the number of people registered for the shots doubled to 5 million from 2.5 million on Monday. The Union health ministry said states may permit private hospitals not empanelled under central or state health schemes to provide vaccinations if they have vaccinators, adequate space, refrigeration and arrangements for managing adverse events following immunisation. Health officials expect the entry of more private hospitals to accelerate the vaccination campaign that expanded on Monday to include age-linked priority groups from the general population through over 10,000 government and 12,500 private hospitals. The number of eligible people — 60 years or older as on January 1, 2022, or those between 45 and 60 years with any of 20 chronic health disorders — who have registered for vaccines increased on Tuesday to over 5 million. Over 434,000 of those above 60 and 60,000 between 45 and 60 had received vaccines up to 7pm on Tuesday. The health ministry said there was no shortage of Covid-19 vaccines and states had been asked to allocate adequate doses of vaccines to the vaccination centres. The health ministry has also asked states to ensure that 100 per cent of capacities of empanelled private hospitals are used in the campaign. Private hospitals have the flexibility to schedule their own vaccination timetables through the day without any restrictions on timings, health officials said. States in consultation with private hospitals should open vaccination slots for 15 days to a month, the ministry said. The nationwide vaccination drive is intended to accelerate India’s move towards herd immunity — a point at which such a large fraction of the population is protected through either vaccines or natural infections that the epidemic stops. The move to speed up the campaign comes amid what health officials have described as a marginal yet worrying increase in the number of daily new Covid-19 cases, driven primarily by surges in Maharashtra, Punjab and Madhya Pradesh. The country’s seven-day average of daily new cases has increased from about 8,600 in early February to 12,200 over the past week. Other states with rising counts include Gujarat and Haryana. “At least one reason for the rise in some states is gatherings, weddings and parties,” Vinod Paul, the chair of the national expert group for Covid-19 vaccination administration and member of Niti Aayog, the government’s apex think tank. “We need to protect ourselves from these. We’re not in a stage where we can change our behaviour. These could be superspreading events,” Paul said, adding that there was no evidence yet to attribute the observed surge in cases to any unusual coronavirus variants. The vaccination campaign had until Tuesday evening inoculated over 6.7 million healthcare workers and 5.5 million frontline workers with their first doses. Gujarat, Jharkhand, Karnataka, Ladakh and Tamil Nadu have vaccinated 100 per cent of their healthcare workers.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Manipur: Congress protest against BJP||The Congress has alleged that the “illegal” BJP government in Manipur has been sustained because of dereliction of duty by constitutional authorities like the Election Commission of India and the state governor. Addressing a news conference, along with Manipur legislators and former chief minister Ibobi Singh, Congress spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said: “The BJP formed its government at the very outset by offering allurements to our MLAs. They were made parliament secretaries. They were removed after a few months, as they knew the appointments were illegal. But the MLAs stood disqualified under the office-of-profit law.” Singhvi added: “The Congress moved a petition for their qualification. But the deliberate delays sustained the illegal government. The governor asked the Election Commission. It sat on the petition. Now it has sent its recommendations to the governor. The governor may take a few more months....”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Christians up in arms as Lok Sabha MP ties cross to benefits||Christians are up in arms against a Karnataka BJP Lok Sabha member who had recently suggested that officials deny government benefits to tribal people who wear the cross. After staging a protest on Monday against the comment made by Lok Sabha MP from Mysore-Kodagu Pratap Simha, Christians have decided to write to the Prime Minister and the chief minister against the remark that could end up denying much-needed government benefits to impoverished tribals. Simha recently stoked controversy by directing tribal welfare officials that those who wear the Christian cross should be denied government benefits like rations. As reported by the media, his remarks came at a tri-monthly review meeting in Mysore a week ago. The MP questioned the officials over “rampant religious conversions” in the area. “If you are distributing rations properly, why are conversions rampant in the area?” the New Indian Express newspaper had quoted him as saying. Simha cited discussions in Parliament to tell the officials that such benefits must not be given to those who have converted to other religions. He was apparently alluding to the recent reply by law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad to a question in the Rajya Sabha that Dalit converts to Christianity and Islam would not be eligible to contest from reserved constituencies, while converts to Hindu, Sikh and Buddhist faiths would make the cut. The Karnataka Christian Political Leaders Forum has raised strong objections to Simha’s remark, citing the dangers involved in such a discriminatory stand. “Our Prime Minister talks about ‘sabka sath, sabka vikas’ and yet here’s a Parliament member from the same party who is urging officials to deny government benefits to poor tribal people who wear the cross,” the convenor of the forum, Vikram Anthony, told The Telegraph on Tuesday. The organisation that held a protest in Bangalore on Monday evening will write to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Karnataka chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday. “This is such a dangerous statement since one can only imagine the ramifications if the officials really take his (Simha’s) words seriously and stop rations and other benefits to the poor tribal people who are already struggling to eke out a living,” Anthony said. He noted that the discriminatory remarks of Simha were a violation of the fundamental rights of Christians. “It is every Indian citizen’s fundamental right to choose and profess his or her religion. So this is a brazen attack on our personal liberty enshrined in the Constitution,” he said, adding that Christians were among those who had worked and voted for Simha. “He should realise that Christians have also worked for and voted for him. So he represents everyone, irrespective of religion, caste or creed, in his constituency,” Anthony said. Tribal people in over 150 hamlets in Mysore district mostly work as labourers and gather forest produce like honey for their livelihood. Among the BJP hardliners, Simha is not a stranger to controversies. He had to apologise to actor Prakash Raj over a defamatory tweet in 2019. Simha could not be reached for comments as calls to his mobile phone went unanswered. Spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bangalore J.A. Kanthraj demanded an apology from Simha. “The entire Christian community is deeply hurt by these disparaging comments and demands an unconditional apology and withdrawal of the statement,” Kanthraj told this newspaper. “It is sad that being a member of Parliament he is oblivious to the rights and the freedom accorded by the Constitution to practice one’s religion without fear,” Kanthraj said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Set up CCTVs at interrogation cells of investigating agencies: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday made it clear to the government that it had no choice but to implement the December 2020 order mandating CCTVs at all interrogation cells of investigating agencies. A bench of Justices R.F. Nariman and B.R. Gavai pointed out that the Centre was dragging its feet on the issue as it rejected solicitor-general Tushar Mehta’s argument that the installation of CCTVs would have “wider ramifications”. “You will implement it. It is not a question of anything. This is a question of the rights of citizens under Article 21 (life and personal liberty). This has to be implemented and we will ensure it is implemented. There is no choice you have in this. We are giving you three weeks. You file your compliance,” Justice Nariman, heading the bench, told Mehta while adjourning the matter to April 6, by which time the Centre is expected to file a compliance report. The bench was livid after being informed by amicus curiae and senior advocate Sidharth Dave that most states had expressed difficulty in implementing the December 2 directions citing lack of budgetary resources. When Mehta sought adjournment on Tuesday by citing a letter circulated among officials that the government wanted to examine the issue further, the bench was upset. The December 2 directions were passed by the apex court after taking suo motu cognisance of rising instances of custodial deaths. Mehta said he wanted a further adjournment as the Centre had certain reservations as the installation of CCTVs in interrogation cells and premises of central agencies would have “wider ramifications”. He, however, did not elaborate. Justice Nariman pointed out that at the last hearing on January 27 also the Centre had obtained a three-week adjournment. “You have done nothing. You have not filed an affidavit. So you are dragging your feet on this,” he said. Mehta replied: “We are setting up an oversight committee….” But the argument did not cut ice with the bench, which remarked: “Forget oversight committee and all that. You are directed under our order of December 2 in Para 19 specifically to install CCTV cameras…. For your benefit we will read it out.” The court had directed in paragraph 19: “The Union of India is also to file an affidavit in which it will update this Court on the constitution and workings of the Central Oversight Body (COB), giving full particulars thereof. In addition, the Union of India is also directed to install CCTV cameras and recording equipment in the offices of: (i) Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) (ii) National Investigation Agency (NIA) (iii) Enforcement Directorate (ED) (iv) Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) (v) Department of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) (vi) Serious Fraud Investigation Office (SFIO) (vii) Any other agency which carries out interrogations and has the power of arrest. As most of these agencies carry out interrogation in their office(s), CCTVs shall be compulsorily installed in all offices where such interrogation and holding of accused takes place in the same manner as it would in a police station. The COB shall perform the same function… for the offices of investigative/enforcement agencies mentioned above both in Delhi and outside Delhi wherever they be located.” After reading out the relevant paragraph, Justice Nariman observed: “You have done nothing absolutely and then you are saying ‘wider ramifications’. We want to know what have you really done? What ramifications? We are not concerned about the ramifications.” Mehta said: “We will file an affidavit. We will take steps to implement…” The bench cut short the argument, saying: “Our orders will be complied with….” The bench also took to task the states for expressing their inability to immediately comply with the judgment due to budgetary constraints. “We are not concerned with your budgetary allocations. We direct you to make the budgetary allocations,” the court said. Referring to Haryana, the court said: “You will make budgetary allocations within one month. And within three months after that allocation you will install the CCTVS and comply with the directions.” The bench, however, exempted the poll-bound states of Bengal, Assam, Kerala and Tamil Nadu and the Union Territory of Puducherry from complying with the directions in the next three-four months.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Kangana Ranaut and Rangoli Chandel move Supreme Court seeking transfer of FIRs||Actress Kangana Ranaut and her sister Rangoli Chandel have moved the Supreme Court seeking transfer of multiple FIRs registered against them  in Maharashtra to Himachal Pradesh over their tweets. The sisters  have accused the Shiv Sena government of witch hunting and acting with malafide against them. They are facing multiple FIRs in Maharashtra, which included a defamation suit filed by Bollywood lyricist Javed Akhtar. “It is pertinent to mention that all the FIRs and complaints in question are frivolous and have been filed with a malicious intent to harass the Petitioners herein and malign their public image. While, the petitioners have utmost respect for the courts of the country and are ready to face the trial as per law, but they apprehend that if the trials are conducted in Mumbai, there will be a material threat to life and property of the Petitioners herein. “It is pertinent to mention that the Maharashtra government led by Shiv Sena has been harassing the petitioners herein. It would not be out of context to mention that the Petitioner herein was called ‘Haramkhor Ladki’ by Sanjay Raut, who is a senior Shiv Sena leader and a Member of Parliament. “Further, on 09.09.2020, the Shiv Sena led Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) illegally demolished the Pali Hill Bungalow of the Petitioner No. 1(Kangana) herein. It is pertinent to mention that the Hon’ble High Court of Bombay declared the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s (BMC) act of demolishing a part of petitioner No. 1’s bungalow illegal, and added that it smacked of malafide intentions,” the petition filed through advocate Neeraj Shehkar stated. The joint petition has challenged the FIR No. 8575/2020, lodged at Amboli Police Station, Mumbai filed by one Ali Kashif Khan Deshmukh, a lawyer, in which Rangoli through a tweet had adversely commented upon the alleged state of affairs in Mumbai following the attack on doctors who went for Corona check-up of the family of a man who died due to Corona. A team of doctors and medical staff was assaulted by a mob in Moradabad's Nawabganj area when they went to take away two suspected cases of the novel Coronavirus in the area on April 15, 2020 during the lockdown period. Various IPC sections were registered against Rangoli on the lawyer’s complaint for allegedly causing disaffection among the people etc. The second case related to a defamation complaint filed by  Javed Akhtar, against Kangana following her interview to Republic TV’s Arnab Goswami on July 20, 2020, in which she had allegedly questioned the integrity of the  renowned poet, lyricist and author of several screen plays. The third FIR for sedition related charges and causing disaffection among people was filed by one  Munawar Ali alias  Ashraf Ali,  for some of her tweets critical of the Maharashtra government. “These acts of the Maharashtra government, clearly shows that the Maharashtra government has malafide intentions against the Petitioners herein and that if the Petitioners visit Maharashtra to attend the said trials, there will be a constant threat to them from the Shiv Sena and Maharashtra government. “It is further pertinent to mention that looking at the threat perception of the Petitioner No. 1 herein, the Petitioner No. 1 was granted Y-plus category of CRPF security by the Home Ministry. Therefore, it becomes quite evident that the Petitioners face serious threat to life and property and if the trial of the cases are not transferred out of Mumbai, the Petitioners life will be at risk,” the petition said ,while seeking transfer of the cases to Himachal Pradesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Facial recognition technologies overreach: Digital rights advocates||Facial recognition technologies installed in at least a dozen government-funded schools in Delhi are an “overreach” by Indian authorities and an invasion of children’s privacy, digital rights advocates said on Tuesday. The move to introduce facial recognition technology follows a 2019 decision by the Delhi government to mount CCTV cameras in more than 700 public schools to ensure the safety of students. The facial recognition systems are being installed without laws to regulate the collection and use of data, which is particularly worrying for children, said Anushka Jain, an associate counsel at Internet Freedom Foundation, a digital rights group that became aware of the rollout last week. “CCTV is already a violation of children’s privacy, even though some parents had supported it for the safety of their children... but the use of facial recognition technology is an overreach and is completely unjustified,” Jain said. “Its use for children is particularly problematic because the accuracy rate is so low — so in the event of a crime, you could have children being misidentified,” she told Reuters. Parents were unlikely to be aware of the risks related to potential data breaches and misuse, she added. Facial recognition technology is being increasingly deployed in airports, railway stations and cafes across India, with plans for a nationwide system to modernise the police force and its information gathering and criminal identification processes. But analysts say its benefits are not clear, and that it could breach people’s privacy or lead to greater surveillance, with few safeguards and little clarity on how the technology works, how the data is stored, and who can access it. A personal data protection law is being drafted by lawmakers. Facial recognition systems are often rolled out without a privacy policy or consent from guardians to collect and process the data of minors, said Prasanth Sugathan, legal director at Software Freedom Law Centre, a digital rights non-profit. “These could cause real harm to the children if the data is leaked, not to mention the impact of always-on surveillance of the children,” he said. “While many countries and states are looking at banning the use of facial recognition technology on children, schools in India seem to be adopting this with no thought about the problems it creates,” he said, noting New York state’s recent ban on its use. The Internet Freedom Foundation’s Project Panoptic tracks more than 40 facial recognition projects across the country, with Hyderabad, Chennai and Delhi among cities with the most surveillance networks in the world, according to tech site Comparitech. “India is turning to technology for everything — it’s not necessarily a bad thing, as technology can make some things better and more efficient,” Jain said. “But the government is not assessing the impacts of all of these technologies, or is ignoring their potential for harm.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Hathras incident: Father of molested girl shot dead ||Alleged molesters of a woman in Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras district have been accused of shooting dead her father after tormenting the family for over two years for lodging a police complaint against them. The woman, aged 22, alleged her farmer father was in the field on Tuesday when six assailants, including the four alleged molesters, arrived in a car and fired indiscriminately, killing him on the spot. The woman alleged that she had called up the local police but received no help, just as she and her family had been mostly left at the mercy of the alleged molesters after her father lodged a compliant against them on July 16, 2018. The woman, who carried the body of her 52-year-old father on her shoulders along with three relatives to the burning ghat, told reporters in her village while crying inconsolably that the accused had publicly threatened to kill him. She alleged that the police had been mounting pressure on her parents to withdraw the case. “My father had registered a case against the four accused persons on July 16, 2018, complaining that they had been molesting me. Gaurav Sharma, the main accused, had been arrested at that time but was released on bail after 14 days. Since then, Gaurav, his family members and the three other accused, as also the police, had been mounting pressure on my father and mother to withdraw the case. They also continued to sexually harass me. Gaurav had said two days ago in the presence of many residents that he would kill my father,” the woman said. Pictures have been widely shared on social media showing Gaurav with Shivpal Yadav, the president of the Pragatisheel Samajwadi Party (Lohia) and younger brother of former chief minister Mulayam Singh Yadav. Shivpal said: “Someone taking a picture with me at a public place doesn’t mean that I know him.” The woman told reporters that she and her mother had gone to give lunch to her father in a potato field when six men, including the four alleged molesters, came in a white car and shot him dead. “I called up an officer of Sasani Gate police station when they opened fire on my father but instead of arriving, he asked me to call 112 (the police control room),” she said. Vinit Jaiswal, the superintendent of police of Hathras, gave a different version of the crime. “The wife and aunt of main accused Gaurav Sharma had gone to a village temple where the woman (victim’s daughter) and mother arrived for a puja. They argued and soon the woman’s father and the accused persons came. The crime was committed there,” the officer said. “Besides Gaurav, the daughter of the deceased has mentioned the names of Lalit Sharma, Rohtas Sharma and Nikhil Sharma. Two more accused persons are unidentified. We have arrested Lalit and a hunt is on to nab the others,” Jaiswal said. In Hathras last year a Dalit teen had been gang-raped and murdered by four upper-caste men and the police had burnt her body in the dead of the night allegedly against the wishes of her family. While chief minister Yogi Adityanath was busy campaigning for the BJP in Malda on Tuesday, Uttar Pradesh’s information department officials told reporters that he had asked the police to book the accused under the National Security Act.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi dances with Tamil Nadu school kids||When Gladis Rubella, Class XII student, stepped onto the carpeted dais of St Joseph’s Higher Secondary School in the picturesque village of Mulagumoodu in Kanyakumari district, none had anticipated that it would turn into an impromptu dance floor “I have a request and a question,” an elegantly dressed Rubella told Congress leader Rahul Gandhi during an interaction as he rounded off a hectic election tour of Tamil Nadu’s deep south on Monday. “I hope you don’t want me to sing,” a smiling Rahul asked her. Rubella’s answer appeared to take the politician by surprise. “My friends and I have written a song” for Rahul, she said, venturing further: “Would you dance?” “Yes,” Rahul obliged. When Rubella’s three friends also came onto the stage to join in the dance, Rahul said: “One second.” He looked at the far end of the dais and called out for Tamil Nadu Congress president K.S. Azhagiri and AICC in-charge for the state and Puducherry Dinesh Gundu Rao. “I am not going to dance alone. If I am going to look bad, I would rather look bad with other people,” quipped Rahul. “We have been asked to dance,” he told the perplexed functionaries. Rahul held the hand of one of Rubella’s friends to his right and that of Dinesh as the others circled them. With simple, free-style leg shakes, followed by symmetric hand movements in the air, Rahul’s dance with students was an instant hit, as Rubella sang her song that went: “A simple man is he.” Applauding boys and girls swayed with the song, chanting “Rahul, Rahul”. The song eulogised Rahul’s respect for all cultures and people’s freedoms. Rubella drew a deep pause and ended: “He is a man of integrity.” “That was good singing,” Rahul complimented Rubella, adding that her singing was better than his dance. “She got a state award (for singing),” chipped in Fr. Dominic, the school correspondent. Fr. Dominic was ecstatic over the “wonderful dance performance”. Rubella’s question earlier to Rahul had expressed her worries about freedom of expression being “curbed” in India and whether another freedom movement was needed. “Yes, India is now going to need another freedom struggle, but it has to be non-violent and affectionate. There is a lot of anger spread across, a lot of fear in the country. We have to fight the fear, anger and division so that we have a happy, fearless, comfortable and united India,” the Congress leader replied. Dancing was not the only adventure Rahul undertook over the past week, besides deep-sea diving. He was up to another challenge thrown at him by Class IX student Merolin. During his hour-long interaction with the school children on the need for balance, calmness and hard work, Merolin asked Rahul: “Can you take push-ups?” Rahul sportingly joined her and outpaced her in the exercise. “Now, try one-hand,” Rahul told the girl and in a split second demonstrated it himself. “Rahul does it like Bruce Lee,” exclaimed Fr. Dominic. Rahul ensured that Merolin did not feel bad — he took her by his side, patted her and posed for a photograph, marking one of his innumerable pictures, selfies and handshakes. To a shy Sania, Rahul nodded for a photo she requested before taking her question on poverty eradication. Rahul recalled the Congress’s pre-poll promise of the Nyay plan that involved a direct cash aid of Rs 72,000 per year to every BPL family. “If we form a government we will implement this scheme and in five-six years, we can eradicate poverty,” Rahul assured, adding: “The Nyay scheme will dent the unfair distribution of money.” Rahul agreed with Sania’s plea that the poor be sensitised to the use of money as they often “waste it”. “Nothing particular,” Rahul had to convince another girl who wondered why he chose to join one particular group in Pudukkottai district recently for a show uploaded on a YouTube cooking channel on making mushroom biryani. Rahul had visibly relished the dish after he cooked with them. “It was an interesting group; I would be quite happy to visit other groups like this as I am interested to know the food, the language and the culture of the state,” he said. A poignant moment came at the end that moved Rahul to tears. Sunny, a Class VII student trained by artiste Ashok, had drawn pencil sketches of Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and Rahul on a Mangalore tile preserved since 1883. The plaque was presented to Rahul by Fr. Dominic as a memento. A choir sung at the programme and boys and girls displayed their skills with poles and ropes. “Rahul Gandhi wanted the interaction to be relaxed, informal; it was so illuminating and he energised the children so much,” Fr. Dominic told The Telegraph over the phone.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-298
03-03-2021||India||Sikkim Cricket Association to organise tournament to groom young talents||The Sikkim Cricket Association (SiCA) will organise a cricket fair at the Tashi Namgyal Academy (TNA) in Gangtok on Saturday and Sunday as part of its mission to identify talents at a very early age and groom them as successful cricketers. Styled “Cricket Funfair/Mela”, such events will also be held at the district and subdivisional levels in the future. “The idea behind this initiative is to promote physical activity, the game of cricket and bring awareness amongst the youth of Sikkim (of cricket),” said a SiCA release issued on Tuesday. The fair is for both boys and girls above eight years of age and will have a host of activities, including talent hunt and fun and games. “In the last few years, we have made significant strides in our efforts to grow and develop the game and have stated our long-term commitment to develop cricket as an alternative sport (to football) in Sikkim,” the release added. The fair will also seek to spread the knowledge about cricket, which is at a nascent stage in Sikkim, with events like “Know your cricket” and “Cricket as a career”. Ever since SiCA was granted full membership of the cash-rich Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 2018, it has been on an overdrive to promote the game in the state. In November last year, SiCA organised its first state-level T20 tournament for both men and women. Sikkim has also been participating in all national-level tournaments, including the Ranji Trophy, since then. “The fair is part of our continuing work to promote cricket in Sikkim. Junior cricket is crucial to the successful future of cricket and we are confident that the Cricket Funfair would be an excellent platform to realise our dreams of promoting cricket as a career,” said SiCA.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-299
