04-03-2021||India||Union Minister announces Sreedharan as Kerala CM candidate, retracts statement||After tweeting 'Metroman' E Sreedharan, who recently joined the BJP, will be its chief ministerial candidate for the Kerala assembly elections on April 6, Union Minister V Muraleedharan clarified on Thursday that the party has not made any such announcement. Muraleedharan, who tweeted in this regard earlier, clarified, saying he wanted to inform that through media reports he learnt that the party has announced Sreedharan as the chief ministerial candidate. But when he cross-checked with Kerala party president K Surendran, he said he has not made any such announcements, Muraleedharan, who is also a former BJP state president, said. In his tweet, Muraleedharan had said.."BJP4Keralam will fight Keralapolls with E Sreedharan Ji as its Chief Ministerial Candidate.We will defeat both CPIMKerala & INCKerala to provide a corruption-free, development-oriented Governance for the people of Kerala." His social media post on Sreedharan's leadership in the Assembly polls came hours after Surendran said he has requested the party's national leadership to announce 'Metroman' as the NDA's chief ministerial candidate. Referring to Muraleedharan's clarification tweets, Congress leader Shashi Tharoor took a dig at the BJP, saying the saffron party was "confused". "Hilarious! BJP4Keralam manages to be confused about who will occupy the top floor of a building that will never be built.There will be no BJP CM in Kerala," Tharoor tweeted. The development comes on a day the 88-year-old technocrat announced his decision to end his 24-year long career with the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to enter electoral politics. Earlier, Surendran, who is leading the party's Vijay Yatra said, if the NDA "under the leadership of 'Metroman', gets an opportunity to rule the state, "we are confident we will be able to implement development works under Prime Minister Narendra Modi with a ten-fold force in Kerala." Addressing a party meeting in Thiruvalla, Surendran highlighted the achievements of Sreedharan, including the completion of the reconstruction of Palarivattom flyover here in five months, much ahead of the stipulated time. This was the first time the party indicated that Sreedhran will be the NDA's chief ministerial candidate. The party sought to project Sreedharan's leadership in the polls amid the process of determining the candidates for the assembly election. Sreedharan has said his main aim was to help the party come to power in Kerala and that he will be open to chief ministership.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
04-03-2021||India||Press Association urges Centre to inoculate accredited journalists||The Press Association on Thursday urged the Centre to include accredited journalists on a priority basis for Covid-19 vaccination considering that the media played a vital role in fighting the pandemic. "A delegation of office-bearers, executive committee members and members of the Press Association met the Principal Director General of the Press Information Bureau (PIB) and demanded that the government should include the accredited journalists on a priority basis for Covid-19 vaccination," an official statement issued by the Press Association said. It said the government has rightly highlighted the vital role of the media in fighting the pandemic like other corona warriors. "Like health professionals, security persons and many others, a number of journalists have also lost their lives on the line of duty. Like all other essential services, media houses also remained open during the whole calamity," the press body said. It said that the Association has welcomed the "groundbreaking steps" of vaccinating all those who are fighting the Covid-19 pandemic". "The Association took note and highly appreciated that for the first time the government has sanctioned Rs 5 lakh each to the family members of journalists who died of Covid-19 during the pandemic all over the country," it said. During the meeting, the Press Association also urged the PIB to revive the railways concessions to the accredited journalists, which has been discontinued during the pandemic, and said that the journalists travel in trains while on professional duty.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
04-03-2021||India||Modi, Shah, Nadda meet to finalise candidates for Bengal, Assam elections||The BJP's central election committee (CEC) met on Thursday to finalise party candidates for the initial phases of assembly polls in Bengal and Assam, two of the four states going to the elections besides the union territory of Puducherry. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Home Minister Amit Shah and party president J P Shah along with other members of the committee held deliberations at the BJP headquarters here. Party sources said the CEC may clear the names of the candidates for most of the seats in the two states where elections will be held in the first two phases on March 27 and April 1. While the third and last phase of polling in Assam will be held on April 6, Bengal is scheduled to undergo elections in eight phases ending on April 29. One of the high-profile contests in the high-stakes Bengal polls is likely to be a direct fight between Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee and her former confidant and now BJP leader Suvendu Adhikari in Nandigram seat. The BJP CEC may meet again on Friday, sources indicated. Polling in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry will take place in a single phase on April 6. The BJP has high stakes in Bengal and Assam. In Bengal, it has mounted an aggressive, all-out campaign, deploying a number of leaders drawn from various states and considered adept in poll campaigning, to end the 10-year-old reign of Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee. In Assam, where the party came to power for the first time in 2016, the BJP has been pulling out all the stops to retain power, with the Congress joining hands with regional parties to capture its old bastion. Before the CEC meeting, top BJP leaders like Shah and Nadda have held long deliberations with Assam party leaders, including Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal and minister Himanta Biswa Sharma, and those from Bengal, including state party chief Dilip Ghosh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
04-03-2021||India||BJP asks EC to stop Rahul Gandhi from campaigning in Tamil Nadu||The Tamil Nadu unit of the Bharatiya Janata Party on Thursday urged the Election Commission to restrain Congress leader Rahul Gandhi from campaigning in Tamil Nadu for the April 6 Assembly election, for allegedly violating the model code of conduct. It also wanted the EC to direct the police to register an FIR against him for "inciting the youth to another freedom struggle." BJP state in-charge, election liaison committee, V Balachandran, alleged that Gandhi's campaign in St.Joseph's Matric Higher Secondary School in Mulagumoodu in Kanyakumari district on March 1 was akin to an election campaign in school premises. In a memorandum submitted to chief electoral officer (CEO) Satyabrata Sahoo on Thursday he said Gandhi's political campaign in the educational institution violated provisions of the model code of conduct for which strict action including "prohibitory orders for his poll campaign in Tamil Nadu is required." Further, the Congress leader committed offences under sections 109 (punishment for abetment) and 124 A (sedition) of the IPC for his remarks that India now needs another freedom struggle, it said. Quoting Rahul Gandhi during his interaction with students, the memorandum said, "the Congress leaders comparison of the current situation with that of pre-Independence during the British rule and inciting the youth for another freedom struggle has been made with the intent to cause hatred, contempt and excite disaffection towards the government established bylaws." While answering a question, Gandhi had replied, "there is lot of anger being spread in the country, a lot of fear, and that is what we have to fight.We have to fight the division, anger, fear and once again make India happy, comfortable, fearless and united," it said. His statement violates section 124 A of the IPC, Balachandran claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
04-03-2021||India||WhatsApp expands voice, video calling to desktop PCs||WhatsApp on Thursday said it has rolled out one-to-one voice and video calls on its desktop app, a move that will now allow users to make calls through their laptops or desktop PCs. The Facebook-owned company said voice and video calls on the platform are end-to-end encrypted, and so WhatsApp can't hear or see them whether the call is made from phones or computers. "We're starting with one-to-one calls on the WhatsApp desktop app so we make sure we can give you a reliable and high-quality experience. We will be expanding this feature to include group voice and video calls in the future," it added. WhatsApp said there has been a significant increase in people calling one another on WhatsApp over the last year and often for long conversations. "Last New Year's Eve, we broke the record for the most calls ever made in a single day with 1.4 billion voice and video calls. With so many people still apart from their loved ones, and adjusting to new ways of working, we want conversations on WhatsApp to feel as close to in-person as possible, regardless of where you are in the world or the tech you're using," WhatsApp said. It noted that to make desktop calling more useful, the company has made sure it works seamlessly for both portrait and landscape orientation appears in a resizable standalone window on computer screens and is set to be always on top so users never lose video chats in a browser tab or stack of open windows. Users would need an active internet connection on their computer and phone. The call won't go through the phone, but it needs to be online to establish the call. Also, users would need to grant WhatsApp permission to access the computer's microphone and camera for the video calls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Few OTT platforms at times show pornographic content, says SC||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that few over-the-top (OTT) platforms show some kind of pornographic content at times and there should be a mechanism to screen such programmes. A bench headed by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to place before it the recent guidelines of the government to regulate social media platforms on Friday, when it would hear the plea of Amazon Prime Video's India head Aparna Purohit challenging the Allahabad High Court order rejecting her anticipatory bail in connection with FIRs lodged against her over web series 'Tandav'. A balance has to be struck as some OTT platforms are also showing pornographic materials on their platforms, the bench, also comprising Justice R S Reddy, said. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Purohit, termed the case against her as shocking saying this woman is an employee of Amazon and she is neither a producer nor an actor but still she has been made an accused in around 10 cases relating to the web series across the country. Tandav, a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub, started streaming recently. Purohit has been accused of inappropriate depiction of Uttar Pradesh police personnel, Hindu deities and an adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the web series. Earlier, the apex court, on January 27, had declined to grant interim protection from any coercive action to Ali Abbas Zafar, Director of the web series, Purohit, producer Himanshu Mehra, the show's writer Gaurav Solanki and actor Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub. It had said that they may seek bail from courts concerned in the FIRs lodged in connection with the web series. Now, Purohit has appealed to the top court against the Allahabad High Court's February 25 order declining anticipatory bail to her. A single judge bench of the High Court had said that Purohit had not been vigilant and has acted irresponsibly making her open to criminal prosecution in permitting streaming of a movie which is against the fundamental rights of the majority of citizens of this country and therefore, her fundamental right of life and liberty cannot be protected by grant of anticipatory bail to her in the exercise of discretionary powers of this court. While rejecting the plea, the high court had said that the applicant was earlier granted interim protection from arrest by another bench in a similar case but she was not cooperating with the investigation. The high court had observed, "Western filmmakers have refrained from ridiculing Lord Jesus or the Prophet but Hindi filmmakers have done this repeatedly and are still doing this most unabashedly with Hindu gods and goddesses." "This tendency on the part of the Hindi film industry is growing and if not curbed in time, it may have disastrous consequences for the Indian social, religious and communal order, the high court had observed. On January 19, 2021, an FIR was lodged on the complaint of one Balbir Azad of Raunija village under Rabupura police station of Greater Noida. In the complaint, Azad alleged that the show depicted Uttar Pradesh and its police in a poor light. The complaint further alleged that the web series had deliberately denigrated Hindu gods and goddesses. Several other FIRs have also been lodged in states like Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Bihar and Delhi.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||HC asks Bharat Biotech, SII to disclose vaccine manufacturing capacity||The Delhi High Court Thursday directed Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech to disclose their capacities to manufacture Covaxin, Covishield vaccines. The high court also asked the Centre to explain in affidavit the rationale behind keeping strict control over class of persons who can be vaccinated against Covid-19 currently as under the present system those above the age of 60 years or between 45 to 60 years with comorbidities can receive vaccination. A bench of Justices Vipin Sanghi and Rekha Palli said the two institutes-- Serum Institute of India and Bharat Biotech -- have more capacity to provide the vaccines but it seems that they are not exploiting it fully. "We are not utilising it fully. We are either donating it to foreign countries or selling it to foreign countries and are not vaccinating our own people. So there has to be that sense of responsibility and urgency," the bench said. It also asked the Delhi government to carry out inspection of medical facilities available in court complexes here and to report if Covid-19 vaccination centres could be set up there. The high court was hearing a PIL initiated by it to examine the demand of the Bar Council of Delhi to declare all people associated with the judicial functioning, including judges, court staff and lawyers as frontline workers so that they could receive Covid-19 vaccination on priority and without limitations of their age or physical condition.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Use car insurance add-ons effectively for enhanced coverage||You always dreamt of buying that shiny, brand new car for yourself! Finally, it’s yours and you want to take it for a drive. Don’t forget the car insurance! It’s the most important thing that needs to be bought after you have bought your dream machine. According to official statistics, around five lakh road accidents get reported every year in India[1]. Having a car insurance policy protects you, at least financially, if you find yourself at the receiving end of this statistic. Moreover, a car insurance policy also protects you from a major financial setback in case of theft of your car, which is a major concern in India with around 2.5 lakh cases of vehicle thefts reported every year. Sadly, only around 25 per cent of those vehicles are usually recovered[2]. For the rest 75 per cent, having an insurance policy is the only way to recover the lost asset, or the costs for it. Despite this, and the added fact that having insurance is mandatory in India, over 60 per cent of vehicles in the country are uninsured[3]. Do not make this mistake and ensure that you have a valid insurance policy for your vehicle not only when you take it out on the road, but also when it is parked safely in your house. But, is just having a car insurance enough to protect your car? Let’s take a look at the example below to understand this further. Don’t be under-insured Arnab Dutta lives in Kolkata and works in a private sector company as a software engineer. Last year he bought his new car and during the monsoons, his car’s engine got damaged due to water logging. Unfortunately, his car insurance did not cover any damages which happens to the car due to water ingression. He had to bear a huge cost to repair the engine. Not only in Kolkata, there are such multiple cases across India where the buyer do not get proper cover even though their car is insured. And when they needed it most, they found their insurance policy falling short. This is a typical example of having insurance, but at the same time being under-insured. This is where add-on features, also referred to as riders, come to your rescue. These riders can be added to your policy during the next car insurance renewal. Keeping Arnab's example in mind, it is clear that these days just getting a basic car insurance in India might not be not enough, you also need to get add-on covers for a comprehensive protection of the car. Here are some add-on covers that might be useful for you: Zero depreciation cover: Probably the most commonly recommended add-on, this cover entitles you to claim the full cost of replacing car parts damaged in accidents without having to pay from your pocket. As per standard motor insurance policies only the depreciated value of car parts is reimbursable and not the replacement value. Typically, insurance companies deduct a value from your claim before making the payout as they factor in standard depreciation, which is the loss in the value of car parts with time. Engine protector: As mentioned in the example above, an engine is the most important part of a vehicle. Usually, damages to the engine are not covered under a regular comprehensive car insurance policy in conditions when there is water ingress in the engine. Your vehicle’s engine will be insured against damages due to flooding, consequential losses etc. with the engine protector add-on. 24x7 Roadside Assistance: This is a very useful add-on that provides certain round-the-clock services such as refueling, towing, change of flat tyre, battery related technical problems, arranging for a mechanic's services and so on, in case of a car breakdown. In a situation like that, the company will send help wherever you are. Also, you will be eligible for taxi service, assistance in arrangement of emergency accommodation and other utility benefits if you are stranded in a remote destination. NCB Protection: You earn a No Claim Bonus (NCB) when you don’t make any car insurance claim in an entire policy year. However, as soon as you make a claim, the no-claim-bonus that you have accumulated, which can be up to 50 per cent of the annual premium, gets rolled back. This can happen even if the damage to your vehicle is due to no fault of your own, like if someone hit your parked car. However, with this add-on-cover, you can make one or two claims during the policy year without compromising your accumulated NCB. This claim can be made for loss such as windshield glass repair or replacement, accessories or total vehicle theft and also for the total loss of the vehicle. The NCB Protection Cover will take care of your first two claims. But, this cover is usually not available for vehicles that are older than three years. Key and lock replacement cover: If you lose your car keys, the regular insurance policy does not cover the loss. However, with this add-on, the insurance policy will cover the replacement costs of the lock and key. However, this is usually available only once in the policy period. Return to Invoice Value: While normally, the liability of the insurer is capped at the Insured Declared Value (IDV) of the vehicle which is determined basis various factors and is almost always lower than the price you paid for the car, this add-on cover makes the insurance company take the on-road price of the car as its IDV. This means that you will get a claim amount equal to the on-road price of the car in case of total loss or theft of the car. Consumables expense cover: You can buy this add on in case you want to seek compensation for money spent on nuts and bolts, screen washers, engine oil, bearings and so on, in case your car meets with an accident. The insurer will pay you for the value of such consumables, which are otherwise excluded from the claim amount under standard motor insurance. Daily Cash Allowance Benefit: With this add-on, the policyholder gets a daily cash benefit when his/her car is out for repairs for more than a day. The cover is also applicable in case of theft or loss of the car and the allowance will be offered until the date of recovery. Registration Certificate (RC) Cover: Under this add-on, the insurance company will reimburse the cost of procuring a new RC of the insured’s car in case the original one is lost/damaged. Personal Belongings Cover: With this add-on, the insurance company pays a certain amount to the policyholder in case of loss of his/her personal belongings kept in their car.
The above mentioned add-ons and covers will differ as per every insurance company. Of course, you might not need all the add-ons mentioned above. You will need to pick and choose the ones that suit you the most. For instance, there is no point in getting the engine protection cover if you live in an area that receives scant rainfall. However, don’t neglect the add-ons just because they might make your insurance policy a little expensive. As Arnab in the example above learned, being under-insured is as good as not being insured. Evaluate your premiums with the car insurance calculator and choose the right coverage while meeting your budget. If you are planning to buy your dream car or already have bought one, don’t forget to buy a car insurance policy that gives you 24x7 assistance, easy claim process and option to avail add-on covers. Insurers like Bajaj Allianz General Insurance tick all the right boxes, and with their digital onboarding process, getting a complete cover for your car has never been easier. Not only that, with Bajaj Allianz, you can remain worry-free as this leading insurance company has advanced claims servicing process and fast settlement record with their “Motor On the Spot” feature offering claim settlement in 20 minutes (terms and conditions apply). So what are you waiting for? Get Bajaj Allianz Car Insurance Policy today! Insurance is the subject matter of solicitation. For more details on benefits, exclusions, limitations, terms and conditions, please read sales brochure/policy wording carefully before concluding a sale. Source: [1] https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/other-states/15-lakh-people-die-in-five-lakh-accidents-every-year-nitin-gadkari/article30548240.ece [2]  https://ncrb.gov.in/sites/default/files/CII%202019%20Volume%203.pdf [3]  https://sites.ndtv.com/roadsafety/60-of-vehicles-in-india-are-not-insured-and-most-of-these-are-two-wheelers-3027/#:~:text=According%20to%20a%20General%20Insurance,less%20than%20half%E2%80%94were%20insured This is a sponsored article and curated by ABP Digital Brand Studio. The Telegraph India editorial team played no role in creating this content.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||SC directs private hospitals to prioritise treatment of elderly amid pandemic||The Supreme Court on Thursday directed that elderly people be given priority in admission and treatment at private hospitals besides at government medical institutions amid the Covid-19 pandemic. A bench of justices Ashok Bhushan and RS Reddy modified its earlier order of August 4, 2020, by which it had directed only government hospitals to give priority in admission and treatment of elderly people looking at their vulnerability to coronavirus. The bench took note of submission of senior advocate Ashwani Kumar, petitioner in-person that except Odisha and Punjab no other state has given details about the steps taken in pursuance of the earlier directions issued by the top court on his plea. The top court granted three weeks' time to all the states to respond to the fresh suggestions made by Kumar to provide relief to the elderly people. During the hearing, Kumar said the states need to issue fresh Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) in pursuance to the directions issued by the court. He said the court may issue directions to the health and social welfare departments of all states in this regard. The order was passed on the plea filed by former Union minister and senior advocate Kumar, who has sought directions with regard to elderly people saying they need more care and protection amid the pandemic. The top court had last year directed that all eligible old age persons should be regularly paid pension and states should provide them necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods in wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The apex court had said that looking at their vulnerability to coronavirus, elderly people should be given priority in admission in government hospital and in the event of any complaint made by them, the hospital administration shall take immediate steps to remedy their grievances.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Taj Mahal vacated after hoax bomb call||The Taj Mahal complex in Agra was vacated on Thursday morning following a hoax bomb call, officials said. They said an unidentified person called the 112 emergency response number of the Uttar Pradesh police at around 9 am and claimed that a bomb was kept inside the monument that is conserved by the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) and protected by armed personnel of the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF). The Uttar Pradesh police immediately informed the CISF personnel, who asked the visitors to vacate the premises of the iconic 17th-century monument and launched anti-sabotage checks around 9:15 am. "Nothing suspicious has been found and the checks are almost done," a senior CISF officer said in Delhi. The hoax call has been traced to Firozabad in Uttar Pradesh, another officer said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Arvind Kejriwal administered Covid vaccine at govt hospital||Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who along with his parents took their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine on Thursday, appealed to all eligible people to come forward and get vaccinated, asserting that there's "nothing to fear". The vaccine was first administered to Kejriwal's parents, Govind Ram Kejriwal and Gita Devi, and then to the chief minister at the government-run Lok Nayak Jai Prakash Narayan hospital here. They all were given the Covishield vaccine. "I and my parents got our first dose of COVID-19 vaccine today. We had no problems and are perfectly healthy. There is nothing to fear. Doubts in people's mind (about the vaccine) no longer exist. I appeal to everyone eligible for the vaccine to come and get themselves vaccinated," Kejriwal told reporters after getting the jab. During the second-phase of the inoculation drive that started on March 1, people aged 60 years and above and those in the 45-59 age group with specific comorbidities are being administered the vaccine at 192 hospitals across Delhi. The 52-year-old chief minister, who has a history of diabetes, said the hospital has made adequate arrangements for the vaccination drive. The government will increase the number of vaccination centres if needed, he added. "We are in constant touch with the Centre and are working according to the prescribed guidelines. As and when we receive further directions, we will increase the number of vaccination centres. We have enough stock of the vaccines," the chief minister said. Earlier, President Ram Nath Kovind, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Health Minister Dr Harsh Vardhan got themselves inoculated against COVID-19.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 17,000 after a month||The daily new cases of Covid-19 in India were recorded above 17,000 after a little over a month taking the total tally of cases to 1,11,56,923, while the recoveries surged to 1,08,26,075, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Thursday. A total of 17,407 infections were reported in a day. The death toll increased to 1,57,435 with 89 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The Covid-19 active caseload has increased to 1,73,413 which which comprises 1.55 per cent of the total infections, the data stated. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,26,075 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.03 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 21,91,78,908 samples have been tested up to March 3 with 7,75,631 samples being tested on Wednesday. The 89 new fatalities include 42 from Maharashtra, 15 from Kerala and 12 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,435 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,280 from Maharashtra followed by 12,504 from Tamil Nadu, 12,346 from Karnataka, 10,914 from Delhi, 10,272 from West Bengal, 8,728 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,170 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Income tax department raids Anurag Kashyap, Taapsee Pannu properties||The income tax department on Wednesday searched the homes and offices of actress Taapsee Pannu and film director Anurag Kashyap, both part of an endangered clan of celebrities who have been vocal against the Narendra Modi government. Sources said the searches were carried out at over 25 locations in Mumbai and Pune. Pannu and Kashyap were questioned by tax officials, the sources said. Some executives of celebrity and talent management company KWAN are also being raided. The premises of the now-defunct Phantom Films, which was co-promoted by Kashyap and producers Vikas Bahl and Madhu Mantena, are also under the scanner. Phantom Films was dissolved in 2018. Kashyap and Pannu, frequent collaborators, have been outspoken critics of the government and have freely expressed their views on various issues, including the farmers’ protest and the new citizenship regime, at a time when most film stars have either chosen to remain silent or toe the government line. “The IT raids were expected as both Kashyap and Pannu have been very vocal against the Modi government’s policies. We were expecting it to happen any time soon because they were refusing to kowtow to the government as most Bollywood stars have,” a former CBI joint director told The Telegraph. “The raids are also a message to them and their ilk — fall in line or else…,” he added. Maharashtra minister Nawab Malik slammed the raids. “The raids were conducted by the IT department against those who take a stand against the government or its policies. Both are outspoken celebrities and the action is an attempt to suppress their voice,” he said. The Samyukta Kisan Morcha, the umbrella outfit of protesting farmers, condemned the raids. “Despite numerous objectionable attempts by the government, the farmers’ movement in India is gathering strength. Many international and national celebrities and well-known individuals have been lending support to the farmers’ cause. Instead of fulfilling the farmers’ legitimate demands, the government is seeking ways to harass and attack farmers and their supporters,” the SKM said in a statement. “The IT raids unleashed on Taapsee Pannu and others are part of this desperate attempt by the government. The SKM condemns this….” Actress Swara Bhasker and director Anubhav Sinha expressed solidarity with Pannu and Kashyap. Bhasker tweeted: “Appreciation tweet for @taapsee who is an amazing girl with courage and conviction that is rare to see now days.. Stand strong warrior! “Appreciation tweet for @anuragkashyap72 who has been a cinematic trailblazer, a teacher and mentor of talent and a man with rare candour and a brave heart! More power to you Anurag.” Sinha tweeted: “Kashyap and Taapsee I love you both. Just.” The Centre denied any overreach. “The income tax department probes someone based on whatever information they get. The issue goes to court later,” Union minister Prakash Javadekar told reporters in Delhi.
Recently, Pannu had appeared to criticise the show of solidarity by celebrities, including actors like Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn and filmmaker Karan Johar, with the government in response to pop star Rihanna’s post drawing attention to the farmers’ protest. Pannu had tweeted on February 4: “If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system, not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others.” A day before, she had reposted a tweet from last year in Hindi: “Don’t scare anyone so much that the fear is gone. And one should be a little wary of a person who does not fear.” Both Kashyap and Pannu are targets of vile trolls, mostly supporters of the BJP, on social media. Kashyap had condemned the violence against anti-citizenship act protesters. He had also expressed support for actress Rhea Chakraborty after she was hounded and jailed in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. Kashyap had slammed Bollywood actors for not speaking up against her vilification. A perception is growing that the Centre wants to control Bollywood. “The government has already done that with the media and now Bollywood is the target as it is the last independent bastion of a secular and liberal medium of mass entertainment,” said an analyst of the entertainment industry. He said the trend started with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “grin-and-share-it” moment with Bollywood actors in January 2019 at an event just weeks ahead of his re-election campaign. Bollywood’s A-listers had flown from Mumbai to Delhi to meet Modi and discuss how they could work towards “nation-building” and then shared pictures on social media along with effusive praise for the politician. Months after being re-elected, Modi had invited top actors and filmmakers to his residence in October 2019 to discuss initiatives to mark the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi. Among those present were Shah Rukh Khan, Aamir Khan, Kangana Ranaut, Sonam Kapoor, directors Rajkumar Hirani, Rajkumar Santoshi and producers Ekta Kapoor and Boney Kapoor. Last month Akshay, Devgn, Johar and Lata Mangeshkar were among those who tweeted with hashtags coined by the foreign ministry, urging people to stand united and not fall for propaganda after singer Rihanna and climate activist Greta Thunberg tweeted about the farmers’ protest. Many have pointed out how Amitabh Bachchan and Akshay used to comment on burning issues during the Manmohan Singh government, including fuel price hikes, but had been silent when prices touched an unprecedented Rs 100 in some parts of the country recently. Among the celebrities who have spoken strongly against attempts to redefine India are Bhasker, Mohammed Zeeshan Ayyub, Farhan Akhtar, Jaaved Jafferi, Sinha, Kashyap, Pannu, Prakash Raj and Richa Chadha. Ranaut, a self-confessed Modi supporter, was last September accorded Y-category security by the Centre after a tussle with the Maharashtra government. A Twitter user wrote on Wednesday: “Y security cover to the actress who accused farmers of being terrorists. And IT raids against the actress who spoke in favour of farmers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||Covaxin shows 81% efficacy: Bharat Biotech||India’s homegrown Covid-19 vaccine has shown close to 81 per cent efficacy in protecting people from the infection, the vaccine’s developers announced on Wednesday, releasing the much-awaited interim results of a nationwide clinical trial. The results mark the first efficacy data on Covaxin, the vaccine developed jointly by the Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech and the Indian Council of Medical Research. The vaccine had run into controversy after India’s drug regulators approved it in January without efficacy studies. The first interim analysis has found 43 Covid-19 cases among the 25,800 participants of Covaxin’s clinical trial at multiple sites across India, 36 cases among those who received placebo and seven cases among those who received the vaccine. The skewed split in cases implies that those who had received the vaccine had a significantly lower chance of becoming infected than those who had received the placebo and translates into a vaccine efficacy of 80.6 per cent. “We now have data demonstrating high clinical efficacy against Covid-19 infection,” Krishna Ella, a scientist-turned-entrepreneur and head of Bharat Biotech, said in a statement released to the media. “An independent data safety monitoring board announced the interim results at 3pm today.” For comparison, India’s drug regulatory authority had, relying on clinical trials outside India, cited an overall vaccine efficacy of 70 per cent for Covishield, the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine, produced in the country by the Serum Institute of India. India is currently using both Covaxin and Covishield in its vaccination drive to immunise about 10 million healthcare workers, 20 million frontline workers and roughly 270 million people from the general population at high risk of severe disease. The Centre is sending both the vaccines to states and state authorities are responsible for distributing them to government and private hospitals. Eligible people could choose a vaccine they want by opting for hospitals that have received the vaccine of their choice. Many experts had questioned the regulatory decision to approve Covaxin only on the basis of its capacity to generate an immune response without efficacy data. Some had speculated whether India fast-tracked Covaxin’s approval to show a homegrown vaccine alongside Covishield. “It is good to see this interim analysis data — these are early but very good results,” said Gagandeep Kang, professor of microbiology and vaccine science specialist at the Christian Medical College, Vellore, who was among those who had criticised the regulatory approval without any clinical efficacy. Covaxin has been crafted from an inactivated (killed) coronavirus isolated from a patient by the ICMR’s National Institute of Virology, Pune, in March last year and developed into a vaccine by Bharat Biotech in its Hyderabad research facility. “This is a testament to India’s emergence as a vaccine superpower,” said Balram Bhargava, the ICMR’s director-general. The Indian government has already sent Covaxin doses to Myanmar and Sri Lanka, among other countries, and Bharat Biotech is preparing to supply the vaccine to other countries too. Scientists tracking Covid-19 vaccine development said Covaxin’s interim results were not surprising, given the strong immune responses it had shown in rhesus monkeys and humans and the efficacy of a similar inactivated Chinese vaccine. The large number of participants in the clinical trial bolsters confidence in the results, said Shahid Jameel, a senior virologist and director of the Trivedi School of Biosciences at Ashoka University in Sonipat, Haryana. “Further analysis at two other points — after 87 cases and 130 cases — will further refine the efficacy data to higher confidence levels,” Jameel said. The interim results released did not specify how many among the 43 cases had mild, moderate or severe Covid-19. One of the goals of Covid-19 vaccine trials is to assess the capacity of a vaccine to prevent severe disease. Covishield evoked a strong immune response 28 days after the first dose, researchers in Delhi have reported in a study that they say represents the first public data from India on the immune responses to the AstraZeneca-Oxford vaccine. The researchers at the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology, New Delhi, collaborating with doctors at Max Hospitals have also found that in people previously infected by Covid-19, the first dose served as a booster, raising their antibody levels against the virus. The IGIB-Max team examined antibody responses in 135 healthcare workers who have received Covishield since the start of the vaccination campaign on January 16. They found that the antibody levels had spiked within a week in 44 vaccine recipients who already had antibodies against the virus likely because of previous exposures. In the other recipients, the antibodies emerged only around day 14 and climbed to significant levels by day 28. “The study highlights the effectiveness of the vaccine in generating antibodies and could be used to formulate an optimum vaccination strategy for the Indian population,” said Shantanu Sengupta, a senior scientist at the IGIB. The Serum Institute of India had last year conducted immunogenicity studies with Covishield in Indian recipients as part of mandatory clinical trials and submitted the trial data to drug regulators. “We have not seen any published immunogenicity data on Covishield in India,” Sengupta said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
04-03-2021||India||India dropped from Freedom House’s list of 'free' countries||India has been dropped from a list of “free” countries drawn up by an 80-year-old democracy watchdog mostly funded by the US government. Freedom House has placed India in the “partly free” category in its latest report that carries the observation that the free world had shrunk as a result and that the country was being driven towards “authoritarianism”. Freedom House is a Washington-based non-profit, non-government organisation that has been conducting research and advocacy on democracy, political freedom and human rights since 1941. The report released on Wednesday notes that instead of “serving as a champion of democratic practice and a counterweight to authoritarian influence from countries such as China, (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi and his party are tragically driving India itself toward authoritarianism”. Elsewhere in the report, Freedom House states: “Under Modi, India appears to have abandoned its potential to serve as a global democratic leader, elevating narrow Hindu nationalist interests at the expense of its founding values of inclusion and equal rights for all.” There was no immediate response from the Indian government to the report that comes in the wake of increased concern in several world capitals on the human rights situation in the country. US secretary of state Antony Blinken described the Freedom House report as “sobering” in his first foreign policy speech. “A new report from the independent watchdog group Freedom House is sobering. Authoritarianism and nationalism are on the rise around the world. Governments are becoming less transparent and have lost the trust of the people…,” Blinken said. Explaining the reason for shifting India, Freedom House stated: “India’s status declined from free to partly free due to a multiyear pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population and pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters.” Some of the specific reasons for the change in scores on various counts that resulted in India losing its “free” status include the frequent use of the sedition law and other charges to deter free speech, the restrictions on foreign funding of NGOs and the action against Amnesty which resulted in it shutting shop in India, “the unusual appointment of a recently retired chief justice to the upper house of Parliament”, and the “excessively harsh” lockdown that triggered the displacement of millions. According to the report, the Modi government and its state-level allies continued to crack down on critics in 2020, and “their response to Covid-19 included a ham-fisted lockdown that resulted in the dangerous and unplanned displacement of millions of internal migrant workers”. It also took note of the “corona jihad” narrative whereby “the ruling Hindu nationalist movement also encouraged the scapegoating of Muslims, who were disproportionately blamed for the spread of the virus and faced attacks by vigilante mobs”. Given that India is the world’s most populous democracy, the free world has shrunk because of the country’s fall from the upper ranks of free nations, the report noted, adding that it could have a particularly damaging impact on global democratic standards. “Political rights and civil liberties in the country have deteriorated since Narendra Modi became Prime Minister in 2014, with increased pressure on human rights organisations, rising intimidation of academics and journalists, and a spate of bigoted attacks, including lynchings, aimed at Muslims. The decline only accelerated after Modi’s reelection in 2019,” the report said. “Last year, the government intensified its crackdown on protesters opposed to a discriminatory citizenship law and arrested dozens of journalists who aired criticism of the official pandemic response. Judicial independence has also come under strain; in one case, a judge was transferred immediately after reprimanding the police for taking no action during riots in New Delhi that left over 50 people, mostly Muslims, dead,” the report pointed out. It took note of the law curbing inter-faith marriages in Uttar Pradesh. While the chapter on India in the Freedom House report acknowledged that the 2019 Lok Sabha elections were considered generally free and fair, it placed on record questions raised about the impartiality and competence of the Election Commission of India. “The Commission is generally respected and had been thought to function without undue political interference. In 2019, however, its impartiality and competence were called into question. The panel’s decisions concerning the timing and phasing of national elections, and allegations of selective enforcement of the Model Code of Conduct, which regulates politicians’ campaign behaviour and techniques, suggested bias toward the ruling BJP.” The report flagged as a cause of concern “the opaque financing of political parties, notably through electoral bonds that allow donors to obscure their identities”. The report noted that a great deal of corruption cases go unreported and unpunished, and “the authorities have been accused of selective, partisan enforcement”. The delay in setting up the Lokpal and Lokayuktas has been recorded, as also the diluting of the RTI law by the Modi government. The attacks on the media have found mention, and the perception that the Prime Minister’s call to the media to help prevent the spread of “pessimism, negativity, and rumour mongering” was a warning not to criticise officials’ management of the pandemic. “Academic freedom has significantly weakened in recent years, as intimidation of professors, students, and institutions over political and religious issues has increased.... Academics face pressure not to discuss topics deemed sensitive by the BJP government, particularly India’s relations with Pakistan and conditions in Indian Kashmir,” the report said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Uddhav to BJP: Chant can’t make you patriot ||Maharashtra chief minister Uddhav Thackeray on Wednesday told the BJP that chanting “Bharat Mata ki Jai” alone did not prove its love for the country, reminding the party that it has no claim on India’s freedom struggle. Uddhav said his party, the Shiv Sena, was not part of the freedom struggle but neither was the “parent organisation” of the BJP — a reference to the RSS. Both the Sena and the BJP were founded after Independence, but the RSS has existed since 1925. “Therefore, only chanting ‘Bharat Mata Ki Jai’ does not prove your love for the country. You don’t have the right to chant Bharat Mata Ki Jai if you are not going to give justice to people and if you are forcing farmers to protest on the streets,” Uddhav said, speaking in the Assembly. Farmers are waiting for their income to double as promised, he said, referring to the BJP’s election pledge. “Instead, fuel prices have doubled,” Uddhav said. “Barbed wire fencing, which should have been erected along the border, was erected between farmers and Delhi... China would not have intruded had such arrangement been made there (along the border),” the chief minister said. Iron spikes were fixed on the roads leading to the protest sites and their electricity and water supplies were cut, he pointed out. Asking if the farmers protesting against the three new laws were terrorists, Uddhav said the country was not the BJP’s “private property”. The Sena leader asked the BJP not to lecture his party on Hindutva. “You formed a government with separatists in Kashmir... you shared power with them. Didn’t your Hindutva get corrupted then?” he asked. “How many displaced Kashmiri Pandits got homes? Don’t teach us about Hindutva. You are not qualified to do that,” Uddhav told the BJP. The BJP has been targeting the Shiv Sena chief for “giving up” his Hindutva ideology to share power with the NCP and Congress. Uddhav also took a dig at the renaming of the Motera cricket stadium, which used to be called the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel stadium, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi. “Somebody said India will win every match there. Why? Because the name of the stadium has been changed,” he quipped. “You wiped out the name of Vallabhbhai Patel,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Dissenting with government not sedition: Supreme Court ||The expression of a view which is a dissent from a decision taken by the central government itself cannot be said to be seditious, the Supreme Court ruled on Wednesday. The court dismissed a PIL seeking sedition charges against National Conference leader Farooq Abdullah and stripping of his MP status for allegedly seeking China’s help to restore the full provisions of Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. A bench of Justices Sanjay Kishan Kaul and Hemant Gupta, while dismissing the PIL as being a “publicity interest litigation”,  imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the joint petitioners, Rajat Sharma and Neh Srivastava.
The court’s assertion comes at a time a clamour has been growing for repealing the British-era sedition law that has been invoked against many dissenters, including climate activist Disha Ravi. “The expression of a view which is a dissent from a decision taken by the Central government itself cannot be said to be seditious. There is nothing in the statement which we find so offensive as to give a cause of action for a court to initiate proceedings,” the bench of Justices Kaul and Gupta said while dismissing the PIL against Abdullah. “Not only that the petitioners have nothing to do with the subject matter and this is clearly a case of publicity litigation interests for the petitioners only to get their names in press. We must discourage such endeavours,” the  bench added. “The writ petition is dismissed with costs of Rs 50,000 to be deposited with the Supreme Court Advocates Welfare Fund within four weeks,” said Justice Kaul, who dictated the order. The petitioners, pleading to be social activists in their petition filed through advocate Shiv Sagar Tiwari, had  claimed that Abdullah had on September 24,  2020, made a “seditious” statement in Kashmir that he will get Article 370 restored with the help of China. It was also submitted that on the same day, Abdullah made a statement that “ye tumhare baap ki sampati nahi hai”, referring to Kashmir, “which is totally anti-national and seditious”. The petitioner submitted that Abduallah had completely failed in abiding by his constitutional duties as provided under Article 51 A (to uphold the Constitution). “Since his statement was seditious, the petitioner urged the court to direct the Union government to strip him of his status as MP. If the action of Mr Farooq Abdullah is allowed and he is allowed to continue as member of Parliament, it would amount to approval of all anti-national activities by anyone,” the petition had claimed.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Rahul Gandhi glare on government ‘cowardice’ on China ||Rahul Gandhi on Wednesday said the Narendra Modi government’s “cowardice” will lead to tragic consequences, predicting that India’s territory in Depsang captured by China will not be recovered. Referring to a report suggesting the build-up of Chinese soldiers across the Line of Actual Control (LAC), Rahul tweeted, “China mobilized its conventional & cyber forces to threaten India. The Government of India buckled. Mark my words, our land in Depsang is gone and DBO (Daulat Beg Oldie) is vulnerable. The Government of India’s cowardice will lead to tragic consequences in the future.” While the government of India maintains that negotiations with China on disengagement is continuing, the Congress leader has been making scathing attacks on the Prime Minister, accusing him of not showing the courage to confront China. The Prime Minister, who initially said nobody had entered Indian territory and no post was occupied by anybody, has avoided speaking on the subject despite ceaseless attacks by the Opposition leader. Rahul also tweeted about the horrific incident in Hathras in Uttar Pradesh where a man was shot dead for complaining against the harassment of his daughter. He said, “The situation is deteriorating in Uttar Pradesh under the BJP day by day. Nobody has escaped the impact of this misrule. This government is a curse on every community.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Haryana reserves private jobs for residents||The Haryana government has notified a law that provides for 75 per cent reservation in private sector jobs paying less than Rs 50,000 for people from the state, following a trend that experts believe restricts productivity and migration. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Act, 2020, notified in the state gazette on Tuesday said employers shall engage persons from the state in 75 per cent of the posts with gross salary of less than Rs 50,000 a month. Employers can apply to the government for an exemption if adequate numbers of local candidates with the desired skills, qualifications or proficiency are not available. After an inquiry, the designated officer may accept or reject the application or direct the employer to train local candidates, according to the gazette. Local candidates are defined as those either born in Haryana or residents of the state for at least 15 years. Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) director-general Chandrajit Banerjee opposed the law and sought a relook. “At a time when it is important to attract investments at the state level, the Haryana government could have avoided imposing restrictions on industry. Reservation affects productivity and industry competitiveness,” he said in a statement. “We hope the government of Haryana relooks at the legislation. With the Prime Minister’s vision of ‘Ek Bharat shrestha Bharat’ we look forward to an integrated and mobile labour market within the country,” Banerjee added. Deepak Jain, president of the Automotive Component Manufacturers Association of India, said the Indian auto and auto component industry was a global one. “Our production not only caters to the domestic demand, but also to international markets. The Indian component industry today exports more that 25 per cent of its production, with the US and Europe being our leading markets,” he said. “Our industry requires a skilled workforce to produce high quality products that are globally competitive. Hiring in our sector is done on the basis of merit and talent rather than on the domicile of the candidates. “The reason for industry employing candidates from outside the state is the shortage of adequately skilled, locally available manpower. Such a move would not only adversely impact the ‘ease of doing business’ in the state, but also be detrimental to Haryana’s image of an industry-friendly destination,” Jain added. Some expressed concern that it could lead to a competitive quota regime by different states, which would impact the economy at a time it was attempting to come out of the pandemic setback. A large number of MNCs and Indian corporate houses are based in Gurgaon and other NCR cities that are part of Haryana. Analysts said the move might “dissuade new investments, especially by large-scale companies and MNCs. Also, the firms which are already present may put on hold any expansion plans they may have and may opt for other destinations.” However, the quota might not significantly impact those small and micro units that do not use a highly skilled workforce. The analysts also said there was little clarity on what companies that have already recruited their workforce would need to do. “Will they sack those who are already employed?” an analyst asked. The Telegraph sent an email to the director-general, directorate of information and public relations of the Haryana government, for a reaction on the concerns expressed over the quota but received no response. Prof. Amitabh Kundu, a labour economist and Distinguished Fellow at the think tank Research and Information System, said more and more state governments were enacting laws for public and private sector reservation that had the potential to create an anti-migration attitude among locals and stoke inter-state tension. He said the Supreme Court needed to confirm if these violated the spirit of the Constitution. Kundu said Article 16 of the Constitution guarantees the right to equal opportunity to all citizens in appointments to any office under the state. After Andhra Pradesh became a state in 1956, its Assembly had passed the Public Employment (Requirement as to Residence) Act, 1957, to enhance job opportunities for its residents. But in 1969 the Supreme Court held the relevant provision of the Act unconstitutional on the ground that it was designed to safeguard the interest of the people of a region at the cost of others, Kundu said. The Centre and the courts had not spoken on the state laws on reservation or the requirement of proficiency in the local language for employment, he said. But such laws could tantamount to a direct violation of the constitutional provision and the spirit of the Interstate Migration Act, Kundu added. Employment in the private sector has by and large been the prerogative of the employer, he said, although many state governments have encouraged hiring of locals. “While the economic arguments at the macro level are in favour of free movement of labour, the popular sentiment in many states is quite the opposite. This has been explained in terms of their acute shortage of employment opportunities. Interestingly, in states like Punjab, Haryana and Kerala, where there is an acute shortage of unskilled or semi-skilled labour, there has been no demand for restricting in-migration,” Kundu said. Several states have brought such laws, he said. After winning the 2019 elections, the Andhra Pradesh government passed a bill to introduce 75 per cent quota for local youths in private industrial units. It became the first state to introduce such a legal provision for the private sector. The Madhya Pradesh government in 2019 passed two industrial laws providing for 70 per cent reservation for locals in industries under the MP Industrial Resolution Act, 1960. Maharashtra passed a resolution in 2008 providing for 80 per cent reservation for locals in industries that seek state incentives. The resolution mandates that industries that avail themselves of concessions and incentives from the state reserve 50 per cent of jobs for locals in supervisory roles, and 80 per cent in non-supervisory roles.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||AAP retains 4, Congress wins 1 in Delhi bypolls||The BJP, which controls the capital’s five municipal bodies, ate humble pie as the results of bypolls to five municipal wards here were declared on Wednesday. Of the five seats in the North and East Delhi municipal corporations, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) won four, and the Congress one. The BJP’s majority in both the corporations, however, remains intact. The party won 27.29 per cent of vote share. In the 2017 municipal polls here, the AAP had won four of these seats, and the BJP had won a single seat. The AAP, which heads the territorial government, had focused on these bypolls like Assembly elections and gained a vote share of 46.1 per cent. Yet, its candidate Ishraq Khan lost Chauhan Banger to the Congress’s Chaudhary Zubair Ahmad, the son of five-time MLA Mateen Ahmad, in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation. The Muslim majority ward is close to the spot where communal riots broke out in February last year that claimed 53 lives. The AAP faced resentment for being a bystander during the clashes and criticism for providing inadequate relief. The AAP was the runner up while the BJP came third with less than 0.5 per cent of the votes here. The Congress, however, lost its deposits in the rest of the wards where it came third and won 21.84 per cent of votes. Delhi Pradesh Congress committee president Chaudhary Anil Kumar said: “When people of Delhi faced untold misery, gloom and uncertainty due to the lockdown, the Congress’ support to the farmers’ agitation demanding repeal of the three black laws had turned the tide in favour of the Congress.” The AAP gained the Shalimar Bagh seat from the BJP in North Delhi Municipal Corporation and retained the rest of its seats. The bypolls were necessitated by the election of four AAP councillors to the Legislative Assembly last year and the death of BJP councillor Renu Jaju in 2019. AAP’s national convener and Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal said: “The people of Delhi want to change the Municipal Corporations of Delhi (MCD), they want the MCD to run as effectively as the Delhi government… This is a call for how the results are going to be in the MCD elections 2022.” The BJP has held the undivided MCD and its three successors since 2007. Addressing the media on Wednesday, Union minister Prakash Javadekar evaded questions on the results saying, “Those who held the seats already, won the seats.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||‘Communal’ heat on Kerala CPM leader||The acting secretary of the Kerala CPM has come under fire for alleged “Islamophobic” statements, with academics pointing to the incongruity of such diatribes from a Left leader although they were common in the Sangh ecosystem. In a letter addressed to CPM secretary Sitaram Yechury, a group of nine academics, lawyers, writers and retired bureaucrats have expressed concern at the recent outbursts of A. Vijayaraghavan, the party’s state secretary in-charge, ahead of the Assembly elections. They expressed concern at Vijayaraghavan engaging in “Islamophobic statements vitiating the social environment of Kerala”, while pursuing his unrelenting attacks on the Indian Union Muslim League  and the Jamaat-e-Islami. “He takes the pretext of criticising the Muslim League and the Jamaat-e-Islami to unburden himself of hatred for Muslims without reservations. This is not unfamiliar in India’s current political terrain as we hear these on a daily basis from the Sangh parivar, but from CPIM this has been shocking,” argued the complainants that include retired additional development commissioner and director of the State Institute of Rural Development, P.M. Pareethu Bava Khan. “In his latest tirade he accuses Muslims of being more communal than the majority communalism,” the letter stated, referring to Vijayaraghavan’s attack on the IUML. Vijayaraghavan had last month slammed the Congress for strengthening minority communalism by encouraging the Jamaat-e-Islami — widely seen as a Right-wing organisation — which would in turn benefit the BJP. “A whole community is vilified. And by trivialising the communalism of the Sangh parivar, Vijayaraghavan has betrayed the trust the secular, democratic forces of the country have invested in the CPM as a partner in the struggle for a saner future…,” stated the letter sent to Yechury on Tuesday. Khan told The Telegraph that copies of the letter would be sent to the CPM state secretariat in Thiruvananthapuram and Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan. “The name calling of people that hold a different view point than that of the ruling political formation that has now become a timepass of theirs — with communists themselves being one of the targets — has been liberally practiced by Vijayaraghavan. He was calling people ‘terrorists’ who have been democratically opposing environmentally questionable projects and projects that require displacements because there were visible faces of Muslims,” the letter said. Vijayaraghavan could not be reached for comments as he was busy with meetings related to the April 6 elections. Yechury has not publicly commented on the allegations. The letter didn’t spare others in the CPM who had made equally communal statements in the past and named Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, the state secretary who is on leave due to personal issues. The letter referred to his comment about Muslim leaders in the Congress-led United Democratic Front. “He (Vijayaraghavan) has not been alone in speaking so, unfortunately. Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has said that the UDF is led by x, y and z (three Muslim names), in a way to create worry among the Hindus. This was an attempt to score over the UDF that has vowed to enact a law for protecting the traditions at Sabarimala, to win over conservative Hindus, as if Islamophobia pays,” the letter stated. The allegation was apparently an allusion to Balakrishnan’s statement in October 2020 accusing the Congress of surrendering its leadership to the Congress’s M.M. Hassan, IUML leader P.K. Kunhalikutty and Jamaat-e-Islami leader M.I. Abdul Aziz. “Earlier the UDF was led by the Kunhalikutty-K.M. Mani-Oommen Chandy triumvirate. But it’s now led by Hassan, Kunhalikutty and Aziz,” Balakrishnan had said. The letter recalled how then chief minister and CPM veteran V.S. Achuthanandan had in 2010 accused the Popular Front of India, another Muslim Right-wing group, of using “money and marriages to make Kerala a Muslim-majority state”. “Our concern is about the possible destruction of the social fabric of Kerala, the land that lives the values of our ancient Dravidian King Mahabali. The new social engineering the CPM is doing in Kerala is, strangely, analogous to the reactionary politics of the vimochana samaram of the past where the orthodoxies of various religions caused immense social disruption in their effort to overthrow a democratically elected Left government,” the letter said. While Mahabali is a mythical Dravidian king who ruled Kerala and was sent to the netherworld by Vamana, an avatar of Lord Vishnu, “vimochana samaram” was an anti-communist backlash that played out against the party’s first elected government in Kerala during 1958-59.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Many feel fundamental science is a criminal luxury: Bikash Sinha||Science has taken the backseat in present-day India. A scientific temper and attitude is sorely missing in today’s India devoted to religiosity. But this was not so in the past. Eminent scientist, Prof. Bikash Sinha, traces this decline in a land where ritual and religion are growing more popular everyday, in this dialogue with the author. Q: The last budget ignored science totally. In fact, there has been a steady decline of interest and research in the sphere of pure science after the BJP came to power. Can you please detail this decline? Sinha: The fact that the last budget did not mention anything about science clearly indicates the very low priority this government attaches to science. I am not an economist, but it seems that the budget is “soft” in nature. That is, it doesn’t excite anyone nor does it make one overly pessimistic. Nothing can really excel in this monotonous status quo ambience. Q: But this was not so in the past. Think of the contribution of Nehru and… Sinha: Nehru needs to be regarded as the true commander of modern Indian science. India’s economic condition was poor during his days, we had a very meagre foreign exchange reserve. But still, Nehru went ahead almost heroically with major programmes in the areas of atomic energy, the Council of Science and Industrial Research (CSIR). He even helped to build grand research institutions of fundamental science with his trusted friend Homi Bhabha — for example, the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research. No one can dream even at present to set up such an institution. The indefatigable Bhabha also built the Atomic Energy Research establishment, whose design and planning were greatly influenced by the Versailles palace in France. Nehru and Bhabha together thought “big” and they created the unthinkable out of the thinkable, which brought India to the international stage. Even now, after so many years, these institutions are shining without any sign of obvious decay. The committed scientists of those days also set up a training school to groom possible leaders in the mould of Bhabha and (Vikram) Sarabhai. Brilliant youngsters were inspired to think originally, think boldly and out of the box. At present, our contemporary so-called leaders are just pushing the rusty old bandwagon. The upward swing was also palpable during the days of Indira Gandhi. If Nehru could be called the father of India’s atomic energy, Indira Gandhi could be acclaimed as the mother of India’s space programme. What a success in such a short timespan! Nehru and Indira were the architects of independent India’s science renaissance. From a superstitious India arose a new India determined by the scientific, rational temper. After this glorious phase we have experienced a steady decline. The direction of research changed radically and the men in power started invoking tirelessly what India had done in the ancient past. Prime Minister Morarji Desai even stressed that the waters of the Ganga were equivalent to hard water or as he called “heavy” water. And, almost at the same time, a large number of people who were god-fearing, mandir-going and obsessed with puja drove India backwards once again. Several changes of the government, in quick succession, didn’t allow any new idea to flourish. Rajiv Gandhi, a very modern and young Prime Minister, introduced radical measures. Most important, he managed to steer the outlook towards a modern and scientific dispensation from a moth-eaten Pauranic one. He guided the country to accept the computer as an irreplaceable device. He also recognised the significance of the new discoveries, for example, high temperature super conductivity and nano material. He was singularly responsible for bringing science to practical application and thereby modern technology was given the much-awaited push and drive. During Manmohan Singh’s time — for the first time in independent India — investment in science and technology went up from a meagre 1 per cent of the GDP to 2 per cent, an increase by 100 per cent. In the US this figure is more than 10 per cent and in South Korea more than 12 per cent, to cite just two examples. These comparable figures, more than anything else, attest to India’s structural indifference. Q: Prime Minister Narendra Modi is spending words and words on “atmanirbharta” or self-reliance. But can we achieve this cherished self-reliance without any notable progress in the area of fundamental science? We have to accept that rockets are just not enough. Sinha: I really don’t understand this concept of “atmanirbharta”. In the world that we inhabit, each country is “bootstrapped” with other countries, with some very strongly and with others not so strongly. It is also clear that our nirbharta has decreased substantially. We have left behind the Ambassador and are eyeing Mercedez assembled in Pune. But this is simply not enough. “Atmanirbharta” should not be a blind alley because we have to be extremely alert about new developments in fundamental science taking place in other countries so that we do not miss out on the fantastic spinoffs. We have already missed out on the great electronic revolution; even now we are not in a position to own 100 per cent indigenous computers and, I suspect, the same story is being repeated in the case of nano technology, high temperature superconductors and other horizons of frontier science. Is the present government aware of this deficiency and downslide? Grabbing land is not modern science, rockets will serve our purpose only in one area, but what about other areas which have remained distant from us? An over-emphasis on the debatable atmanirbharta could keep us away from the new frontiers. In other words, harping on “atmanirbharta” could increase the distance between crucial frontiers of science and our indigenous position. To give another example, the discovery of Higgs Boson has opened up a new world of physics, its technological fallout has enriched central Europe’s economy beyond any dream. This crucial point has never been understood in “Atmanirbhar” Bharat. Here we encounter almost a Brahminical, out-of-the-world respect for science and it spokesmen cry aloud, “Don’t destroy the purity of science.” I suspect that this is the disastrous influence of Vedantic philosophy. To be candid, India is hesitant, almost embarrassed to talk about fundamental science; many feel it is a criminal luxury. This is a terribly short-sighted and reactionary attitude. We have to realise in this context that technology without the driving force of fundamental science will stagnate in no time and turn irrelevant and redundant. If this happens, we have to revert back to the massive import of technology, and with this inescapable import, atmanirbharta will go down the drain. When will India wake up and cut through this vicious cycle? Q: What disturbs us most is that we do not have anyone to guide and lead, like Homi Bhaba or Vikram Sarabhai? Sinha: Decidedly, there is an acute shortage of leadership. Nowadays scientists spend more than half of their time on bureaucratic work. This should not be the state of affairs. Scientists are running from pillar to post and they gradually and surely get addicted to bureaucracy. The worst thing that is happening is that these scientist-bureaucrats are dead scared to think out of the box, lest they be ticked off as “irregular”. I myself have suffered from this stigma. One can’t deny that this is a sad and crippling situation. Fat pay packets have kept them at a distance from original research — they have turned smug and conspicuously introverted. This glaring scarcity of meaningful leadership has, in turn, made our scientific arena lifeless, monotonous and barren, almost devoid of any creative science. Q: Do you think that our increased devotion to religiosity is primarily responsible for this sorry state? Sinha: I fear that an overemphasis on rituals and religion has led partially to this casual indifference. Signs of superstitious religiosity are to be found everywhere at present. For example, a central minister attending the convocation at IIT Kharagpur invoked the past and claimed that the bridge to Sri Lanka built by the monkey (in the Ramayana) was an engineering marvel. Not only did the minister trumpet this “achievement”, he also sought a vocal endorsement from the audience consisting mainly of academics devoted to reason and science. Well, I think an overdose of Hindutva is responsible for this ludicrous claim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Notice to Imphal-based web portal under new rules||The power to administer the newly framed rules to regulate social and digital media has “not been delegated” to state governments, the Union information and broadcasting ministry has said after learning about a notice served to two editors of an Imphal-based news portal under the new regulations. Under the new rules notified on February 25, Imphal West district magistrate Naorem Praveen Singh had served notices to The Frontier Manipur’s (TFM) executive editor Paojel Chaoba and associate editor Kishorechandra Wangkhemcha at their homes in Imphal, the capital of Manipur, on Tuesday morning. The notices had allegedly served by armed policemen and dealt with a chat show whose topic centred around “a media under siege” and had discussed the new laws to regulate websites and video-streaming platforms. The two were asked to furnish all relevant documents “showing that you ensure compliance of the provisions of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, failing which steps as deemed fit shall be initiated without further notice”. The notice was withdrawn by the district magistrate around 6pm following the “intervention” of the information and broadcasting ministry on Tuesday. Union information and broadcasting secretary Amit Khare wrote a two-paragraph letter to Manipur chief secretary Rajesh Kumar in connection with the district magistrate’s letter to the publisher/intermediary of Khanasi Neinasi. Khanasi Neinasi (Let us discuss), is a weekend talk show hosted by The Frontier Manipur and deals with freedom of expression. Khare’s letter said that “Part III” of the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, framed under the Information Technology Act, 2000, “relating to news publishers and publishers of Online Curated Content (OTT) Platforms, including the Code of Ethics, the 3-Tier Grievance Redressal Mechanism and the requirement of furnishing of information and disclosure of information, are to be administered by the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting Government of India. These powers have not been delegated to the State Governments: District Magistrate/Police Commissioner.” Choaba and Wangkhemcha described the DM’s notice as “misuse of power” and an “attack on freedom of speech”. “Our notice would perhaps be the first to have been served to anyone in the country. The rules state that there should be at least a six-member grievance redress committee to address grievances of publishers. It is like putting the cart before the bullock here. They served the notice through armed policemen but we have nothing to worry as we have all the documents. Frontier Manipur was registered under the MSME Act in August 2020. The new rules will not affect us,” Choaba told The Telegraph on Wednesday. “Like in the last show we had discussed issues related to a media under siege and journalists walking a tightrope. Ironically, in this show we had ironically discussed the new IT laws governing social and digital media,” Chaoba said. So far the website has telecast four episodes on Facebook and YouTube, he said. Asked what would be their future course of action, Chaoba said they were planning to meet the DM on Thursday to know why the notice was served. “Above all, why should the notice be served through armed policemen? We are also consulting our lawyers for the future course of action,” he said. DM Singh could not be contacted despite several attempts. Reacting to the development, Manipur Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said the BJP-led state government’s “attempts to intimidate freedom of expression” is reflected in the letter of Khare, who has made it clear that a DM has no powers to ask for furnishing of information under the new rules. “There is no excuse in the eyes of justice for not knowing the law,” Meitei said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Kerala to turn houses into mini-solar plants||Before Govindan Satheeshan installed solar panels on the roof of his home in Kerala under a government scheme two years ago, the 70-year-old retiree was unsure. Would the panels produce enough electricity? Would they be too expensive? Would the system suffer technical glitches? But his hefty electricity bills, of up to Rs 15,000 every two months, motivated him to sign up  and today his bills have dropped close to zero. Satheeshan is so happy with the results he invited anyone uncertain about installing a home solar system to visit him in Thiruvananthapuram. “People are still doubtful about the feasibility of rooftop solar panels. If anyone is interested but sceptical, they are welcome to visit my home and I will clarify (the benefits),” he told  Reuters. Kerala now hopes to convince more residents to make the switch, launching a new solar rooftop programme in January aimed at curbing carbon emissions and cutting the state’s reliance on imported power.
The Soura (Sun) project aims to install solar panels on 75,000 homes, which will contribute 350 megawatts (MW) of power to the state’s grid. Combined with the 20,000 houses that already put in solar panels under an earlier initiative, the new Soura project will help Kerala cover about 10 per cent of its electricity needs through solar, according to the KSEB, the state’s electricity board. Despite Kerala’s solar innovations — from the world’s first solar airport to India’s largest floating solar power plant — the state has lagged behind much of the country in wider uptake of the renewable energy source. Kerala sits in the middle of a ranking of India’s 28 states in terms of installed solar capacity, according to data from the ministry of new and renewable energy. Soura offers a subsidy to encourage residents to sign up for the project and dispel the common belief that solar panels are only for the rich, explained A. Nasarudeen, a KSEB project leader. “We have streamlined this project, ensuring that ordinary people will benefit. Their houses will be mini-solar power stations. By exploring solar energy, they can be self-reliant in their electricity needs,” he said in an interview. Any surplus electricity the rooftop systems generate can be sold back to the KSEB at a rate of Rs 3 per kilowatt-hour. The project is part of the state’s plan to generate 1,000 MW — about a quarter of its electricity needs — from the sun by 2022. The KSEB figures show that about 30 per cent of the electricity Kerala uses is produced in the state, with the rest brought in from other states or the national grid at a cost of about Rs 80 billion per year. With more than 33 million residents, according to the latest census, Kerala is India’s third most densely populated state, leaving little available land to build large solar grids, explained Aneesh S. Prasad at the government’s Agency for New and Renewable Energy Research and Technology. So the government is looking to residents’ rooftops to tap into the sun’s energy, said the state programme manager. C. T. Ajith Kumar, an energy expert at the Integrated Rural Technology Centre, a research and development institution in Kerala, said the state’s focus on solar made both economic and environmental sense.
“For reducing carbon emissions, Kerala has no other option other than solar,” he said. “We can’t cut trees or destroy forest for the purpose of building new hydroelectric power stations. Thermal power stations would generate more emissions. But solar energy is absolutely pollution-free. We have to explore it.” On top of the estimated Rs 15 billion the Soura project will cost — paid by the MNRE, KSEB and solar panel producers that sign up — another Rs 5 billion will go toward a sub-scheme aimed at low-income consumers. Those eligible will have to pay only 12 per cent of the installation cost of their solar panels, said KSEB’s Nasarudeen. The homeowners get to use 25 per cent of the electricity they produce, with the rest going into the grid, he explained. Even if it overcomes the problem of affordability, the project faces other challenges, said Ambalamukku resident Jacob Varghese, 65, who had solar panels installed under the earlier rooftop scheme. He and other residents he knows had to wait a long time to get approval from the KSEB, visiting its offices many times. “Then, after installing the solar panels, getting the subsidy was the next staggering effort,” he said. “As a businessman, I had the patience and financial background to cope with the initial hiccups. But could ordinary people cope with them?" he asked. Nasarudeen said the KSEB was confident it could tackle those issues. By involving more installation companies, the government plans to bring the wait time for residents down to no more than seven days and have subsidies paid as soon as installation starts, he noted. Swapna Ebi Varkey, a 48-year-old housewife in Thiruvananthapuram who installed solar panels on her roof a few years ago, said she was keen for the government to succeed in its quest to get Kerala’s homes running on the sun. “Suppose every home in Kerala turned into a mini-rooftop solar power station. Then we could easily make the state clean and green,” 
she said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-295
04-03-2021||India||Caste data hole in first meet on census update||Preparations for the second Socio-Economic Caste Census have begun, but collection of caste-specific data was not discussed at a review meeting held in December, casting doubts over whether the information would be sought at all. An inter-ministerial committee has been formed with secretaries from the rural development, housing and urban affairs and social justice ministries and officials of the Niti Aayog to oversee the SECC update. A meeting of the committee was held in December 2020. “The first meeting discussed modalities of data collection and revisiting the deprivation points, inclusion and exclusion criteria. There was no discussion on collection of caste data,” a rural development ministry official said. The rural development ministry is the nodal agency for the revision. While the decadal population census collects data on the Scheduled Castes and Tribes, the last time data on other castes was collected and made public was in the 1931 census. That has been the basis for reservation policies since. Experts have stressed the need to update the data so as to understand the current status of representation of backward castes in education and government jobs and examine whether quota ceilings need to be revised. The UPA government had expanded the 2011-12 Below Poverty Line (BPL) census to cover caste-specific data, rechristening it Socio-Economic Caste Census. The data compilation was completed by 2013-end, months before the general election. In 2015, by which time the BJP government had come to power, the socio-economic information from the census was released but the caste data was held back. According to a media release issued by the Press Information Bureau (PIB) on July 16, 2015, the SECC enumeration had thrown up around 46 lakh castes, sub-castes, synonyms, surnames, clans and gothras. The Union cabinet in July 2015 set up a committee under then Niti Aayog vice-chairman Arvind Panagariya to classify the caste names collected in SECC 2011-12 with details of households. The committee has yet to give its report. SECC 2011-12 had collected socio-economic data such as assets of households, including telephone, motorcycle, land, pucca house and tax payment. It had gathered deprivation data such as the number of families who had one room kuchcha wall and kuchcha roof, households with no adult member or no literate adults and landless families. This information, not caste-specific formatted data, is being used by the government to decide on inclusion and exclusion of persons for welfare schemes. In 2018, then home minister Rajnath Singh announced that the decadal census of 2021-31 would collect caste data of OBCs. However, this promise seems to have been quietly buried because the census questionnaire does not have a caste column. Justice Vangala Eswaraiah, former acting chief justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court and ex-chairperson of the NCBC, questioned the reasons for not making caste data collected during SECC 2011-12 public. “Let us be very realistic and truthful. The BJP government had in 2018 announced an OBC census as part of the decadal census. But it retracted from the promise. There is a demand for a caste census across the country from all the leading groups representing backward classes. But unless there is a nationwide agitation, I do not see any prospects of a caste census,” Eswaraiah said. The Rohini Commission, which has been formed to suggest the categorisation of backward classes for the rational distribution of the 27 per cent OBC quota, cannot do justice to the job without caste data, Eswaraiah said. “Selective government job data and the national sample survey data cannot present the real status of the backward classes. Only a census will give scientific and reliable data for categorising the backward classes,” he added. An official of the ministry of social justice, which is part of the SECC revision, said: “The caste data of backward classes can be collected when the SECC is updated. Data can be captured under caste names maintained in the central OBC list of the National Commission of Backward Classes (NCBC) and the state OBC lists,” the official said. Nearly 2,600 castes have been listed under the central OBC list, while another 1,000-odd castes have been listed under the state OBC lists. G. Karunanidhy, secretary of the All India Federation of OBCs, and Hansaraj Jangra, president of the OBC Joint Action Committee, said they were doubtful about the enumeration of caste data in the latest edition of the SECC. “There is an upper caste lobby against the equal representation of OBCs in jobs and education. We feel this lobby does not allow the caste census to be conducted. They will continue to block a caste census,” Karunanidhy said. He said data should be collected on all castes, including the dominant ones. The new 10 per cent quota for economically weaker sections was introduced without any hard socio-economic data on the upper caste poor, he said. Karunanidhy said each state had its own list of OBCs, which also covered the castes enumerated in the central list. OBC caste data can be collected under the caste heads, he suggested. “It is not at all difficult. The enumerators will be given the OBC caste list of the areas they are visiting. While collecting the data, the enumerators can also collect the caste data and enter the names of households under specific castes,” Karunanidhy said. Jangra said National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) information was only a sample and real caste data could be collected only through a census.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||12-year-old murdered, dumped in pit in Uttar Pradesh||A 22-year-old man was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly killing a minor girl after a failed rape attempt, police said, adding that the victim’s body was exhumed from his house in Uttar  Pradesh’s Bulandshahr.
The accused, identified as Harendra, was arrested from Shimla. The body of the 12-year-old girl was exhumed from a pit in his house on Tuesday, days after it was buried. The girl was reported missing from her home in Bulandshahr district on February 25. An FIR was lodged on February 28 on the basis of the complaint of her father, a labourer, the police said. “In his complaint, the girl’s father had said he suspected (Harendra). The body had been buried in a pit in the courtyard of the accused’s house and has been exhumed. He killed her and buried the body,” Bulandshahr senior superintendent of police Santosh Kumar Singh said. According to the police, the accused lived alone in the house. The family is known to him and the girl would sometimes visit his house to drink water. “On the day of the incident, when she went to his house to drink water, the accused confessed that he was inebriated. He tried to rape the girl but she started screaming and he choked her to death,” Singh said, adding the accused had absconded after the incident. “We were on a lookout for him. Today, around 7.30am, he was tracked and arrested from Shimla,” the officer said. The accused told the police that he worked as a labourer in Delhi and had come home in Bulandshahr, three days prior to the incident.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Mirwaiz Umar Farooq set to be released from house arrest||Separatist dove Mirwaiz Umar Farooq’s likely release from a 20-month-long house arrest before Friday gave a fresh hope to the Valley’s embattled politicians of a renewed engagement between India and Pakistan after years of troubled relations. Official sources said the Mirwaiz, who is under detention at his Nageen residence since the 2019 scrapping of Article 370 provisions, was likely to be released soon and might be allowed to offer Friday prayers at Srinagar’s Jamia Masjid this week. The Mirwaiz is Kashmir’s chief priest. The government has been in denial that any person is under house arrest in Kashmir, which has been contested by several politicians in court. The reports of his likely release have come days after the directors-general of military operations of India and Pakistan agreed to respect the ceasefire at the Line of Control. The Mirwaiz, unlike his hardline separatist rival Syed Ali Shah Geelani, had welcomed the decision of the two armies and said it was a move in the right direction. Mirwaiz’s aide Syed-ur-Rahman Shams said they had heard about media reports that he might be released but nothing had been conveyed to them officially. “Mirwaiz sahab made no effort to walk out of his home today but he might step out on Friday to offer prayers at Jamia Masjid. As of today, a security vehicle, which has been at his gate for months now, remained parked,” Shams told The Telegraph. Valley politicians welcomed the “release” and linked it to the fresh Indo-Pak thaw. Former chief minister Omar Abdullah said “changed understanding of both the neighbouring countries with respect to Jammu and Kashmir will act as forerunner of peace and prosperity in the region”. Omar said the “evolving situation has made it pretty clear that the outlook of both the countries has undergone a big change and has been replaced with a policy of peaceful engagement”. Peoples’ Democratic Party president Mehbooba Mufti “welcomed” the release of the Mirwaiz, referring to some media reports. “Good to hear about Mirwaiz’s release from arbitrary detention. I hope that hundreds of Kashmiri men languishing in jails in & outside J&K will also be released soon. Its time they returned home to their families,” she tweeted. The Mutahida Majlis Ulama, a body of Islamic clerics that is headed by the Mirwaiz, in a statement referred to reports of his likely release and asked the government to honour it. The council on Wednesday held a meeting in Srinagar where representatives of social and educational institutions joined them to press for the Mirwaiz’ release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Karnataka minister quits over sex-for-job scandal||Karnataka water resources minister Ramesh Jarkiholi resigned from the cabinet on Wednesday, a day after being caught in a sex-for-job scandal. Ramesh sent his resignation letter to chief minister B.S. Yediyurappa who promptly accepted it and forwarded it to the state governor. The resignation was expected as the BJP was caught in an embarrassing position with the budget session of the state legislature set to begin on Thursday. Ramesh, 60, landed in the controversy after intimate video clips of him with an unidentified jobseeker from north Karnataka were released to the media by social worker Dinesh Kallahalli on Tuesday. Kallahalli had also lodged a police complaint claiming that the minister allegedly lured the family of the woman by promising her a job in the Karnataka Power Transmission Corporation Limited. Ramesh on Tuesday had told a Kannada channel that he had no idea about the video clips and called it fake. But with pressure mounting even within the BJP for his scalp, he sent his younger brother and BJP MLA Balachandra Jarkiholi to meet Yediyurappa seeking a CBI or CID probe into the video. But, party sources said, the chief minister urged Balachandra to ask his brother to resign immediately and avoid further embarrassment ahead of the budget session. In his brief letter in Kannada, Ramesh promised to prove his innocence. “The allegations against me are far from truth. A probe should be ordered soon. I am tendering my resignation on moral grounds although I am sure of proving my innocence,” the letter said. Ramesh, a former Congress lawmaker, was partly instrumental in the collapse of that party’s coalition government with the Janata Dal Secular in 2019. He led a rebellion that saw 17 coalition lawmakers resigning en masse and joining the BJP. Most of the turncoats were eventually inducted into the cabinet as a reward for bringing BJP back to power. Ramesh was appointed minister in February 2020. He is the eldest of the five Jarkiholi brothers, the others being state Congress working president Satish, BJP leaders Balachandra and Bhimashi, and Lakhan who is with the Congress. The Opposition Congress came down heavily on Ramesh and the BJP over the scandal. Leader of the Opposition P.C. Siddaramiah demanded an investigation into the incident. “The government should not just accept his resignation, but also file an FIR and investigate him,” he told reporters. AICC spokesperson Brijesh Kalappa told reporters that his continuance in the ministry had become untenable after such a serious issue. He said the victim ousted the video clips after Ramesh failed to keep his promise of a job. “The videos were released when he failed to keep his promise,” he said, alluding to the development. Kalappa also pointed out how Ramesh is heard speaking ill of Yediyurappa in one of the video clips. “He is heard saying Yediyurappa is corrupt in one of the videos. Imagine speaking badly of his own chief minister.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
04-03-2021||India||Fire breaks out in Similipal tiger reserve||A devastating fire has broken out in the Similipal tiger reserve and its periphery areas, the second-largest biosphere of Asia, prompting the Odisha government to deploy nearly 1,000 people in different parts of the sanctuary spread across 2,750sqkm. Though the core area of the tiger reserve is located in Mayurbhanj district, its periphery areas touch another two districts — Balasore and Keonjhar. The Centre has sought a detailed report on the fire following widespread concern. The incident came to light after Ashita M. Bhanj Deo, popularly known as the princess of Mayurbhanj, raised the issue and tweeted, “Mayurbhanj had devastating forest fire this past week, a week ago close to 50kg of ivory was found, a few months ago local youth reported on sand-timber mafia in Similipal, Apart from a few state media, no national media is covering Asia’s second-largest biosphere burning.” The fire has devoured a few of the 21 ranges in the Similipal forest division. However, local forest officials maintained that the fire was under control and not a single animal death had been reported. The Centre ordered a detailed report after Union petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan raised the issue. “I have ordered officers to take immediate action and report it to me,” tweeted Union minister of environment, forest and climate change Prakash Javadekar. Deputy director of Similipal Tiger Reserve, J.D. Pati, told The Telegraph: “The fire is yet to reach the core area of the forest. Flames have been spotted in the periphery areas of the sanctuary. Nearly 1,000 personnel, including fire officials, have been engaged to douse the fire. As many as 242 fire extinguishing blowers and 40 vehicles have been deployed.” On the reason behind the fire, Pati said, “A heat wave is on and the temperature is seven degrees above normal. The mercury hovers at 40°C. There are many reasons behind the fire. But we are on a constant vigil. So far, not a single casualty of wild animals has been reported.” The sanctuary is home to 55 important animal species, including tigers and elephants. The tiger reserve has 21 tigers, including six melanistic ones. “All the animals are safe. With the help of local people we are doing our bit to control the fire,” said Pati. The local residents pointed out that there had been a massive loss of the trees, particularly the rare medicinal plants. Many people suspect the mafia of having started the fire to poach wild animals and collect mahua. “The fire is visible even from a distance of 40km. It appears like a ball of fire in the evening. The fire has already spread to areas such as Thakurmunda, Morada, Jashipur and other parts of the district. Last year, the forest officials had failed to conduct the mandatory cleaning of the forest. Their laxity has resulted in the breakout of the fire. It’s almost difficult to drive on NH-16 passing through the district,” said a senior scribe of a leading vernacular newspaper of the state from Baripada, the headquarters of Mayurbhanj district. Union minister Pratap Sarangi tweeted: “Similipal is burning and it’s not a good sign for Asia. Mayurbhanj needs national and international attention as its cause is genuine. Sad, not any leading national media is covering the story of Similipal since fire breaks out a week ago.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-296
