05-03-2021||India||Report downgrading India’s status as ‘partly free’ misleading, incorrect, says Centre||The government on Friday rejected a Freedom House report downgrading India's status to a "partly free" country as "misleading, incorrect and misplaced", and said it treats all citizens equally without discrimination and asserted that discussion, debate and dissent are part of Indian democracy. "The Freedom House report, titled 'Democracy Under Siege', in which it has been claimed that India's status as a free country has declined to 'partly free' is misleading, incorrect and misplaced, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting said in a statement. The report by the US-based organisation had claimed that the decline in India's status was "due to a multiyear pattern in which the Hindu nationalist government and its allies have presided over rising violence and discriminatory policies affecting the Muslim population and pursued a crackdown on expressions of dissent by the media, academics, civil society groups, and protesters. Responding to the findings, the ministry said, "Government of India treats all its citizens with equality as enshrined under the Constitution of the country and all laws are applied without discrimination. Due process of law is followed in matters relating to law and order, irrespective of the identity of the alleged instigator. "With specific reference to the North East Delhi riots in January 2019, the law enforcement machinery acted swiftly in an impartial and fair manner. Proportionate and appropriate actions were taken to control the situation. Necessary legal and preventive actions were taken by the law enforcement machinery on all complaints/calls received, as per law and procedures, the ministry said. The government also rebutted the allegation in the report that the Covid-19-induced lockdown "left millions of migrant workers in cities without work or basic resources" and "resulted in the dangerous and unplanned displacement of millions of internal migrant workers". The government said that the lockdown was announced to control the spread of the coronavirus and the period allowed the government to ramp up production capacity of masks, ventilators, personal protection equipment (PPE) kits, etc. and thereby effectively prevent the spread of the pandemic. India has, on a per capita basis, registered one of the lowest rates of active Covid-19 cases and Covid-19 related deaths globally.  Denying the report's claims that academics and journalists were intimidated, the government said, “Discussion, debate and dissent is part of Indian democracy. The Government of India attaches highest importance to the safety and security of all residents of the country, including journalists. The Government of India has issued a special advisory to States and Union Territories on safety of journalists requesting them to strictly enforce the law to ensure safety and security of media persons”. The report has claimed that though the private media are vigorous and diverse, investigations and scrutiny of politicians do occur, but attacks on press freedom have escalated dramatically under the Modi government, and reporting has become significantly less ambitious in recent years. Authorities have used security, defamation, sedition, and hate speech laws, as well as contempt-of-court charges, to quiet critical voices in the media. Denying this, the government said that 'Public Order' and 'Police' are State subjects under India's federal structure of governance. The responsibility of maintaining law and order, including investigation, registration and prosecution of crimes, protection of life and property, etc., rests primarily with the concerned State governments. Therefore, measures as deemed fit are taken by law enforcement authorities to preserve public order, it said. The report has also alleged that a wide variety of NGOs operate, but some, particularly those involved in the investigation of human rights abuses, continue to face threats, legal harassment, excessive police force, and occasionally lethal violence. Rebutting this, the government said the Indian Constitution provides for adequate safeguards under various statutes, including the Protection of Human Rights Act 1993 for ensuring protection of human rights. On the report's claim that the authorities used assembly bans, internet blackouts, and live ammunition between December 2019 and March 2020 to quell widespread protests against the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) and proposals to roll out a citizens' registration process across the country, the government said, "...the temporary suspension of telecom/internet services is resorted to with the overarching objective of maintaining law and order under strict safeguards." Lastly, the government rebutted the claim that the Foreign Contributions Regulation Act (FCRA) amendment led to freezing of NGO Amnesty International's assets, and said the NGO had received permission under the FCRA Act only once and that too 20 years ago (December 19, 2000). Since then Amnesty International, despite its repeated applications, has been denied FCRA approval by successive governments since as per law it is not eligible to get such an approval. However, in order to circumvent the FCRA regulations, Amnesty U.K. remitted large amounts of money to four entities registered in India, by misclassifying the remittance as Foreign Direct Investment (FDI), the government said. This malafide rerouting of money was in contravention of extant legal provisions," it said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||CBSE releases revised board exam date sheet for few subjects||The Central Board of Secondary Education on Friday issued a revised board exam date sheet for a few subjects, including mathematics, commerce and physics, for classes 10 and 12. For class 10, the science exam has been deferred to May 21. Earlier, it was scheduled for May 15. The mathematics exam which was scheduled for May 21, will now be held on June 2, according to the latest date sheet. The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) said that for class 12-science stream, the May 13 physics exam will now be held on June 8. Exams for mathematics and applied mathematics, which were earlier scheduled for June 1, will now be conducted on May 31 for class 12 science and commerce streams, it said in the revised date sheet. The board has revised the date for the June 2 geography exam of the arts stream and it will now be held on June 3. The exams for classes 10 and 12 will begin from May 4 and conclude on June 10. Usually, practical exams are conducted in January and written exams begin in February and conclude in March. However, the exams are delayed in this session due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Schools across the country were closed in March last year to contain the spread of Covid-19. They were partially reopened in some states from October 15. The board exams last year had to be postponed mid-way in March. They were later cancelled and the results announced on the basis of an alternative assessment scheme.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Owner of car which caused bomb scare near Ambani's house found dead||Hiren Mansukh, owner of the vehicle with explosives which had been found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence last week, was found dead in a creek in neighboring Thane on Friday, police said. Mansukh, around 45 years old, had gone missing on Thursday night. The body was found on the banks of the creek along the Mumbra Reti Bunder road, a senior official of Thane Police said. Mansukh's Scorpio with gelatin sticks inside was found near `Antilia', Ambani's multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Crime Branch of Mumbai police had recorded Mansukh's statement in the case. Mansukh, who was in vehicle spare parts business, had said he had lodged a police complaint after the SUV was stolen. On Friday afternoon his family members approached Naupada Police Station in Thane saying he had gone missing. Speaking to reporters in Mumbai, Leader of Opposition in the Maharashtra Legislative Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the death of aprime witness showed that something was fishy. "I reiterate the demand that the case be handed over to the NIA," the BJP leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Modi roots for deepening ties with Sweden in several sectors||India and Sweden can deepen their partnership in several sectors, including smart cities, e-mobility, smart grids and waste management, as also on key priority areas like the important issue of climate change, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Friday. In his opening remarks at a virtual summit with Swedish premier Stefan Lofven, Modi said, "We can further our relationship in innovation, technology, investment, start-ups and research." The prime minister said shared values such as democracy, human rights, rule of law, equality, freedom and justice strengthen the relations and mutual cooperation between India and Sweden. "Smart cities, water treatment, waste management, circular economy, smart grids, e-mobility, digital transformation and several other sectors have potential where we can deepen our partnership," he added. The prime minister also expressed solidarity with the people of Sweden on behalf of all Indian citizens for the recent violent attacks in Sweden and wished for a speedy recovery of those injured. He also expressed condolences for the loss of lives in Sweden due to Covid-19. Modi further said the important issue of climate change is a priority for both the countries and the two can work together on this. "India's culture has always stressed the importance of living in harmony with nature. we are moving ahead on our commitments made under the Paris Agreement. "We will not just achieve these targets, but even exceed them. Amongst G20 countries, India has progressed well on its targets. In the last five years, our renewable power capacity has increased by 162 per cent," he said. Modi said India provided medicines and other essential items to more than 150 countries while the world was fighting the Covid-19 pandemic. "Till now, we have delivered Made-in-India vaccines to nearly 50 countries across the globe and in the next few days, we are committed to delivering it to several more," he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Arnab exempted from appearing in court in suicide abetment case||The Bombay High Court on Friday granted interim exemption to TV journalist Arnab Goswami from appearing before a magistrates court at Alibaug in adjoining Raigad district in connection with an abetment to suicide case. The relief has been granted till April 16. Goswami, the Republic TV Editor-in-Chief, and two others are accused of abetting the suicide of Alibaug-based interior designer Anvay Naik, who killed himself in 2018 over alleged non-payment of dues by the companies of the accused. They were arrested on November 4, 2020. The accused failed to get relief from the HC after which they approached the Supreme Court which granted them bail on November 11. On Friday, Goswamis advocate Sanjog Parab told a division bench of Justices S S Shinde and Manish Pitale his client has been directed to appear before the Chief Judicial Magistrate at Alibaug, a coastal town 100km from Mumbai, on March 10 for committal of the trial in the case to a sessions court. The HC was hearing a petition filed by Goswami challenging the FIR lodged against him by the Raigad police in the case and the subsequent chargesheet submitted in the local court. The 47-year-old journalist, who has denied charges levelled against him in the case, has sought the HC to quash the FIR. Parab sought the HC to grant Goswami exemption from appearance in the local court. Since we are seized of the matter, we grant the petitioner (Goswami) protection with regard to exemption from appearance till April 16 when we will hear the plea further, the court said in its order.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Govt: Overseas Citizens of India need permission to hold ‘Tabligh’, press activities||All Overseas Citizen of India (OCI) cardholders will henceforth be required to take a special permission from the central government if they want to be involved in any missionary or 'Tabligh' or journalistic activities in the country. However, the Union Home Ministry has given a major concession to OCI cardholders by allowing them parity with Indian nationals in the matter of tariffs in air fares in domestic sectors, entry fees for visiting national parks, national monuments and museums in India. The ministry, in a notification issued on Thursday night, said the OCI cardholders will be entitled to get multiple entry lifelong visa for visiting India for any purpose but "required to obtain a special permission or a special permit from the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer or the Indian Mission to undertake research and to undertake any missionary or Tabligh or mountaineering or journalistic activities". The OCI cardholders will also have to take a special permit to undertake internship in any foreign diplomatic missions or foreign government organisations in India or to take up employment in any foreign diplomatic missions in India or to visit any place which falls within the protected or restricted or prohibited areas as notified by the central government or competent authority. In March 2020, when the nationwide lockdown was in force following the coronavirus outbreak, over 2,500 Tablighi Jamaat members found to be residing at the organisation's headquarters in Delhi despite guidelines and orders issued against large congregations of people. As many as 233 foreign Tablighi workers were arrested for violations of visa rules and many of them were blacklisted, putting a ban on their future visit to India. Tablighi Jamaat workers, both foreigners as well Indians, indulge in preaching tours across the country also known as 'Chilla' in which a volunteer of the organisation travels for 120 days to various parts of the country and stay in local mosques where they inform the neighbourhood people about their activities besides holding special prayers. The Home Ministry said the OCI cardholders will now be exempted from registration with the Foreigners Regional Registration Officer (FRRO) or Foreigners Registration Officer (FRO) for any length of stay in India, but they have to inform the FRRO or FRO concerned whenever there is a change in permanent residential address and in their occupation. The OCI cardholders will now enjoy parity with Indian nationals in the matter of tariffs in air fares in domestic sectors in India, entry fees to be charged for visiting national parks, wildlife sanctuaries, the national monuments, historical sites and museums in India. An OCI cardholder is a foreign national holding a passport of a foreign country and is not a citizen of India. They will also get parity with Non-Resident Indians in the matter of inter-country adoption of Indian children subject to the compliance of the procedure as laid down by the competent authority, appearing for the all India entrance tests such as National Eligibility cum Entrance Test, Joint Entrance Examination (Mains), or other such tests to make them eligible for admission only against any Non-Resident Indian seat or any supernumerary seat, provided that the OCI cardholder shall not be eligible for admission against any seat reserved exclusively for Indian citizens, the notification read. The OCI cardholders will get parity in purchase or sale of immovable properties other than agricultural land or farm house or plantation property and pursuing professions like doctors, dentists, nurses and pharmacists in India as per the provisions contained in the applicable relevant statutes or laws.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||SC relief to Amazon head as Centre has no ‘power to prosecute’||The Supreme Court Friday said the Centre's guidelines on regulating social media do not have any provision for taking appropriate action against digital platforms showing inappropriate content. It also granted protection from arrest to Amazon Prime Video's India head Aparna Purohit in FIRs lodged over web series Tandav. A bench comprising justices Ashok Bhushan and R S Reddy also issued notice to the Uttar Pradesh government on Purohit's plea for anticipatory bail in FIRs on Tandav series. The apex court observed that the Centre's regulations on social media are mere guidelines and do not have provision for any action against digital platforms. "There is no mechanism to control social media platforms. Without legislation you (government ) cannot control it,” the apex court said, as quoted by NDTV. "We have gone through your rules and it does not have any teeth. No power for prosecution. No mechanism to control violations," Justice Ashok Bhushan said while going through the guidelines. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre, said the Government will consider appropriate steps and any regulation or legislation on it will be placed before court. The court also directed Purohit to make Centre as a party to her plea. On Thursday, the SC said that some OTT platforms were screening pornography and backed monitoring of content, asking the government to place before it within a day the recent rules regulating such video-streaming services. “Mr Mehta, please submit the regulations on OTT platforms. We are of the view that there should be some screening of OTT content. At times, they are showing pornography too. We are of the view that some screening should take place. In fact some platforms even show pornography,” Justice Bhushan told Mehta, appearing for the Centre, while hearing Purohit’s plea. Purohit has moved the apex court against an Allahabad High Court order dated February 25 rejecting her anticipatory bail plea as she feared arrest by Uttar Pradesh police over multiple FIRs registered against her and some of the principal actors of the series for hurting religious sentiments. Tandav is a nine-episode political thriller starring Bollywood A-listers Saif Ali Khan, Dimple Kapadia and Mohd Zeeshan Ayyub. Purohit has been accused of inappropriate depiction of Uttar Pradesh police personnel, Hindu deities and an adverse portrayal of a character playing the prime minister in the web series.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||NCB files chargesheet in drugs case related to Sushant death||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Friday filed a charge-sheet before a special court here in its drugs angle case related to the death of Bollywood actor Sushant Singh Rajput last year. The over 12,000-page charge-sheet has named 33 accused, including actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik. The voluminous document has statements of over 200 witnesses. The NCB began probing the alleged use of drugs in some quarters in Bollywood after the death of Rajput (34) in June last year. The central agency started its probe on the basis of some WhatsApp chats having reference to drugs. The NCB had arrested Rhea Chakraborty, her brother Showik, some staff members of Rajput and a few others under various sections of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act. Rhea Chakraborty, Showik and some other accused are currently out on bail.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Almost 17,000 fresh Covid cases, 113 casualties in a day||India's Covid-19 tally has climbed to 1,11,73,761 with 16,838 fresh cases reported in a day, while the number of patients who have recuperated from the disease has surged to 1,08,39,894, the Union health ministry said on Friday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,57,548 in the country with 113 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. The number of active COVID-19 cases has increased to 1,76,319, accounting for 1.58 per cent of the total caseload, according to the data. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,08,39,894, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 97.01 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 21,99,40,742 samples have so far been tested for the viral disease in the country, including 7,61,834 on Thursday. The 113 new fatalities include 60 from Maharashtra, 15 from Punjab and 14 from Kerala. Of the total 1,57,548 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for 52,340, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,508), Karnataka (12,350), Delhi (10,915), West Bengal (10,273), Uttar Pradesh (8,729) and Andhra Pradesh (7,171). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the COVID-19 deaths in the country occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||Platform ticket prices raised from Rs 10 to Rs 30||The Indian Railways on Friday announced a fare hike for platform ticket across its network in a bid to prevent unnecessary overcrowding at stations amid the ongoing pandemic. A fresh notification by the railways stated that the platform ticket price has been increased from Rs 10 to Rs 30. Along with this, the local fare has also been increased by the railways. The Ministry of Railways in a statement termed the hike as a 'temporary measure' taken keeping the safety of passengers in mind. "It is a temporary measure and field activity undertaken by the railway administration in the interest of the safety of passengers and to prevent overcrowding at stations," the Ministry said in a statement. "Deterring more persons to visit the station, the platform ticket charges are increased from time to time after assessing the ground situation. The power to change charges of platform tickets has been delegated to DRMs due to field management requirements," it added. The Ministry said the measure is in practice for many years and is used occasionally as a short-term crowd control measure and "there is nothing new about it." In February, the Railways had announced the "slight hike" in the ticket fares of short-distance passenger trains to discourage people from unnecessary travel. Earlier, the railways had announced fare hike excluding suburban trains, effective from January 1 this year. While suburban fares remain unchanged, ordinary non-AC, non-suburban fares were increased by 1 paise per km of journey. The railways had then announced a two paise/km hike in fares of mail/express non-AC trains and four paise/km hike in the fares of AC classes.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-292
05-03-2021||India||What drives a Twitter storm like #ModiJobDo||The struggle of Ajeet Sonkar from Allahabad offers an insight into why over 5 million youths last week stormed Twitter with the hashtag “Modi job do (Modi, give us jobs)”. Sonkar, who has cleared the combined graduate level (CGL) examination of 2019 after three unsuccessful attempts, has not made it to the merit list although he has got more than the cut-off marks. The CGL examination is conducted by the Staff Selection Commission (SSC) to select employees for various central government ministries and departments. Sonkar has another grouse: after the past two editions of the exam, it had taken close to two years to declare the results from the date of the publication of advertisements for recruitment. Taking the exam since 2016, Sonkar said that earlier, it took around 15 months for the completion of the process. With rising unemployment amid shrinking job opportunities in the private sector, the quest for government jobs among the unemployed has assumed more urgency. Sonkar said candidates often had to cough up money to challenge wrong questions in the CGL exams. The fee to challenge every wrong question is Rs 100. “It has become a money-spinning machine for the SSC, which is a government organisation. The delay in the conduct of exams and the frequent wrong questions forced millions of candidates to vent their anger on social media,” Sonkar said. According to him, the delays started in 2017, when candidates had complained about a paper leak. No action was taken despite protests. The results were delayed by two years. Similar delays were witnessed in the CGL exams of 2018 and 2019, Sonkar said. The exams are held over three legs — preliminary, main and essay writing. Sonkar alleged that although he cleared the 2019 exam cut-off, his name didnot appear on the merit list. He said hundreds of othercandidates had met the same fate. When Sonkar went to enquire at the SSC office in Allahabad, he was advised to approach the Delhi office. Nearly 35 lakh candidates apply every year for 10,000 posts of junior statistical officers, assistant audit officers and similar posts in the central government where candidates are selected through the CGL exams. General and OBC candidates have to pay Rs 100 each to appear for the exams while SC and ST candidates are exempt from paying the fee. Nearly 1 lakh students challenge wrong questions every year, Sonkar said. Sonkar also appeared for the non-technical popular category (NTPC) posts under the Indian Railways in early 2019. The exam was held only last month and the results are awaited. “I am staying on rent in Allahabad to prepare for the test. The results are being delayed and exams are held in an opaque manner. So we started the social media campaign,” he said. On February 25, the “Modi job do” campaign had trended on Twitter, with over 5 million users tweeting with the hashtag. Phone calls from this newspaper to the office of the SSC chairperson went unanswered. An email was sent to the department of personnel and training — the administrative ministry for the SSC — asking about the concerns of candidates, but there was no reply. D.J. Narain, an Indian Railways spokesperson, said the exams were being conducted over the past two months. “It is a massive exercise. Because of Covid protocols, the examinations could not be held (on time). Also, many posts are linked to prospective vacancies. But the candidates should be assured that now the results will come out on time and those successful will join the Indian Railways,” he said. “More than 1 crore candidates have taken the NTPC exam and 40,000 ALPs (assistant loco pilots) have been issued joining letters. Training is going on. Speculation should be avoided,” Narain added. There have been delays in state government recruitments as well. The Uttar Pradesh Public Service Commission had advertised 200 posts of assistant professors for government colleges in 2017. The screening exam was held two years later and interviews are being conducted since January 2020 in phases. The commission has recommended to the higher education department the final names for some candidates who have been selected after interviews but no appointments have been made. “The state government is sitting on the recommendations,” said a candidate who has been selected. Avinash Kumar, assistant professor at the Centre for Labour Studies at Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU), said that out of over 100 million regular employment opportunities in 2018, the share of public employment had fallen to below 20 per cent. Government jobs are decreasing year after year yet they remain popular among youths because of security. Studies have shown that job growth had declined steadily between 2011 and 2018 compared to the previous seven years. “The government is to a large extent responsible for this situation because of its neglect in providing public services and ill-conceived policy shocks. When the government itself is sitting over its recruitments for years, it is amplifying the anger of youths,” Kumar said. He described demonetisation as a major policy shock that was based on the flawed claim that people had hoarded black money in cash. “This government promised 2 crore jobs a year while it has no concrete plan on how to fulfil it. On top of it, this government’s political philosophy is based on creating fear among citizens and universalising shock. The result is that the level of confidence among potential job creators has been shaken. The government should have built confidence among all sections of society but it did the opposite,” Kumar said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Shiv Kumar bailed, taken to hospital for medical attention||Trade unionist Shiv Kumar, who suffered grievous injuries in alleged torture while in Haryana police’s custody, was released on bail on Thursday and soon afterwards, was driven to a hospital for medical attention for trauma. Kumar, 24, is the president of the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan and is under trial with Nodeep Kaur, another trade unionist, for three FIRs alleging extortion and attempt to murder during a protest over erratic wage payment at an industrial cluster near Delhi. A member of the Haryana student group, Chhatra Ekta Manch, told this newspaper in the evening that Kumar was showing signs of trauma although he appeared cheerful immediately after his release from jail. The Chhatra Ekta Manch member said: “We are taking him to the Government Medical College and Hospital, Chandigarh, where doctors had earlier examined him. He is in bad shape and is not conversing normally.” It’s a four-hour drive from Sonipat, where Kumar was jailed, to Chandigarh. Kumar’s medical report had recorded signs of post-traumatic stress disorder in addition to physical trauma. The psychological symptoms included “crying spells”, anxiety, “flashbacks of brutality meted out to him” and sleep disorders. Kumar claims he had been behind bars since January 16 after he was picked up from near the Singhu protest site of farmers opposing the new farm laws. Kumar and Kaur had been active in the farmers’ protest at the Singhu border before their arrest. Kumar, the son of landless Dalits in Sonipat district, was received outside the jail by Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa of the Shiromani Akali Dal. The committee has been paying for lawyers and bails for all activists involved with the farmers’ agitation who are facing prosecution. Last month, a medical report of Kumar recorded two fractures on his hand and foot and broken nail beds on his toe caused by a “blunt object”. On Wednesday, he was granted bail in two cases of extortion. On Thursday, he was given relief in a case of attempt to murder and other charges filed for the January 12 clash at the Kundli Industrial Area where Kumar says he was not present. Sonipat sessions judge Yashvir Singh Rathor granted bail on a personal bond and surety of Rs 1 lakh each on grounds of parity as Kaur had already been granted bail in the case by Punjab and Haryana High Court. The police had claimed that seven of their personnel were injured when they tried to “mediate” between the Majdoor Adhikar Sangathan and staff of a factory. Kaur had said that workers had attacked the police to save her when cops dragged her by her hair.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Either scrap the farm laws or adopt my compromise formula: Swamy||BJP Rajya Sabha MP Subramanian Swamy on Thursday urged the Centre to either scrap the farm laws or adopt his three-point compromise formula to break the prolonged deadlock. “At the present, with the declining economy, China grabbing our land and the government mentally not ready for a war, and also elections to fight in the states, I suggest that the government either adopt my compromise three-point solution to the farmers agitation, or scrap the Act,’’ Swamy tweeted. The MP’s remarks about China grabbing Indian land and the economy’s condition run contrary to the government’s narrative. Led by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, the government has been maintaining since last summer that China has not entered or occupied Indian territory.Swamy’s farm formula involves limiting the laws to states that opt for them in writing; a clear statement that every state will be eligible for minimum support price in perpetuity; and allowing foodgrains to be purchased by only those who have no major business or commercial interests other than in agricultural trade. The MP had added that he was personally in favour of the reforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Attacks on judiciary could invite contempt of court: Bar Council of India||The Bar Council of India on Thursday deprecated what it called the rising trend of politicians and activists attacking judges and the judiciary even over their oral observations and cautioned that such attacks could invite contempt of court. The Bar Council pointed out that oral observations had no legal sanctity, unlike written orders. The Bar Council is the regulatory body for legal education and advocates. The Bar Council struck the note of caution against the backdrop of criticism of recent observations by Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde, who asked a rape accused whether he was willing to marry the victim. In another case, the CJI had asked: “If two people are married to each other and are living as husband and wife, the husband may be brutal and commit wrong. But can the act of sexual intercourse between lawfully wedded man and wife be called as rape?” The remarks were widely criticised by a large number of women activists. CPM leader Brinda Karat had said the CJI was being insensitive towards women and sent a letter to Justice Bobde asking him to withdraw the comments. In a statement, Bar Council chairperson Manan Kumar Mishra said: “In the recent past, we have seen the development of a new trend with regard to the reaction of some people against comments and observations of the Supreme Court judges in the course of judicial proceedings even when such comments are not part of judicial orders. A handful of politicians and some so-called social activists are feeling elevated by criticising and making reckless comments against the judges through the social and print media. “In our opinion, such attempts are a direct attack on the independence of the judiciary. It has become a fashion for some motivated people to make personal aspersions against our judges. If this trend is allowed to continue, the institution will lose its sanctity. Therefore, immediate measures will have to be taken to stop this practice of malicious attack through the media or otherwise.” He added: “Freedom of speech and expression cannot be stretched to the extent of maligning and weakening the institution. Writing letters to the Chief Justice of India or any judge and making such letters public through the media are acts of gross contempt of court. We deprecate such actions of Ms Brinda Karat and similar acts of chief minister of Andhra Pradesh (Jagan Mohan Reddy) against the senior-most judge of the Supreme Court.” Reddy is facing 31 criminal cases related to corruption and money-laundering. Fingers were pointed at the second senior-most judge of the apex court, Justice N.V. Ramana, and suggestions were made that he was trying to influence the functioning of the high courts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. “Comments made by the judges, not resulting in their orders, have no legal sanctity. Why raise a hue and cry on such comments? Unfortunately, in their pursuit of cheap popularity, some people and even some of the media conceal important/relevant facts of the case and the background in which the comment or query was made by the court. We request Ms Brinda Karat and people like her, with great respect, to first examine and get acquainted with the facts of the case in question,” the BCI said. “Without knowing the full facts, they should not make any reckless comment. Ms Karat should not have made her letter public through the media. This clearly shows that her motive was to get improper political benefit only,” it added. Mishra said that laws meant for the protection of women were being misused flagrantly and innocent people were being harassed or put behind bars. “The way and the manner in which some of the media persons start malicious campaign in public make it a matter of serious concern,” he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||RSS, Church leaders meet to settle an old property dispute||A senior RSS leader has met members of two influential Christian denominations in Kerala who are looking to settle an old property dispute, the session ahead of the Assembly elections suggesting a last-ditch attempt by the Sangh to win the support of the community. Bishops and other clergymen from the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church and the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church met RSS joint general secretary Manmohan Vaidya at the organisation’s office in Kochi on Wednesday, responding to an invitation from the Sangh and rankling the larger Christian community that has traditionally stayed away from the Hindutva bandwagon. The meeting comes over two months after the leaders of the two denominations met Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Delhi in a much-publicised move apparently to find a lasting solution to a century-old property dispute between the two groups. But the RSS initiative ahead of the April 6 Kerala polls has a clear political objective since the Sangh parivar has for decades been trying to lure a section of Christians who form 20 per cent of the 3.5 crore population of the state. Muslims make up another 30 per cent. The acrimonious relationship between the two denominations was due to the dispute that came to a head with the Supreme Court in 2017 ordering the Jacobites to hand over 1,064 of 1,700 churches to the Orthodox Church. While the Jacobites maintained that they had built the churches, the numerically fewer but politically more powerful Orthodox Church refused to budge. Father Sleeba Paul, trustee of priests of the Jacobite Syrian Church who was among those who met Vaidya, told The Telegraph that all they wanted was a permanent solution to the dispute and his Church would back the BJP if it found a remedy. “The LDF (ruling Left Democratic Front) failed, while the UDF (Congress-led United Democratic Front) ignored us but promised to pass a law on the Sabarimala women’s entry issue. So if the BJP comes to our help we will support them,” he declared. The UDF has pledged to pass a legislation to ensure tradition is upheld at Sabarimala, the hill shrine where women of childbearing age are not allowed. “We were a delegation of five, including a bishop, and our only objective was to end this dispute. What is our problem in supporting the BJP if they can help us? All we want is our churches,” Paul said. None of the clergymen and the spokesperson from the Orthodox Church was available for comment, neither was anybody from the RSS. Felix J. Pulludan, chairman of the reformist group Joint Christian Council, described the meeting as “an abject surrender before the RSS, forgetting that it is this very organisation that has always been behind the misery and trauma faced by Christians as a whole”. “The delegations including bishops have shown they are at the beck and call of the RSS. They may say it’s a continuation of the discussions they held with the Prime Minister. In which case, BJP leaders should have helmed the discussions,” he said. But Pulludan expressed hope that the laity wouldn’t follow the bishops in toto. “Gone are the days when the laity blindly followed every word of the clergy. This is a different era, and people in Kerala are well informed to take their decisions.” While Kerala’s Christian community has by and large supported the UDF, there was a significant swing towards the LDF in the recent local council elections. But one of the AICC observers in the state, Ivan D’Souza, rubbished all talk about Christians turning red or saffron. “The Christians have been our mainstay all these years and will remain to be so since we are a truly secular party that represents everyone,” the leader from Karnataka told this newspaper on Thursday after meeting Major Archbishop of Syro-Malankara Catholic Church Cardinal Baselios Cleemis in Thiruvananthapuram. D’Souza was accompanied by Kerala Congress president Mullapally Ramachandran and Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty. “We had a cordial discussion and I didn’t see any animosity towards the Congress or the UDF,” D’Souza said. Asked about the impact the initiative taken by the BJP and the RSS could have on the election, D’Souza said they were only eyeing the vote bank. “Where were they all these years if they had any intention of solving this issue? The people will understand their agenda behind this one-day drama by the RSS,” he said. Kerala BJP president K. Surendran and Karnataka deputy chief minister and party observer C.N. Ashwath Narayan had recently called on Major Archbishop Cardinal George Alancherry. Narayan had later said he had promised to field several Christian candidates this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Delhi riots: presence ‘natural’, bail granted to two persons||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to two persons in a case related to northeast Delhi riots, saying their presence was natural at the scene of crime as they resided in the vicinity. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted bail to Mohd Shariq and Mohd Shahzad on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 15,000 with one surety of like amount each in the alleged murder of one Prem Singh during the last year riots in the Welcome area. The court noted that both the accused were arrested in November last year, almost seven months after the FIR was registered. The court said though the witnesses were there, yet no judicial test identification parade has been conducted and the alleged identification of the accused had taken place on the basis of their black and white photographs. “According to the prosecution, Imran was identified as a person who had held Prem Singh and Asif as the one who stabbed Prem Singh. The applicant’s (Shariq’s) role is that of participation in the unlawful assembly also constituting of accused Imran and Asif and thereby murder by way of imputation under Section 149 (unlawful assembly) IPC. “The accused (Shariq and Shahzad) resides in the vicinity of the scene of the crime and therefore their presence was natural,” it said in its order. The court directed them not to leave Delhi without its prior permission and not to tamper with evidence. During the hearing, advocate Pritish Sabharwal, appearing for both the accused, claimed they have been falsely implicated in the case. Special public prosecutor Anuj Handa, appearing for the police, opposed the bail pleas saying Shariq and Shahzad allegedly were part of the unlawful assembly that had stabbed Singh. At least 53 people were killed and around 200 injured in the the February 24 riots.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Taj Mahal evacuated after bomb hoax call||Hundreds of tourists were evacuated from the Taj Mahal premises on Thursday morning after police received a bomb call that later turned out to be a hoax. “We were in the lawn of the Taj Mahal when a large number of policemen, Central Reserve Police Force personnel and bomb disposal squad members rushed in and announced that the two entry gates of the mausoleum would be closed for some reason and that the tourists were expected to leave the premise immediately,” a tourist guide, who didn’t want to be named, told reporters. “We rushed out of the monument and kept waiting outside as CISF officers had told us that we would be allowed to enter again after sometime. They finally told us around 11.30am that we could reenter the premise,” the guide added. A. Satish Ganesh, inspector-general of the Agra zone, said: “We traced the caller to the Nakhi area of Firozabad and identified him as Vimal Kumar Singh, age 30. Police teams are interrogating him and trying to find out why he made the hoax call. Initial reports suggest that he is not of sound mind and is under the treatment of a psychiatrist.” Singh, who had made the call on 112, a police emergency number, told the media in Firozabad after his arrest that he had come to know from someone that a bomb had been planted at the Taj. “I alerted the police after I came to know from somewhere that there was a bomb at the Taj Mahal,” Singh said in Firozabad, 45km east of Agra. However, a relative said on the condition of anonymity that Singh was unhappy with the government because of a delay in recruitment to the Indian Army. “A recruitment test for the post of jawans in the Indian Army, to be held in Agra, had been postponed. He was angry. He is mentally unwell,” the relative said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Delhi High Court seeks autopsy tape and X-ray plate of farmer who died on R-Day||Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Uttar Pradesh police to provide the original X-ray plate and video of the post-mortem of the 25-year-old farmer who died after his tractor overturned during the tractor rally on Republic Day. Justice Yogesh Khanna said he wanted both the original documents to be handed over to the official of Delhi police on March 5 at 2pm and they should be retained by the investigating officer in safe custody. The high court was hearing a plea by deceased Navreet Singh’s grandfather — Hardeep Singh — claiming that the victim suffered gunshot injuries to his head. His post-mortem was conducted at Rampur district hospital in Uttar Pradesh. However, both the Delhi and Uttar Pradesh police claimed before the court that Navreet did not suffer any gunshot wound. Delhi government’s standing counsel (criminal) Rahul Mehra, representing Delhi police, told the court that though they had requested Uttar Pradesh police to give original X-ray plate and post-mortem video, the officials of Rampur police and hospital denied the same, unless ordered by the court. Advocate Garima Prashad, representing Uttar Pradesh police and the chief medical officer of the hospital, said they did not have the X-ray report, but only the X-ray plate and the post-mortem report, which they were willing to hand over to Delhi police on the date and time fixed by the court. She said the original post-mortem and inquest reports had already been handed over to Delhi police. Advocate Vrinda Grover, representing the petitioner, sought a copy of the X-ray, post-mortem and inquest reports. When Mehra said they had no objection in giving those documents to the petitioner, the high court said, “Let the needful be done,” and listed the matter for further hearing on March 17. Grover also said once the original X-ray plate was received from Uttar Pradesh police, the court could ask AIIMS or any other forensic department to prepare a report. Delhi police had earlier said that according to the post-mortem report, the young farmer died because of a head injury as a result of the accident. The petition, also filed through advocate Soutik Banerjee, has sought a court-monitored special investigation team to probe the death. Delhi police, also represented by advocate Chaitanya Gosain, have relied upon the footage collected from CCTV cameras located at the site — Deen Dayal Upadhyay marg — where the farmer died, and said he was driving the tractor at high speed and the vehicle overturned after hitting the barricades. Delhi police agreed to show the footage to the petitioner’s counsel. It had said the footage also showed that the police personnel were running away for safety from the speeding tractor and that none of them fired at the vehicle or the driver. Delhi police have also said that the CCTV footage indicated that the protesters did not take the injured farmer to any nearby hospital and instead attacked the ambulances that reached the site after hearing about the accident. It had said the protesters kept the body on the road for five hours and then spread rumours that he was killed in police firing. Uttar Pradesh police, in its status report, had said no FIR had been registered by it in connection with the death as claimed by the petitioner.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Delhi court grants bail to farmer, veteran in R-Day case||A Delhi court on Thursday granted bail to a farmer and a retired army officer in a case related to the Republic Day violence during the farmers’ tractor rally against the Centre’s three new farm laws. Additional sessions judge Amitabh Rawat granted the relief to Baljeet Singh and Harjinder Singh on furnishing a bail bond of Rs 15,000 with one surety of like amount in the case of the violence in Seemapuri area. Baljeet is a farmer and lives in Haridwar, Uttarakhand, and Harjinder is a retired army officer from 9 Sikh Light Infantry Battalion of the Indian Army. He had served the army for 17 years. According to the police, Baljeet and Harjinder were detained on January 26 at Chintamani Chowk where around 500 protesters on tractors and cars were coming from the Apsara Border flyover and they had allegedly broken the barricade in a violent manner. While granting bail, the court said according to the prosecution both the accused were not driving the tractor nor did they attempt to kill or hurt any police personnel themselves. “The best case of the prosecution is that he had participated in the said rally/unlawful assembly on January 26, 2021, at the relevant time thereby attracting imputation under Section 149 (unlawful assembly) of the IPC,” the court said. Additional public prosecutor Vikas Kumar, appearing for the police, opposed the bail pleas saying the offences against the accused were serious in nature.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||OTTs showing pornography at times: Supreme Court ||The Supreme Court on Thursday said that some OTT platforms were screening pornography and backed monitoring of content, asking the government to place before it within a day the recent rules regulating such video-streaming services. “Mr Mehta, please submit the regulations on OTT platforms. We are of the view that there should be some screening of OTT content. At times, they are showing pornography too. We are of the view that some screening should take place. In fact some platforms even show pornography,” Justice Ashok Bhushan told solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Centre. A bench of Justices Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy agreed to examine the anticipatory bail plea of Aparna Purohit, Amazon Prime Video’s India head, over the screening of the web series Tandav, which allegedly depicts Hindu gods in a disrespectful manner. Purohit has moved the apex court against an Allahabad High Court order dated February 25 rejecting her anticipatory bail plea as she feared arrest by Uttar Pradesh police over multiple FIRs registered against her and some of the principal actors of the series for hurting religious sentiments. Tandav also has episodes that refer to the farmers’ protest and violence on the Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) campus, which too have angered Right-wing organisations. When the Supreme Court asked Mehta about the OTT platforms, the solicitor-general replied: “My Lords, I agree these days they are also showing a lot of filthy things with abuses too.” The bench said: “These days traditional film viewing has become obsolete. People watching cinema on the Internet has become very common. So our question is, should these contents be screened?” Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, representing Purohit, said the issue before the court was not the new OTT guidelines framed by the Centre but that of a citizen’s fundamental right to freedom of speech. Purohit is facing charges under IPC Sections 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race, place, etc), 295 (injuring or defiling places of worship with intent to insult the religion of any class), 295A (deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religious beliefs), and 505(1) and (2) (statements conducive to public mischief). These apart, cases under the Information Technology Act have been registered against her. Rohatgi said the complainants were “publicity seekers”. “These are all publicity seekers who keep filing cases all over India. Look at the FIR and what’s happening. If you want to watch this web series, you have to pay,” he said. “But it’s a question of creating a balance,” Justice Bhushan said. The court adjourned the matter to Friday to enable the Centre to place before the bench the new guidelines on OTT platforms.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-293
05-03-2021||India||Modi govt had planned to curb media freedom: Congress||The Congress on Thursday referred to a purported report that suggested the Narendra Modi government had during the pandemic peak last year planned to curb media freedom, claiming that such sinister projects had exposed the regime’s anti-democratic mindset. The purported ministerial report, revealed by The Caravan magazine, was the topic of discussion a day after Freedom House, an 80-year-old democracy watchdog mostly funded by the US government, dropped India from the list of “free countries” and suggested that it was being driven towards “authoritarianism”. On Thursday, the Congress drew attention to the claim that central ministers and former journalists working for the BJP had held six meetings with a few reporters to prepare a strategy for curbing the section of the media that had been critical of the government and held it up as evidence of diminishing democracy in the country. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said: “A government communication report has revealed some very, very disturbing facts. There were five cabinet ministers — Smriti Irani, Prakash Javadekar, Ravi Shankar Prasad, Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi and S. Jaishankar — apart from four junior ministers who were part of this group. When we thought the government is focused on fighting corona and saving the lives of people, the Prime Minister was actually preparing to stab us in the back by compromising the freedom of speech and expression in the country by controlling free press.” The Congress spokesperson read out from the purported report. Referring to purported interactions between the ministers and BJP leaders during a meeting, Shrinate said: “Smriti Irani talks about tracking 50 negative influencers by the electronic media monitoring committee of the ministry of I&B. “Swapan Dasgupta talks about ‘giving that little bit extra to journalists in a calibrated manner’. What is this extra? Surya Prakash, head of Prasar Bharati, says that ‘the government has enormous power to utilise its position and controlling them’. This is blatant exercise of power.” Former journalist Nitin Gokhale, who worked for national security adviser Ajit Doval, was quoted as having suggested that journalists should be colour-coded. Shrinate said: “They talk about colour coding, green for fence sitters, black for people who are against you, white for those who support you. (RSS ideologue S.) Gurumurthy talked about the ‘Pokhran effect’ — probably creating a big impact to manage headlines and divert attention. Ravi Shankar Prasad says ‘there needs to be a pool of spin doctors, who must give a spin to every government story.’ He is talking about academicians, VCs, retired IFS officers.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
05-03-2021||India||'Metroman' E. Sreedharan to be BJP’s CM face in Kerala||The BJP’s Kerala unit has decided to get the party’s central leadership to name “Metroman” E. Sreedharan as its chief ministerial candidate in the poll-bound state. State party president K. Surendran on Thursday announced that the BJP leadership would be asked to project the technocrat for the top post. Sreedharan had said he wanted to helm a BJP government in the state even before officially joining the party. “We have requested the party leadership to make Sreedharan the chief ministerial candidate,” Surendran said. On Thursday, Sreedharan visited the Palarivattom flyover in Kochi that was rebuilt by the Left Democratic Front government after its faulty construction during the previous United Democratic Front government, which faced allegations of corruption and mishandling of funds set aside for the project. The present government had demolished the flyover based on a study conducted by IIT Madras and appointed Sreedharan as the chief adviser of Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) to supervise its reconstruction. With the flyover to be handed over to the government by Sunday, Sreedharan put his party in a bit of a spot by lauding Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society that rebuilt the bridge three months ahead of its eight-month schedule. “It’s the first time I am seeing such a good contract work,” he said, lauding the Society perhaps not realising that his party had made allegations of corruption against it. Surendran later told reporters that Sreedharan perhaps didn’t know the corruption in the Society. “I am only talking about the corruption and not the technical competence of their work,” he said, trying to minimise the possible impact of Sreedharan’s comment. Before leaving the flyover, Sreedharan said he would not be wearing the DMRC uniform anymore “This is the last day I am wearing this uniform. I wore the DMRC’s typical outdoor uniform for the first time in November 1997 in Delhi. (The) same practice continued for the last 24 years,” he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
05-03-2021||India||Rahul highlights govt’s alleged misuse of central agencies and manipulation of media||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi on Thursday played on Hindi proverbs to draw attention to the Narendra Modi government’s alleged misuse of central agencies and manipulation of mainstream media, provoking the BJP to hit back in similar fashion. The battle of proverbs came a day after income tax raids were conducted at the homes and offices of actress Taapsee Pannu and film director Anurag Kashyap, among others. Both have been vocal critics of the Narendra Modi regime. Rahul tweeted: “Kuchh muhaware: Ungliyon par nachana — the Central Government does this with Income Tax Department, Enforcement Directorate and CBI. Bheegi Billi banana — this is what friendly media is before the central government. Khisiyani billi khamba noche — the way the Central Government conducts raids on those who support farmers’ movement.” The three proverbs (muhaware) Rahul cited more or less mean to get someone to dance to your tune, to make someone timid like a wet cat, and an angry cat taking out its frustration on others. A large number of Congress leaders, including ministers and MLAs in Maharashtra, have condemned the tax raids, alleging that Pannu and Kashyap have been targeted for criticising communal politics and supporting the farmers’ movement. The Congress has consistently accused the Modi government of pursuing politics of vendetta and blasted sections of the media for not reporting objectively. Information and broadcasting minister Prakash Javadekar took on Rahul, using a different set of idioms to recall the Congress’s conduct in the past. Javadekar tweeted: “Rahul ji, remember these idioms as well. 1. Sau chuhe kha kar, billi chali haz ko — the Congress which imposed curbs on media freedom during Emergency is now giving sermons on media freedom. 2. Ungli par gine ja sakna — that’s the plight of the Congress (its strength can be counted on fingers) 3. Ranga siyaar — the most communal party pretending to be secular, party of one family preaching democracy.” Ranga siyaar is an untrustworthy person. Sau chuhe kha kar, billi chali haz ko refers to a person who pretends to be a saint after committing all the wrongs. While the minister’s strategy was to embarrass the Congress by recalling the Emergency instead of defending the Modi government’s own track record, BJP spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia said the raids on celebrities were the outcome of law taking its own course and had nothing to do with political vendetta. Bhatia said: “The Supreme Court has said the CBI had been turned into a caged parrot during the Congress regime. That caged parrot has been freed and has now become a tiger under the Modi government.” The BJP spokesperson added: “The Congress has a strange character. It destroys institutions when it is in power and discredits institutions when it is in Opposition. This is politics of anarchy. In front of law, there are no celebrities. They are just citizens violating the law. And Rahul Gandhi, who is himself on bail, should not lecture us on democracy. He says dialogue is a must in democracy and he refuses to talk to his own leaders called G-23.” Rahul is on bail in the National Herald case, which the Congress portrays as a classic example of politics of vendetta and intimidation. G-23 is a group of leaders who had written to Congress president Sonia Gandhi about a drift in the party. Congress spokesperson Supriya Shrinate said in a fierce counter: “Arnab Goswami had questioned Javadekar’s wisdom in vulgar language in that (leaked) WhatsApp conversation. Has he sought explanation from him? I am sure he doesn’t have the guts. What Rahulji has said is perfectly true; every institution has been undermined, every agency is being misused.” Shrinate added: “You stand with the farmers, no matter who you are, the IB, the income tax, the ED, the CBI, the NCB will all land at your doorstep. I personally feel you should wear it like a badge of honour. I think the BJP should stop the farce and facade of independent agencies, just merge all these agencies within your organisation, because that’s what you are doing. “And what is Emergency? Isn’t putting people in jail for criticising the government an emergency? Isn’t slapping sedition charges on journalists for asking questions and showing truth an emergency? The income tax department has detected financial irregularities of over Rs 650 crore after it raided two film production companies, two talent management companies and a leading actress, the Central Board of Direct Taxes claimed on Thursday but did not take any names, PTI reported. However, unnamed “official sources” soon started naming those who had been raided on Wednesday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-294
