06-03-2021||India||Farmers’ protest completes 100 days as unions stand firm on grounds||Farmer leaders on Saturday said the protesting unions stand firm on their demand of a complete repeal of the three agri laws and asserted that they are ready for talks with the government, but that should be held without any condition. Earlier in the day, thousands of farmers blocked the Kundli Manesar Palwal (KMP) Expressway at some places in Haryana to mark the completion of 100 days of their agitation at the Delhi borders. Darshan Pal, a senior member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha which is spearheading the going protest, said farmer unions stand firm on the demand of repeal of three agri laws. "Since the beginning of our agitation, our demand remains the same which is the repeal of three new agricultural laws. We are ready to resume talks with the government, but it should be held without any precondition," Pal told PTI. In January, the government had proposed to suspend the three contentious farm laws for 1-1.5 years and set up a joint committee to find an amicable solution in the interest of the farming community, which the protesting unions had then rejected. Another senior farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said farm unions have never said "no" to talks with the central government, adding that their stand on talks as well as demands have been the same from the beginning. He said the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha has called a meeting on March 9 to decide the next course of action to intensify their ongoing agitation. "Everyday, more people are joining the farmers' protest. There are over 1.25 lakh people at the four border points here in the capital itself," Sandhu claimed. Abhimanyu Kohar, another farmer leader, said farmers are always ready to holds talks with the government. "In democracy, any solution would come only through talks. But those in power should send us a formal invite -- just like they did during the earlier rounds of talks. Talks with terms and conditions from the government's end is not a solution and won't serve any purpose," Kohar told PTI. During the blockade of KMP expressway on Saturday, farmers holding black flags and wearing black armbands and some women protesters with black 'dupattas' shouted slogans against the BJP-led government for not acceding to their demands. Protesters in Sonipat and Jhajjar districts and some other places brought their tractor-trolleys and other vehicles and parked them in the middle of the KMP Expressway in some stretches.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Apply ‘test, track, treat’ strategy to contain Covid, Centre tells states||The Centre has asked states and Union territories witnessing a surge of new Covid-19 cases and high active caseload to continue with the strategy of "test, track and treat" that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic and accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher infections on mission mode. At a meeting on Saturday, they have been asked to collaborate with private hospitals to open up vaccination time-tables for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time. They have been asked to increase the share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing, refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing clusters of cases and carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case. Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan and NITI Aayog Member (Health) Vinod K Paul on Saturday interacted with health secretaries and mission directors of the National Health Mission of Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Goa, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand and the Union territories of Delhi and Chandigarh, the Union Health Ministry said. "These states and UTs have in the recent past seen increased positivity and increased number of daily positive cases," it underlined. They reviewed the ongoing public health measures of surveillance, containment and management of Covid cases in wake of the steep rise in daily new cases of Covid and the high number of active caseload being reported from these eight states and UTs, the ministry said in its statement. In a detailed presentation, it was pointed out that nine districts in Delhi, 15 in Haryana, 10 in Andhra Pradesh, 10 in Odisha, nine in Himachal Pradesh, seven in Uttarakhand, two in Goa, one in Chandigarh continue to be of concern as these districts are seeing a decrease in total tests being conducted, low share of RT-PCR tests, increase in weekly positivity and low number of contact tracing of the Covid positive cases. These together can pose high risk of transmission to the neighbouring states and UTs. A granular analysis of the Covid-19 response in the districts was shared with the states and UTs for further action, the statement said. States were specifically asked to continue with the effective strategy of 'test, track & treat' that had yielded rich dividends at the height of the pandemic, improve overall testing in districts reporting reduction in testing and increase share of RT-PCR tests in districts dependent on high levels of antigen testing. They have been asked to refocus on surveillance and stringent containment of those areas in selected districts which are seeing clusters of cases, carry out an average close contact tracing of minimum of 20 persons per positive case and focus on clinical management in districts reporting higher deaths, the ministry in the statement. They have been asked to actuate their health infrastructure to provide effective clinical management to all the patients as a surge in cases also affects the case fatality rate in those districts. "Accelerate vaccination for priority population groups in districts reporting higher cases. Make optimal use of the available vaccine doses and focus on critical districts," the ministry said. They have been asked to collaborate with the private hospitals to open up vaccination time-tables for a minimum of 15 days and maximum of 28 days at a time and promote Covid-appropriate behaviour through communication and enforcement, the statement said. "Stress was laid on prompt isolation and on medical supervision of those active cases presently in home isolation for early identification of progressive deterioration of the disease. The states were also asked to actively watch out for super-spreading events and share their best practices in breaking the chain of transmission," the statement stated.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Modi to address mega rally at Brigade grounds in Calcutta on Sunday||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will sharpen BJP's campaign for the high-octane Assembly elections in Bengal with a mega rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds in Calcutta on Sunday. The Prime Minister's Sunday rally is said to be the culmination of the "Parivartan Yatra" launched by the saffron party in the poll-bound Bengal in February this year. "The Prime Minister will set the tone of the election campaign with a rally at Brigade grounds," a BJP leader said. Sunday's rally will be the first major event of the saffron party in Bengal after declaration of eight-phase elections in the state. The BJP has planned to make it a grand success with a record crowd presence which the iconic ground has never witnessed. The saffron party, which was scheduled to come out with the candidate list for the first two phases on Friday, had decided to postpone it for the brigade rally. "We have decided to postpone the release of the candidate list for the brigade rally. Once it is over, we would come out with our list," BJP leader Rahul Sinha said. Along with Modi several top senior BJP leaders will be present at the rally. The BJP has gone all out to campaign for the rally launching innovative campaigns, from social media to the streets. Party activists have been hosting flash mobs over the past few weeks at several locations across the state, including busy traffic intersections and crowded localities to rally a large number of people at the Sunday event. After having a limited presence in the politically polarised state for decades, the BJP has emerged as the ruling Trinamool Congress's main rival by winning 18 of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal 2019 general elections,only four less than TMC's tally of 22. With the BJP's strength increasing in the state in the last few years, its leaders are upbeat that the party will end Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee's 10-year rule in the state polls. Elections for the Bengal Assembly will be held in eight phases beginning with polling for 30 seats on March 27.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Delhi to have a separate board for city schools||The Delhi government on Saturday approved the formation of a separate school board for nearly 2,700 schools in the city. In the beginning, 21-22 state government schools will be affiliated to the Delhi Board of School Education (DBSE) and in the next four-five years all the schools will be brought under it, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said in a press conference. There are around 1,000 Delhi government schools and about 1,700 private schools, most of them affiliated to the CBSE, in the city. The new Board will have a governing body headed by the Education minister of the Delhi government and an executive body headed by a chief executive officer, Kejriwal said. The DBSE will be aimed at imparting such education that prepares "fiercely patriotic" and self-dependent students who serve the society and the country in a selfless manner, he said. The Board will bring in best international practices and high-end techniques in school education. It will impart education as per the aptitude of the students, he added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Farmers block KMP expressway in Haryana to mark 100 days of their protest||Farmers protesting the Centre's three agriculture laws on Saturday blocked the six-lane Kundli Manesar Palwal expressway at some places in Haryana to mark the completion of 100 days of their agitation at the Delhi borders. The protest, which began at 11 am, would continue till 4 pm. The call for blocking the expressway was given by the Samyukta Kisan Morcha, an umbrella body of protesting farmer unions spearheading the agitation against the agriculture-related legislations. The 136-km Kundli-Manesar-Palwal (KMP) expressway is also known as the western peripheral expressway. The 53-km Manesar-Palwal section was inaugurated by Union Minister Nitin Gadkari in 2016 and the 83-km Kundli-Manesar section was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi in 2018. We will block the KMP expressway. However, emergency vehicles will be allowed, general secretary, Bhartiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), Jagmohan Singh said. Farmers in Haryana's Sonipat district brought their tractor-trolleys and parked them in the middle of a stretch of the KMP expressway. Protesters, including women, carrying their respective union flags as well as black flags shouted slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre for not acceding to their demands. "Our agitation against three farm laws will continue unless the Centre withdraws these laws. We will not step back," a protester in Sonipat said. In Palwal district too, farmers staged a dharna. The KMP expressway was built to decongest the ever-busy roads of Delhi, especially by reducing the number of trucks entering the national capital, thus helping to curb pollution. It provides a high-speed link between northern and southern Haryana districts and gives an uninterrupted high-speed link for traffic, especially commercial traffic, from Haryana to neighbouring states. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since late November at the Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding a rollback of the Farmers' Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; Farmers' (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the "mercy" of big corporations. However, the government has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Taapsee Pannu breaks silence on IT raids||Breaking her silence on the IT department raids against her, actor Taapsee Pannu on Saturday put out three tweets on an alleged bungalow in Paris, the alleged receipt of Rs 5 crore and her memory of 2013 raid. On March 3, the Income Tax Department searched the homes and offices of Pannu and filmmaker Anurag Kashyap as well as his partners who launched the now shuttered production house Phantom Films. Pannu posted a three-point statement on Twitter and also took a jibe at Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman's statement that the actor was raided in 2013 as well. Three days of intense search of 3 things primarily 1.The keys of the alleged' bungalow that I apparently own in Paris. Because summer holidays are around the corner, read the first post. The second said, 2. The alleged' receipt worth 5 crores to frame n keep for future pitching coz I've been refused that money before. The third dealt with Sitharaman's comment. 3. My memory of 2013 raid that happened with me according to our honourable finance minister P.S- not so sasti' anymore." Sitharaman on Friday said the same people were raided in 2013 as well, but no issue was made out then as it is being done now. Refusing to comment on individual cases, she said it is in the national interest to know if some evasion is happening. Pannu and Kashyap resumed shooting for their film Dobaaraa on Saturday, both using social media to speak for the first time since I-T raids on their premises with posts indicating their spirit remained intact. "With all our love to all the haters", Kashyap said in a message on Instagram to announce the resumption of shooting of his new film and share an on-set picture of Pannu and himself laughing and showing the victory sign. Following Pannu, Kashyap, who was working on "Dobaaraa" with the actor before the IT raids, also decided to break his radio silence on social media with a special message for the "haters". "And we restart #DoBaaraa... with all our love to all the haters..." the filmmaker wrote alongside the photograph. The searches targeting Pannu and Kashyap, known for their outspoken views on a range of issues, is part of a tax evasion probe against Phantom Films. They also covered Reliance Entertainment group CEO Shibhasish Sarkar and some executives of celebrity and talent management companies KWAN and Exceed, officials said. The others searched included some employees of Phantom Films, which was dissolved in 2018, and its then promoters Kashyap, director-producer Vikramaditya Motwane, producer Vikas Bahl and producer-distributor Madhu Mantena. The business transactions of films made under the banner of Phantom Films are also being probed. Kashyap, however, refrained from directly addressing the raids. "Dobaaraa" marks the second collaboration between the actor and the filmmaker, who previously worked on the 2018 romance drama "Manmarziyaan".||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Fresh Covid cases above 18,000 after more than a month||India's Covid-19 tally rose to 1,11,92,088 with over 18,000 fresh cases being reported in a span of 24 hours in the country after 36 days, while active cases registered an increase for the fourth consecutive day on Saturday and were recorded at 1,80,304, according to the Union Health Ministry. The death toll reached 1,57,656 with 108 more fatalities, while a total of 18,327 new cases were registered in a day, the ministry's data showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours after which the daily rise in fresh cases remained below 18,000. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,54,128 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.98 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. The COVID-19 active caseload has increased to 1,80,304 which now comprises 1.61 per cent of the total infections. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20 lakh-mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one crore-mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,06,92,677 samples have been tested up to March 5 with 7,51,935 samples being tested on Friday. The 108 new fatalities include 53 from Maharashtra, 16 from Kerala and 11 from Punjab. A total of 1,57,656 deaths have been reported so far in the country, including 52,393 from Maharashtra followed by 12,513 from Tamil Nadu, 12,354 from Karnataka, 10,918 from Delhi, 10,275 from West Bengal, 8,729 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,172 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Assaults on women: Brinda Karat blasts Bar Council of India||CPM leader Brinda Karat on Friday asserted that even oral observations by judges have their “own impact on society”, skewering the Bar Council of India for springing to the defence of the Chief Justice of India after she questioned his comments in two cases of alleged assaults on women. Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde had asked a man accused of raping a woman  whether he was willing to marry her. In another case, he had wondered whether sexual brutality by a husband on his wife can be termed rape. The Bar Council of India had cautioned against criticism of such statements and adopted a resolution saying  such oral observations had no legal sanctity. In a rejoinder, Karat said: “Nowhere does the resolution contradict the reports. In other words, there is no dispute that such comments were indeed made.” Karat said: “Whether or not the comments form part of the judgment is immaterial. The fact that such comments were made and reported has their own impact on society at large.” Karat said such comments made by higher authorities have a most damaging impact on victims of crimes and, in this case, they tend to dilute the enormity of a crime against a minor. “Comments may not have legal sanctity but certainly provide legitimacy to retrograde social approaches, which I have mentioned in my letter. In fact the Bar Council, if indeed it wanted to react, should have upheld the best judicial practices and standards and taken up the negative impact of such comments with the court concerned,” she said. Karat had sent a letter to Justice Bobde, asking him to withdraw the comments. Karat ridiculed the Bar Council of India, the regulatory body for legal education and lawyers, for passing the resolution that said there was a  “written agreement” between the parents of the alleged rapist and the minor girl. “Is there anything legal about such an agreement? Under which law?  Is the Bar Council not aware that the girl tried to commit suicide? Is the Bar Council not aware that the girl refused the marriage offer? And also most importantly, if such an agreement was made on behalf of the girl when she was a minor, once she became an adult, is it not the bounden duty of the court to ask her opinion first, before asking the rapist if he would marry her?” she asked. “It is indeed distressing that the Bar Council resolution does not at all show any sensitivity whatsoever to the minor victim. It requires examination why a council of such senior lawyers should not see the necessity of judicial processes, more so in cases of rape of a minor, to put the interests of the victim, not the perpetrator, at the centre of the process for justice.” Karat pointed out that the Aurangabad bench of Bombay High Court had rejected the bail granted by the lower court. “He would have been arrested but for his appeal. However, the Supreme Court has given him protection for a month to apply for ‘regular’ bail. The Bar Council resolution says this ‘should be appreciated’. I strongly believe giving time of one month constitutes protection against immediate arrest.” The council “does not have the right to damn an opinion on this as being ‘motivated’,” Karat said while referring to the criticism made by council against her for writing to the CJI on the issue. Karat also took exception to the council resolution for making certain comments against a woman who had accused her husband of subjecting her to brutal sexual attacks. “You have attacked her reputation. I think this is objectionable. The issue here is not the merits of a specific case. The issue is the comments made by the court which were of a general nature, regarding the relations between a husband and wife or those in a live-in relationship. Here again, it is not disputed by the council that the comments made were ‘however brutal the husband is... the man cannot be accused of rape’. “In other words, it is a general comment about husbands, which has the most grave implications for cases of domestic violence, including marital rape. Rape is a coercive act of sexual intercourse without the woman’s consent. “It is true that there is no law against marital rape at present in India. The petition is pending before the courts. However, for the apex court to make comments such as ‘however brutal the husband is’ gives licence to brutality,” Karat added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Prime Minister to address top commanders of defence forces in Gujarat ||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will address the top commanders of the three defence forces at the Combined Commanders’ Conference at Kevadia in Gujarat on Saturday. For the first time, 30 junior commissioner officers (JCOs) and jawans from the tri-services will take part in the conference to be addressed by Modi. A defence ministry statement said the apex-level military leadership of the country would review the security situation and defence preparedness of the armed forces and deliberate on organisational issues for evolving a joint military vision in the three-day conference that began on Thursday. Defence minister Rajnath Singh addressed the conference on Friday. “I spoke on a wide range of issues pertaining to the defence and security of the nation, the emerging nature of military threats, the critical role of the Armed Forces in meeting these challenges and the nature of warfare in future,” Singh said in a tweet. “In a major change from the past, the scope of the conference this year has been expanded to make it a multi-layered, interactive, informal and informed event with the added participation of about 30 officers and soldiers of various ranks from the three services,” the defence ministry said in a statement. Sources said the suggestion to include JCOs and jawans came from the Prime Minister’s Office. Colonel (retd) Ajai Shukla said in a tweet; “Are we a neo-Nazi republic? A civilian prime minister starts appearing in public in combat fatigues, and insisting that enlisted ranks participate in commanders’ conferences! This constitutes bypassing the chain of command. Why are the chiefs silent?”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-290
06-03-2021||India||Hit, humiliated, not allowed to sleep: Activist||Shiv Kumar is under treatment in hospital for injuries caused allegedly by police torture in custody but the 24-year-old labour rights activist said he would take the police up on a threat against ever setting foot in the industrial town where he worked. “While in their custody, police warned me never to be seen in Kundli if I am released or they would pick me up again. But I shall go back. Workers have to fight for their rights because the police are a tool in the hands of the capitalists and we can’t expect justice from them,” Kumar said over the phone from the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh. The young man, who says he was picked up by plainclothes policemen from the Singhu farmers’ protest site on January 16, was freed on bail on Thursday and taken to hospital for treatment of broken toenail beds, fractures and symptoms of post-traumatic disorder. “I was abducted, not arrested,” he told The Telegraph. “I was at the farmers’ protest site when they suddenly pounced on me and took me away. I remember being taken into the Criminal Investigation Agency-1 (police unit) in Sonipat’s Gur Mandi. From January 16 to 23, I was constantly hit with sticks, abused and humiliated referring to my caste. I was not allowed to sleep. They were inhuman. They were always in plainclothes. None offered me first aid,” Kumar, a Dalit, said. The police say they arrested Kumar on January 23 as part of the investigation into a protest on January 12 by the Majdoor Adhikar Sanghatan, of which he is the president, in Kundli in which seven policemen were allegedly injured. Three FIRs have been filed against him, accusing him of attempt to murder and extortion. His arrest and that of fellow activist Nodeep Kaur drew international attention after American activist Meena Harris, niece of US Vice-President Kamala Harris, tweeted about Kaur’s alleged torture in custody. Kaur has also been freed on bail. “I was beaten and then shown videos of the protest (on January 12) and asked to identify people. I asked them how I could identify people when I was not there. At the time, I was at the Singhu border protest. People have taken footage of me at Singhu border. They would keep hitting me on my toes with lathis. They did all kinds of brutality and I was constantly in pain.” Kumar’s father Rajbir, a landless Dalit from Sonipat district, moved the Punjab and Haryana High Court, which ordered a five-member medical board to examine him in Chandigarh on February 20. The youth’s statement recorded by the board says: “They tied both his feet, lay him on the ground, and hit him on the soles. His 2nd, 3rd and 5th toe nails of the right foot were torn and the nail of big toe of left foot became blue. They also hit him on the buttocks with flat sticks, then they tied his hands and stretched his legs. He was made to lie on the ground with both legs straight and a metal pipe was placed on his thigh and rolled over the thighs by two people. They also hit him on both hands and palms and also on the back of his head. He was not allowed to sleep for three days, the C.l staff took his statement and asked him to give names and when he could not do so. They tied him to a chair and poured water to his head... He was mentally and physically abused in the police remand and they also poured hot water on his feet and any blisters that formed were burst by them.” Besides the fractures and three torn toenails, the board observed “post traumatic disorder” symptoms. An acquaintance who has accompanied him to PGIMER told this paper: “His toes are blue-ish and he seems to be psychologically affected. He is in shock and doesn’t respond to things the way he used to. Several tests have been conducted here and the doctors will tell us what to do after the results come.” During the interview with this paper over the phone, Kumar blanked out several times but then collected himself and spoke on. He said he was taken to Sonipat Civil Hospital on January 24 for what was supposed to be a medical check-up. “There was no check-up. Policemen forced me to put my thumb impression on some paper. I was later told that they have obtained my remand for 10 days,” the activist said. From January 29 to January 31, he said, he was taken on a road trip, supposedly as part of the investigation into his links with suspects in other states. “I was first taken to Samalkha police station in Panipat district, then to some other police post in that district. At night they took me to some restaurant on a highway and handcuffed me while they drank liquor and made merry. The next morning we went to Haridwar where I was kept in an ashram all day while the policemen were again drinking. I was not questioned on this trip. They were busy partying,” he said. On the way back to Sonipat the next day, they stopped to see a relative of a policeman in Uttar Pradesh’s Baghpat district, Kumar said. On February 2, he was sent to judicial custody in Sonipat’s district jail. “I was still in pain but I was scared to ask anyone for help in jail after what the police had done to me. No doctor examined me nor was I offered any first aid,” the activist added. Sonipat superintendent of police J.S. Randhawa has not responded to questions from this paper about Kumar. Kumar, who started working in Kundli in 2018 after finishing a diploma from Sonipat’s Industrial Training Institute, said he started organising workers in 2019 because as he was “disappointed with existing unions whose leaders are rude to workers and have spoilt the name of trade unions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Supreme Court pushes  for OTT  ‘porn’ filter||The Supreme Court on Friday asked the Centre to come out with suitable legislation to prevent OTT platforms from screening pornography as the existing guidelines had no “teeth”, even as it restrained Amazon Video country head Aparna Purohit’s arrest by Uttar Pradesh police over the Tandav web series. Solicitor-general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the Union government, assured the bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and R. Subhash Reddy that the Centre would consider the court’s suggestion and bring legislation. “Mr Mehta, we have gone through the intermediary guidelines filed by you. But there are no teeth to it. There is no power of prosecution or fine. These are just guidelines. There has to be a proper legislation. Without legislation, there cannot be any effective control,” Justice Bhushan, heading the bench, said. The court made the observations after going through The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, placed before it. On Thursday, the bench had said a mechanism to screen serials and movies released on the OTT platforms had to be put in place as many were showing pornography. The bench made the observations while dealing with Purohit’s anticipatory bail plea in connection with the multiple FIRs against her in Uttar Pradesh over the Tandav series. During Friday’s hearing, senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Purohit, denied that the OTT platforms were showing pornography. “I can show your lordships hundreds of movies on Amazon, there is no porn. I watch these movies in the evenings. These are great movies,” he said. The bench clarified that it did not say that all movies being shown were porn. It passed the following written order: “One of the issues which have cropped up.. is regarding control and regulation of platform on which web series are released. Mr Mukul Rohatgi, learned senior counsel, informed us that the Government of India has issued notification dated 25.02.2021 and introduced rules namely The Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021. “A perusal of the Rules indicates that the rules are more and more in the form of guidelines and have no effective mechanism for either screening or taking appropriate action for those who violate the guidelines. Mr Tushar Mehta, the learned solicitor-general, submits that the government shall consider and take appropriate steps for regulation or legislation as may be found fit by the government and the same shall be placed before the Court.” It further added: “Learned senior counsel for the petitioner submits that with regard to the FIR lodged at Lucknow being FIR No. 31/2021, she is cooperating with the investigation and the high court has already granted protection (in another FIR) to the petitioner. Learned counsel for the petitioner further submits that she is ready to co-operate with the investigation in FIR 14/2021.” “It is submitted that the petitioner is not involved with the production, writing and direction of the web series and is merely an officer of the company which owns the platform on which the web series was released… we direct that the petitioner shall not be arrested in FIR No. 14/2021 subject to her co-operation with the investigation. She shall appear before the investigating officer as and when required.” The Tandav series had caused considerable resentment among some sections of the viewers for allegedly portraying Hindu gods in a poor light. It also faced flak from some quarters for oblique references to the ongoing farmers’ agitation and the handling of the JNU students.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||98% Indians don’t eat enough vegetables: Survey||About 98 per cent of India’s adults eat inadequate levels of fruits and vegetables, according to a nationwide survey that researchers say has flagged multiple lingering lifestyle-related habits that enhance risk for non-communicable diseases. The survey described as the first comprehensive and nationwide effort to measure risk factors has found that 98.4 per cent of sampled people aged between 18 and 69 years eat less than the recommended 400gm fruits or vegetables a day. It has also found that the average salt intake is 8gm per day, corroborating through the first direct measurements –through spot urine samples -- earlier findings that Indians consume excess salt. The World Health Organisation recommends that adults consume less than 5gm salt per a day and describes reducing salt intake as “one of the most cost-effective measures countries can take to improve population health outcomes.” The survey also found that about 51 per cent of men and 13 per cent of women consumed smoked or smokeless tobacco, 10 per cent of men reported heavy episodic drinking and 41 per cent of the adults did not have adequate physical activity. “We now have for the first time comprehensive baseline data on risk factors for non-communicable diseases,” Prashant Mathur, head of the Indian  Council of Medical Research National Centre for Disease Informatics and Research, Bangalore, and the study’s principal investigator told The Telegraph. Illness and premature deaths from non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular disorders, diabetes, or cancers have increased in India over the past two decades and accounted for 6.1 million, or about 65 per cent, of India’s deaths in 2019. The Union health ministry had a decade ago launched a national programme for the prevention and control of cancer, diabetes and non-communicable diseases, but the country’s progress on prevention remains unmeasured amid a dearth of data. Earlier, studies to measure the prevalence of risk factors have been limited to small samples or were ad-hoc studies focused on specific risk factors such as blood pressure or tobacco smoking or blood sugar levels. In their survey, Mathur and his collaborators from medical colleges across the country examined the dietary habits, exercise levels, weight, and blood pressure and sugar levels from a representative sample of people from over 10,000 households. Among subsets of their sample, they found 98.8 per cent of 5,732 women and 98 per cent of 4,714 men did not eat five servings of fruits or vegetables a day, a practice long recommended by doctors to reduce the risk of non-communicable diseases. The diet continues to dominated by carbohydrates, roots and tubers, Mathur said. “This could be either because of lack of awareness of the importance of fruits and vegetables or because of affordability,” he said. Public health researchers say a similar study two years from now would allow India to measure progress on reducing the prevalence of risk factors that they say ideally need to be tackled through education, poverty, and income levels.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||BJP U-turn on CM face for Kerala||The BJP has made a hurried turnaround on whether it would project “Metroman” E. Sreedharan as its chief ministerial candidate in poll-bound Kerala. A day after declaring that he had asked the BJP high command to project Sreedharan as the party’s chief ministerial face in Kerala, BJP state president K. Surendran on Friday claimed that it was not what he meant. “I had only said the people and the party want Sreedharan to be projected as our chief ministerial candidate,” Surendran told reporters on Friday. Hours after Surendran’s announcement on Thursday, minister of state for external affairs V. Muraleedharan had clarified that the party had not decided on any chief ministerial candidate. While Sreedharan had unilaterally declared that he wanted to be the chief minister if Kerala voted the party to power, the BJP has been cautious since it usually does not name anyone for the top post. According to a party source, Surendran’s announcement did not go down well with the state unit. “These matters are decided by the national leadership,” said a BJP source. He said the issue had come up at a BJP core committee meeting on Friday. Although the BJP had so far won just one seat in the Assembly, that too in 2016, the party has launched a massive campaign to carve out a toehold in the state this time.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||GST pinch for post-graduate medical test aspirants||Students aspiring to pursue a post-graduate medical course in the country will have to pay Rs 5,015 this year, a steep increase from Rs 3,750 last year. The amount includes 18 per cent GST that has been levied for the first time this year. No other entrance test in India charges such high fees. The National Board of Examinations (NBE), which conducts medical entrance exams, raised the fees for the National Entrance cum Eligibility Test (NEET)-PG 2021 from Rs 3,750 last year to Rs 4,250 this year. Together, with the GST, the total fee works out to Rs 5,015. Students of the Diplomate of National Board (DNB), a post-graduate programme equivalent to MD/MS degrees whose fees is also fixed by the NBE, will have to pay Rs 22,500 more annually because they too will be paying GST. The All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) charges Rs 2,000 for entrance tests to select students for PG courses in institutions of national importance that include all the AIIMS, the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences and Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research, Chandigarh. No GST is charged. Nearly 1.5 lakh students apply for NEET-PG every year for around 35,000 seats in government and private colleges across the country. Under the GST law, while core education activities are exempted from tax, educational services are taxable. While the PG course is core education, entrance exams are considered an education service. However, the government exempts certain exams from GST. The Common Admission Test (CAT) conducted by the IIMs, for instance, does not charge GST. “The NBE was not charging GST on NEET-PG fees till last year. It has started levying the charges suddenly without explaining the reasons behind this decision,” a student from Calcutta who has applied for the exam said. The student said despite hiking the fees, the NBE provides poor services, such as a difficult online application process and delayed publication of results. “It takes hours for the OTP to be delivered on the mobile phone of the candidate while filing the application form. The AIIMS announces its PG medical entrance tests results within a week from the test. But the NBE takes 40 days,” he said. The NBE collects Rs 25,000 from each student for counselling for admission into PG courses in government medical colleges and Rs 2 lakh for private colleges, private universities and deemed universities. “Though the NBE is supposed to refund the amount immediately after counselling, the money is refunded to those who get a seat after around eight to ten months. AIIMS does not charge any counselling fee,” the student said. Dr Vaibhav, a Gwalior-based medical practitioner, said: “It seems there is a tendency to make profit by charging exorbitant fees from students. Levying GST on the tuition fees of DNB students is also unique. Neither AIIMS nor any other institutions of national importance are charging GST on tuition fees of students after enrolment in their degree programmes.” A Delhi-based DNB student said the annual fee for the 2018 batch was Rs 80,000. From the 2019 batch, the NBE increased the fee to Rs 1.25 lakh per annum, including Rs 20,000 for accommodation. The NBE issued a notice last month to charge a GST of 18 per cent, raising the fee to Rs 1,47,500. It made this fee applicable to all the ongoing batches, including those admitted before 2019. The students pay the fee to the NBE, which transfers the money to the respective hospitals where they are enrolled. “The NBE notice said those hospitals that do not have hostels would refund the accommodation charges. The hospitals are refunding only Rs 20,000, without the GST, which has been already charged,” he said. An email was sent to Pawanindra Lal, executive director of NBE, on Thursday to seek his views on the students’ concerns over GST charges and higher entrance fees. A message was sent on his mobile phone, too. He is yet to respond.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||India: We did not clear Adani group project at Colombo port||India on Friday denied Sri Lanka’s announcement that New Delhi had cleared the proposal of an Adani group company to develop the West Container Terminal (WCT) at Colombo port. “Our high commission in Colombo has already conveyed to the government of Sri Lanka that their media release in so far as the reference to the approval of the high commission was concerned, is factually incorrect. We understand that the government of Sri Lanka has engaged directly with investors on this project,’’ external affairs ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. This is the first time the ministry has commented officially on the Lankan government’s announcement. “Cabinet approval has been granted on 01-02-21 to develop the West Container Terminal of Colombo South Port as a private public limited company in collaboration with the Sri Lanka Ports Authority and parties nominated by Indian and Japanese government,” the Lankan announcement on Tuesday had said. It added that the proposal presented by Adani Ports and Special Economic Zone Limited (APSEZ Consortium) had been approved by the Indian high commission. Asked on Friday if India had got the formal offer for participation in the project, spokesperson Srivastava did not give a specific answer. He said: “Our high commission in Colombo has already conveyed to the government of Sri Lanka that their media release in so far as the reference to the approval of the high commission was concerned, is factually incorrect. We understand that the government of Sri Lanka has engaged directly with investors on this project.’’||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Congress creates social media storm on rising prices of petroleum products||The Congress on Friday created a social media storm on rising prices of petroleum products, alleging that the Narendra Modi government was working on a sinister plan to establish the monopoly of a few capitalists. Rahul Gandhi led the party leaders in attacking the government, alleging a planned dacoity to help crony capitalists. He said the money collected by the government was not being used in funding education and healthcare of common people. Priyanka Gandhi Vadra said the government was only offering false excuses to justify its anti-people policies. The SpeakUpIndia campaign trended throughout the day on Twitter with many Congress leaders posting videos with appeals to rise against the oppressive government. Maharashtra Congress chief Nana Patole said: “Modi wants to burden the people and destroy India in his quest to help a few capitalists. The high prices are artificial. When crude oil was selling for over $100 per barrel, Manmohan Singh kept the prices of petrol and diesel low. Now when crude oil is hovering at $30-$60 per barrel, petrol-diesel prices are touching Rs 100.” Party spokesperson Supriya Shrinate pointed out that the lockdown and economic recession whittled down incomes and snatched jobs but the government was using this crisis to fill its coffers. Alleging that “Modi and truth had no relations with each other”, she contested the charge that the states were responsible for the price rise. The party also held a media conference to highlight the issue of price rise and clubbed the planned sale of profitable public sector units to paint a grim picture. Spokesperson Gourav Vallabh said, “The government has no revenue model. It has collected lakhs of crore only by taxing fuel available cheap in international market. There is no other source of revenue generation. We request the government to change the name of the department of investment and public asset management, which works under the finance ministry, to distress privatisation drive management department.” Vallabh added, “The Modi government’s motto is: Hum do, hamare do/Jo bhi mile, bech do. The entire budget this year reverberated with cries of sale. This is distress sale. There is no strategic disinvestment. This is a privatisation drive. We all know who will buy these national assets, I don’t have to reveal who bought airports, ports, mines and shipping corporation. The entire country knows who will own all these assets. The government is misleading by talking about V-shaped recovery as they are working on K-shaped recovery. Some people, we all know who, will rise fast and others will fall. The unemployment rate has started rising again. The K-shaped recovery is obvious.” He accused the government of deliberately creating situations in which profit-making PSUs can be handed over to crony capitalists for cheap. He said, “The LIC is a case in point. This government forced the LIC to make risky investments worth Rs 10 lakh crore in sick companies. That much investment was not made in decades by the LIC. During the UPA’s time, the LIC’s NPA was 1.5 per cent. Today it is 8.7 per cent. All this is being done to sell these assets to crony capitalists.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||‘Owner’ of Antilia car found dead in Thane||Hiren Mansukh, the purported owner of the vehicle that had been found parked near industrialist Mukesh Ambani’s residence last week with explosives inside, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday, police said. Mansukh, around 45 years old, had gone missing on Thursday night. The body was found on the banks of the creek along the Mumbra Reti Bunder Road, a senior Thane police official said. Mansukh’s Scorpio with gelatin sticks inside was found near Antilia, Ambani’s multi-storey residence in South Mumbai, on February 25. Police had said it had been stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. The crime branch of Mumbai police had recorded Mansukh’s statement in the case. Mansukh, who was engaged in a vehicle spare parts business, had said he had lodged a police complaint after the SUV was stolen. On Friday, his family members approached Naupada police station in Thane saying he had gone missing. An accidental death report has been registered and a probe is on, the Thane police official said. Speaking to the reporters in Mumbai, leader of the Opposition in the Maharashtra Assembly Devendra Fadnavis said the death of a prime witness showed that something was fishy. “I reiterate the demand that the case be handed over to the NIA,” the BJP leader said. Earlier, Fadnavis had raised the issue in the state Assembly, seeking a probe by the National Investigation Agency. Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh said the deceased was not the real owner of the vehicle. He said the original owner of the SUV had handed it over to Mansukh for some interior work. Deshmukh said Mansukh’s body bore no injury marks. “The autopsy report was awaited and Maharashtra police were perfectly capable of investigating the case,” he said. Fadnavis said Deshmukh had not been briefed properly about the case as Mansukh had told the police that he was the owner. Parliamentary affairs minister Anil Parab said it is not necessary that the person told the truth. “Let the police probe the matter. Give them some time and have faith in them,” Parab said, adding that the NIA was already conducting a parallel probe.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Gold-smuggling case: Illegal cash transaction slur on Pinarayi Vijayan||The customs department has informed Kerala High Court that a key accused in a gold-smuggling case has named chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan, among others, for their close connections with a UAE consul general and “illegal money transactions.” The affidavit filed on Friday was based on a confidential statement recorded earlier by Swapna Suresh, a key accused in the gold-smuggling case. “She (Swapna) has made shocking revelations about the chief minister’s close connections with the previous Consul General of the UAE and illegal money transactions carried out,” customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said in a statement filed before the court. “She has also stated with clarity about the smuggling of foreign currency at the instance of Hon’ble Chief Minister, and Hon’ble Speaker with the help of the Consulate. She has also clearly stated about the improper and illegal activities of 3 Hon’ble Ministers of the state cabinet and the Hon’ble Speaker,” the statement told the court. While Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan was already under fire for his friendship with Swapna, who used to be a secretary at the UAE consulate, the statement did not name the three ministers. Swapna is a key accused in the attempt to smuggle 30kg of gold valued at Rs 14.82 crore in a diplomatic parcel addressed to the attache of the consulate general of the UAE in Thiruvana­nthapuram. The airport customs had busted the attempt in July 2020. Her statement was recorded under Sections 108 (power to summon to give evidence) and 164 (recorded before a magistrate) of the Customs Act before a magistrate in Ernakuklam on “different dates” more than three months ago. The alleged smuggling of US dollars is related to a kickback scam involving a local builder and some consulate officials who were entrusted by Emirates Red Crescent to build new homes for victims of the 2018 floods in Kerala. They had allegedly smuggled the dollar bills from Thiruva­nanthapuram to a Gulf country. With just a month to go for the April 6 state elections in which the ruling Left Democratic Front is widely forecast to win a second consecutive term in office, the statement instantly revived the debate around the gold smuggling and related scandals. The customs statement cited Swapna as admitting that she was privy to the discussions between those named in her statement and the UAE consulate official since she was the interpreter of the conversations that transpired in Arabic and Malayalam. But the statement made it clear it had no concrete evidence and only Swapna knew what transpired. “It may kindly be noticed that most of the facts revealed in the statement are matters which are exclusively within the personal knowledge of the 1st respondent (Swapna) and can be tendered as evidence in appropriate proceedings only by her.” While the customs had subjected her to various spells of custodial interrogation, she revealed the alleged involvement of the high-profile leaders during the last interrogation from November 25, 2020. Subsequently, she recorded the statement before a magistrate. This was just days after an audio clip leaked on November 19, 2020, with the voice purportedly that of Swapna lamenting how some officials of a central agency were coercing her to name the chief minister in the scandal in exchange of being made an approver. In the 35-second audio clip that found way to the media, Swapna was heard saying:  “They did not allow me to read the statements since sixth (not clear which month)…(but) asked me to sign after quickly scrolling (the pages).” “They (investigators) are asking me to ratify that (statement in court) to make me an approver. When I said I will never do that, I was told they will come to jail and force again,” she had said sparking a massive outcry against the conduct of the agencies. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of the Congress wasted no time in demanding the chief minister’s resignation. “This is a shocking revelation. The contents of this affidavit clearly shows how relevant were our earlier demand that the chief minister should resign. The chief minister does not have the right to continue in power even for a minute. This chief minister has committed treason.” But the ruling LDF came down heavily upon the customs for trying to cover up the overall failure of three central agencies in unearthing solid evidence against anyone. Convener of Left Democratic Front A. Vijayaraghavan slammed the customs department for trying to discredit the chief minister and the state government ahead of the election. “The customs has taken over the political campaign of the BJP and UDF (Congress-led United Democratic Front),” he said informing that the LDF would march to the customs offices on Saturday. “The objective of filing a statement in the high court citing a confidential statement by one of the accused is as clear as day light…Central agencies have degenerated to being mere tools of election campaign,” the CPM state secretariat said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
06-03-2021||India||Political legacy of Biju Patnaik revisited||The political legacy of Odisha’s legendary chief minister, Biju Patnaik, father of present incumbent Naveen Patnaik took the centre-stage on Friday as Naveen called upon people to keep alive his father’s core ideology of “service and self-esteem” on the leader’s 105th birth anniversary. Leading the state in paying tributes to Biju Babu as the late leader was fondly called by friends and colleagues, Naveen underscored the importance of service and self-esteem which his father, who was twice the chief minister of the state, followed all his life. “Offered floral tribute to the legendary statesman, great freedom fighter, visionary leader and the architect of modern #Odisha, #BijuBabu on his birth anniversary. He will continue to guide and inspire all of us,” Naveen tweeted. The day was marked by cycle rallies and mini marathons organised by the young followers of Biju Babu after whom the state’s ruling party, Biju Janata Dal, has been named. The state government observed the day as “Panchayati Raj Day” as Biju Patnaik was instrumental in decentralising power to the grassroots level. Biju Babu was also a pioneer in the field of empowerment of women. He was the first leader in the country to reserve 33 per cent seats for women in the three-tier panchayat elections during his tenure as the chief minister between 1990 and 1995. His younger son and present chief minister Naveen enhanced the women’s quota to 50 per cent in the panchayats and urban local bodies polls when he came to power. He is now campaigning for implementation of 33 per cent reservation for women in state Assemblies and Lok Sabha polls. Addressing a function on the occasion Naveen said that Biju Patnaik was the epitome of Odia pride and dedicated his life to the service of the people while maintaining Odia “Swabhiman” (self-esteem). He said that the state was making progress by following the ideals of Biju Patnaik. The Odisha government’s department of sports and youth services organised a mini marathon at the Kalinga Stadium here to mark the 105th birth anniversary of the leader. Sports minister Tarun Kanti Behera flagged off the marathon in presence of hockey legend and BJD leader, Dilip Tirkey. The ruling BJD’s youth and students wing also took out a mass cycle rally from Biju Babu’s birthplace in Cuttack to Bhubaneswar. The rally starting from Anand Bhavan in Cuttack culminated near Bhubaneswar airport. Naveen inaugurated India’s first World Skill Centre (WSC) at Mancheswar Industrial Area in the evening to mark his father’s birth anniversary. With an aim to make Odisha the global capital of trained manpower, each floor of the 18-storey WSC building will be dedicated to different skills and trades. Meanwhile, tributes poured in from across India on the occasion. Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Odisha governor Gabneshi Lal and many Union ministers took to twitter to pay tribute to Biju Patnaik.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-291
