07-03-2021||India||Maharashtra records 11,141 new Covid infections in a day, highest in over 5 months||After reporting more than 10,000 fresh coronavirus positive cases on two days in a row, Maharashtra on Sunday added 11,141 new infections, taking the tally to 22,19,727 while 38 deaths pushed the toll to 52,478, the state Health department said. On Friday and Saturday, the state reported 10,216 and 10,187 cases, respectively. Mumbai city reported 1,361 fresh cases during the day while Mumbai division, including Mumbai and satellite cities, added 2,493 new infections. Mumbai city's case tally reached 3,35,569 while the overall death toll rose by four to 11,504, the department added. As against 11,141 new infections during the day, 6,013 people were discharged, taking the count of recoveries in Maharashtra to 20,68,044, the department said, adding the case recovery rate in the state now stands at 93.17 per cent and the mortality rate is 2.36 per cent. The recovery rate in 21 districts including Mumbai is more than the state's average recovery rate, it stated. On the other hand, the average COVID-19 mortality rate in 15 districts is more than the state's average mortality rate. The mortality rate in Sangli, Mumbai, Ratnagiri, Kolhapur, Parbhani, Solapur, Osmanabad, and Satara is more than three per cent, it said. The doubling rate of cases in Maharashtra now stands at 170.94 days which is now left with 97,983 active cases, the department said. Currently, 4,39,055 people are in home quarantine while 4,650other remain admitted in institutional quarantine. With 91,235 new tests, the number of samples tested for coronavirus so far in Maharashtra went up to 1,68,67,286, the department said. Nagpur reported 1,073 new cases, followed by 993 in Pune city, 573 in Pimpri Chinchwad, 469 in Aurangabad, 384 in Amravati, and 200 in Nanded, it said. Ahmednagar city saw 157 fresh cases, while Jalgaon and Nashik cities added 237 and 224 infections, respectively. In other parts of the state, Nashik division reported 1,043 cases, Pune division 2,173, Nagpur division 1,860, Latur division 506, Aurangabad division 770, and Kolhapur division 115, the department said. In Mumbai division, Thane city, Kalyan, Dombivali, Bhiwandi, Mira Bhayander, Palghar, Vasai, Virar and Raigad did not report a single COVID-19 fatality during the day. Nagpur city also did not report a single death due to the COVID-19 disease. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases 22,19,727, deaths 52,478, recoveries 20,68,044, active cases 97,983, total tests 1,68,67,286, tests conducted today 91,235. The state cabinet which met under Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray on Sunday discussed various aspects to tackle the rising number of cases, sources said, adding that no decision was taken on the exact measures to be adopted. The government is keeping a close eye on the situation, they said. As per the department, 14,94,770 people in Maharashtra have so far taken their first dose of COVID-19 vaccine including 7,59,788 health workers,4,34,787 frontline workers, and 41,989 people in the age group of 45 to 59 with comorbidities. A total of 2,58,206 people above 60 years of age have also taken the first dose of the vaccine, the department said. The second dose of the vaccine has so far been administered to 2,49,954 beneficiaries, including 2,45,926 health workers and 4,028 frontline workers, it said. 'Partial lockdown' in Aurangabad In view of the spike in coronavirus cases, the administration in Maharashtra's Aurangabad on Sunday decided to impose a "partial lockdown" in the district between March 11 and April 4, as part of which markets, malls and cinema halls shall remain shut during the weekends, officials said. The world-famous heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora, and other tourist spots in the district will also remain shut on Saturdays and Sundays, while marriages will not be allowed to be held in function halls during the lockdown period, they said. Colleges, schools and training institutes will remain shut, they said. The decision to implement this partial lockdown across the district was taken during a meeting of the 'task force' comprising Collector Sunil Chavan, Municipal Commissioner Astik Kumar Pandey, Police Commissioner Nikhil Gupta, Superintendent of Police Mokshada Patil and other officials. "The partial lockdown in Aurangabad district will come into force from March 11 and will continue till April 4," collector Chavan told reporters after the meeting. "Markets shall remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays, but essential services shall operate on these days. Marriage ceremonies will not be allowed to be held at function halls and banquet halls during this period to avoid crowding. But the facility of registered marriage will be open," he said. Malls and cinema halls will remain shut during the weekends. Restaurants and hotels can operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity till 9 pm everyday and people can order food from them till 11 pm, he added. According to Chavan, online education shall continue as colleges, schools, and training institutes shall remain shut and libraries shall operate at 50 per cent of their seating capacity. "Political, religious, social meetings, marches will be prohibited during this period. Swimming pools, sports competitions shall not be permitted," Chavan said. The world heritage sites of Ajanta and Ellora along with other tourist spots in the district shall remain closed on Saturdays and Sundays, he said. Industries will continue to operate in this period but the the workforce there will be instructed to undergo RT-PCR tests, the collector said. The administration has decided to shut Jadhavwadi market in Aurangabad city for seven days from March 11, he said, adding, "If traders from this market commit to follow guidelines we can rethink of this decision later." "Bringing activities to a halt will not be done if partial lockdown works. If cases continue to go up, the option of imposing a stricter lockdown is open," Chavan said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
07-03-2021||India|| East Coast Railway says no to hike in platform ticket price in its jurisdiction||The East Coast Railway (ECoR) on Sunday said that it has not increased the price of platform tickets in any station in its jurisdiction. The cost of platform tickets has recently been increased by up to Rs 50 in a number of stations across the country and the railways said that it is a "temporary" measure aimed at preventing crowding during the coronavirus pandemic. In a statement, the ECoR said that no passenger is being allowed at platforms without a confirmed ticket or waitlisted ticket, and hence there is no question of inconvenience of passengers or extra financial burden on them. Within the ECoR's jurisdiction, the price of platform tickets was only increased for three days at Bhubaneswar station during the initial phase of the lockdown, it said. During festival seasons such as the Rath Yatra and major fairs, the price of platform tickets is increased within the ECoR jurisdiction to avoid rush at stations.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
07-03-2021||India||India in Covid-19 pandemic endgame now, says health minister||India is on the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic and to succeed at this stage, Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said, politics should be kept out of the vaccination drive. He said people should trust the science behind vaccines and ensure that their near and dear ones get vaccinated on time. Speaking at the Delhi Medical Association's (DMA's) 62nd Annual Delhi State Medical Conference (MEDICON 2021) in collaboration with Dharamshila Narayana Hospital on Sunday, Vardhan said over 2 crore Covid-19 vaccine shots have been administered so far and the vaccination rate has been increased to 15 lakhs per day. "Unlike most other countries, we have a steady supply of Covid-19 vaccines that are safe with proven immunogenicity and efficacy. Based on the initial results, these Made in India vaccines have shown some of the lowest adverse events following immunization (AEFI) anywhere in the world," he said. Vardhan asserted that today children in the entire world need to be vaccinated against poliomyelitis only because Pakistan and Afghanistan failed to eradicate this disease from their respective countries, the statement said. "Similarly, India cannot be safe from coronavirus and Covid-19 if the rest of the world continues to be unsafe, which is why it is essential to curb vaccine nationalism. "If poor and underdeveloped countries continue to harbour the novel coronavirus, we shall not be able to ensure safety for all. A fair and equitable distribution of the vaccine is the biggest need of the hour," he said. Under the leadership of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, India, has emerged as the world's pharmacy, and it supplied 5.51 crore Covid-19 vaccines to 62 different countries, he said. "At a time of global crisis, under the leadership of Modi Ji, India has emerged as an example to the world in international cooperation," he was quoted as saying in the statement. "It was Modi ji's insistence that Covid-19 vaccines should be provided with no strings attached, and the countries without the vaccine supply should not be taken advantage of at the time of a global humanitarian crisis," he said. Looking at the possibility of eradication of the pandemic in India, Vardhan said, "We are in the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic in India, and to succeed at this stage, we need to follow 3 steps: Keep politics out of the Covid-19 vaccination drive, trust the science behind Covid-19 vaccines, and ensure our near and dear ones get vaccinated on time. The government has already involved private players in Covid-19 vaccination, and if hospitals want, they can conduct vaccination 24x7, the minister said. "My request to everyone is that just like people embraced 'Jan Andolan for Covid-19 appropriate behaviour', they should embrace Jan Andolan for Covid-19 vaccination and get all Covid-19 vaccine shots whenever they are eligible," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
07-03-2021||India||Women’s Day: females to take over farmers’ protest sites||From managing the stage, food and security to sharing tales of their struggles, and significance of taking part in the farmers' agitation, thousands of women farmers, students and activists will take over key roles at the Singhu, Tikri and Ghazipur protest sites at Delhi's borders on International Women's Day on Monday. Noting that women contribute significantly to the country's farming sector, the organisers have laid out elaborate plans to let women farmers take centre stage and all the space under the sky to acknowledge the big but unrecognised part of the farming community. Thousands of women farmers especially from Punjab and Haryana will congregate at Delhi's borders on Monday and the day will be entirely dedicated to women farmers, activists and students, farmer leaders said. Marked annually on March 8, International Women's Day (IWD) is a global day celebrating the social, economic, cultural and political achievements of women. The day also marks a call to action for accelerating gender parity. “To celebrate women's day, the stage will be managed by women, and the speakers too will be women. And there will be a small march at Singhu border, the details for which will be shared later. We are expecting more women to join at different protest sites, senior farmer leader Kavita Kurugranthy, who is also a member of the Samkyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM),” told PTI. On the occasion of International Women's Day, around 15,000 women farmers along with college principals, teachers and social workers will join the protest sites at Singhu and Tikri borders, the organisers said. Women are a big part of the farming community but they don't get recognised. In fact, they work more than the men. Approximately 10,000 women from different parts of Punjab and Haryana will come to the borders to be part of the women's day program, farmer leader Kulwant Singh Sandhu said. Sandhu said they have also asked women farmers to join the different protest sites in Punjab and Haryana on the occasion. Women protesters will talk about their rights, struggles and significance of participation in the movement at the two stages at Tikri border, one of the organisers said. “...Women will be taking over security roles at Singhu border. Hundreds of women from different parts of Punjab are coming in vehicles and will join us at the borders tomorrow. We are expecting a gathering of around 15,000 people at Tikri and 4,000 people at Singhu to mark International Women's Day,” said Jagmohan Singh of Bharatiya Kisan Union (Dakaunda), Punjab. Farmer leader of Krantikari Kisan Union Avtar Singh Mehma also said that stage management at all borders will be done by women on the occasion of International Women's Day. Those delivering speeches on the stage will also be women, whether they are from a student organisation, a farmer organisation or simply an organisation doing social work, Mehma said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
07-03-2021||India||ISRO’s new satellite will provide real-time images of Indian borders||India plans to launch on March 28 an earth observation satellite that will provide it near real-time images of its borders and also enable quick monitoring of natural disasters. GISAT-1 is slated to be lofted into space by GSLV-F10 rocket from Sriharikota spaceport in Andhra Pradesh's Nellore district, about 100 kms north of Chennai. "We are looking to launch this Geo imaging satellite on March 28, subject to weather conditions", an official of the Bengaluru-headquartered Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) told PTI on Sunday. The rocket will place the spacecraft in a geosynchronous orbit. It will be subsequently positioned in geostationary orbit, about 36,000 kms above earth's equator, using its onboard propulsion system. The launch of GISAT-1 onboard GSLV-F10 rocket was originally planned for March 5 last year but postponed a day before the blast-off due to technical reasons. Experts said positioning the state-of-the-art agile earth observation satellite in geostationary orbit has key advantages. "It's going to be a game-changer in some sense for India", a Department of Space official said. "With onboard high resolution cameras, the satellite will allow the country to monitor the Indian landmass and the oceans, particularly its borders continuously". Listing the objectives of the mission, ISRO has earlier said the satellite would provide near real-time imaging of the large area region of interest at frequent intervals. It would help in quick monitoring of natural disasters, episodic and any short-term events. The third objective is to obtain spectral signatures of agriculture, forestry, mineralogy, disaster warning, cloud properties, snow and glacier and oceanography. GISAT-1 will facilitate near real-time observation of the Indian subcontinent, under cloud-free condition, at frequent intervals, ISRO said. The planned launch of GISAT-1, weighing about 2,268 kg, comes close on the heels of the successful February 28 PSLV- C51 mission that orbited Brazil's earth observation satellite Amazonia-1 and 18 co-passengers, including five built by students. Secretary in the Department of Space and ISRO Chairman K Sivan told PTI last week that the technical issues that led to postponement of GISAT-1 mission have been resolved and the further delay in the launch was due to COVID-19-induced lockdown which affected normal work. According to sources, GISAT-1 will be followed by the maiden flight of Small Satellite Launch Vehicle, ISRO's compact launcher, likely in April. SSLV has been designed to meet "launch on demand" requirements in a cost-effective manner for small satellites in a dedicated and ride-share mode. It is a three-stage all solid vehicle with a capability to launch up to 500 kg satellite mass into 500 km low earth orbit (LEO) and 300 kg into Sun Synchronous Orbit (SSO). By comparison, PSLV -- the workhorse launch vehicle of ISRO -- can take up to 1,750 kg payload into SSO of 600 km altitude. With lower per kg launch cost, the mini launcher will have multiple satellite mounting options for nano, micro and small satellites. Sivan had earlier termed the SSLV an innovative vehicle which can be assembled in just 72 hours. "Instead of 60 days (for building a PSLV), it (SSLV) will be assembled in three days; instead of 600 people (needed to build a PSLV), it (SSLV) will be done by six people", he had said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Army converts bus stand to ‘street library’ for JK children||In a novel initiative, the Army has converted a dilapidated bus stand in a South Kashmir village into a ‘street library’ to help students of neighbouring areas to prepare for competitive exams and higher studies. The library, set up in the last week of February by the 18 Rashtriya Rifles of the Army, has become an instant hit among the students of Ranipura, Chittisigpura, Kejrival and Devipora villages, officials said. Seeing students of higher classes getting engrossed in books, the younger lot from primary classes surrounded Lt Col Rohit Jha, Commanding officer of the 18 RR, which comes under the Victor Force that looks after South and central Kashmir, and demanded that some story books be kept for them too. A pleasantly surprised Lt Col Jha immediately ordered some comics having a social message and books which can increase their knowledge, officials said. The ‘street library’ opens early in the morning and within no time, children are seen flocking to the bus stand and other story books which have been donated by 2-Sector Headquarters of the Rashtriya Rifles, a forced carved out of the army for fighting terrorism in the hinterland. The bus stand located at Devipora-Chittisingpora junction in Anantnag district has now virtually become a hub of knowledge which is often flocked by youngsters appearing for competitive exams and higher studies. The army unit has also tied up with 'Books of India' society which has agreed to supply some books for the cause. The Army said it is not only about reading, books can also be used to relax minds of students. In order to help students, they have also kept a ‘book jar’, from where children pick up a slip of paper and take out a book ranging from realistic fiction to science and historical fiction or romance to fantasy or mystery books. The ‘street library’ showcases India-2020 of late President A P J Abdul Kalam and compilation of Khalil Gibran or the world's greatest short stories. The bus stand was burnt down by miscreants in 2016 and a quote of famous American writer Sidney Sheldon was an inspiration for setting up the ‘street library’. “Libraries store the energy that fuels the imagination. They open up windows to the world and inspire us to explore and achieve, and contribute to improving our quality of life.” The Army plans to open more such street libraries in the near future to help the youth achieve the power of knowledge and look out for their better future. The ‘street library’ has a notice board to announce new arrivals of books besides pasting Quick Response or QR code of national level entrance exams and a guide on how to be a part of the Army. The officials said that some students have also started demanding some books which the Army tries to procure the market or through some NGO.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Modi attacks Mamata, promises ‘real change’ for a better Bengal||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched a blistering attack on Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, accusing her of "betraying and insulting" the people of the state who trusted she would bring about a change after the Left rule. He also accused her of nepotism by choosing to play the limited role of "bua" (aunt) to her "bhatija" (nephew) instead of becoming "Didi" (elder sister) to the people. Addressing a massive BJP rally at the Brigade Parade Grounds, his first in Bengal after the announcement of the dates of Assembly polls, Modi hit out at his detractors who accuse him of favouring a handful of his businessmen friends. "You have betrayed and insulted the people of Bengal who trusted that you will be the harbinger of change after the end of the Left rule. You smashed to smithereens (chaknachoor) their hopes and dreams," he said, excoriating the TMC supremo. He alleged Banerjee promoted nepotism while neglecting the people who fondly called her 'Didi'. "Bengal chose you in the role of 'Didi' but you preferred being 'bua' to your 'bhatija'," he said. The BJP has been accusing Banerjee of trying to install her nephew and Diamond Harbour MP Abhishek as the next chief minister. Hitting back at rival leaders like former Congress president Rahul Gandhi and Banerjee, who often accuse him of favouring his industrialist friends, Modi said given his humble background he valued friendship. "All 130 crore people of India are my friends, I work for them. I gave 90 lakh gas connections to my friends of Bengal. I have special affinity with tea, and the tea garden workers of Bengal are my friends for whom I have implemented a social security scheme," he said. Modi has often spoken about how he used to sell tea at a railway station and on trains as a small boy. He also attacked Banerjee for triggering the insider- outsider debate. "When those believing in Marx and Lenin and a party like the TMC, an offshoot of the Congress, are parties of insiders, how the BJP, for whose foundation Syama Prasad Mookerjee was the source of inspiration, can be a party of outsiders," he said. The prime minister said he was committed to bringing about "asol parivartan" (real change) in Bengal where all sections of people progress but nobody is appeased, and infiltration is stopped. "Be it North Bengal or South Bengal, ordinary people or refugees....all will progress but nobody will be appeased. Infiltration will be stopped completely," he asserted, reaffirming his commitment to the Mantra of 'Sabka Saath, Sabka Vishwas'. Accusing the TMC government of destroying the democratic system, he alleged 'loktantra' (democracy) was replaced with 'lootantra' (systematic plunder) in the 10 years of its rule. "Lotus is about to bloom in Bengal because of the 'kichad' (muck) created by you, Didi," he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Tamil Nadu polls: DMK gives 26 Assembly seats to Congress||After tough negotiations that stretched for days, the DMK on Sunday allotted 25 assembly seats and the Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency to its key ally, the Congress. A formal pact for the April 6 Assembly election was signed by DMK president M K Stalin and Tamil Nadu Congress Committee chief K S Alagiri at the Dravidian party's headquarters 'Anna Arivalayam' here. After days of deliberations, a point of conclusion was reached late Saturday night and Congress leader and Tamil Nadu in charge Dinesh Gundu Rao told reporters that the agreement was signed in "a spirit of cooperation" when the country was facing a 'threat' from the BJP. Rao and Alagiri called on Stalin at his residence here last night and said the pact would be signed on Sunday, but declined to give an indication on the number of seats that would be allotted. Asked if his party was satisfied with the number of seats allotted by its ally, Rao said the only aim was to ensure the victory of the secular front led by DMK. "Once we sign an agreement, we have to be satisfied because this has been done after a lot of deliberations. Our only aim is now to see that the secular front wins. The time for being satisfied or dissatisfied is over. Now we are in the battlefield. We have to take on our opponents," Rao said. The decision on accepting the DMK's offer was taken only after consulting all senior leaders and the high command and "there is no difference of opinion within our party on this issue," he added. TNCC chief Alagiri, however, pitched in, saying, "we are fully satisfied." Rao said the battle against the saffron party was not confined to ideology alone, but extended to "saving democracy" from its clutches. The country was being run like a "dictatorship" and elected governments of opposition parties were toppled, he alleged. Recently, the Congress government in neighbouring Puducherry lost majority after its MLAs resigned and Chief Minister V Narayanasamy Cabinet resigned. Rao alleged that the BJP was using "money and government" power to destabilise and finish off the opposition parties. "Their agenda in Tamil Nadu is also the same," he claimed, adding that by aligning with the AIADMK, the BJP's intention was to "finish off" that party too. "This is a very dangerous situation the country is facing," he said. The secular front of DMK, Congress, Left and regional outfits in Tamil Nadu would send a message across the country that "fascist forces" shall be prevented from gaining ground when like-minded parties joined hands, he said. Congress always stood for democratic principles, Rao said and expressed confidence that the secular alliance would sweep the elections in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. The bypoll to Kanyakumari Lok Sabha constituency was necessitated following the death of H Vasanthakumar, who was elected from that segment in 2019. Kumar passed away last year due to Covid-19 and the seat fell vacant. The Tamil Nadu Assembly has 234 seats. The DMK has so far allotted 48 seats to allies. While Congress has got 25, MDMK, Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi and CPI have got six each, the IUML three and Manithaneya Makkal Katchi two.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Varavara Rao released from Mumbai hospital||Poet-activist Varavara Rao, an accused in the Elgar Parishad-Maoist links case, has been discharged from Nanavati Hospital here, sources said. The 82-year-old activist, who was granted interim bail for six months on medical grounds by the Bombay High Court on February 22, was discharged from the private hospital late Saturday night, they said. Rao, arrested in 2018, was admitted to the medical facility in November last year due to ill-health. The HC had last month directed that he be released immediately on bail after being discharged from hospital. While granting him bail, the high court had asked Rao to furnish a personal bond of Rs 50,000 and two solvent sureties of the like amount. Rao later requested the court that he be allowed to furnish cash surety as the process of submitting solvent sureties was taking time. The court last Monday allowed Rao to furnish a cash surety of Rs 50,000 and gave him time till April 5 to submit the two solvent sureties of the same amount. The case is being probed by the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The HC while granting him bail imposed various conditions on his release, including a direction to remain in Mumbai, within the jurisdiction of the NIA court here. After the six-month period, Rao will have to either surrender before the trial court or approach the HC for extension of the bail period. The case pertains to alleged inflammatory speeches made at the Elgar Parishad conclave held in Pune on December 31, 2017, which, the police claimed, triggered violence the next day near the Koregaon-Bhima war memorial located on the outskirts of the western Maharashtra city. The police have claimed the conclave was organised by people with alleged Maoist links.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Covid: over 18,000 cases for second straight day||The daily rise in new coronavirus infections were recorded above 18,000 for the second consecutive day taking India's total tally of Covid-19 cases to 1,12,10,799, the Union Health Ministry said on Sunday. The active cases registered an increase for the fifth consecutive day and the Covid-19 active caseload increased to 1,84,523 which now comprises 1.65 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has dropped further to 96.95 per cent, the ministry data stated. A total of 18,711 new infections were registered in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,57,756 with 100 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,68,520 which translates to a national Covid-19 recovery rate of 96.95 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's Covid-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to ICMR, 22,14,30,507 samples have been tested up to March 6 with 7,37,830 samples being tested on Saturday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||EC asks health ministry not to use Narendra Modi’s photograph on Covid vaccine certificates||The Election Commission has asked the Union health ministry not to use Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photograph on Covid vaccine certificates in the five poll-bound states, responding to a complaint from the Trinamul Congress. The ministry has been given “two to three days” to modify its computer system, which generates these certificates for those who receive the vaccine, a commission source said. Trinamul had last week approached the poll panel over national-level violations of the model code of conduct, objecting to Modi’s images being displayed at petrol pumps and on the vaccination certificates. A senior Election Commission official told The Telegraph: “We wrote to the health ministry and they said it was a central scheme being implemented across India, and that the certificates were computer-generated. So, we wrote to them on Friday (saying) the MCC (model code of conduct) must be implemented in letter and spirit. The official added: “We told them to come up with a solution, such as a filter in the template, within two to three days so that the (Covid vaccine) certificates printed in the poll-bound states do not carry such images during the poll period.” The Prime Minister’s photo also appears on publicity material of the Ujjwala subsidised cooking gas scheme for households below the poverty line. In 2018, the Consortium of Indian Petroleum Dealers had said they were being compelled by PSU oil marketing companies to publicise the scheme at fuel stations. In recent elections, the poll panel has prohibited such display during the election period. On Wednesday, the Election Commission gave fuel stations 72 hours to remove or cover up these photos in Assam, Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry, where the poll process has begun. Clause 4 of Paragraph VII of the model code of conduct prohibits, during elections, government advertisements that seek “publicity regarding achievements”. The poll panel has used this to order the removal of similar publicity even from government websites during polls. A health ministry source said: “We will peruse the instructions of the ECI (Election Commission of India) and then comply with the directions.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||J&K election authorities stir PoK questions ||Jammu and Kashmir’s election authorities have disqualified from contesting polls two women from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir who are married to Indian Kashmiris, prompting questions over New Delhi’s claim about PoK being an integral part of India. Somiya Sadaf and Shazia Aslam had contested the District Development Council elections from the Valley’s Drugmulla and Sonawari constituencies in December. They are married to former Valley militants who had crossed the border to receive arms training but returned under the government’s rehabilitation scheme of 2010. Counting was stopped at both constituencies after complaints were lodged saying the two women were not entitled to contest the elections. The state election commission has now declared the elections to the two constituencies invalid and ordered a fresh vote. The two women have been disqualified from contesting elections and orders have been issued to delete their names from the voters’ list. The commission has said the two women were “reportedly” not from this country and had entered wrong information while declaring their place of birth and citizenship. It said the women had failed to prove their Indian citizenship. “Now therefore in terms of Rule 21(A) of the Registration of Electors Rules, I960, the name Shazia Begum and Sumiya Bagum are treated as deleted ab-initio from electoral roll of Panchayat Halqa Sadunara-A,” the commission said. Somiya and Shazia, who had filed their nomination papers as Independent candidates, can appeal against the order. People’s Democratic Party spokesperson Najmus Saqib said the two women’s disqualification was bizarre in the light of a parliamentary resolution that says the other Kashmir is an integral part of India. “I see a huge contradiction (between) the claim (by the Centre) and the situation on the ground,” Saqib said. “In Parliament they claimed that Pakistan-administered Kashmir was an integral part of India and that they would take it back. Now they are denying their own citizens the right to contest elections here.” Women from PoK and Pakistan who live in the Valley allege discrimination on multiple fronts, and have been demanding deportation to Pakistan if they are not accepted as Indian citizens. Pakistani and PoK wives of Indian Kashmiris have to go through the normal process of acquiring Indian citizenship, after the mandatory waiting period. However, tens of thousands of people who had migrated from mainland Pakistan to Jammu and Kashmir shortly after Partition were granted domicile and other rights following the abrogation of Article 370 provisions in 2019. Saira Javaid, a Pakistani woman married to a Kupwara resident, said the latest orders had reconfirmed that the Indian government had no intention of accepting women like her. “In that case, we should be deported to Pakistan along with our husbands and children,” she said. Saira said some women from across the border had in the past contested panchayat polls and been elected as sarpanch or panch. “If we can’t contest elections, how were they allowed to do so?” she said. Election officials in Kashmir did not respond to calls or text messages from this newspaper.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Health ministry sends teams to probe Covid surge in Maharashtra and Punjab||Amid rising Covid cases in multiple states, India’s health ministry on Saturday sent expert teams to probe worrying surges in Covid cases in Maharashtra and Punjab and flagged deviations from standard testing protocols in eight other states. The public health teams in Maharashtra and Punjab will visit hotspots, ascertain reasons for the surge and guide local authorities on surveillance, containment and control measures, the health ministry said. In both states, the seven-day average of daily new cases has increased more than three-fold over the past four weeks — from around 2,500 to 8,600 daily cases in Maharashtra and from 199 to 741 in Punjab. Health officials have identified 63 districts in eight states — Delhi (nine), Haryana (15), Andhra Pradesh (10), Odisha (10), Himachal Pradesh (nine), Uttarakhand (seven), Goa (two), and Chandigarh (one) — where the Covid tests have fallen. Health secretary Rajesh Bhushan and Vinod Paul, member of Niti Aayog and a top adviser to the Centre on Covid, spoke on Saturday with officials from these states, pointing out the decreased testing and contact tracing. They have asked the states to improve testing, so that cases do not remain undiagnosed, intensify surveillance and containment in areas with clusters of cases and accelerate vaccinations for priority groups in districts with a large number of cases. The surge in multiple states has pushed up India’s overall seven-day average of daily new cases by over 5,000 in the past month — from 11,000 daily cases in early February to 16,000 on Saturday. A central health team that probed the surge in Maharashtra has said the exact causes remain “unknown” but has cited “Covid inappropriate behaviour” due to lack of fear of the disease, pandemic fatigue, and crowding from gram panchayat elections, marriage season, opening of schools and crowded public transport. Instead of fearing the disease, people fear being detected positive and being isolated and pulled away from work, the team said in a report submitted to the health ministry earlier this week. The team said political, religious, and marriage gatherings have contributed to the surge in several of Maharashtra’s districts. The report cautioned that the epidemic could “flare up” in other states such as Bengal where elections are coming up. The team said the virus appears to be spreading to “hitherto unaffected areas” and people are not forthcoming, following quarantine restrictions or getting tested. The health machinery may have become lax after cases fell since September, it said. In Nagpur, for instance, the team learnt that senior doctors and specialists do not actually attend to Covid patients, leaving clinical management to juniors, impacting nuanced therapy such as oxygen delivery.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Bollywood actor Taapsee mocks ‘memory of 2013’||Bollywood actor Taapsee Pannu on Saturday put out a three-point statement to address the allegations of tax evasion against her. Income tax officials had on March 3 launched raids on the homes and offices of Pannu  and film director Anurag Kashyap, both fierce critics of the Narendra Modi government. Breaking her silence, the actor tweeted: “3 days of intense search of 3 things primarily 1. The keys of the “alleged” bungalow that I apparently own in Paris. Because summer holidays are around the corner. “2. The “alleged” receipt worth 5 crores to frame n keep for future pitching coz I’ve been refused that money before. “3. My memory of 2013 raid that happened with me according to our honourable finance minister.” Finance minister Nirmala Sitharaman had, in reply to a question whether the Modi government was going after its critics using central agencies, said on Friday the same individuals were raided in 2013 as well but no issue was made out of it then as is being done now. “First of all, I am not commenting on any A or B individual. (But) since the names were taken, (I want to say) the very same names were raided in 2013,” Sitharaman said during an interaction with journalists at the Indian Women’s Press Corps. While Kashyap had faced a service tax evasion case, none of the officials this paper spoke to could recall a raid on Pannu in 2013, when she was still a newcomer in the film industry. Pannu ended her last tweet with a post script: “‘Not so sasti’ anymore”, taking a swipe at actor Kangana Ranaut’s earlier comment that the Pink star was Ranaut’s “sasti (cheap) copy”. Ranaut, a self-confessed Modi supporter, was last September accorded Y-category security by the Centre after a tussle with the Maharashtra government. Kashyap and Pannu have been outspoken critics of the government and have freely expressed their views on various issues, including the farmers’ protests and the new citizenship regime, at a time when most film stars have chosen either to remain silent or toe the government line. Recently, Pannu had appeared to criticise the show of solidarity by celebrities, including actors Akshay Kumar and Ajay Devgn and filmmaker Karan Johar, with the government in response to pop star Rihanna’s post drawing attention to the farmers’ protest. Pannu had tweeted on February 4: “If one tweet rattles your unity, one joke rattles your faith or one show rattles your religious belief then it’s you who has to work on strengthening your value system, not become ‘propaganda teacher’ for others.” Kashyap also tweeted on Saturday, saying he and Pannu had resumed work. He shared a photo that captured a leisurely moment with Pannu during a shooting session. “And we restart our shoot #DoBaaraa,” Kashyap wrote.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
07-03-2021||India||Farmers complete 100 days of protest,  Congress calls it a dark chapter of brutality||As farmers completed 100 days sitting outside Delhi’s borders, the Congress on Saturday said this was a dark chapter of India’s democracy because the insensitive Narendra Modi government had crossed all limits of brutality instead of democratically responding to their genuine demands for withdrawal of the black laws. The Congress also stuck its neck out by linking the outcome of the impending election in five states to the farm laws, with the party’s communications chief Randeep Surjewala appealing to voters to teach the BJP a lesson for being so cruel to the farmers. Defeat would open the eyes of the government that had crossed all “limits of insensitivity and brutality” in the last 100 days, he said. Rahul Gandhi tweeted: “Whose sons lay their lives on the nation’s borders, this government planted nails for those people on Delhi’s borders. The farmers are fighting for their rights, the government offers atrocities.” In another tweet, Rahul hailed the patience and determination of the farmers, saying: “They wait for the crop for months after sowing seeds, not intimidated by bad weather. The government will have to withdraw these laws.” Posting a video encapsulating the suffering and grit of the farmers, Priyanka Gandhi tweeted: “Hundred days of farmers’ struggle, of the fight for rights and self-esteem, of following the path shown by Gandhi, Sardar Patel, Nehru, Shastri and Bhagat Singh. Hundred days of BJP government’s arrogance, of assault on farmers, of lies and humiliation of farmers.” While the video shows how police blocked their way, dug up roads and planted nails and barbed wire, used water cannons and lathicharge, Surjewala said in a statement: “The Prime Minister said the government is a call away from the farmers. While Modi is in constant touch with the capitalist friends, he is constantly out of coverage area for the farmers. He fully understands the ill-effects of these farm laws, how the mandi system will be finished and unrestricted storage will allow price manipulation. But he will not scrap these laws because he has conspired to hand over the agriculture trade worth Rs 25 lakh crore to his capitalist friends.” Party spokesperson Pawan Khera said: “Farmers have braved the government’s brutalities, extreme winter, defamatory narrative and deaths of their colleagues. While most of us are busy handling our daily chores and paying EMIs despite extreme miseries and frustration, one section has shown the courage for raising the voice against injustice. The farmers are not only fighting for themselves but for the entire poor and middle class who will suffer the dangerous consequences of these laws.” He added: “This is a dark chapter of our democracy. The farmers were demonised for holding peaceful protests, called terrorists…. We may be entering a dangerous arena as we don’t know how this regime will behave after being cornered. We have seen farmers protest in Delhi during Rajiv Gandhi’s time when they sat at Boat Club (just in front of Parliament). The government then didn’t try to remove them or malign them by calling them terrorists or agents of foreign powers.” Farmer appeal The Samyukta Kisan Morcha (SKM), spearheading the farmers’ movement, on Saturday issued an appeal to all citizens of Haryana to mount pressure on their legislators to vote against the M.L. Khattar government in the March 10 vote of no confidence. The motion has been moved by the Congress on the issue of the farmers’ protests. “SKM appeals to all citizens of Haryana to approach their legislators, especially from BJP and JJP, and ensure that the anti-farmer state government of BJP and its allies is defeated in this no-confidence motion,’’ the Morcha said. The SKM has warned that MLAs who do not stand with farmers “will be taught a lesson by people in future’”. The farm protests enjoy popular support across the state. The BJP-JJP alliance has 50 legislators in a House with an effective strength of 86.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Kerala official  to Left Front: Don’t  intimidate||A senior customs official who filed a statement containing serious accusations of “illegal monetary transactions” against Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan has declared an open war against the ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) whose members marched to various offices of the department in protest on Saturday. “A political party trying intimidation, will not work,” customs commissioner Sumit Kumar said in a Facebook post just around the time when thousands of LDF workers marched to customs offices in Thiruvananthapuram, Kochi and Kozhikode on Saturday morning as part of their protest against the timing of the statement that came ahead of the April 6 elections. Along with the comment, Kumar posted two news clippings of the story about Vijayan being linked to the scam. The officer had on Friday filed a statement before the Kerala High Court quoting a confidential statement recorded by Swapna Suresh, one of the key accused in a gold-smuggling case. In her statements, Swapna has named the chief minister, the Assembly Speaker and three ministers in the smuggling of $190,000 (approximately Rs 1.3 crore) by the consul-general of the UAE in Thiruvananthapuram. A former secretary of the consul-general, Swapna has been accused of attempting to smuggle 30kg of gold ingots from Dubai in July 2020. Her statement that raised serious allegations against Vijayan, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan and three unnamed ministers, comes at a time the state elections are just a month away. This made the LDF cry political vendetta and manipulation by central agencies to tarnish the government. The alleged smuggling of dollars is linked to a kickback scam in the construction of homes for the 2018 flood victims. It is alleged that the UAE consul-general had sought the kickback in dollars from a local contractor assigned for the project entirely funded by Emirates Red Crescent. The money was allegedly smuggled to Muscat by a former financial head of the consulate. Thiruvananthapuram district secretary of CPM Anavoor Nagappan said he would be surprised if customs officers did not post such messages on social media. “I am not surprised at this since they are not just investigating officers, but agents of the BJP.” He accused the Centre of deploying the RSS sympathisers in government bodies, including central investigating agencies. “The Centre has communalised almost all constitutional bodies and have no shame in doing so,” said Nagappan, who was among those who marched to the customs office in Thiruvananthapuram. CPM politburo member M.A. Baby accused the customs department of getting Swapna to make such a statement under duress since she was never known to make any such revelation when the customs, Enforcement Directorate and National Investigation Agency interrogated her for 32 days. “These three agencies interrogated Swapna for 32 days. She did not make such a statement then. (This statement) is because of their pressure and threats,” he told the protesters outside the customs office in Thiruvananthapuram. The customs department has meanwhile served a notice to Sreeramakrishnan asking him to appear before the investigating team on March 12 in connection with the dollar-smuggling case. They had in January recorded the statement of his assistant private secretary K. Ayyappan in connection with the case.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||BSF jawan shoots self with service rifle at Koraput base camp||A BSF jawan allegedly committed suicide by shooting himself with his service rifle at his base camp in Koraput district, about 500km from here, on Saturday, reports our correspondent. The jawan Indra Singh, who belonged to the 15th battalion of the BSF deployed to counter the Maoist threat in the tribal dominated district, had returned to the base camp on Friday after completing his leave vacation in his home state of Rajasthan. On Saturday, his colleagues rushed to his camp hearing the gunshot. They found Indra Singh lying in a pool of blood. His service rifle was found near the body. The BSF, which has been deployed in Koraput and neighbouring  Malkgangiri to counter the Maoist activities, has begun an investigation into the incident which seems to be a case of suicide.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
07-03-2021||India||Odisha government sets up World Skill Centre for youths||The Odisha government has set up a World Skill Centre (WSC), a premier advance skill training institute to hone the skills of the youth, make them employable in different industries and create globally employable youth in the state. Inaugurating the WSC on Friday on the occasion of the 105th birth anniversary of legendary chief minister Biju Patnaik, chief minister Naveen Patnaik said, “Odisha has made rapid strides in skill development in the last five years. We have created new avenues for our youth to compete with their counterparts anywhere. Our aim is to meet their aspirations, to make them globally employable.” Naveen said the government is intensely investing in the future of youth by creating infrastructure and mechanism for making them future ready. “World Skill Centre will significantly accelerate this endeavour by providing advance skill training to our youth and prepare them for competing at Global level,” Naveen said. Officials maintained that the 18 storey World Skill Centre is being modelled around leading TVET Institute (Technical and Vocational Education and Training), ITE (Institute of Technical Education) Singapore and seeks inspiration from World Skills, Russia and GIFTS (Global Institute for Transferring Skills), South Korea. WSC is being established under Odisha Skill Development Project assisted by the Asian Development Bank with ITE Education Services (ITEES) Singapore as knowledge partner. Minister for skill development and technical education Premananda Nayak, chairman, Odisha Skill Development Authority (OSDA) Subroto Bagchi, chief secretary S.C. Mohapatra, director general Asian Development Bank Kenichi Yokoyama, chief executive officer ITEES Bruce Poh, commissioner cum secretary Skill Development & Technical Education Sanjay Kumar Singh conveyed their wishes on the inauguration of the World Skill Centre. Industry leaders were also present at the event. Highlighting the achievements of “Skilled-in-Odisha” during the last five years, Subroto Bagchi said: “The state will create Odisha Skill Vision 2030 and expand skill development to village level.” Highlighting the role of the WSC in the skill ecosystem of India, Sanjay Singh said, “The World Skill Centre will act as the Centre for Industry Partnership and landing point for industries in Odisha for their employment needs.” Set up at a budget of nearly Rs 1342.2 crore, the Centre would run long-term manufacturing and services programmes as a finishing school for the best among the ITI and Polytechnic students as well as serve as a centre for capacity building for ITI and polytechnic teachers. “The World Skill Centre is ready to roll out the first set of courses in areas like refrigeration & air conditioning, mechanical & electrical services, vertical transportation, precision engineering, mechatronics and electrical technology along with a few other courses in the services sectors like hair fashion & design and beauty & wellness,” Singh said. The WSC is going to be the nodal agency for preparing Odisha’s youth for the World Skills Competition. It will act as the centre for industry partnership and landing point for industries in Odisha for their employment needs. “The World Skill Centre will be Nodal agency of the state for the state chapter of world skills and will prepare Odisha’s youth for global glory,” said CEO, OSDA, Rashmita Panda.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-289
