08-03-2021||India||Covid-19: unauthorised political statements invokes false sense of security, says IMA||Public representatives and politicians should not make unauthorised statements indicating that the Covid-19 pandemic is nearing an end as such remarks invoke a "false sense of security" among the people, the Indian Medical Association said on Monday. The association's reaction came after Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Sunday said that the country is "in the end game of the Covid-19 pandemic" and Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the coronavirus is nearing an "endemic" phase in the national capital. An infection is said to be endemic in a population when it is constantly maintained at a baseline level in a geographic area without external inputs. It is incorrect to say at this stage that it is the end of the pandemic or it is endemic, the doctors' body said. "Unauthorised political statements shall invoke a false sense of security and hence, the Indian Medical Association, whose 740 frontline warriors lost their life in this war against the coronavirus, appeals to all our fellow citizens to be vigilant on wearing mask, physical distancing and hygiene and take vaccination to get yourself immunity and altruistic health contribution for herd immunity," it said. "The introduction of a much efficacious and safe coronavirus vaccine in our country, is a tool for us to face this challenging war with confidence," the Indian Medical Association (IMA) said. Mutated strains of the coronavirus detected in the UK, South Africa and Brazil "are still haunting us", the association said in a statement. The IMA claimed that it has been seen in the last one week that there has been a 35 to 40 per cent increase in the number of cases, and even in the national capital, the daily average has risen from 100 to 140 patients. "It is painful to note that the discussion on endemic versus pandemic status of the disease is echoing in the political corridors. However, it ought to be substantiated by scientific evidence by the World Health Organisation or the ICMR (Indian Council for Medical Research) only," it said. "Let us not boast or (blow the) trumpet ourselves, and indulge in prognosticating the course of this viral disease and off guard our preventive measures against this dreaded disease at this stage," the IMA warned. The IMA feels that as countries are still reeling "under the clutches of this disease, we need to deem it as pandemic only at this stage and work hard" on preventive, curative and rehabilitative works, according to the statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India|| Budget session likely to conclude before 1st phase of polls||The Budget Session of Parliament is likely to be cut short and may conclude before the first phase of elections on March 27, while the two Houses will resume their normal timing of 11 am onwards from Tuesday, sources said. Several parties had requested that the session, which was originally scheduled to continue till April 8, be curtailed due to the assembly elections in four states and one union territory being held between March 27 and April 29. Rajya Sabha Chairperson M Venkaiah Naidu announced the new timings for the Upper House this morning on the first day of the second part of the Budget Session. Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla made a similar announcement later in the day. Birla said Lok Sabha members would also sit in galleries, apparently to maintain distancing norms. Birla made the announcement when the House met at 5 pm after an hour-long adjournment after paying tributes to two sitting and seven former members who died recently. A final decision on curtailment of the session would also be taken by Birla who met floor leaders of various parties on the matter earlier in the day. Keeping in mind the distancing norms due to the COVID-19 pandemic, both Houses were meeting in two shifts since the Monsoon Session, with Rajya Sabha meeting in the first half of the day and Lok Sabha in the second half. There was no Winter Session of Parliament due to the pandemic. Some Rajya Sabha members were sitting in Lok Sabha chambers to adhere to distancing norms. Similar was the case with Lok Sabha members. Some Lok Sabha members were also seated in the visitors' gallery above the House chamber. The move to return to normal timings was taken a day before COVID-19 vaccination drive for members of Parliament begins from Tuesday. Floor leaders of various political parties on Monday urged Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla to curtail the Budget Session to allow them focus on the assembly polls in four states and one union territory. At a meeting of Lok Sabha's Business Advisory Committee (BAC), Birla spoke with various floor leaders on a one-on-one basis to take a sense on curtailing the session which began on Monday. Members of the Trinamool Congress and the DMK did not attend the meeting. Parliamentary sources said the Biju Janata Dal was of the view that assembly elections keep taking place every few months and the session should not be curtailed on this ground. YSR Congress Party member P V Midhun Reddy said if the current session is curtailed, the next session should be longer. Some members said nearly 145 members have written to the Speaker seeking curtailment of the session. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha chairperson, TMC national spokesperson and RS member Derek O'Brien said due to the polls, MPs of his party would not be able to attend the Parliament session. "I am writing to you as the parliamentary party leader (Rajya Sabha) for the All India Trinamool Congress. Sir, we urge you to consider the adjournment of the ensuing Parliament session, because of the declaration of elections in five states," he said. "The Election Commission of India, on 26th February 2021, has announced election for five states, including Bengal. Due to the ongoing intensive election preparations in the State, the members of Parliament from the All India Trinamool Congress would find it difficult to attend the second part of the Budget Session beginning from 8th March 2021," he wrote in the letter. TMC MP Sudeep Bandyopadhyay has also written to the Lok Sabha Speaker on the same issue, requesting that Parliament be adjourned due to the polls. While O'Brien's letter is dated March 8, Bandyopadhyay had written to the LS Speaker on February 6. O'Brien, in his letter, mentioned two precedents when Parliament sessions were adjourned due to polls in states. He cited the example of the 222nd session which commenced on February 21, 2011, and was scheduled to conclude on April 21, 2011. However, due to state assembly elections in Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, the House was adjourned sine die on March 25, 2011, he said. The second instance he provided was of the 214th session which commenced on October 17, 2008, and was adjourned early on October 24, 2008, to meet again on 10 December 2008. The session, as per the original schedule, was to continue up to November 21, 2008. However, due to state assembly elections in some states, the House was adjourned till December 10, 2008.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India||Modi keen on showcasing India's freedom movement in 75th independence day celebrations||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday said the celebrations for India's 75 years of independence should reflect the spirit of the country's freedom movement and showcase its achievements to the world since 1947. Speaking after the first meeting of the 259-member high-level national committee headed by the prime minister to commemorate 75 years of India's independence, Modi said public participation should be the basis of the celebrations. "It is an opportunity to showcase to the world our achievements since 1947. We need to tell people about the sacrifice of freedom movement heroes," he said after the virtual meeting. The members of the committee include former president Pratibha Patil, Chief Justice of India S A Bobde, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, 28 chief ministers, artistes like Lata Mangeshkar, A R Rahman, Nobel laureate Amartya Sen, senior BJP leader L K Advani, almost all Union ministers and several governors. Opposition leaders like Congress chief Sonia Gandhi, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, TMC supremo Mamata Banerjee and former Uttar Pradesh chief ministers Mulayam Singh Yadav and Mayawati are also part of the panel.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India||NIA takes over case of vehicle with explosives near Mukesh Ambani's home||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) has taken over the case of a vehicle laden with explosives being found near industrialist Mukesh Ambani's residence in Mumbai, an official spokesperson said on Monday. The NIA took over the case following orders from the Ministry of Home Affairs, he said. The agency is in the process of re-registering the case, the spokesperson added. The Scorpio, with 20 gelatin sticks inside, was found near Ambani's high-rise south Mumbai home on February 25. Police had said the vehicle was stolen from Airoli-Mulund Bridge on February 18. Hiren Mansukh, the owner of the vehicle, was found dead in a creek in Thane on Friday.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-286
08-03-2021||India||Rape hearing misreported, says SC bench headed by Chief Justice||A Supreme Court bench headed by Chief Justice S.A. Bobde on Monday said its observations during the hearing of a rape case last week were completely misreported and added that it has the highest respect for women. The comments, on International Women's Day, come in the wake of recent criticism against the Supreme Court that it had purportedly asked a rape accused whether he would marry the victim, who was a minor when the crime was committed. “We (had) asked are you going to marry? We didn't order (him to) 'marry'," the bench, also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian, said. It also said the reputation of the judiciary was in the hands of its lawyers. The observations by the bench were made while it was hearing another the case of a 14-year-old pregnant rape survivor seeking permission to abort the foetus of almost 26 weeks. In the proceedings conducted through video conferencing, it referred to a provision of the Evidence Act and said the query was posed in the context of the records, but the issue was completely misreported. It was earlier stated that the apex court's query asking a rape accused whether he would marry the victim was based on “judicial records” containing an undertaking from the man that he would marry the minor girl, a relative, after she turned 18 years of age. CPI(M) politburo member Brinda Karat had written to the Chief Justice asking him to withdraw his remarks reportedly made during the March 1 hearing on the anticipatory bail plea of the accused. Several women's rights activists, eminent citizens, intellectuals, writers and artistes had also penned an open letter to the Chief Justice demanding an apology and retraction of the remarks. Referring to the earlier case, the bench said on Monday, "We do not remember any case of marital rape was before us ...We have the highest respect for women. Our reputation is always at the hands of bar.” The view was endorsed by lawyers. Lawyer V.K. Biju, appearing for the petitioner in the case listed on Monday, said a section of the people was tarnishing the institution and some kind of mechanism was needed to deal this. The Bar Council of India had backed the Supreme Court and asked activists who had written to the CJI to withdraw his remarks to not "scandalise" the highest judiciary and take "political mileage" of its proceedings. In the March 1 observations, the bench headed by Bobde was hearing a plea filed by the accused, serving as a technician in Maharashtra State Electricity Production Company Ltd, who had moved the apex court against the February 5 order of the Bombay High Court February cancelling his anticipatory bail. The man's lawyer said the accused was initially willing to marry the girl but she had refused and now he was married to someone else.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Naidu urges MPs to attend Parliament, observe debates||Rajya Sabha Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu on Monday said that members should make it a point to be present in the House to enhance understanding of parliamentary procedures and also use the library facility. On the first day of the second part of the Budget Session, Naidu said that he has been told that some members do not attend the proceedings even when they are in the national capital. "Going to library is going to enhance your knowledge. Attending the session, not missing it, also enhances understanding of Parliament procedures. So I call upon members to please visit (Parliament) library, make use of the library...and also please attend Parliament," he said. He further said, "I am told they are in Delhi but they are not present in the House". He, however, made it clear that he was not referring to any particular member or any party. "I appeal to all the members, please make it a point to be in the House and then observe debates, enrich your knowledge," he said. The Parliament Library is completing 100 years this year. It has a huge collection of about 14 lakh books including hundreds of journals in all languages. "I am told that the footfall of Members of Parliament in this source of information and knowledge is not very encouraging," Naidu said, stressing that sufficient homework is required on the part of members to make quality contribution to debates and interventions. Naidu also gave an account of the examination of the Demands for Grants for 2021-22 of various ministries undertaken by the eight Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees of Rajya Sabha during the 3 week-recess after the first part of the ongoing Budget session of Parliament. He referred to several positives that emerged during the Budget scrutiny by the Committees of Rajya Sabha and some concerns as well. Naidu, however, expressed concern over low attendance of members of non-BJP and non-Congress parties in the meetings held for scrutiny of Demands for Grants. Naidu said attendance of such other parties and groups has fallen to 27.60 per cent from 40 per cent last year. Consequently, the overall attendance this year in the 21 meetings has fallen to 42 per cent from 48 per cent last year. The chairman also noted that the new Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge is one of the long serving leaders of our country with vast legislative and administrative experience having been member of the Karnataka Legislative Assembly for a record 9 times without a break and twice member of the Lok Sabha. Kharge was also the Leader of the Opposition in the State Assembly twice besides being the leader of the largest opposition party in the Lok Sabha. Earlier, three newly elected BJP members Biswajit Daimary, Dineshchandra Jemalbhai and Rambhai Haribhai Mokariya took oath or affirmation of allegiance to the Constitution. The House also made obituary reference to Vidya Sagar Nishad, M. Rama Jois, and Satish Sharma, all former members of the House, who passed away recently.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||BJP strategy in place to take on Naveen govt in Odisha||The BJP has chalked out strategies to attack the Naveen Patnaik government in Odisha over issues ranging from inter-state border disputes with Andhra Pradesh and Bengal to crimes against women and political violence. Odisha's principal opposition party, during its state executive meeting on Sunday, called upon its members to put in additional efforts to reach out to the people, who have given eight Lok Sabha seats and 22 assembly constituencies to the BJP in the 2019 elections. Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, who along with another central minister Pratap Sarangi attended the meeting, called upon the cadre to highlight the achievements of the Narendra Modi government at the Centre. He exuded confidence of forming the next government in the state under the guidance of BJP chief J P Nadda and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. After a brainstorming session, the BJP chalked out strategies to attack the BJD government over issues ranging from border disputes with Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal to rising political violence in the state. The state executive meeting passed three political drafts and prepared a roadmap to win people's confidence. Alleging massive irregularities in PM Awas Yojna in the state, it claimed that not a single work-order was issued to any beneficiary in the last one-and-a-half-years. The saffron party claimed that Odisha has topped the lists of crimes against women and missing children, while there has been a steady rise in unemployment and beneficiaries of MGNREGA and other welfare schemes are being chosen according to their political affiliations. "The 550 police stations in the state are functioning as BJD party offices and political violence is continuing unabated like neighbouring West Bengal. The law enforcers are yet to disclose the progress in the investigations into the killings of 16 BJP workers in the state," BJP state vice- president Bhrugu Buxipatra said after the meeting. He claimed that the Centre has sanctioned huge financial assistance to the state administration for the inclusive development of Odisha but the BJD government has deliberately neglected the projects due to its vested political interests. He claimed that the BJD government is destroying heritage monuments in Bhubaneswar and Puri in the name of beautification. The BJP leader said the party is preparing a specific strategy to take on the BJD in the upcoming by-election to Pipili assembly constituency. Dismissing the BJP's allegations, BJD lawmaker and former minister Sashi Bhusan Behera said, "The BJP is struggling in Odisha for the last two decades as people have repeatedly rejected the party." "People, who are the masters, have blessed the BJD for five consecutive terms," party vice-president Debi Prasad Mishra said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day without transacting any legislative business amid an uproar by Opposition members who were demanding a discussion on the rising fuel prices. The Rajya Sabha was first adjourned around 10.05 am till 11 am and again till 1 pm on day one of the second leg of the Budget Session. Leader of the Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge had given a notice for suspension of business on March 8 and a discussion on the "huge and frequent increase in prices of petrol, diesel and LPG even when global prices are ruling low". Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu mentioned Kharge's notice and disapproved the discussion. Naidu said the issue can be debated "during the course of discussion on the Appropriation bill". There will also be enough opportunities "during the Budget part of the session", he said. However the chairman asked Kharge to mention the subject of the notice in the House considering his seniority. Kharge said, "You are well aware, now petrol prices are nearly Rs 100 per litre and diesel prices are more than Rs 80 per litre. LPG rates have also increased and all petroleum products have gone up." He added that there has been nearly 820 per cent increase in the prices of petrol and around 258 per cent in excise duty after 2014. He described it as a burning subject and said people are agitating across the country. "That's why we are requesting you to suspend all the rules under Rule 267 and give us a chance to speak on this subject. Ultimately, what is the government going to tell about this," Kharge said. But the chairman did not agree to Kharge's demand. "You know the Rule 267, it is at the discretion of the Chair. I have gone through it. There are enough opportunities to debate including during discussion on the Appropriation Bill. "Still you are a senior and Leader of the Opposition, you have given a notice and I have allowed you to mention the subject. You have rightly mentioned the subject and we will leave it there." Kharge persisted with the demand and said the entire country is suffering. But the chair said, "It is important. We should run the House. It is the first day (of the second leg of the Budget session). Please don't waste time. Please bear with me, I have allowed you to express your views. and you have clearly expressed it. Then we must go on." "Every issue is important. Now it is Question Hour," he added. However, Opposition members began shouting slogans demanding a debate. Naidu kept asking members to return to their seats and not deprive members of Question Hour. The Opposition members were relentless in their demand and kept on shouting. "If you don't want the Question Hour to continue, if you want to deprive people of Question Hour, I can adjourn the House. .... Please go to your seat. 'Loktantra ka mazak nahi karna hai'...," the chairman said. As members continued to shout, he adjourned the House till 11 am. When the House re-assembled at 11 am, Congress members again demanded a discussion on rising fuel prices in the country. Kharge again sought a discussion on the matter. He said it was important to discuss it as people were suffering and legislative business could be taken up later. Rajya Sabha Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the Chair, however did not allow the discussion and noted that the decision of the Rajya Sabha chairman cannot be reopened. The bills listed for consideration and passing, according to the list of business, are The Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill, 2021; The National Institutes of Food Technology, Entrepreneurship and Management Bill, 2019; and The Medical Termination of Pregnancy (Amendment) Bill, 2020. Earlier, three newly elected members to the House had taken oath. Besides, obituary references were made about Vidya Sagar Nishad, M Rama Jois, and Satish Sharma, all former members of the House who passed away recently. Naidu also gave a brief account of the examination of the Demands for Grants for 2021-22 of various ministries undertaken by the eight Department Related Parliamentary Standing Committees of the Rajya Sabha during the three week recess after the first part of the ongoing Budget Session. Several members also spoke of International Women's Day. The second part of the Budget Session, which began on Monday, is scheduled to conclude on April 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||India logs over 18,000 fresh Covid cases, 97 casualties in a day||New cases of coronavirus infection in India were recorded above 18,000 for the third consecutive day taking the total tally of COVID-19 cases to 1,12,29,398, according to the Union Health Ministry data updated on Monday. The active cases also registered an increase for the sixth consecutive day and the COVID-19 active caseload increased to 1,88,747 which now comprises 1.68 per cent of the total infections. The recovery rate has dropped further to 96.91 per cent, the data stated. A total of 18,599 new infections were registered in a day, while the death toll increased to 1,57,853 with 97 daily new fatalities, the data updated at 8 am showed. On January 29, 18,855 new infections were recorded in a span of 24 hours. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease surged to 1,08,82,798 which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.91 per cent, while the case fatality rate stands at 1.41 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7, 30 lakh on August 23, 40 lakh on September 5 and 50 lakh on September 16.It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, crossed 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and surpassed the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the ICMR, 22,19,68,271 samples have been tested up to March 7 with 5,37,764 samples being tested on Sunday. The 97 new fatalities include 38 from Maharashtra, 17 from Punjab and 13 from Kerala. A total of 1,57,853 deaths have been reported so far in the country including 52,478 from Maharashtra followed by 12,518 from Tamil Nadu, 12,362 from Karnataka, 10,921 from Delhi, 10,278 from West Bengal, 8,737 from Uttar Pradesh and 7,174 from Andhra Pradesh. The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that state-wise distribution of figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||TMC seeks adjournment of Parliament session||The Trinamool Congress on Monday sought an adjournment of the Parliament session citing assembly elections in five states of the country. In a letter to the Rajya Sabha Chairman, TMC national spokesperson and RS member Derek O'Brien said due to the polls, MPs of his party would not be able to attend the Parliament session. "I am writing to you as the Parliamentary Party leader (Rajya Sabha) for the All India Trinamool Congress. Sir, we urge you to consider the adjournment of the ensuing Parliament session, because of the declaration of elections in five states," he said. "The Election Commission of India, on 26th February 2021, has announced election for five states, including Bengal. Due to the ongoing intensive election preparations in the State, the Members of Parliament from the All India Trinamool Congress would find it difficult to attend the second part of the Budget Session beginning from 8th March 2021," he wrote in the letter. TMC MP Sudeep Bandyopadhyay has also written to the Lok Sabha Speaker on the same issue, requesting that Parliament be adjourned due to the polls. While O'Brien's letter is dated March 8, Bandyopadhyay had written to the LS Speaker on February 6. The second part of the Budget session of Parliament began on Monday but its duration is likely to be curtailed as most top politicians would be busy campaigning for assembly polls taking place in March-April. As of now, the session will conclude on April 8. O'Brien, in his letter, mentioned two precedents when Parliament sessions were adjourned due to polls in states. He cited the example of the 222nd session which commenced on February 21, 2011, and was scheduled to conclude on April 21, 2011. However, due to upcoming state assembly elections in five states -- Assam, Kerala, Puducherry, Tamil Nadu and West Bengal, the House was adjourned sine die on March 25, 2011, he said. The second instance he provided was the 214th session which commenced on October 17, 2008, and was adjourned early on October 24, 2008, to meet again on 10 December 2008. The session, as per the original schedule, was to continue up to November 21, 2008. However, due to upcoming state assembly elections in some states, the House was adjourned till December 10, 2008. "I am optimistic you will consider this proposal of ours," the TMC leader said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Budget session: Opposition to discuss fuel and farmers in House||The Congress and other Opposition parties have decided to kick up a ruckus over the high fuel prices in both Houses of Parliament during the second half of the budget session, which starts on Monday. The Congress will move an adjournment motion on the subject on Monday, which is likely to be a non-starter as the Narendra Modi government never lets this emergency parliamentary device stop normal business to discuss an urgent issue. Opposition members also plan to disrupt proceedings to highlight how the people are being made to endure high prices for petrol, diesel and cooking gas at a time crude prices in the international market have been low. The Congress plans to demand a discussion on the farmers’ movement too. During the first half of the session, the government had refused a separate discussion on the farmers’ protest, arguing the matter could be raised during the debate on the motion of thanks to the President’s address. However, the Opposition parties believe that Parliament will lose its relevance if it fails to debate the biggest mass movement witnessed in independent India. A meeting of the Congress’s parliamentary strategy committee on Sunday decided that a fresh demand would be made for a full-fledged discussion on the movement, which has completed 100 days. Most party leaders, including Sonia Gandhi, expressed deep anguish at the government’s handling of the farmers’ movement. “What is the purpose of having a Parliament session if the most important issue is not allowed to be debated?” a senior Congress leader who attended Sunday’s meeting told The Telegraph. “Lakhs of farmers are sitting outside Delhi’s borders; over 200 have died. This is the biggest movement in independent India. Parliament should discuss this for a full two days and resolve the deadlock.” Other issues that the Opposition has identified include the atrocities on women in states like Uttar Pradesh, the rising unemployment, and the government’s plan to put curbs on social and mainstream media amid reports that a Group of Ministers had suggested a plan to “neutralise” critical journalists. Another subject the Congress is keen to raise is deep sea fishing in Kerala, which has become a big issue in the election-bound state, raising the party’s hopes in the coastal areas. Kerala’s Left government has signed a deal with an American firm for deep sea fishing and allied processing, angering the fishing community. The Congress has described the deal as a conspiracy to sell off the state’s marine wealth, arguing this will endanger the livelihoods of lakhs of fishermen. The session is bound to be stormy as it is being held under the shadow of Assembly elections in five states, where multiple Opposition parties are locked in fierce battle against the BJP and against one another. While the BJP has mounted an offensive on the Trinamul government in Bengal, the Congress is striving to wrest Assam from the BJP. The fault-lines in the Opposition camp too will become increasingly visible with the Congress and the Left fighting each other in Kerala while joining hands to take on Trinamul in Bengal. The AIADMK and the DMK are engaged in a keen tussle in Tamil Nadu. With electioneering set to peak in these states within the next few days, the session could well be curtailed. While the government would like to wrap the session up after passing the Finance Bill to avoid any uproar over the farmers’ movement and petroleum prices, the Opposition would not be averse to a truncated session, either, because of the elections. Many regional parties have already written to Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla and Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu to abridge the session, now scheduled to end on April 8.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Apple growers across states unite to fight for their rights||An invasion by “Iranian” apples has hit the apple growers of Kashmir and their long-time rivals from mainland India equally, prompting them to unite to fight for their rights. These farmers say the countrywide farmer protests inspired them to come together, and that they would eventually join the wider movement against the “corporate threat” to farmers. Several organisations representing apple farmers from Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand on Friday announced a joint platform, the Hill States’ Horticulture Forum. The farmers allege that some private players are importing Iranian apples and selling them illegally as “Afghan apples” to avoid paying duties, thus selling them cheap and hurting Indian apple growers. “Afghan apples are exempt from taxes under the Saarc free trade agreement, but Afghanistan has a very small volume of export-quality apples,” Mohammad Ashraf Wani, president of the Shopian Apple Growers’ Association, told The Telegraph. “We believe that what we are getting here are Iranian apples. They sell for Rs 60 a kilo against our price of, say, Rs 100 a kilo. We are losing a few hundred rupees for every box of apple we sell.” While this is the farmers’ immediate concern, they would eventually look beyond apples and fight for “small and marginal farmers” against the “imminent threat” of “corporate farming”, said Sanjay Chouhan, a farmer leader from Himachal who is here to help with the unity bid. “The ongoing farm crisis in the country has played a key role in convincing us to join hands with other states to fight for our rights,” he added. Wani said: “Kashmir’s apple growers invited them (their counterparts from Himachal and Uttarakhand) to fight for our rights and they readily accepted.” He said some 20 thousand tonnes of Iranian apples had already arrived in India. “Afghanistan’s total apple production is not more than one lakh tonnes, of which a very small percentage is export-quality. Afghanistan harvests apples in September and October and has no cold storages. How can its apples hit the markets here in February and March?” he said. A team of six farmer leaders – Sanjay Chouhan, Harish Chouhan, Sunil Chouhan and Sandeep Chouhan from Himachal and Swarika Prasad and Praveen Sharma from Uttarakhand – had come to the Valley to help float the joint forum. Some of them are visiting the Valley for the first time and appeared awed by Kashmiri hospitality. “It’s like what we experience at home, and is contrary to what we had heard about Kashmir,” Sanjay, general secretary of the Himachal Kissan Sabha, told this newspaper. He said the “Iranian apples” were a big concern for Himachal’s farmers too. “Our state earns Rs 5,000 crore annually from the apple crop – our biggest source of earning. Some 2.73 lakh families rely on the apple harvest,” he said. Harish Chouhan, president of the Fruits, Vegetables and Flowers Association of Himachal Pradesh, said the people of the three hill states “share their lifestyle and food habits and produce the same fruits”, and there was no reason they could not fight together for their livelihood. “People are taking losses and have therefore joined hands,” said Majid Wafai, president of the Cold Storage Owners Association in Kashmir. He said the Valley’s farmers had more than one lakh tonne apples in storage for the off season and had been expecting good prices after two bad years when the “Iranian apple” threat hit them. The scrapping of Jammu and Kashmir’s special status in 2019 had prompted some apple growers to suspend trading with their peers from outside the region in protest, hitting the apple business. The pandemic affected sales last year. Wani said Jammu and Kashmir grew around 22 lakh tonne apples a year compared with 5-10 lakh tonnes in Himachal and 0.5 to 1 lakh tonne in Uttarakhand.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Haryana government to seek views on job reservation in private sector||The Haryana government is ready to consider suggestions from industry bodies while framing rules for the law that provides for 75 per cent job reservation in the private sector for candidates from the state, deputy chief minister Dushyant Chautala said on Sunday. The first meeting for the framing of the rules will be held here on Monday, he said. The Haryana State Employment of Local Candidates Bill, 2020, reserves three-fourths of private-sector jobs for candidates with domicile certificates as long as the monthly salary is below Rs 50,000. “It will be our endeavour to frame the rules by the end of this month. Next month, we will run employment drives in all 22 districts and 67 employment exchanges in the state,” Chautala, who holds the industries portfolio, told a news conference. Responding to criticism from within and outside industry, he said many people had “misconceptions” about the law and underlined that Haryana was not the only state to have enacted such reservation. Chautala said the state government had held eight meetings with industry associations before the law’s passage, “and even now we will hold consultations with them”. “After consultations, if we have to incorporate some technical things in the rules, we will do that so that industry comes to our state in an even bigger way,” he said. “We will now seek suggestions from industry associations of our state and chambers of industry bodies. We will write to them with copies of the bill and seek suggestions for framing the rules.” Under the law, 75 per cent of jobs with a monthly salary of less than Rs 50,000 will be reserved for local candidates. Local candidates are defined as people who were either born in Haryana or have lived in the state for the past 15 years. Companies are allowed to apply for exemption if local candidates with the required skills are not available. The designated officer will conduct an inquiry and then decide whether to accept or reject an application or to direct the company to train the candidates available. Industry chambers voiced concern at the legislation and sought a relook. A large number of MNCs and Indian corporate houses are based in Gurgaon and other NCR cities that are part of Haryana.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||49-year-old farmer hangs self over ‘farm laws’||A 49-year-old farmer from Hisar, Haryana, on Sunday allegedly hanged himself from a tree about 7km from the Tikri protest site on Delhi’s border. Police said Rajbir has left a suicide note in which he has blamed the three new farm laws brought by the Centre for his death. He has appealed to the government to fulfil his last wish and repeal the laws. “Rajbir hailed from a village in Hisar district. He was found hanging from a tree,” Bahadurgarh city police station SHO Vijay Kumar said over phone. Last month, a farmer from Jind in Haryana who was also supporting the agitation against the new farm laws had allegedly hanged himself from a tree 2km from the Tikri border protest site. Earlier, another farmer from Haryana had allegedly consumed a poisonous substance at the Tikri border. He had died during trea­tment at a Delhi hospital later. In December last, a lawyer from Punjab had allegedly killed himself by consuming poison a few kilometres away from the protest site at the Tikri border. Earlier, Sikh preacher Sant Ram Singh had also allegedly ended his life near the Singhu border protest site, claiming that he was “unable to bear the pain of the farmers”. Thousands of farmers have been protesting since November last year at Delhi borders with Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, demanding the repeal of the farm laws. a rollback of the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Co­mmerce (Promotion and Facil­itation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020, and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020. The protesting farmers have expressed apprehension that these laws would pave the way for the dismantling of the minimum support price (MSP) system, leaving them at the “mercy” of big corporations. However, the Centre has maintained that the new laws will bring better opportunities to farmers and introduce new technologies in agriculture.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-287
08-03-2021||India||Covid-19 cases: Mutation question in surge||A team of health experts probing Maharashtra’s sharp rise in Covid-19 cases over the past month has hinted at the possibility that mutations could have made the novel coronavirus more infectious but less virulent. The three-member team said that while pandemic fatigue among the public and laxity in public health responses have likely contributed to the surge in multiple districts, the increase in cases, especially in Amravati, also point to possible mutation. The team, in a report submitted to the Union health ministry earlier this week, said there is a “possibility of a virus mutation making it more infectious and less virulent.” There is a “sense that the current wave is less virulent,” the report said. Senior scientists and health researchers, however, cautioned that there is no evidence yet from either genome sequencing efforts or from mortality data in the public domain that there has been any change in characteristics of the virus circulating in India. The suggestion being made of a more infectious and less virulent virus is likely based on epidemiological data and some speculation, a senior scientist at one of the 10 national labs involved in genome sequencing the virus told The Telegraph. “It would be best to wait for more sequencing,” the scientist said. Health officials familiar with the report did not respond to a query from this newspaper asking whether the team’s suggestion about a “less virulent” virus was speculation or backed by epidemiological or sequencing data. Experts guiding the government’s response to Covid-19 also said they have not yet seen any mortality data displaying a dip in mortality coinciding with the surge in cases that some states have experienced over the past four weeks. “India’s case fatality rate has consistently been lower than what has been documented in several developed countries,” said Jayaprakash Muliyil, a senior epidemiologist and former professor at the Christian Medical College, Vellore. Muliyil, relying on a study from Europe on the age-distribution of Covid-19 deaths, had estimated last year that India would experience around 2.2 million deaths during the first year of the pandemic. “We’re today at around 157,000 – far from what we’d predicted,” Muliyil said. “India’s lower levels of obesity and higher levels of vitamin D may have contributed to keeping mortality low. There may be other factors too.” Coronavirus genome sequencing efforts in India have detected the presence of what scientists call “variants of interest” because they contain specific mutations that might allow them to evade antibodies or spread easier. “But as of now, they are not yet variants of public health concern,” a senior health official said. “There is no evidence yet to suggest that the current surge in some states are due to any specific variants.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
08-03-2021||India||Activist withdraws sex-for-job complaint against BJP lawmaker||A social activist who recently released video clips of a sex-for-job scam that forced the resignation of Karnataka minister Ramesh Jarkiholi has sought to withdraw his police complaint against the BJP lawmaker allegedly because he was accused of extortion. Dinesh Kallahalli told reporters on Sunday that he was hurt by allegations of extortion raised by former chief minister and Janata Dal Secular leader H.D. Kumaraswamy. Kumaraswamy had on Friday said that the release of the incriminating video clips was part of an extortion bid by Kallahalli. The video clips released last week showed a man resembling Jarkholi in a compromising position with a young woman in what appeared to be a hotel room. While Jarkiholi had later pleaded innocence and claimed he had no idea about the woman, the BJP leadership forced him to resign to avoid further embarrassment. A lawyer representing Kallahalli went to Cubbon Road police station on Sunday and handed over a hand-written application seeking the withdrawal of his (Kallahalli’s) complaint that had sought a detailed investigation into the video clips released on March 2. In the application, Kallahalli said another reason that drove him to withdraw his complaint was the interest of the victim and expressed disappointment over the video clips finding way to social media where it was being widely circulated. “In my complaint I had only sought an investigation to see if there was sexual harassment (of the victim). But the whole thing backfired on me and the victim with people casting aspersions on our intentions,” he said in the letter. “Instead of supporting me, many opted to shoot the messenger,” he lamented citing how he was only a messenger who released the video clips on behalf of the family members of the victim. The minister had allegedly taken advantage of the woman by promising her a government job but failed to keep his promise. A city court had on Friday restrained media from broadcasting or printing images from the video clips. The court passed the order after hearing an injunction suit Jarkiholi’s lawyers had filed on Wednesday. The court also gave temporary injunction to six Karnataka ministers who had sought a media gag against publishing any defamatory material against them. The ministers, Shivaram Hebbar, BC Patil, ST Somashekar, K Sudhakar, KC Narayana Gowda, and Byrathi Basavaraj were part of the 17 lawmakers, that included Jarkiholi, who quit the JDS-Congress coalition in 2019 and defected to BJP leading the collapse of the government. This follows speculations in political circles that several audio or video clips have surfaced in the state. But their exact nature is not known.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
08-03-2021||India||Giriraj Singh’s sticks annoy Bihar chief minister ||Union minister Giriraj Singh’s declamation that officials who did not listen to the people be “beaten up with bamboo sticks” was on Sunday frowned upon by his former boss Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar. Singh made the remark at an event in his Begusarai Lok Sabha constituency on Saturday. The firebrand BJP leader was visibly peeved over repeated complaints from residents that officials often paid no heed when they were approached with grievances. Kumar, in whose cabinet Singh had served till less than a decade ago, was asked by journalists what he thought about the utterances.“You should go and ask Giriraj whether the use of such language is nyaysangat (proper),” said Kumar, a stickler for propriety in public behaviour, with a broad smile barely concealing his detestation. The Union minister had made the remark at the event organised by an agricultural institute. Singh, who earlier represented Nawada but won Begusarai for his party by defeating CPI’s Kanhaiya Kumar by a margin of over four lakh votes, holds animal husbandry, fisheries and dairy portfolios. A video footage of the event has been widely circulated on social media. Singh can be heard lamenting: “People come to me with the complaint that officials do not listen (nai sunaichhe, an idiom in local Angika dialect).” “If that is the case, baans lekar maaro (beat them up with bamboo sticks),” said the MP, known for shooting from the hip, as some of the audience burst into laughter. “If you are approaching an official with a genuine grouse, you do not even need to come to me asking for help. Stand your ground. Giriraj is there with you, always. It is you (the people) in whom the real power is vested, not MPs, MLAs, DMs, BDOs or Mukhiyas,” he had added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-288
