09-03-2021||India||Maharashtra records 9,927 new infections, 56 deaths||Maharashtra on Tuesday reported 9,927 new COVID-19 cases which took the caseload to 22,38,398, while 56 fatalities pushed up the death count to 52,556, said a health official. On the other hand, 12,182 patients were discharged from hospitals during the day, taking the tally of recoveries to 20,89,294, he added. There are 95,322 active cases in the state now. After several days, the number of active cases declined a little. On Monday, there were 97,637 active cases. Pune city reported the highest 1,110 new cases, taking its tally to 1,01,389. Mumbai city reported 1,012 new cases taking its tally to 3,35,595, while two deaths took the fatality count to 11,510. Mumbai division, which includes surrounding satellite towns, reported 1,940 new cases and 11 deaths. It increased the cumulative infection figure in the region to 7,44,060 and death toll to 19,901. Nashik division's COVID-19 tally stood at 3,04,620 with a death count of 5,318. The number of cases recorded in the Pune division so far stood at 5,43,514 and deaths at 11,810. Kolhapur division has reported 1,20,513 cases and 4,080 deaths till now, while Aurangabad division's case tally stood at 85,325 and death count at 2,068. Latur division has reported 89,124 cases until now and 2,554 fatalities. Akola division has recorded 1,09,689 cases while 1,863 people have succumbed to the disease until now. Nagpur division has reported 2,41,407 infections and 4,872 fatalities so far. With 84,088 tests on Tuesday, the state so far has carried out 1,70,22,315 coronavirus tests. As many as 4,57,962 people are in home quarantine while 3,827 are in institutional quarantine. Maharashtra's COVID-19 figures are as follows: Positive cases: 22,38,398, New cases: 9,927, Death toll: 52,556, Discharged: 20,89,294, Active cases: 95,332, People tested so far: 1,70,22,315.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
09-03-2021||India||India summons British envoy to convey opposition to discussion over farm laws||India summoned the British High Commissioner on Tuesday and conveyed its strong opposition to the "unwarranted and tendentious" discussion on India's agricultural reforms in the British Parliament. The Ministry of External Affairs said Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla told the envoy that discussions in the British Parliament on India's agri reforms represented a gross interference in politics of another democratic country. It said the foreign secretary also advised the envoy that British MPs should refrain from practising "vote bank politics by misrepresenting events", especially in relation to another fellow democracy. "Foreign Secretary summoned the British High Commissioner and conveyed strong opposition to the unwarranted and tendentious discussion on agricultural reforms in India in the British Parliament," the MEA said in a statement. "Foreign Secretary made clear that this represented a gross interference in the politics of another democratic country," it added. It further said: "He advised that British MPs should refrain from practising vote bank politics by misrepresenting events, especially in relation to another fellow democracy." A group of around dozen cross-party British MPs had on Monday debated issues around the use of force against protesters opposed to agricultural reforms in India and journalists being targeted while covering the protests taking place at several border points of Delhi for over 100 days. The High Commission of India in London has condemned false assertions in a "distinctly one-sided discussion"  in a statement. The Indian mission pointed out that foreign media, including British media, had been present and witnessed the events surrounding the farmers' protests in India first-hand and therefore any "question of lack of freedom of the media in India does not arise . "We deeply regret that rather than a balanced debate, false assertions without substantiation or facts were made, casting aspersions on the largest functioning democracy in the world and its institutions, a statement issued by the high commission said, following the debate which stemmed from an e-petition that attracted over 100,000 signatures on the parliamentary website. The mission said it would normally refrain from commenting on an internal discussion involving a small group of honourable parliamentarians in a limited quorum. "However, when aspersions are cast on India by anyone, irrespective of their claims of friendship and love for India or domestic political compulsions, there is a need to set the record straight," the statement said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
09-03-2021||India||Govt report outlines strategy to ‘control’ media, ‘neutralise’ those spreading fake news||Even after two back-to-back sweeping election wins, the second bigger than the first, the government’s still looking for dramatic ways to boost its public image and combat what it believes is the “pseudo-secularist” hold on the media that colours reporting on its actions. Nine ministers, including media stars Ravi Shankar Prasad, Prakash Javadekar, Smriti Irani and foreign minister S. Jaishankar, were involved in a massive exercise that culminated in a 97-page report written after consulting leading figures from the media and industry. The report, which caused a stir when it was first reported in Caravan Magazine, reveals how the government mistrusts the press and looks upon it as an adversary dominated by its enemies. Also, the report’s tone, has provoked a strong counter-blast from the Editors Guild of India, which expressed “shock and disbelief” at the report and its attempt, “to control the narrative”. The Group of Ministers’ report hints, “at increased surveillance and targeting of writers and journalists who depart from the government’s narrative,” the Editors Guild statement added. “We should have a strategy to neutralise the people who are writing against the Government without facts and set false narratives / spread fake news,” says Law & Justice Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad. On a similar note, Smriti Irani suggests, “We should track 50 negative and 50 positive influencers.” Striking an almost menacing tone, Surya Prakash, who’s former chairman of Prasar Bharati, says: “Pseudo-secularists were marginalized earlier. The problem is starting from them. Indian Government has enormous power to utilise the position to control them.” The government’s efforts to influence the media dialogue appear to go further than just seeking to put a positive spin on emerging stories. “A list of media personnel and prominent persons, who are pro our line of thought – both nationally and globally, should be prepared,” adds Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi, Union Minister of Minority Affairs. On a similar note, the report says media entrepreneur and strategic affairs analyst Nitin Gokhale suggested that journalists could, “be colour-coded green: fence-sitters, black: against’ and White – who support and promote favourable journalists. Gokhale has strongly denied making such a suggestion. The fact that the Group of Ministers (GoM) held six meetings that included in-person interactions and video conferences with leading journalists and industrialists and had a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi is an indication of how worried the government is that its performance is being portrayed negatively. Other ministers in the GoM included Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri, Minister of State for finance and Corporate Affairs, Anurag Thakur, Minister of State for Youth Affairs & Sport Kiran Rijuju and Minister of State for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Babul Supriyo. Some of the discussions elicited many bizarre and worrying suggestions. “News to carry a mixture of truth and untruth,” was the Orwellian suggestion from S. Gurumurthy, co-convenor, Swadeshi Jagran Manch and editor, Tughlak magazine. Gurumurthy also suggested the government needed to “distinguish between mass communication and elite communication.” Gurumurthy didn’t clarify exactly what he meant. At another level, participants felt the government needed to occasionally create a “Pokhran Effect” -- a big bang whenever it had a huge success to report.  Gurumurthy built on this by suggesting that allies like Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar or Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik should be roped in to create a greater impact. “To create a Pokhran effect, let Shri Nitish Kumar or Shri Naveen Patnaik say something about it…We need a Pokhran to turn the narrative.” Journalists from a range of publications including The Hindustan Times and Organiser, came up with a variety of ideas, some which went far beyond just projecting the government’s image. Anand Ranganathan, editor Swarajya felt the party needed to delve into history to ensure that people had the right perspective on the BJP’s actions. Said Ranganathan: “We lack historical narrative like Tipu’s manifesto talked about annihilation of Hindus. The history books should be more objective.” Some journalists said they were called for the meeting but hadn’t been told what it was about. Another journalist, Abhijit Majumdar, argued that, “Wikipedia is trying to rewrite history. It has clear bias. Serious note and action on the same should be taken.” Majumdar also felt the BJP should reward journalists who were on its side. “Help Op-India and retweet Op-India’s tweets,” he said, referring to the strongly pro-ruling party portal. He threw in strong criticism of ALT News which is dedicated to checking and countering fake news. “ALT News propaganda is vicious,” he said. The government’s extremely keen the world should see it in the right light and is eager to send out the right message to the foreign press but the committee and the people it consulted appeared to have confused thoughts on how this might be achieved.  This issue has assumed particular relevance as US-government-funded think-tank Freedom House just cut India’s status from “free” in 2019 to “partly free” in 2020. India’s score fell to 67 from 71 with 100 being the top ranking for the most free country. Jaishankar suggested special care should be taken for the foreign media. “We should prepare separate, appropriate and different narrative for international media.” And Naqvi felt that, “embassies should play (a) more active role in reaching out to international media and people globally.” On a very different note, Thakur felt the BJP should be in touch with likeminded parties abroad and said: “The right-wing parties of other countries need to be roped in so that some common ground could be found.” More ominously, the committee said the government had already acted to control negative reports on it by foreigners and pointed out that, “Steps have been taken to ensure that the news reporting on digital media is not biased primarily due to its foreign investment component. It has been decided to cap the foreign investment to 26 per cent and the process to implement the same is underway.” Many participants felt that the Government should turn the spotlight on what it called, “10 big narratives of the Government.” Simultaneously, it suggested that each ministry should play a part in building the Government’s image and that, “Every ministry should identify two major public outreach programs in a year along with one day of pre-event publicity and one day of post-event coverage. This way for around 300 days in a year there will be coverage of one or the other government program.” The government also hopes to send out a positive message by giving a, “massive push to publication of articles by experts/ministers.” It added: “More than 60 articles have been published so far.” However, this suggestion was opposed by Ashok Malik, policy advisor in the ministry of external affairs, who forcefully argued against such pieces, saying: “Stop Op-ed by ministers, top bureaucrats because it has become an epidemic and it is counterproductive, because it sounds like propaganda and it is not being read.” Many journalists and ministers suggested that there should be more interactions with the press at different levels. However, nobody suggested that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has never held a press conference in the last seven years, should change his attitude and make himself more accessible to the press.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
09-03-2021||India||Rawat resigns as chief minister of Uttarakhand||Uttarakhand Chief Minister Trivendra Singh Rawat on Tuesday handed over his resignation to Governor Baby Rani Maurya, the move seen as the BJP's course-correction ahead of elections scheduled for next year. The former chief minister apparently met the BJP leadership in Delhi on Monday and had a series of discussions. Speculation had been rife about the 60-year-old politician being replaced by one of his ministers as chief minister. Significantly, the central BJP leadership recently sent two observers, party vice president Raman Singh and general secretary Dushayant Kumar Gautam, to Uttarakhand to get a feedback from the party’s core group in the state amid reports of discontent against the chief minister. The feedback made the party believe that TS Rawat’s below par performance would cost the party in 2022 election. According to an NDTV report, Dhan Singh Rawat, who was in Garhwal, took a private chopper to state capital Dehradun Tuesday afternoon. He even had a meeting with BJP chief JP Nadda, who had earlier held talks with Home Minister Amit Shah on the situation in the hill state, indicated the report. Apparently several Uttarakhand MLAs had reportedly told the leadership that the party did not stand a chance of being re-elected under Rawat’s leadership. Often the former CM’s critics accuse him of “failing to communicate with them” and lack of decision-making. Several MLAs even altered the party heads about him being ranked “below average” by some opinion polls.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
09-03-2021||India||Vijayakanth’s DMDK walks out of AIADMK-led front in TN||Actor Vijaykanth’s DMDK walked out of the alliance protesting non-allocation of specific constituencies and the number of seats it sought for the April 6 assembly elections in Tamil Nadu. The development comes as a major setback to the AIADMK-BJP combine in the poll-bound state. The disassociation, came after three-rounds of protracted negotiations with the AIADMK failed to fructify, the DMDK led by actor-turned politician Vijayakanth said it was moving out of the alliance, that also has the PMK and BJP as partners. In a statement, Vijayakanth said the decision to snap ties with the AIADMK was taken following a unanimous view reached at a consultative meeting with party's district secretaries here. According to an NDTV report, the actor celebrated the decision to quit the alliance by bursting crackers. The same report stated that DMDK leader and former MLA Parthasarathi said the party wanted 23 seats and a Rajya Sabha seat. He claimed the ruling party gave only 15 seats to the actor’s party. DMDK in the recent past has witnessed an impressive growth since 2003, despite losing vote share in 2016 state elections. According to NDTV, the party in 2011, it won 29 assembly seats from 41 it contested in alliance with the AIADMK. Vijayakanth had then become the leader of opposition. The Tamil Nadu Assembly polls will be held in a single phase on April 6; the results will be out on May 2. Significantly this is the first time that the state will be polling after the demise of J Jayalalithaa.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
09-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha adjourned for the day as Opposition demands discussion on rising fuel prices ||The Rajya Sabha was adjourned for the day on Tuesday amid a continued uproar by the opposition, led by the Congress, over a demand for a discussion on the rising fuel prices. The House could not transact any substantial business as it first witnessed an adjournment at around 11.20 am till noon and another one till 2 pm. When the Upper House of Parliament reassembled again at 2 pm, the opposition continued to demand a discussion on the rising fuel prices even as Deputy Chairman Harivansh, who was in the chair, appealed to the protesting members, including those in the Well, to return to their seats. Leader of Opposition Mallikarjun Kharge demanded a debate on the issue. Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, after moving the Arbitration and Conciliation (Amendment) Bill 2021, insisted on taking it up. The bill seeks to replace an ordinance in this regard and has already been passed by the Lok Sabha. The deputy chairman called Congress member Vivek Tankha to speak on it but the latter urged him to listen to Kharge first, saying, "How can I speak when the Leader of Opposition is standing?" Kharge continued to press for a discussion on the fuel price hikes and demanded that the rates be brought back to the 2013-2014 levels. He said the entire country is suffering due to the price hike of fuel and essential commodities and urged the Chair to allow a discussion on it, referring to his social background. Harivansh, however, said since the chairman has already disallowed the notice, it cannot be reopened and called Manoj Jha of the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) to speak on the bill, on which the latter said the House is not in order. Meanwhile, the uproar by the opposition continued amid sloganeering. As the Chair urged the members to allow the House to run, Senior Congress MP Anand Sharma said according to the tradition of the House, no government bill is taken up when the opposition is demanding a discussion over an important issue. "It is an unfortunate thing that repeatedly the norms are being violated. When the opposition is raising an issue, the government should not try to introduce a new business without first settling the question raised by the opposition," he said and added, "The opposition has a right to take up the issue." Amid the uproar, the deputy chairman adjourned the House for the day. Earlier, Congress members, joined by those of other opposition parties, trooped to the well and persisted with their demand for a discussion, despite Chairman M Venkaiah Naidu already disallowing the notice moved by Kharge. When the House met at noon, the deputy chairman urged the protesting members to take their seats and allow the Question Hour to go on. He said since the chairman has already disallowed the notice, it cannot be reopened. The opposition members, however, continued to protest and raise slogans against the government. The deputy chairman continued with the Question Hour, but adjourned the House till 2 pm after the protesting members raised their pitch. Only one question could be taken up amid the din as the proceedings were inaudible. "I urge all members, including the LOP, that after the chairman has given his decision on the notice, it cannot be reopened. I urge all members to allow the Question Hour to function as it is the members' time," the deputy chairman said. Soon after the listed official papers were laid on the table, members of the Congress, DMK, Left parties, BSP and Shiv Sena were on their feet seeking setting aside of the business to take up a discussion on the fuel price hikes. The deputy chairman said notices under rule 267 were received from Satish Chandra Mishra (BSP), Leader of Opposition and senior Congress leader Kharge, DMK's Tiruchi Siva and Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi. The chairman has already given his ruling, rejecting the notices under rule 267, and hence, the notices cannot be reopened, he added. The issue of fuel price, the deputy chairman said, can be deliberated upon during the discussion on the working of ministries and finance bills as well as in the short-duration discussion sought on the issue. Harivansh asked the members to return to their seats after they trooped to the well and requested them to allow the Zero Hour to be taken up so that MPs can raise issues of public importance. Amid the continued slogan-shouting by the opposition, Siva said the issue of a relentless rise in petrol and diesel prices has to be discussed. Bhupendra Yadav of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) countered him, saying the ruling of the chairman is final and the notices cannot be reopened. With the ruckus continuing, the deputy chairman adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. The price of petrol has, for the first time, crossed the Rs-100 mark in states such as Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and has registered record highs elsewhere. Diesel rates too are at a record high as international oil prices bounced back from last year's lows.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
09-03-2021||India||Toolkit: Nikita Jacob, Shantanu Muluk's protection from arrest extended till March 15||A court in Delhi on Tuesday extended protection from arrest till March 15 to Nikita Jacob and Shantanu Muluk, both accused along with young climate change activist Disha Ravi in a case of sharing a "toolkit" on social media related to the farmers' protest. Additional Sessions Judge Dharmender Rana granted the relief after the counsel appearing from both the accused persons said they needed time to go through the reply filed by the Delhi Police before advancing arguments in the matter. The judge heard the submission and directed the police not to take any coercive action against both the accused till March 15, when court will further hear the matter. Jacob, Muluk and Ravi were booked for sedition and other charges.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-283
09-03-2021||India||PM Modi inaugurates ‘Maitri Setu’ between India and Bangladesh||‘Mitri Setu’ - a bridge built over Feni river connecting Tripura with Bangladesh was inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday inaugurated. Bangladeshi premier Sheikh Hasina during the online inauguration asserted that political boundaries should not become physical barriers for trade. Modi also inaugurated and laid the foundation stones of multiple infrastructure projects in Tripura during the online event. Speaking on the occasion via video-conference, he said Tripura is experiencing the change that has come with the government of ‘double engine’ in the state from the time of the previous government of 30 years. “The country is also seeing that wherever a double-engine government is not there, you can look at your neighbourhood, policies empowering the poor, farmers and daughters were either not implemented or were moving forward at a very slow pace,” the prime minister said. The double-engine government in Tripura has empowered the people of the state, he added. Tripura, which was pushed back by a "strike culture" for many years, is now working for ease of doing business, Modi said. In a video message played at the event, Bangladeshi Prime Minister Hasina hailed the inauguration of the “Maitri Setu” as a “historic moment”. “We are creating a new era in South Asia through providing connectivity to India. We are in a region which has remained conservative in opening up and where regional trade is far below potential. I believe political boundaries should not become physical barriers for trade,” she said. The “Maitri Setu” has been built over the Feni river, which flows between the Indian boundary in Tripura and Bangladesh. The 1.9-km-long bridge connects Sabroom in India with Ramgarh in Bangladesh.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||BJP targets Congress, Mamata after Batla House conviction||A day after after Ariz Khan, an Indian Mujahideen terrorist, was convicted of killing Inspector Mahesh Chand Sharma in the gunfight in south Delhi’s Batla House locality in September 2008, BJP targeted Opposition parties, including the Congress and the Trinamool Congress, for raising doubts on the 2008 Batla House encounter. The party even asked the opposition leaders to apologise for it. Addressing a BJP press conference, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad quoted remarks made by Opposition leaders, including Congress’ Salman Khurshid and Digvijay Singh and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee, to attack them. He also demanded an enquiry to find out the impact the campaign against Delhi Police had had on its morale. “There was a conscious, deliberate and consistent attempt to cast serious doubt on the authenticity of the Batla House encounter to weaken the morale of Delhi Police and give clear support to terrorist and their design. Why? For pure vote bank politics,” Prasad said. Inspector Sharma of the Special Cell of Delhi Police was killed during the encounter, which took place a week after five serial blasts had hit the national capital on September 13, 2008, killing at least 30 people and injuring over 100. Two terrorists were killed while two others fled. After the encounter on September 19, 2008, protest rallies were organised against it by teachers and students of Jamia Millia Islamia University. The National Human Rights Commission(NHRC), which had conducted an inquiry in the case on the direction of the Delhi High Court, gave Delhi Police a clean chit. However, several leaders of the Congress, which was in power at the Centre then, had voiced doubts on Delhi Police’s claims and sought an enquiry even though the party leadership later distanced itself from their campaign. The BJP, known for its tough line on the issue of national security, has often used Khurshid’s remarks that Congress president Sonia Gandhi was in tears looking at the pictures of the encounter. Prasad also noted that Banerjee had described the encounter as “fake” and had sought a judicial probe, claiming that she will quit politics if proven wrong. The Samajwadi Party, AAP’s Arvind Kejriwal and the Left had echoed similar views, he said. “Will these parties apologise? Will Sonia Gandhi and Mamata Benerjee apologise,” he asked. “Will the fight against terrorism be weakened because of vote bank politics,” Prasad added, asserting that the court verdict has put a closure to the case and is a triumph of the country's judiciary and the police. The Congress and other opposition parties had stood on the side of terrorists on the issue of national security, he alleged. He said there was a campaign to vilify Delhi Police at the time. Prasad said the convicted terrorist was responsible for the death of over 165 people in terror blasts across the country, adding that efforts to nab him received a fillip after the BJP came to power in 2014 and he was arrested from Nepal in 2018. While terror attacks, including in Mumbai and several other cities, occurred during the UPA rule, the BJP government has given a free hand to security forces to undertake preemptive measures and also launch surgical strikes like the one in Balakot when terrorists hit India's interests, he said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||SC dismisses plea challenging EC's decision of 8-phase Bengal polls||The Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a plea challenging the Election Commission's decision to conduct assembly elections over eight phases in Bengal and seeking to bar the BJP and its leaders from using Jai Shri Ram as a slogan during the campaign. A bench headed by Chief Justice S A Bobde initially told the petitioner to approach the Calcutta High Court. "I rely upon a judgement. This is not the matter of an election petition. One party is using the religious slogan. Why should I go to the high court?" advocate M L Sharma, the petitioner in the case, told the bench. "You are asking for prosecution. How can we pass such an order. The only power lied with the high court, that to the election petition," the bench, which also comprised Justices A S Bopanna and V Ramasubramanian, told Sharma. When the petitioner referred to a 1978 judgement of the apex court, the bench asked him to show the paragraphs in the verdict saying the top court can entertain a plea regarding malpractice in campaigning when the poll process starts. Sharma asked for the matter to be heard tomorrow, but the bench said they cannot read it all over again and asked the petitioner to read it right now. "Alright, we don't agree with you. Dismissed," the bench added. The plea had sought the apex court's direction to stop the poll panel from conducting eight-phase elections in West Bengal, alleging that it violates Article 14 (right to life) and Article 21 (right to life) of the Constitution. On February 26, the Election Commission had announced the schedule for assembly elections to be held in Bengal, Assam, Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. While the assembly polls in Bengal will be held over eight rounds from March 27-April 29, polling in Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry will be held in one phase on April 6 and in Assam over three phases. In his plea, Sharma had also sought a direction to the CBI to register an FIR into the alleged chanting of religious slogans during electioneering in West Bengal. The chanting of "Jai Shri Ram, other religious slogans are creating disharmony" and is an offence under the Indian Penal Code and the Representation of the People Act, 1951, the plea had said. "Whether using a provocative religious slogan 'Jai Shri Ram' is for electoral benefits as well as others is not violated S.123(3) & 125 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951," reads the legal question raised in the plea.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Rajya Sabha proceedings halted again over rising fuel prices||Rajya Sabha proceedings were on Tuesday adjourned for about 40 minutes after opposition parties led by the Congress insisted on a discussion on record high petrol and diesel prices. Opposition MPs, who had stalled proceedings in the House on the opening day of the second part of the Budget session on Monday, trooped into the well of the House and raised slogans, forcing the chair to adjourn the proceedings till noon. Soon after the listed official papers were laid on the table, MPs from the opposition Congress, DMK, Left, BSP and Shiv Sena were on their feet seeking setting aside of the business to take up a discussion on the increase in petrol and diesel prices. Deputy Chairman Shri Harivansh, who was presiding, said notices under rule 267 have been received from Satish Chandra Mishra (BSP), Leader of the Opposition and senior Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, DMK's Trucchi Siva and Shiv Sena's Priyanka Chaturvedi. But the Rajya Sabha chairman had already given his ruling, rejecting the notices under rule 267, and so his decision cannot be reopened, he said. The issue of fuel prices, he said, can be discussed during the discussion on the working of ministries and finance bill as well as in the short duration discussion sought on the issue. But Opposition members persisted with their demand and soon gathered in the the well of the House, raising slogans against the government. Harivansh asked the members to return to their seats and allow zero hour to be taken up where MPs raise issues of public importance. He then went on to call members who had given zero-hour notice. But the slogan shouting by opposition continued. Siva said the issue of relentless rise in petrol and diesel prices has to be discussed. Bhupendra Yadav of BJP countered him saying the ruling of the chairman is final and cannot be reopened. Harivansh urged members to return to their places, insisting that the ruling of the chairman who had rejected rule 267 notices seeking suspension of business to take up discussion on fuel prices cannot be reopened or discussed. With the ruckus continuing, he adjourned the proceedings till 12 noon. The price of petrol has for the first time crossed the Rs 100 mark in a few places in states like Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra and is at record highs elsewhere. Diesel rates, too, are at a record high as international oil prices bounced back from the lows of last year.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||India logs over 15,000 fresh Covid cases, 77 casualties in a day||With 15,388 fresh cases, India's COVID-19 tally has climbed to 1,12,44,786, while the number of recoveries has surged to 1,08,99,394, the Union health ministry said on Tuesday. The death toll due to the viral disease has gone up to 1,57,930 in the country with 77 more fatalities, the ministry's data updated at 8 am showed. After registering an increase for six consecutive days, the number of active COVID-19 cases has gone down to 1,87,462, accounting for only 1.67 per cent of the country's total caseload, while the case fatality rate has dropped to 1.40 per cent. The number of people who have recuperated from the disease has gone up to 1,08,99,394, which translates to a national COVID-19 recovery rate of 96.93 per cent. India's COVID-19 tally had crossed the 20-lakh mark on August 7 last year, the 30-lakh mark on August 23, the 40-lakh mark on September 5 and the 50-lakh mark on September 16. It went past 60 lakh on September 28, 70 lakh on October 11, 80 lakh on October 29, 90 lakh on November 20 and the one-crore mark on December 19. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 22,27,16,796 samples have so far been tested in the country for the viral disease, including 7,48,525 on Monday. The 77 new fatalities include 22 from Maharashtra, 14 from Punjab and 12 from Kerala. Of the total 1,57,930 COVID-19 deaths reported so far in the country, Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of 52,500, followed by Tamil Nadu (12,521), Karnataka (12,367), Delhi (10,924), West Bengal (10,280), Uttar Pradesh (8,738) and Andhra Pradesh (7,176). The health ministry stressed that more than 70 per cent of the deaths occurred due to comorbidities. "Our figures are being reconciled with the Indian Council of Medical Research," the ministry said on its website, adding that a state-wise distribution of the figures is subject to further verification and reconciliation.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Goyal orders probe into Calcutta Eastern Railway office building fire||Railway Minister Piyush Goyal has set up a high-level committee to ascertain the cause of the fire at an Eastern Railway office building in Calcutta in which nine people were killed on Monday. The fire, which broke out on the 13th floor of the sprawling New Koilaghat building on Strand Road at around 6.10 pm on Monday, is now under control and the cooling process is on, officials said. "Sincere condolences to the families of the nine brave deceased including the four firefighters, two Railways personnel and a police ASI who have been fighting the fire at the Eastern Railways Strand road office in Calcutta. "Railway officials including the GM are at the site and are working in coordination with the state govt for rescue and relief efforts. We are committed to doing everything possible to ensure the safety of all concerned," Goyal said in a tweet late last night. He said all possible assistance has been provided by the Railways to the state government during this unfortunate fire accident. "A high-level inquiry consisting of four principal heads of Railway departments has been ordered to ascertain the cause of the fire," he said. Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, who rushed to the spot in the city's central business district, announced that the state government will pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh each and a government job to the kin of each victim.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Over 11,000 vaccinated in the state in a day||As many as 8207 senior citizens and 1155 middle-agers with comorbid conditions were among the 11,848 people who were administered the first dose of the Covishield vaccine in Jharkhand on Monday, figures compiled by the National Health Mission (NHM) highlighted. As per government data, as many as 43,985 senior citizens and 5,704 middle-agers with comorbid conditions have been vaccinated against the Covid-19 virus in Jharkhand since the launch of the second phase of the immunisation programme on March 1. While the number of the general public getting vaccinated has increased gradually, the percentage of registered healthcare and frontline workers administered the first dose of the vaccine has dropped lately. After achieving only 4 per cent of the vaccination target for healthcare and frontline workers on Sunday, the state achieved only 8 per cent of its target on Monday by vaccinating only 2,486 of the over 31,000 registered beneficiaries. At least 1211 senior citizens were vaccinated in Ranchi on Monday, while 1437 senior citizens got the first jab of the vaccine in Pakur. As many as 696 people were administered the vaccine in Bokaro and 283 in East Singhbhum on the day. Jharkhand achieved 26 per cent of its target for administering the second dose of the vaccine to healthcare and frontline workers on the day. As many as 10320 healthcare workers and frontline workers were administered the second jab of Covishield vaccine on Monday in the state. As per government data, so far, the state has administered the first dose of the vaccine to 3,65,934 people, while the second jab has been administered to 76,627 beneficiaries. The state has achieved 83 per cent of its target for administering the first dose of the vaccine and 72 per cent of target for the second dose, reveals government data. Meanwhile, the count of Covid patients also increased in the state on Monday. At least 53 fresh cases of Covid-19 infection surfaced in Jharkhand on the day, while 44 patients recovered, stated a bulletin released by the NHM. Ranchi reported 31 cases against 22 recoveries and witnessed a spike in the count of active cases. As per the NHM bulletin, at least 281 people were battling the viral infection in the district. Ranchi accounts for almost 60 per cent of the 472 active cases in Jharkhand. As per government data, as many as 120312 people have been infected by the lethal virus in Jharkhand so far, and more than 98 per cent of them have recovered. The growth rate of the virus in Jharkhand was 0.03 per cent against the national average of 0.11 per cent.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||BJP mulls leadership change in Uttarakhand||The BJP central leadership summoned Uttarakhand chief minister Trivendra Singh Rawat to Delhi on Monday, mulling a change of leadership in the hill state ahead of polls early next year. Rawat was summoned to Delhi after party observers submitted a report on his performance, in the backdrop of talk of an internal rebellion by a strong group of ministers and MLAs. Rawat reached Delhi in the afternoon and was closeted with the top leadership at BJP chief J.P. Nadda’s residence. Sources said all Uttarakhand BJP MLAs had been asked to be present in Dehradun on Tuesday, indicating that formalities for election of a new leader could be taken up. Party insiders said the report by a two-member team led by party vice-president and former Chhattisgarh chief minister Raman Singh has highlighted “acute resentment” against Rawat’s leadership reaching a point of open rebellion if corrective steps were not taken. “There is possibility of a change of leadership. We could lose if we contest the polls under Trivendra Singh Rawat’s leadership,” one BJP MP from Uttarakhand said. The current BJP leadership is not known to change chief ministers under pressure, but party insiders hinted at a change in thinking after the experience in Jharkhand in 2019. Party leaders said similar complaints were made against then Jharkhand chief minister Raghubar Das, but the high command decided to go ahead and contest the polls under his leadership. The BJP lost the polls to the JMM-Congress combine and Das lost his seat to party rebel Saryu Roy. Rawat was asked to cancel a scheduled programme and rush to Delhi. Maharashtra governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari was said to be in Delhi to informally advise the central leadership on a replacement.  Koshiyari hails from Uttarakhand and was active in state politics for decades before becoming governor. This development came even as another BJP chief minister, Manohar Lal Khattar, in Haryana geared up to face a no-confidence motion moved by the Opposition Congress over the farmers’ protest. Party leaders, however, were confident there was no threat to the Khattar government. The BJP has 40 MLAs and combined with 10 of ally Jannayak Janata Party, the government is poised to sail through in the Assembly which has an effective strength of 88. The Congress in Haryana, led by former chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda, had hoped for defections from the ruling side but BJP sources ruled out any such possibility. The threat to Rawat in Uttarakhand, however, appeared to be real with a section of ministers and MLAs warning of open rebellion if the leadership change was not implemented, according to sources. Four ministers and over a dozen MLAs were in Delhi on Monday to put pressure on the central leadership. Owing to repeated complaints against Rawat, vice-president Raman Singh and general secretary in-charge of the state Dushyant Gautam were despatched on Saturday to hold talks with MLAs and other key party leaders. “Not only MLAs, even the voters are unhappy with the government’s performance. We have urged the party high command to conduct a survey and find out for themselves,” one disgruntled MLA said. “Trivendra Rawat has been a total failure,” the MLA added.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||Editors Guild of India protest 'routine detention' of editors of Kashmir-based publications||The Editors Guild of India on Monday expressed shock at the “casual manner” in which editors of Kashmir-based publications are “routinely detained” by security forces for their news reports or editorials and demanded an atmosphere where the media can operate without “fear or favour”. It cited the “recent detention and the subsequent release — after many hours — of Fahad Shah, editor-in-chief of The Kashmir Walla,” a Srinagar-based publication. This was the third time that Shah was detained for his writings, it noted. “There are scores of journalists who are experiencing this new normal where they can be hauled up by security forces for writing anything that goes contrary to the government narrative that peace has returned to the Valley,” the Guild said in a statement.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||S.A. Bobde: Only asked a question ||Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde on Monday said he had never asked an alleged rapist to marry his victim, and had only asked: “Are you going to marry?” this was neither an order, nor even a suggestion, the judge said. “We have the highest respect to womanhood. That day we only asked ‘are you going to marry’? We didn’t order. It was not a suggestion also. It was a totally misreported,” Justice Bobde, heading a bench also comprising Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian said. The media had widely quoted last week the CJI heading as having asked the accused, while hearing his application for anticipatory bail: “Are you willing to marry her?” The remark was widely criticised. “This court has always have given the largest respect to women,” Chief Justice Bobde  said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-284
09-03-2021||India||UK, South Africa and Brazil strains converging towards a 'supervariant'||Three worrisome coronavirus variants first discovered in the UK, South Africa and Brazil appear to be converging through genetic mutations towards a “supervariant” that researchers say could complicate the world’s fight against the pandemic. International research teams have detected signals that the three variants are continuing to acquire mutations and drifting towards newer versions of the virus that might be even more difficult to control than the currently circulating variants. The scientists said their findings underline the urgency to accelerate global efforts to stop the spread of the virus and expedite vaccine rollouts before the possible emergence of supervariants capable of escaping current treatment and existing vaccine strategies. But they have asserted that the implications of the emerging mutations on the disease for now remain unclear. “There is very little evidence that they make clinical disease worse,” said Sergei Pond, professor of biology at Temple University in the US, a team member. “Our hypothesis is that the driving force is for the virus to become less susceptible to existing immune responses. But this is an evolutionary cat-and-mouse game. The immune responses will not remain static and will catch up with viral mutations,” Pond told The Telegraph. The scientists have found that all the three variants are making similar evolutionary moves. “They’re likely headed towards changing into a version that shares the best features of each of the three variants,” Darren Martin, associate professor at the University of Cape Town, South Africa, and first author of the study told The Telegraph. The three variants of concern emerged in the last three months of 2020 — B.1.1.7 in the UK, B.1.351 in South Africa and P1 in Brazil — and have since spread to multiple countries, including India. They possess mutations that allow them to spread faster than earlier variants and to evade antibodies. The scientists analysed mutations through 2020 and detected a “sudden shift” in the types of mutations after October. While earlier, mutations looked like random noise with unclear biological importance, mutations after October display discernible patterns pointing towards convergence. “The UK variant is becoming more like the South African variant, the South African variant is becoming more like the UK variant,” said Martin, the lead author of a paper that is yet to be peer-reviewed, but has been posted on medRxiv, an online preprint server. The researchers have used computer-based forecasts to speculate that the current convergence patterns might culminate into a so-called supervariant and new variants that emerge over the coming year might possess subsets of mutations this supervariant is forecasted to possess. “We’re not predicting that a supervariant will emerge —there is no way of telling for sure, but descendants of current variants of concern that are more transmissible and evade immunity are probable,” Martin said. The impacts of such variants on the pandemic remain unknown, but each variant has shown troubling features. Both the UK and South African variants spread faster than earlier versions of the virus and both have been shown to evade some immune responses. The Brazilian variant has been linked to a second wave in a region of Brazil where a second wave was considered unlikely because the first wave had already infected 76 per cent of the region’s population, a fraction considered large enough to usher in herd immunity. An independent study led by virologist David Ho at Columbia University in the US has generated evidence to suggest that SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes Covid-19, is mutating in a direction that could help it evade current vaccines. “The recent emergence of B.1.1.7, B.1.351 and P.1 marks the beginning of SARS-CoV-2 antigenic drift,” Ho and his colleagues wrote in a paper published in the journal Nature on Monday. Antigenic drift refers to minor changes in viral genes that occur continuously as the virus replicates and is a key reason why people get influenza more than once. Ho and his team have cautioned that if the rampant spread of the coronavirus continues and more critical mutations accumulate, “we may be condemned to chasing the evolving SARS-CoV-2 continually, as we have long done for influenza virus.” “Such considerations require that we stop virus transmission as quickly as is feasible, by redoubling our mitigation measures and by expediting vaccine rollout,” the researchers said.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||A garden on barren land of govt denial||Kashmir Singh tirelessly tills a patch in the middle of National Highway 44, just behind the main stage at the farmers’ protest site on the Singhu border. “Before the summer comes, we will turn this patch into a garden. This will bring relief from the heat. I have transplanted small trees that will give some shade and will erect a thatched hut here too,” he tells The Telegraph, adding that he does not know his exact age but remembers that his parents had told him long ago that he was born around the time of Independence. A peasant from Punjab’s Ludhiana district, Singh says he “only knows farming, not politics”. The garden patch is being created on what had become a cesspool of a langar’s makeshift drain that had no outlet. Protesters have channelised the drain underground and connected it to an existing sewer, but pools of refuse where flies and mosquitoes breed are ubiquitous in this tractor-trolley city. “We braved the winter, now we will brave the summer. We have already bought mosquito nets and installed fans. Life is not easy living in a trolley, but it will be much harder once corporate houses begin to exploit the new farm laws and our future generations face uncertainty and debt and practically become bonded labour to big companies,” Ranjit Singh Akkar, a farmer from Patiala, tells this newspaper. Akkar and other seniors supervise sanitation around the langars. Youths with insecticide smoke dispensers carry out mosquito fogging of the protest area — a task normally performed by civic bodies. “If (Prime Minister Narendra) Modi wants, we will all leave in a day once he repeals the laws. He has already seen that police and thugs can’t chase us away. Locals have been hugely supportive, offering bathing and toilet facilities in their homes and shops, especially to women. We have learnt not to depend on public authorities and manage civic work like sanitation and drainage on our own. We are not experts but we are learning,” Akkar says. He and others from various farmers’ groups are building public opinion for a countrywide general strike on March 23 — the 90th anniversary of the execution of freedom fighter Bhagat Singh by the British colonial government. Bhagat Singh’s images and writings, as well as those of other freedom fighters such as Ajit Singh and Kartar Singh Sarabha, are commonplace here and are popularised by communist groups. Urmila Rawat, a central committee member of the CPIML-Red Star from Madhya Pradesh’s Sidhi, is part of a team that talks to protesters at the Singhu border about how the new farm regime and other economic policies of the Centre like privatisation, rising fuel prices and new labour laws are linked. “Groups of us from different parts of India come and stay here for 15 days at a time. Women play a greater role in agriculture and managing households than men do and we continue to do so even through this struggle. It helps that this is a movement of agricultural producers, so food is never in shortage,” she says. Like Rawat, Kashmir Singh and Akkar also take turns to stay here. The wheat harvest is near and most peasants here have made arrangements with kin, friends and neighbours to harvest their crops. Kuldeep Singh, a young entrepreneur from Ludhiana, stays with Kashmir Singh in a tin shed beside the upcoming garden. “We erected this makeshift shed with the idea that this would be a short agitation. But now we are preparing for the long haul. We will soon replace our tin roof with a wooden one that is better suited for the summer heat. The crowd is now smaller and manageable, and our friends reach within a few hours from Punjab whenever needed,” Kuldeep says. “We have suffered some loss as we are not giving full attention to our crops or our businesses for the last three months. But relationships and bonding have greatly improved within my family and also with friends. Working for this cause has brought us closer. I have seen so many seasons in my life and I am willing to see many more on this highway if that is Wahe Guru’s will,” Kashmir Singh weighs in.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Budget session: fuel fury rips Centre’s Women’s Day cover||The second leg of the budget session had a stormy beginning in Parliament on Monday, with the Opposition demanding a discussion on rising fuel prices and the government trying to take cover behind International Women’s Day to avoid one. Opposition members chanted slogans and forced repeated adjournments after the presiding officers in both Houses refused their notices for adjourning business to discuss fuel prices. “A discussion on women’s empowerment is slated today. They (the Opposition) should allow it and show respect to the women members of the House,” parliamentary affairs minister Pralhad Joshi said amid the din in the Lok Sabha. Congress members retorted that the sharp rise in cooking gas prices had hit women hard and the government should discuss it if it was concerned about women. Cooking gas costs around Rs 845 a cylinder, a 45 per cent hike since last May. Petrol has crossed Rs 100 a litre in parts of the country, and diesel Rs 80. Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, the Congress’s leader in the Lok Sabha, dared the government to bring in the women’s reservation bill and pass aresolution on it on Monday itself if it was so serious about women’s empowerment. The protests forced Speaker Om Birla to adjourn the House till 7pm. When the House resumed at 7pm, a discussion on women’s empowerment was taken up despite protests from the Congress and some other Opposition parties. Trinamul member Satabdi Roy participated in the discussion as Congress MPs chanted anti-government slogans over the fuel prices, baring possible divisions within the Opposition ranks. Roy did not raise the subject of fuel prices while speaking on women’s empowerment. In the Rajya Sabha, the newly appointed leader of the Opposition, Mallikarjun Kharge, remained firm and refused to allow any business, demanding a discussion on fuel prices first. Rajya Sabha Chairman Venkaiah Naidu disallowed Kharge’s notice for adjournment of business, saying the fuel prices could be raised during the discussion on the Appropriation Bill. The Rajya Sabha session began at 9am and the Lok Sabha session at 4pm – a pandemic-induced practice started during the first leg of the budget session to ensure proceedings ended in one House before beginning in the other. The idea was to ensure physical distancing by getting the MPs to spread across both Houses during each session and communicate via videoconferencing. From Tuesday, however, both Houses will start their sessions from 11am as usual. Most of the MPs are above 60 and have been vaccinated against Covid-19. The second leg of the budget session, scheduled to run till April 8, may be curtailed keeping in mind the Assembly elections in five states. Sources said around 145 Lok Sabha members across parties from the poll-bound states had written to the Speaker requesting a shorter session to enable them to campaign. Among them was Trinamul Lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandyopadhyay, seeking an abridgement on behalf of his party. Trinamul Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien too has written to the Rajya Sabha Chairman requesting a truncated session and citing precedents from past elections. Speaker Birla is expected to consult MPs from different parties before taking a decision. Government sources suggested that most Opposition members wanted a curtailed session, and both Houses might therefore be adjourned sine die by the end of March.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||ABVP disrupts Nodeep's Women’s Day event||ABVP activists disrupted a Women’s Day event outside Delhi University’s arts faculty on Monday evening and allegedlyroughed up some of those present. One of the scheduled speakers at the street-corner event was the recently released labour activist Nodeep Kaur, who had drawn international attention after US Vice-President Kamala Harris’s niece Meenakshi “Meena” Harris tweeted against her arrest and alleged custody torture. Nodeep, a Dalit woman who was also part of the farmers’ agitation, was freed on bail on Sunday after 44 days in Haryana’s Karnal jail. She is charged with attempt to murder at a protest against erratic wages in January. Monday’s event was held by the Bhagat Singh Chhatra Ekta Manch, a far-Left student group headed by Nodeep’s sister Rajveer Kaur, a PhD scholar of Punjabi at Delhi University. “Rajveer was speaking about the Butana gang rape (allegedly by police in Haryana last June) and the Gurhmandi case (the mysterious suicide by a domestic worker in Delhi last October) when ABVP (activists) came and tore our posters, shouting slogans,” Nodeep told The Telegraph. “Police were with them. On Women’s Day we (have to) speak out about how culprits who have raped or killed Dalits roam free. Anyone who speaks out is attacked, but if we stop speaking then we will be silenced forever.” The ABVP-led Delhi University Students Union (DUSU) said in a statement that men present at the event had “attacked” its joint secretary (Shivangi Kharwal). “DUSU was conducting an event of self-defence training programme for girls where Delhi police personnel and other defence trainers were present to train girls. Right outside the venue of the programme, outsiders and ex-students of the university had organised an event wherein posters with objectionable slogans such as ‘Indian Army Rape Us’ were displayed,” the statement said. “Objectionable slogans were raised just as a few girls led by Shivangi Kharwal (of the ABVP) were passing by. Seeing the anti-army posters, they questioned the organisers about the motive of the event. In a reaction to the questions posed by Shivangi and her friends, the men present on the spot attacked the Delhi University Students Union joint secretary (Kharwal).” The poster mentioned by the students’ union depicted a protest by women in Imphal against the 2004 murder and rape of Thangjam Manorama, allegedly by Assam Rifles personnel. Members of the Manch and CPM student arm SFI were briefly detained at the Maurice Nagar police station. Deputy commissioner of police (North) A. Anto Alphonse had not responded to a call and a message from this newspaper till late Monday night. Vasu Kukreja, a Bhim Army lawyer who said he was at the spot to meet Nodeep, alleged that Kharwal had roughed him up. “The disruption by the ABVP started while Rajveer was speaking. As I tried to record it with my mobile phone, some ABVP person tried to snatch it,” he said. “When I resisted, a woman whom people there identified as Shivangi caught me by the collar and slapped me.”||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Women seek Siddique Kappan’s release||Hundreds of women demonstrated in arrested journalist Siddique Kappan’s hometown of Vengara in Kerala, demanding his release, at a Women’s Day event on Monday. More than five months after the 41-year-old’s arrest, women including local leaders of non-BJP parties expressed support for his wife Raihanath, who has been waging a non-stop battle to get her husband freed. Members of three panchayats in Vengara, Malappuram district, joined the protest meeting along with hundreds of women from the neighbourhood as well as Kappan’s family and friends. “It was a women’s protest to mark Women’s Day, where everyone voiced concern that a journalist who had gone to do his duty was arrested and jailed,” Raihanath told The Telegraph. “It’s such solidarity from known and unknown people that provides me the courage to carry on with this battle for justice.” The Delhi-based Kappan was arrested on terror charges in Uttar Pradesh on October 5 while travelling to Hathras, where a Dalit teen had been fatally gang-raped. Uttar Pradesh police have charged Kappan and three companions with planning to foment trouble and accused them of being members of the Popular Front of India, an extremist organisation. Kappan has denied the charges and said his objective was to cover the gang rape and murder for his employer, a Malayalam news portal. With Kappan’s regular bail plea expected to come up before the Supreme Court on Tuesday, Raihanath expressed hope that he would be freed sooner than later. “We are all hopeful that the court will grant bail and eventually acquit him of all the charges. We all know he is innocent,” she said. Kappan had visited his home in Kerala for five days in February after the apex court granted him interim bail to see his critically ill, 90-year-old mother. In previous protests in Thiruvananthapuram and Malappuram, hundreds of people had joined Raihanath in demanding Kappan’s release.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Uddhav Thackeray sniffs something ‘fishy’ in Antilia case||The Union home ministry has handed over to the National Investigation Agency the case of the explosives-laden car parked near Mukesh Ambani’s Mumbai home, setting the stage for another showdown with the Maharashtra government. Shortly after the case was transferred, Maharashtra’s Shiv Sena chief minister Uddhav Thackeray said there was “something fishy” about the Centre’s move. Despite questions to the NIA spokesperson, it remained unclear whether the agency would also probe the related case of the mysterious death of the car’s purported owner, Mansukh Hiren. Uddhav insisted that the anti-terrorism squad (ATS) of Maharashtra police, which was investigating both the car and the suspected murder, would continue to probe Hiren’s death. He said the Centre ought to have trusted the ATS. “(Government) agencies are not someone’s property. Governments change but the system doesn’t; one needs to believe in the system,” Uddhav told reporters in Mumbai. “If the Centre is planning to take the case over, there is something fishy about it.” He took a jab at the BJP, saying his police were probing the “suicide of Mohan Delkar”, a seven-term MP from Dadra and Nagar Haveli, but Maharashtra’s BJP lawmakers were silent because the Union Territory was governed by the Centre. Delkar, 58, an Independent member of the Lok Sabha, was found dead at a Mumbai hotel on February 22. His family has alleged that harassment by the Union Territory administration drove him to suicide, and a purported suicide note apparently backs this up. “The (Maharashtra) Opposition has not the guts to speak about it as they know who calls the shots in Union Territories. A Union Territory is governed by the Centre,” Uddhav said. “We’ll take the case to its logical conclusion.” Maharashtra home minister Anil Deshmukh told the Assembly the state police were perfectly capable of solving the car-explosives case. Hiren, an auto parts dealer, was found dead in a creek in neighbouring Thane on Friday, just about a week after a vehicle containing gelatin sticks was found parked near Ambani’s south Mumbai home on February 25. Hiren’s wife Vimla has alleged her husband was murdered. On Sunday, the ATS had taken over from the Mumbai police the car case as well as Hiren’s death and registered an FIR. The NIA spokesperson said the agency “has received orders from the home ministry” to probe the car case and was re-registering it. Maharashtra, ruled by a Sena-Congress-NCP coalition, had earlier objected when the Centre accorded Y-plus security to actress Kangana Ranaut after she compared Mumbai to “Pakistan-occupied Kashmir” and the state government to the Taliban. Uddhav’s government had also been unhappy when BJP members sought a CBI probe into actor Sushant Rajput’s apparent suicide last year — a demand the Supreme Court eventually granted at a request from the Centre.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||Mothers  are born leaders, says Naveen||Odisha chief minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday described mothers as born leaders and said they should be provided opportunities to showcase their leadership qualities “The mothers, who take the entire responsibility of their families, have no problem in taking the responsibility of the society as well as the country.  There is a spark of leadership in each mother,” Naveen said at an event organised to celebrate the International Women’s Day. “It’s our responsibility to give them the opportunity to showcase their leadership qualities. We need to utilise their leadership qualities in the inclusive development of the nation,” he said. Assuring that the BJD would continue to fight for the rights of women, Naveen raised the issue of providing 50 per cent reservation to women in Assemblies and Parliament. “Our party has given 33 per cent of seats for women candidates in the last election,” the chief minister said. Naveen enhanced the women’s quota to 50 per cent in the panchayat and urban local bodies polls in 2012.  Naveen is now campaigning for implementation of 33 per cent reservation for women in state assemblies and Lok Sabha polls. His MPs have already raised the issue in Parliament umpteen times. Naveen also pointed out how Mission Shakti was created in 2001, has been able to connect to one crore women and work for their socio-economic upliftment. He  also mentioned about the state’s commitment to provide work to the women self-help group of nearly Rs 5,000 crore work order. The Odisha government has announced to create an exclusive department for mission shakti. The mission shakti department will start functioning from April 1.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||We will see where it goes, what opportunities come, will take it from there: Sourav Ganguly||BCCI President Sourav Ganguly kept his cards close to his chest amid mounting speculation that he might take the political plunge ahead of the West Bengal assembly elections, saying he will see "where it goes" amid the "opportunities" coming his way. Ganguly, who is still resting at his Kolkata residence post his angioplasty after minor heart attacks, knows how there has been speculation of him joining politics, more specifically the BJP, ahead of the eight-phase elections from March 27 to April 29. "We will see where it goes, what opportunities come in the way, we will take it from there," Ganguly told 'India Today' when asked what's next after cricket administration. Ganguly said his life has been full of surprising twists and turns and he has never really had a clue about what's coming next for him. "When I first became India captain, I didn't expect it as Sachin (Tendulkar) was captaining. I probably wouldn't have got it had Sachin not resigned. "Similarly, when I became BCCI president, I didn’t know the minute before I would be the BCCI president. That's the way my life has been...So we will see where it goes," he said. According to him, opportunities need to be considered factoring in various aspects of someone's life. "Opportunities come and you get influenced by a lot of things, your family, lifestyle, work, health, we will see where it goes," he didn't give away anything despite saying a lot of things. He laughed off the attention that he gets in his home city Kolkata, crediting it to his friendly demeanour. "I am fortunate to get so much attention. I don't seek it and I go about doing my job. I lead a normal life in this city. I speak to people, talk to them and that's my nature. "I am a very friendly sort of a person with no hang ups. I don't take to heart what people say. Because I am a popular person, I don't believe that I have to be unreachable. "I lead my life because at the end of the day it's life and that's why people are fond of me over here." Risk element factored in while not allowing crowds in IPL Ganguly said allowing crowd in the IPL would have been a bigger logistical issue compared to letting in limited fans during the recently-concluded Test series versus England. The BCCI has announced that no crowds will be allowed at the venues -- Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi, Chennai, Bengaluru and Ahmedabad -- where the matches will be played with no home games for any franchise. "We have planned it well and we are doing it in clusters. There will be three chartered flights (at the max) for every team. Hopefully, we will be able to manage. "During England tour, teams have only two domestic chartered flights (Chennai to Ahmedabad and next will be Ahmedabad to Pune)," Ganguly told the channel. "The numbers are much less but fingers crossed as it's a huge tournament, the BCCI did it successfully in Dubai and hopefully, we can do it this time as well," he added. He didn't say when the BCCI would consider having crowds back for IPL. "Don’t know yet, depends on situation. Dubai also was the same," he said referring to the 2020 IPL in the UAE. "It's slightly different from bilateral. If you open up for crowd (in IPL) with teams practising outside the stadiums, you expect crowds to get closer to practising teams during IPL, so that could be a risk," he said with a note of caution.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
09-03-2021||India||100 file papers in Sikkim civic polls||Over 100 candidates have filed their nomination for the urban local body polls that will be held on a non-partisan basis in Sikkim on March 31. Elections will be held to seven civic bodies — the 19-ward Gangtok Municipal Corporation, Namchi Municipal Council (seven seats) and the nagar panchayats of Nayabazar-Jorethang, Gyalshing, Singtam, Rangpo and Mangan which have five wards each. Monday was the last day of filing of nominations. The papers would be scrutinised on Tuesday and the last day of the withdrawal of the nominations is Thursday. Prominent persons in the fray include Kala Rai, president of the ruling Sikkim Krantikari Morcha (SKM)’s women’s wing, former councillor and SKM leader Nilu Chettri, businessman Prem Goyal and Sikkim Democratic Front activist Sandip Malu, in Gangtok. Senior SKM leader Suresh Tamang, and Ranju Lamichaney and Rajni Pradhan of the SDF are in fray at Singtam. All candidates, however, will be contesting in their individual capacities as the Sikkim Municipality Act 2007 was amended in September and polls made party-less. In the last polls held on party basis in October 2015, the SDF had made a clean sweep, winning all 53 wards at the seven civic bodies. The SKM, which was then in the opposition, had drawn a blank. The civic body elections were due to be held in October last year, but had to be postponed because of the pandemic. The seven civic bodies together have close to 82,000 voters. Observers said even though the elections were being held on non-partisan basis, political parties would influence their supporters to vote for the candidates of their choice. “Most of the candidates are affiliated to parties. The voters will be made aware of the fact,” said an observer.||https://www.telegraphindia.com/india/page-285
